21-09-2020||Comment||Health cards: Do we need it at all?||Those who have gone on surveys to rural households have noted that it is much easier to retrieve a colour-coded ration card for PDS than a Mother-Child Immunisation Card. Colour of that card also indicates whether you are privileged as BPL or Antyodaya beneficiary. Next important record many hold is their caste certificate.   A decade ago, they got another card with their face photographed for the first time, to be used for voting during elections. Voters’ ID  bestowed on them some sense of importance once in a few years. Many state and national leaders visited them and the local politicians gave or promised many goodies and often some much-needed cash. Later, Aadhaar card with photograph came into their lives which went on to occupy a pre-eminent position as the magic key that could open many doors. It is another matter that even today, it is officially optional except for the income taxpayers. And soon enough, even non-income tax-paying poor households realised that whether to register for MNREGA, to get/renew a ration card, open a bank account, get their land and property registered or even for booking a rail ticket, you needed an Aadhaar card. The Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) insurance holders got another card but had to get them Aadhaar-linked. In turn, you discovered a surprising bonanza of healthcare benefits - of up to Rs 30,000 per family even in private hospitals. For those going on short or longer-term migration to other states, Aadhaar was the only card which helped them for anything at all.  Some empathetic state governments used the Aadhaar card to give benefits to the migrants. Banks too stopped asking for their ration cards to open new accounts. And now, the announcement of a new chip-embedded digital health card! Announced from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Independence Day by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself (how much more important can it get?) as part of a new mission called National Digital Health Mission (NDHM). Some worries and doubts arise. To start with, do we need a new card at all? An associated question is how many ‘Missions’ do we need for every sector to make improvements in coverage and quality of service delivery?  Do I benefit more with this card if I already hold a PM-JAY (Jan Arogya Yojna) card backed by a powerful Aadhaar card? Nationwide controversies on the Arogya Setu app and apprehensions of leakage of data from social media app led to the new mission giving an upfront assurance that it would be optional, that the consent of the cardholder would be mandatory to digitally transfer any information and that data would be stored in a decentralised manner. Haven’t we heard these assurances earlier too with many other schemes though creeping invasions in to one’s life became a norm rather than an exception - with or without expressly granted consent.  Consent clause gives no comfort to a patient who stands virtually naked and helpless in front of the medical practitioner or the hospital staff who says ‘sign here to give your consent’. The consent comes clearly out of worries about the consequences of not giving consent.   In the process, some others - the previous doctor and hospital and the diagnostic centres too stand exposed. It becomes a dilemma for all doctors and the hospital managements to decide how truthful and factual they can afford to be.  ‘Why were particular diagnostic tests ordered, why were certain medicines prescribed and why such procedures are undertaken’ by them? Do we assume that all practitioners of different systems of medicines and their establishments, large or small and across the public and private sector in rural or urban areas have the technical and infrastructural capabilities to record the patient history relating to them? Who will ensure that the entries are error-free and that there are no mischievous entries to avoid possible liabilities in future?  Future litigations Will practitioners or hospital managements become obsessive about additional diagnostic tests to avoid future litigations or allegations of inadequate care? Can this kind of an all-encompassing digital backbone offer solutions or substitute existing gaps in infrastructure and current inadequacies in the system? How effectively are we utilising the currently available data for our policy decisions? What is the missing data that we are looking for?   We already have the Health Ministry’s management information system under NHM and Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP). We have separate district-wise and state-wise data on most communicable diseases. We have data generated by name about every pregnancy, birth and children up to six years.  For determining coverage benefit and for pan-India portability, only the minimum general details as were available in the PMJAY card is enough.  Many hospitals of repute in the public and private sectors have already switched over to electronic health records for improving their internal management and efficiency strictly ensuring privacy and data security. They also give a detailed discharge summary and reports of investigations in case of shifting to another hospital seeking a second opinion.  Even if the quality of data generation and retrieval are unsatisfactory in the private sector hospitals, can the introduction of a government health card solve it? Imagine electronically capturing the voluminous real-time data of medical history, diagnosis and treatment of a billion.   Do governments need sensitive, personalised information on a public platform though supposedly protected by a password? There is no data protection law in our country as on date and as such, little accountability exists for privacy protection leave alone penal action for breach of it. Insurance companies will get access to data directly or indirectly affecting the premium and conditionality of health insurance policies. There are far too many unanswered questions to inspire confidence in this mission for your data.  (Oommen is retired Chief Secretary of Chhattisgarh; Antony is a Paediatrician and independent Public Health Consultant based in Kochi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/health-cards-do-we-need-it-at-all-890611.html
21-09-2020||First Edit||Welcome trial of MPs, MLAs||The Supreme Court has done well to direct the high courts to review cases where the trial of sitting MPs, MLAs, and former legislators have been stayed or are pending. The court has also set a deadline by telling the chief justices of high courts that the review should be done within two months. They have also been told to set up special benches, comprising themselves and their designate, to monitor the progress of the trials. This initiative from the top court was needed to give a push to the matter that is very important but has been ignored for decades. The court has described it as an ‘’elusive affair’’ as “there has been no substantial improvement in the situation when it comes to disposal of pending criminal cases against sitting/former legislators’’. There are 4,442 cases pending against sitting and former legislators in courts in various states. On orders from the court, the Central government had set up 12 special courts in December 2017 exclusively for hearing cases against legislators. But the cases still linger. One case from West Bengal is pending since 1981. Many of the cases are about serious offenses including murder and attempt to murder, and are punishable with death or imprisonment. There are also charges which invite jail term for seven years or more. A conviction would lead to disqualification from contesting elections and holding an office. Many cases have not moved because of stay orders and others because they are not pursued at all. All political parties have their representatives facing such charges. The lack of resolution of cases against legislators is not just a matter of judicial delay and denial of justice. It is also about the nature and standards of public life which is vitiated by the nexus between crime and politics. The court said that it was “shocked” that so many cases were pending against legislators, and specifically instructed that the coronavirus pandemic should not be used as an excuse to not follow the directions. It also said that if a stay is considered necessary, the court should hear the matters on a day-to-day basis and dispose them expeditiously, without any unnecessary adjournments. The chief justices of high courts have also been asked to come up with an action plan on the infrastructure and number of special courts required. Doubts had been expressed whether special courts to try cases against one section of people, as against trial of one class of crimes, would be legally sound. But now that the court has decided to give another push to the process, it will hopefully be gone through and those who have evaded justice, one way or the other, will be made to face it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/welcome-trial-of-mps-mlas-890610.html
21-09-2020||In Perspective||Can Bengaluru pave way for urban farming? ||Cities, by far, are the hotspots of the Covid-19 pandemic. The lockdown in Bengaluru revealed several shortcomings in the functioning of the city. While smart city projects focus on infrastructure-related development, critical aspects of city health, vulnerability to disasters, resilience and quality of life of its inhabitants are often neglected.  With uncertainty looming over the course of the pandemic and the knowledge that similar situations could well recur in the near future, there is a dire need to take a closer look at how cities function as systems. During the lockdown, Bengaluru witnessed a surge of interest in growing food plants in home gardens. This was likely a result of not just the increase in time spent at home by the working community but also the motivation gained by having experienced how quickly the market-based system can collapse at times of crises.  Growing vegetables and fruits in our homes gives us access to fresh, clean, seasonal produce that is free from chemical residues. Lack of excessive handling and long distance transport keeps the nutritive value of the food intact. Can this interest be sustained and efforts scaled up to a level that can impact food-sourcing for the city? Several major cities around the world have already integrated urban agriculture into their city plans.  Today, Beijing produces Yuan 340 billion worth of produce annually with a growth rate of 6.1%. Asia’s largest urban farm is located on the rooftop of a university in Bangkok. Spanning 14,000 square metres, the world’s largest urban farm in Paris aspires to create a model that is not only sustainable but commercially viable as well.  The biggest constraint to growing food in urban areas is that of space. However, the idea of creating pockets of greenery within a landscape of concrete structures is not as far-fetched as it may seem. `Sky-farms’ on terraces and balcony gardens are feasible to a majority of city-dwellers living in houses that do not have ground space for gardens.  Public and private sector properties develop lawns as spaces with high aesthetic value. Sadly, despite the high water and pesticide investment involved, these ‘green blanks’ do not support biodiversity. Pockets of un-built spaces such as these, have the potential to support not just urban farming but also to create soil rich in microbes, provide habitat for urban fauna, capture and store carbon from the atmosphere, reduce the heat island effect, and ultimately, slow down climate change.  There is a great scope for adapting edible gardens to diverse environments and for addressing multiple environmental issues. Gardening enthusiasts have demonstrated that it is feasible to apply the concept of hydroponics and use of grey water to manage water consumption in a city that is facing water shortages.  Edible landscaping also has immense potential for creating beautiful, yet functional and productive spaces which can inspire people to reconnect with nature. Residential communities could join hands with the municipality to redesign local neighbourhood parks to include edible plants and trees. Rooftop farming in corporate houses can be combined with rain-water harvesting to produce harvest that could be used in employee kitchens and canteens, helping business establishments earn credits for greening their buildings.  Insect pollinators The role played by pollinators in ensuring the smooth functioning of an ecosystem is often overlooked. A majority of the world’s leading crops rely on animal pollinators. A study estimated the total value of animal pollinated crops in India at about Rs 4,22,827.52 crore and the contribution of only insect pollinators at about Rs 1,12,615.73 crore (at 2012-2013 prices).  Bees contribute to nutrition as well, as they pollinate micronutrient-rich foods such as fruits, vegetables, pulses and nuts. Erratic climatic patterns cause anomalies in flowering cycles of host plants, putting pollinators increasingly at risk. The consequences of their decline on food systems can be alarming. Our research highlights that urban areas have a higher number of bee species compared to adjoining rural areas. We speculate that this could be due to high chemical usage combined with large stretches of monoculture in rural areas.  In contrast, cities boast of a varied assemblage of plants in the form of home gardens, parks, avenue trees, etc. Vegetation in the form of home gardens, rooftop or terrace farms reduces the distance between food resource patches, thereby improving the chances of survival of bees in the city and supporting the scaling up of urban agriculture.  Urban farming can be integrated with the newly-launched CREST (Cost of Renewable Energy Spreadsheet Tool ) solar energy project that maps Bengaluru’s rooftops, to identify spaces suitable for rooftop farming. Consumption of locally grown food, or, locavory, becomes especially relevant in times such as the Covid-19 crisis.  Bengaluru has made its beginning in this movement and is poised to serve as a model for the country. Policy-based impetus would provide a significant boost to these efforts. As we step into the ‘new normal’, the time is right to reshape our cities to become more liveable and self-sustaining.   (Devy is Senior Fellow and Casiker is Research Associate, affiliated to Ecosystem Services and Wellbeing Programme, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/can-bengaluru-pave-way-for-urban-farming-890612.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Adichunchanagiri Mutt cancels annual folk festival due to Covid-19||The state-level folk festival Kalabyreshwara jana pada mela that was held every year at Adichunchanagiri, in Nagamangala taluk, has been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Adichunchanagiri Mutt's general secretary Prasannanatha Swami said, the Mutt has been organising the folk festival since the last four decades to encourage folk art and the artists. More than 20,000 people from across the state used to participate in the festival every year. However, as Covid-19 cases are rising in the state, the festival has been cancelled as safety precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adichunchanagiri-mutt-cancels-annual-folk-festival-due-to-covid-19-890774.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kabini dam reaches full reservoir level||With the Cauvery catchment areas getting copious rain, the water Kabini in the dam in Beechanahalli in HD Kote taluk, Mysuru district, reached full reservoir level. The Kabini dam, with a maximum level of 2,284 feet, reached 2,283.08 ft, on Monday. The dam is getting 28,908 cusecs of water and the outflow stands at 35,000 cusecs. With heavy outflow, the authorities of the dam issued flood alert to the downstream villagers. The Bidarahalli bridge near the dam was submerged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kabini-dam-reaches-full-reservoir-level-890790.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||37,000 cusecs of water discharged from Krishnaraja Sagar dam||With Kodagu and Cauvery basin getting heavy rains, the inflow into the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district continued to rise on Monday.  As the water level in the dam reached the maximum level, the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam authorities released 37,000 cusecs of water into the river.  Currently, the water level is maintained at 124.6 feet as against the maximum level of 124.8 feet.  The authorities have warned the people living in villages downstream to move to safer places as the outflow may be increased up to 50,000 cusecs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/37000-cusecs-of-water-discharged-from-krishnaraja-sagar-dam-890815.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mala-Kudremukh National Highway to be closed for 2 days: DC||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha on Monday said that the Mala-Kudremukh National Highway 169 in Karkala taluk will be closed for two days.  In the last two days, Mala-Kudremuk highway saw landslides and uprooting of trees due to heavy rain. The mounds of soil and fallen trees have hit the movement of vehicles. The highway will be closed on September 21 and 21 to facilitate the work on clearing the soil and trees on the road, said the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mala-kudremukh-national-highway-to-be-closed-for-2-days-dc-890826.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Top cop's FB account hacked; fraudsters demand money||Fraudsters are hacking Facebook accounts of the police officials and are sending friend requests and also demanding money, by sending messages, from their contacts on Monday. Superintendent of Police of Lokayukta P V Sneha has posted on her Facebook wall: "Hi friends, pls don't accept my fb request. After sending request, hackers ask money. Pls cooperate, they are new fraudsters targeting police" (sic) on September 18. In another incident, a fraudster has hacked the Facebook account of Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S N Sandesh Kumar and has demanded funds, by sending messages from his contacts, on Monday. The fraudster has sent messages to the ACP's contacts in English language, requesting them to transfer money to his account, as he is in dire need. “One of my Facebook friends contacted me and asked about the message. The fraudster has mentioned that he has met with an accident and needs money urgently," the ACP said. Later, the ACP posted a message on his Facebook wall, claiming that his account is hacked and has requested his Facebook friends, not to deposit any money. “I have lodged a complaint with Cyber Crime Police and the police are investigating the case," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/top-cops-fb-account-hacked-fraudsters-demand-money-891029.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kabini reaches its full reservoir level||With the Cauvery catchment areas getting copious rain, water in Kabini dam, Beechanahalli in HD Kote taluk, Mysuru district, reached full level. The Kabini dam, with a maximum level of 2,284 feet, reached 2,283.08 ft on Monday. The dam is getting 28,908 cusec of water and the outflow was 35,000 cusec. With heavy outflow, the authorities of the dam issued flood alert to downstream villagers. Bidarahalli bridge near the dam was submerged. Kapila River is overflowing, as a large quantum of water was released. Several paddy fields were submerged at Suttur, Kupparavalli, Nagarle, Sargur, Bakkalli, Adinaru and Hosakote. Part of the Hadinaru Kalu Mantapa at Nanjangud town in Mysuru district, was submerged and devotees to Srikanteshwara temple were not allowed to have a holy dip.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kabini-reaches-its-full-reservoir-level-891031.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three days of continuous rain cripples Hassan district||Rain continued to lash the Malnad region of Hassan district and parts of Mandya district on Monday. Heavy rain, accompanied by high intensity winds, pulled down several trees and also damaged coffee plantations and pepper vines in Hassan district. Several electricity poles collapsed, disconnecting power supply to several villages. With copious rain in the catchment areas, Hemavathi dam in Gorur, got an inflow of 12,000 cusec of water. The rain, that started lashing Sakleshpur taluk three days ago, continued for the whole day on Monday. There was no power at several villages, causing inconvenience to people. Though the rain is pouring since three days, it turned very heavy by Monday afternoon. The roads in Sakleshpur town were waterlogged, causing inconvenience to vehicle users. Huge trees were uprooted at Balupete and surrounding areas. A huge tree fell on an electric line, affecting power and water supply to Sakleshpur town. Around 150 mm rain was recorded at Devalakere, Hoodachahalli, Athihalli, Hethuru, Bisile, Kadumane, Maranahalli, Hanubalu, Yedaukumeri and Kempuhole on Western Ghats. According to Indian Meteorological Department, the rain is expected to continue till September 24. Parts of Mandya district received heavy rain on Monday. An old tree near the Post Office, on VV Road in Mandya city, was uprooted on Monday afternoon. A car and eight two-wheelers were damaged. However, nobody was hurt, as people ran to safety observing the falling tree. Srirangapatna, Malavalli and Maddur taluks also received heavy rain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-days-of-continuous-rain-cripples-hassan-district-891033.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rain pounds north, coastal Karnataka districts||Heavy rain continued in various districts of the state on Monday. The historical monuments at Hampi in Hosapete taluk in Ballari district ---Purandara Mantapa, Kalu Sethuve memorial, Chakratheertha and also the bathing ghat --- are underwater following the release of excess water from Tungabhadra dam after heavy rain. Water has gushed into the famed Rama-Lakshmana temple too. The memorials were also underwater in August. At present, more than one lakh cusec of water is being released from the dam. Meanwhile, water is flowing on the bridge that connects Kampli and Gangavathi and the vehicular movement on the bridge is banned as a precautionary measure. With this, several places of Kalyana Karnataka have lost contact with Kampli. Tahsildar and senior government officials inspected the rain damage. In Davangere district, following the release of water from Tunga and Bhadra dams, vast acres of paddy fields in Harihar taluk were inundated and the river Tunga-Bhadra is in full spate. More than 50 pump sets, panel boards were submerged in the region. Villagers Govinhal, Baggadanahal, Nandigudi, Ukkadagatri, Elehole, Hosapalya, Hale Palya, Ingalagondi close to the river Tunga-Bhadra may face a flood-like situation in the coming days. Many residential areas in Honnali taluk were waterlogged. If the river Tunga-Bhadra continues to flow above the danger level In the Uttara Kannada district, heavy rain continued to lash several parts on Sunday night and Monday. Several villages in Honnavar have borne the brunt of the rain. In Karwar, Providence, a fishing boat, was broken and it came to the shore due to the effect of the rain at Ravindranath Tagore Beach. The boat was in the sea. Some boats have got back to the shore too at Aligadda. ‘Bhramari’, a boat of Malpe, submerged near Karwar on Sunday. No loss of life has been reported. Siddapur, Joida, Yellapur and Ankola region also received heavy rain. The rain continued to lash different parts of Chikkamagaluru district and its intensity was more in N R Pura and Kottigehara. In the last 24 hours (ending 8.30 am on Monday), Kerekatte received 22.8 cm rainfall, Kottigehara-21.5 cm, Billuru - 15.4 cm and Kigga -11.8 cm rainfall. More than 50 electric poles have been uprooted in the Malnad area following gusty wind. The power supply has been disrupted in Kalasa and surrounding areas. With the rain and gusty wind, coffee berries have started withering in coffee plantations.  The flood situation receded in Udupi on. Though the water level in Krishna Mutt and surrounding areas had come down, residents remained apprehensive throughout the day. Several houses have been partially damaged at various villages in the Udupi district while intermittent rain continued to lash different parts of the Dakshina Kannada district.  Rain lashed Kodagu district too. Talacauvery, Bhagamandala, Sampaje, Shantalli and Napoklu regions received heavy rain on Sunday night as well. Vehicular movement came to standstill on Murnadu - Napoklu and Ayyangeri-Bhagamandala roads, as River Cauvery overflowed. Rivulets and streams are in spate in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-pounds-north-coastal-karnataka-districts-891041.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa pushes for curtailing session, Siddaramaiah says 'no'||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said he would request the Opposition Congress and JD(S) to cut down the duration of the monsoon session of the legislature due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The session started Monday and is scheduled to end September 30. Many legislators, including ministers, have tested positive for Covid-19. “The situation is such that some 55-60 MLAs aren’t able to come. So, I’ll request the Opposition to stick to discussing only necessary issues and finish the session as soon as possible. Let’s see how they cooperate,” Yediyurappa told reporters. Yediyurappa is pushing to bring the session down to three days of business from the scheduled eight days. Even the Parliament session may be curtailed with at least 30 MPs testing positive for Covid-19. But Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah is in no mood to agree. “Yediyurappa spoke with me. I said it was true that Covid-19 cases were rising and that it was because of him,” he told reporters. “You’re bringing 35-40 Bills and you want to reduce the duration of the session from eight days. We’re saying it should be extended to three weeks,” he said, adding that Yediyurappa will have to withdraw the Bills for him to consider agreeing to curtailing the session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-pushes-for-curtailing-session-siddaramaiah-says-no-890794.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: NHM staff to go on strike from Sept 24 despite announcement of Covid-19 risk incentive||Days after 4,968 doctors of the health department strong-armed the government into allocating Rs. 125 crore for a raise in their salaries, the Karnataka State Health and Medical Education Department Contractual and Outsourced Employees Association (KSHCOEA) members have called for a strike from Thursday demanding salaries on par with the permanent staff of the health department. This includes nearly 30,053 National Health Mission (NHM) workers, comprising staff nurses, ambulance drivers, data entry operators, lab technicians, Ayush doctors, and midwives. They had last called for a strike on June 4. In order to appease them, the government on Monday announced Covid Risk Allowance ranging from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 for 14,252 NHM employees comprising MBBS/AYUSH medical officers, anaesthetists, physicians, paediatricians, staff nurses, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians and pharmacists. However, this is less than half of 30,053 contractual employees working under the NHM in 189 categories, and did not convince the Association to call off their move for the strike. NHM employees have long been asking to be paid the same amount as the permanent staff of the health department. A regular MBBS doctor earns Rs. 88,000 per month over Rs. 45,000 earned by a contractual doctor. A permanent AYUSH doctor earns Rs. 56,000 over Rs. 21,000 by a contractual one. A permanent staff nurse earns Rs. 35,000 over Rs. 12,500 by a contractual one. Similarly, a permanent ANM earns Rs. 35,000 over Rs. 10,500 by a contractual one. A regular lab technician earns Rs. 35,000 over Rs. 13,000 by a contract employee. Vishvaradya H Yamoji, President of  KSHCOEA, said that there is no difference in the nature of work down by the two, whether contractual or permanent. However, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey has maintained that job security and regularisation of contractual employees is not possible as NHM is a union government programme and that other health department contract staff will holler for regularisation if NHM employees are made permanent. On June 3, the state government formed a committee to look into the demands of salary hike and the Association called off the strike. But in the past three months, despite three meetings, no wage revision decision has been made, Dr Shashidhar, Chief Finance Officer, NHM said.  Yamoji told DH, "The Covid risk incentives are to appease us and convince us to call off the strike but we will go ahead. Despite adding the incentives, our salaries don't match the permanent staff's salaries. Besides, incentives have been earmarked for less than half of our staff, not all. After Covid, we will stop getting those incentives as well. What after the pandemic?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-nhm-staff-to-go-on-strike-from-sept-24-despite-announcement-of-covid-19-risk-incentive-890992.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt indulges in corruption in the name of Covid-19: D K Suresh in Parliament||Congress Lok Sabha member D K Suresh alleged that the BJP-ruled Karnataka government is indulging in large scale corruption with regard to purchasing healthcare and medical materials amid Covid-19. Speaking in Lok Sabha during debate on the pandemic, he said, when people of Karnataka are struggling to get treatment and hospital beds, the ministers are busy making money in purchashing. The state government paid more money to buy ventilators, masks and PPE kits than regular market price, he pointed out. Alleging that government totally failed to address the crisis, he said the high level probe should be required to unearth the massive scam. He also alleged that the ministers siphoned the money allocated to state under national and state diaster relief funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-indulges-in-corruption-in-the-name-of-covid-19-d-k-suresh-in-parliament-891037.html
21-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Assembly session cut short; to conclude on Saturday||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the monsoon session of the legislature has been curtailed and it will end Saturday, September 26. This was decided at the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting held on Monday. Due to the paucity of time for the session, the Committee decided to take up only six of the 35 Bills being tabled at the Assembly for debate and passage. The government, however, did not agree to the Congress’ demand for Question Hour. Speaking to reporters following the BAC meeting, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah said that the government proposed to curtail the duration of the session citing similar steps by Parliament and other state governments due to the pandemic. The session was scheduled to end on September 30 as per the previous schedule. Congress has expressed reservations against several ordinances promulgated by the state government, such as Land Reforms Bill, APMC Bill, and others and had sought that the session is extended beyond September 30.  “We demanded Question Hour as our MLAs had several queries. The government said that it would just table the answers. But, we have insisted that at least an hour be set aside for questions, which the government has not agreed to,” Siddaramaiah said. During the five-day session, Assembly proceedings will start an hour earlier at 10 am and will continue till 7 pm. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy and Congress leader Krishna Byregowda will finalise the list of Bills to be discussed, he said. Of the new Bills, at least 25 are important and many of them were anti-constitutional, Siddaramaiah added. There were clear indications earlier that the session could be curtailed further. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Monday morning that 55-60 MLAs will not be able to attend the session due to Covid-19. “So, I will request the Opposition to stick to discussing only necessary issues and finish the session as soon as possible. Let’s see how they co-operate,” the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-assembly-session-cut-short-to-conclude-on-saturday-891051.html
21-09-2020||National||Pakistan defends its move to deny visa to acting envoy of India||Islamabad has accused New Delhi of making an attempt to circumvent the effect of downgrading relations between the two nations by appointing one of its senior diplomats as India’s acting envoy to Pakistan.   The Pakistan Government on Sunday defended its decision to deny a visa to Jayant Khobragade, whom New Delhi wanted to appoint as its acting envoy to Islamabad. A spokesperson of its Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in Islamabad that New Delhi was trying to circumvent the effect of downgrading of diplomatic relations between the two nations by proposing to appoint a senior diplomat, who had already served as New Delhi’s ambassador to another country, as the acting head of the High Commission of India in the capital of Pakistan. Khobragade, who joined the Indian Foreign Service in 1995, served as a counselor in the High Commission of India in Islamabad earlier. He also served in India’s missions in Russia, Kazakhstan, and Spain. He was India’s ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic between 2013 and 2017. He has been on deputation to the Department of Atomic Energy since 2017. Islamabad blocked New Delhi’s move to appoint him as India’s acting envoy to Pakistan, citing his seniority. “However, keeping in view the diplomatic norms, Pakistan has counseled India to nominate an officer with seniority commensurate with Pakistan’s decision of downgrading the diplomatic relations,” said the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government. Islamabad in August 2019 made New Delhi withdraw India’s High Commissioner to Pakistan, Ajay Bisaria, in the wake of the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganise the state into two Union Territories. Pakistan also did not send its newly appointed High Commissioner to India, Moin-ul-Haq, to New Delhi. The High Commissions of India and Pakistan in each other’s capitals are currently headed by acting envoys. India and Pakistan further downgraded diplomatic relations in June this year, withdrawing half of the officials posted in the High Commissions of the respective countries in each other’s capitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-defends-its-move-to-deny-visa-to-acting-envoy-of-india-890579.html
21-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Parliament nod to bill to cut salary and allowances of ministers by 30%||Parliament on Sunday passed the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which proposes to reduce the salaries and allowances of ministers by 30 per cent for a year to augment financial resources required to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Opposing an ordinance issued earlier this year to affect the salary and allowance cut, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said in Lok Sabha that the move was like being "penny wise and pound foolish." He said more money was spent in preparing copies of the bill than the amount saved in cutting allowances of ministers. Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the idea was more to do with contributing to a cause. All including, the amount saved will be Rs 4 crore, the minister said. The bill was later passed by a voice vote in the lower house. Parliament had recently passed a bill to cut the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent for one year. The amount saved will be used in the government's fight against the pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-parliament-nod-to-bill-to-cut-salary-and-allowances-of-ministers-by-30-890584.html
21-09-2020||National||'Love Jihad' curse to society: Goa BJP leader||Goa BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Vinay Tendulkar on Sunday termed "Love Jihaad" a curse to the society. "This is a very critical issue which has cursed our society for quite a long time but is coming out in open now. We have lost plenty of our sisters and daughters to #loveJihaad. Everyone is free to choose their partners, but we must scrutinize their backgrounds. #LoveTrap," the former Goa BJP chief said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/love-jihad-curse-to-society-goa-bjp-leader-890594.html
21-09-2020||National||Delhi Police to write to defence ministry to verify documents seized from arrested journalist||The Delhi Police's Special Cell will write to the Ministry of Defence to ascertain the authenticity of defence-related classified documents found in possession of arrested freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, officials said on Sunday. The journalist was arrested on September 14 in connection with a case under the Official Secrets Act. He is accused of passing sensitive information about India's border strategy, Army's deployment and procurement, and foreign policy to Chinese intelligence agencies, police said. Sharma (61) has been in police remand for six days, police said, adding that they will seek an extension of his custody. "We will be writing to the Ministry of Defence on Monday to verify and ascertain the authenticity of the documents found in possession of the arrested journalist," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. He said the police will seek the defence ministry's opinion to ascertain how the documents might have reached the journalist. The officer said they will also be writing to Enforcement Directorate regarding the illegal financial transactions allegedly carried out by the accused. Yadav said e-mail and social media accounts of the journalist are being examined to ascertain the kind of information passed by him to Chinese intelligence officers. At a press conference held on Saturday, the DCP had said that based on Sharma's statement during interrogation, a Chinese woman and her Nepalese associate were arrested. "Both the Chinese woman and her associate were directors of shell companies in Delhi's Mahipalpur area and they would export medicines to China and in return, would get huge money which they gave to their agents here," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-to-write-to-defence-ministry-to-verify-documents-seized-from-arrested-journalist-890596.html
21-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Indian travelers may be debarred from entering S Africa when international travel resumes||Indian travellers could be debarred from entering South Africa as the country prepares to resume international travel when it lowers its Covid-19 lockdown restrictions on October 1. The South African government is facing a dilemma whether it should include BRICS partners India and Brazil on a list of countries that could be debarred from travelling to the country due to the high levels of infections in the two countries, which are currently sitting behind the US in having the highest number of infections in the world. The list of countries barred from entering South Africa is still being compiled by Health Minister Zweli Mkhize, in consultation with other government ministries. It is expected to be finalised by early next week. The UK and France are also expected to be on the list, which will be revised every fortnight. But restricting travellers from India and Brazil would place South Africa at risk of “diplomatic issues”, a government source told the weekly Sunday Times. “The argument is, do we continue to trade and tourism based on our BRICS partnership or do we close our doors and risk diplomatic issues?” the source told the weekly. While announcing the lowering of the lockdown to level one, the lowest in the government’s five-level strategy to counter the pandemic, President Cyril Ramaphosa invited tourists. Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane told the weekly that South Africa would use the guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation to determine which countries would be allowed to send visitors when international travel resumes. These guidelines include reviewing transmission patterns, measures for controlling outbreaks in both the departure and arrival countries and the readiness of the country’s health system to deal with infections. The minister remained positive about business not being affected even if there were restrictions placed on countries invested in South Africa. “If a country has been categorised as high risk, someone who has invested in South Africa and has to come back and check their project is able to apply to the home affairs minister (who) can approve for that person to come, provided they produce a negative coronavirus test within 72 hours of travel,” Kubayi-Ngubane said. Travel agents who were excited by Ramaphosa’s invitation said it would take a long time for the country to revert to the level it had before the lockdown of more than 10 million tourists annually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-travelers-may-be-debarred-from-entering-s-africa-when-international-travel-resumes-890600.html
21-09-2020||National||Adhir bats for allocation of PM CARES fund for rehabilitation of migrant workers||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Sunday asked the central government for allocating funds from PM CARES for the rehabilitation of lakhs of migrant workers displaced due to the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. The hardship faced by the people could have been mitigated if there was a well laid out strategy, he said in the Lok Sabha, adding that the intensity of the pandemic could have been moderated. Chowdhury also flagged the issue of "under-reporting" of Covid-19 deaths in the country. On the issue of migrant workers, he said lakhs of such workers were forced to flee to their home states on foot as there was no means of transportation during the 'severe' lockdown period. Now, these workers are not finding work in their home states to sustain themselves and again compelled to move to places where they can find work, he said. To rehabilitate such workers, the Congress leader said, the government should consider spending some amount from the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund. Badruddin Ajmal of AIUDF and Sri Krishna D Lavu of YSRCP also talked about the issue of unemployment. Lavu suggested that the government enhance its spending towards infrastructure which would lead to job creation. Besides, Chowdhury also raised the issue of overcharging by private hospitals amid the pandemic outbreak. Members cutting across party lines spoke on fleecing of distressed Covid-19 patients by such private hospitals. Danish Ali of BSP urged the Centre to enhance the infrastructure of district hospitals. He said he was pained that people were giving religious colour to the disease while referring to the Tablighi Jamaat controversy. A Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in March in Delhi's Nizamuddin area had significantly contributed to the doubling of coronavirus cases in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adhir-bats-for-allocation-of-pm-cares-fund-for-rehabilitation-of-migrant-workers-890603.html
21-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 21||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 54 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 55,51,663 as of September 21 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 88,822    No. of people discharged: 44,76,595      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-21-890621.html
21-09-2020||National||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi fears upsurge in child labour as Covid-19 shrivels economy||For four decades Indian Nobel peace laureate Kailash Satyarthi rescued thousands of children from the scourge of slavery and trafficking but he fears all his efforts could reverse as the coronavirus pandemic forces children into labour. "The biggest threat is that millions of children may fall back into slavery, trafficking, child labour, child marriage," said Satyarthi who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2014 for his work to combat child labour and child trafficking in India. As the pandemic pummels the Indian economy, pushing millions of people into poverty, families are under pressure to put their children to work to make ends meet. While rates of child labour have declined over the last few years, about 10.1 million children are still in some form of servitude in India, according to the United Nations children's agency UNICEF. Across India child labourers can be found in a variety of industries such as brick kilns, carpet-weaving, garment-making, domestic service, agriculture, fisheries and mining. Earlier this month, Satyarthi's organisation backed by police rescued dozens of girls during a raid on a shrimp processing unit in western India. "Once children fall into that trap they could be pulled into prostitution and could be trafficked easily ... this is another danger which government have to address now," he said, adding that he believed sexual abuse of children was also on the rise due to the pandemic. "I cannot be satisfied even if one single child is enslaved ... it means there is something wrong in our polity, in our economy, in our society, we have to ensure that not a single child is left out," he told Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nobel-laureate-kailash-satyarthi-fears-upsurge-in-child-labour-as-covid-19-shrivels-economy-890637.html
21-09-2020||National||India cautious, Japan to host meeting of ‘Quad’ Foreign Ministers amid China’s belligerence||The foreign ministers of India, United States, Japan and Australia may meet in Tokyo next month to discuss ways to counter China’s belligerence in Indo-Pacific region, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government appears to be in dilemma over hosting the meeting in New Delhi. The meeting of the foreign ministers of the ‘Quad’ – a coalition of India, Japan, Australia and the United States – was initially proposed to be held in New Delhi. The Deputy Secretary of State, Stephen Biegun, also confirmed during a webinar on August 31 that the meeting would take place in the capital of India. But the venue is now likely to be shifted to Tokyo with Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi hosting US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Australian Foreign Minister Maris Payne and Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. The meeting of the Quad Foreign Ministers is being planned amid China’s growing belligerence, not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also in South China Sea, East China Sea and elsewhere in Indo-Pacific. The venue may be shifted to Tokyo, as New Delhi is in dilemma over hosting a meet, which may send out a signal about India’s own vision for Indo-Pacific region turning overtly adversarial to China. The four-month-long military stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh has brought the relations between the two neighbouring nations to a new low. But a section within the Modi Government still has reservation about going the whole hog and allowing New Delhi to be seen as a zealous participant in the ‘Quad’, which is largely seen as a US-led move to bring the democratic nations of the Indo-Pacific region together in order to build a bulwark against expansionist and hegemonic aspirations of China. Jaishankar did take part in the first meeting of the ‘Quad’ Foreign Ministers, which was held on the side-line of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York in September 2019. He will also take part in the meeting in Tokyo if it is indeed hosted by the Japanese Foreign Minister. “But”, a source in New Delhi told DH, “taking part in a meeting is not the same as hosting one.” “While India remains committed to its vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, it will have to tread cautiously, preserving its own strategic independence,” said the source, who is aware of New Delhi’s approach on Indo-Pacific region. India is apparently keen to make it sure that it does not appear to be moving closer to the US in the wake of military stand-off with China. President Donald Trump’s administration has been slamming China for its aggression along its disputed boundary with India, as well as elsewhere in Indo-Pacific, like the South China Sea, the East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. The US Navy sent two carrier strike groups led by USS Ronald Reagan and USS Nimitz to South China Sea in July to conduct exercises and send out a message to Beijing. The USS Nimitz, while returning from the South China Sea, carried out a joint exercise with India’s warships INS Rana, INS Sahyadri, INS Shivalik and INS Kamorta near Malacca Strait in Indian Ocean. But a section of the senior policy makers in the Modi Government is of the view that New Delhi should not rely much on the US, which could tone down its rhetoric against China after the November 3 elections, no matter what the outcome of the polls might be. Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi recently had a meeting in Moscow and the two sides agreed to continue talks between diplomats and senior military commanders of the two nations. What also added to New Delhi’s dilemma about hosting the meeting of the foreign ministers of the ‘Quad’ is Russia’s unease over India’s participation in the US-led move against China in Indo-Pacific. Moscow has been engaged in quiet back-channel talks with New Delhi and Beijing to defuse tension between the two neighbouring nations. New Delhi signalled its keenness to maintain strategic balance in its Indo-Pacific approach, by deploying Indian Navy warships INS Ranvijay, INS Sahyadri, INS Kiltan and INS Shakti to exercise with Russian Navy’s Admiral Vinogradov, Admiral Tributs and Boris Butoma in the Indian Ocean early this month. New Delhi, Tokyo and Moscow are also discussing a separate trilateral initiative in the region, with India and Japan partnering for projects in the Far East region of Russia. Another source told DH that unrelenting spread of Covid-19 in India might have also been factored in when the decision to shift the venue of the Quad Foreign Ministers’ second meeting from New Delhi to Tokyo was taken. The viral infection has fallen in Japan. Tokyo also wants to signal continuation of Shinzo Abe’s policy on Indo-Pacific even after he resigned as Prime Minister and Yoshihide Suga succeeded him. Jaishankar, Pompeo and Payne are likely to have a meeting with Suga on the side-line of the Quad Foreign Ministers’ meeting – an opportunity for the new Japanese Prime Minister to articulate his plan to respond to expansionist moves of China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cautious-japan-to-host-meeting-of-quad-foreign-ministers-amid-china-s-belligerence-890646.html
21-09-2020||National||Deletion of graphics would not condone blatant code violation by Sudarshan TV, SC told||The Supreme Court has been told that any tailoring or deletion of a few graphics by Sudarshan TV would not change the nature and object of its series 'UPSC Jihad', which is a classic example of hate speech and spewing of venom. In an affidavit, advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan, on whose plea the court restrained the telecast of the programme, contended that the TV channel "deliberately and wilfully sought to misrepresent the show as being an expose on the role of the Zakat Foundation of India in training aspiring civil servants." "It is respectfully submitted that the tone, tenor and contents of the show go far beyond this, and seeks to represent Muslims as being part of a grand conspiracy to "capture" the civil services," he said. "This central theme is underscored with imagery, such as flames, blasts and a man in a green shirt and beard, meant to reinforce the message that Muslims are terrorists. This undermines the status and rights of Muslims as equal citizens in a democracy with the right as all others to have a place at every tier of public and government life," he added. The petitioner claimed that broadcasts of the four episodes of the show were sufficient for an appropriate action to be taken under the law by banning the complete series, "UPSC Jihad" which by the title itself reflects the antagonistic mind set against a particular community and was nothing but a prime example of virulent Islamophobia. He said any tailoring of future broadcasts will not and cannot condone the blatant violation of the programme code by news channel's editor in chief Suresh Chavhanke and its complete disregard of the assurance and undertaking given to the Union government. The lawyer-petitioner claimed nothing has transpired between September 15 when the court restrained the channel and now to necessitate any modification of the order. The Union government's Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has side-stepped the extremely important issue of the contents of the show being replete with hate speech and messages inciting viewers against the Muslim community, and has not addressed any of the comments made on air by Chavhanke. Khan alleged that Chavhanke repeatedly used highly provocative and militaristic rhetoric to describe Muslims. He was openly engaging in hate speech and a misinformation campaign to vilify Muslims as a community by seeking to fear-monger that Muslims are increasing in number and are out to exclusively corner the benefits of reservation for themselves. These are backward classes among Muslims which get the benefit of the OBC category e.g. Hajjams, Nai (barbers), Quershi (butchers), dhobi, fakir etc but blatant falsehood was shown as if Muslims were taking away all the benefits, he pointed out. The top court, which had on September 18 asked the channel to show how it would assuage its concern, is scheduled to take up the matter on Monday. The channel, in its affidavit, asked the court how the shows on 'Hindu Terror' with the most sacred symbols were allowed to air in other channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deletion-of-graphics-would-not-condone-blatant-code-violation-by-sudarshan-tv-sc-told-890671.html
21-09-2020||National||SC quashes NLSIU Bengaluru's notification on separate entrance exam||The Supreme Court on Monday quashed a notification for a separate entrance test conducted by the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru for admissions to its five-year BA-LLB course. The top court directed it to hold admissions based on results from the common entrance test just like other law varsities and start the course by October, 2020. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan pronounced the judgement on a writ petition filed by former NLSIU Vice Chancellor Prof Venkat Rao and another person, Rakesh Kumar Agarwalla. On September 11, the court allowed the NLSIU to conduct its separate online admission test for the integrated course, on September 12. It, however, had directed that neither the results of the examination would be declared nor any admissions would be made on the basis of this exam till further orders. The NLSIU had on September 4 issued a notification for holding the National Law Aptitude Test, other than the Common Law Admission Test, on the ground that its academic session was getting delayed due to repeated postponing of the joint entrance test. The petition filed by advocate Vipin Nair stated that the Memorandum of Association of consortium of National Law Universities mandated a common test for National Law Universities across the country. The CLAT (Common Law Admission Test), for admission to 22 National Law Universities across the country, was first scheduled on May 10. NLSIU was invariably listed, being a parent University since 2007. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the CLAT was rescheduled a number of times. It will now be held on September 28. Reacting to the judgement, advocate Nair, for the petitioners said it is a victory for 77,000 students, who are scheduled to appear for the CLAT. "The disadvantaged ones from a village will get a chance at the premier law entrance exams. It is now a level-playing field for all. It is a balanced judgment," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-quashes-nlsiu-bengalurus-notification-on-separate-entrance-exam-890680.html
21-09-2020||National||India, Maldives will support each other in fight against Covid-19, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday India and Maldives as close friends and neighbours will continue to support each other in their fight against the health and economic impact of Covid-19. Modi was responding to a tweet by Maldives President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih in which he expressed his thanks to the Prime Minister for India's financial assistance to his country.  "India has always risen to the occasion whenever Maldives needed a friend. My sincere thanks to PM @narendramodi , government and people of India for their neighborly spirit and generosity following the official handover of USD250 million as financial assistance today," Solih said.  Modi replied, "Appreciate your warm sentiments, President @ibusolih! As close friends and neighbours, India and Maldives will continue to support each other in our fight against the health and economic impact of Covid-19."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-maldives-will-support-each-other-in-fight-against-covid-19-says-pm-modi-890695.html
21-09-2020||National||86,961 new Covid-19 cases in India, tally reaches 54,87,580; death toll mounts to 87,882||India's Covid-19 tally reached 54.88 lakh with 86,961 people being infected in the past 24 hours, while 43,96,399 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 80.12 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 54,87,580, while the death toll climbed to 87,882 with the infection claiming 1,130 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to coronavirus has further declined to 1.6 per cent. There are 10,03,299 active cases in the country as of now, which comprises 18.28 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 6,43,92,594 samples have been tested up to September 20, with 7,31,534 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/86961-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-tally-reaches-5487580-death-toll-mounts-to-87882-890707.html
21-09-2020||National||Bhiwandi building collapse: Govt announces ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh||The Maharashtra government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased of Bhiwandi building crash. State Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde visited the spot and briefed Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray of the rescue and relief operations. So far, 10 bodies have been recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhiwandi-building-collapse-govt-announces-ex-gratia-of-rs-5-lakh-890714.html
21-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi condoles loss of lives in Bhiwandi building collapse||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed anguish at the loss of lives in a building collapse at Bhiwandi in Maharashtra   Seven children were among ten people killed and 11 others rescued after a three-storeyed building collapsed in Bhiwandi town on Monday, police said. "Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-bhiwandi-building-collapse-890718.html
21-09-2020||National||SC stays interim bail for former minister in rape case||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed interim bail granted to former Uttar Pradesh minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati on a plea by the state government in connection with the 2017 gang rape case of a woman and molestation of her minor daughter. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah suspended the operation of the Allahabad High Court's September 3 order granting two-month relief to the then Cabinet minister in Samajwadi Party government. The court issued notice to Prajapati on a special leave petition by the UP government. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the state government, questioned the validity of the HC's order, saying that the political leader has been given treatment during his judicial custody. He said the HC erroneously granted him relief even as his regular bail plea was coming up for consideration on September 28. In July, this year, the woman complainant, hailing from Chitrakoot, reportedly gave a written statement before a special court set up to try MP and MLAs withdrawing her charges against the leader. The apex court had in February, 2017 directed the Uttar Pradesh Police to lodge an FIR against Prajapati and others in connection with the case of alleged gangrape. The order had come on a plea of the woman who had alleged repeated gangrape by Prajapati and others and sought the court's direction for lodging of an FIR. She had claimed that the alleged incident had first taken place in October 2014 and continued till July 2016 and when the accused tried to molest her minor daughter, she decided to lodge a complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-interim-bail-for-former-minister-in-rape-case-890733.html
21-09-2020||National||Farm Bills need of 21st century; mandis, MSP will stay, says PM Modi||A day after two Farm Bills were passed by the Rajya Sabha, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated on Monday that the mechanism of minimum support price (MSP) will continue. “The Government will continue to purchase farm produce, the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism will continue and the ‘Krishi mandi’ (agriculture markets) will continue to work as it has been working,” said Modi, while trying to allay apprehensions of farmers who are up in arms ever since the contentious farm bills have been passed by the Parliament. Modi was addressing a virtual rally here wherein he laid foundation stones for highway projects in Bihar worth Rs 14,258 crore. The Prime Minister also inaugurated the optical fibre internet services through which 45,945 villages in the State will be connected. “The digital revolution in rural Bihar will help the State grow by leaps and bounds,” said PM while inaugurating the optical fibre network. The Centre’s sops have been doled out just ahead of Assembly elections in the State, slated for October-November this year. “Na MSP bandh hoga, na krishi mandi. (Neither MSP will be discontinued, nor agriculture markets will be shut). But there are sections of people who have been spreading canards about the farm bills. These bills were the need of the 21st century. Farmers remained in shackles for long leading to middlemen benefiting from their (farmers) compulsions. But no more so. My Government has brought in the biggest farm reforms which, in turn, will help farmers prosper,” said Modi. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has been doling out one sop after another every week for the poll-bound Bihar where the BJP is ruling the State in alliance with the JD(U) since July 2017. The NDA has projected Nitish Kumar as its chief ministerial candidate and the Prime Minister, in his every virtual meet, showers encomiums on the JD(U) strongman with whom he had a running feud from 2013 to 2017. Besides Nitish, his deputy and senior BJP leader Sushil Modi also attended today’s function through video conferencing. This was Modi’s fifth virtual rally for poll-bound Bihar in the last one month. The PM is likely to be the BJP’s star campaigner once the Election Commission notifies poll schedule in the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-bills-need-of-21st-century-mandis-msp-will-stay-says-pm-modi-890734.html
21-09-2020||National||India's coronavirus recovery rate crosses 80%||India's recovery rate of Covid-19 cases has crossed the 80 per cent mark with over 90,000 recoveries recorded for the third consecutive day, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. In a statement, the ministry said 93,356 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. "India has crossed the significant landmark of more than 80 per cent national recovery rate. On a continuous stretch of high recoveries, India has also reported more than 90,000 recoveries for the third day in succession," the ministry said in the statement. Twelve states and UTs have registered recovery rate of more than the national average and 79 per cent of the new recovered cases are from 10 states and UTs. "The total recovered cases are close to 44 lakh (43,96,399) today. India tops the global figure of total recoveries. It accounts for more than 19 per cent of the world total," it said. India's Covid-19 tally reached 54.88 lakh with 86,961 people being infected in the past 24 hours, while 43,96,399 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 80.12 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 54,87,580, while the death toll climbed to 87,882 with the infection claiming 1,130 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-recovery-rate-crosses-80-890746.html
21-09-2020||National||Chopper scam: Court to pass order on cognisance of charge sheet on Sept 25||A Delhi Monday reserved order on whether to take cognisance of a supplementary charge sheet against British National Christian Michel James and businessman Rajeev Saxena in the AgustaWestland chopper scam. Special Judge Arvind Kumar reserved order for September 25 after the public prosecutor, appearing for the CBI, submitted his argument that there was enough material to proceed against both the alleged middlemen as well as 13 others in the case.  According to sources, the probe report filed on Friday details the alleged role played by the accused in bringing bribes for politicians, bureaucrats and Indian Air Force (IAF) officials. The sources said that the CBI, which had earlier this year sought sanction from the authorities concerned to prosecute former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma, has not named him as an accused since the request has not been granted yet. The agency told the court that it may file another supplementary charge sheet in the matter later. The first charge sheet in the case was filed in September 2017 naming former IAF chief SP Tyagi and others. The agency had earlier told the court that “during the course of investigation, copies of classified/ secret official documents of Indian Air Force (IAF)/ Ministry of Defence (MoD) such as Operational Requirements for VVIP helicopters before issuance of Request of Proposal and other incriminating documents running into more than one lakh pages received from Italy and Switzerland”. It had also said that a “payment sheet” recovered from Michel, prepared on his dictation, shows that an amount of 30 million euro was paid/ proposed to be paid to the officers of IAF, MoD, bureaucrats, politicians and family in India for showing favour in the VVIP helicopter deal. Michel had entered into as many as five contracts through two of his firms to legitimise the illicit commission/ kickbacks on the procurement of VVIP helicopters by MoD, India, the CBI said. “An amount of 42.27 million euro was paid by the Westland Group Companies to the firms of the applicant as kickbacks/ bribes without undertaking any work against the receipt of such amount,” it said. It said that out of the kickbacks received from AgustaWestland, Michel further made payments to various persons in India. Michel was taken into custody by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on December 5 last year after his extradition from Dubai, while the ED took him into custody on December 22 last year. He is currently in judicial custody in both cases. Dubai-based businessman Saxena was extradited to India on January 31, 2019 in connection with the scam relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland. ED had earlier arrested Saxena but he was later granted bail after the agency supported his plea to turn approver in the case. The agencies had told the court that Michel made 24.25 million euro and 1,60,96,245 pound from the now-scrapped AgustaWestland deal. The CBI has alleged that the deal signed in February 2010 to supply VVIP choppers worth 556.262 million euro caused an estimated loss of 398.21 million euro (about Rs 2,666 crore) to the state exchequer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-scam-court-to-pass-order-on-cognisance-of-charge-sheet-on-sept-25-890751.html
21-09-2020||National||Digital media, completely uncontrolled, needs to be regulated first: Centre tells SC||"There is absolutely no check on web-based digital media. Apart from spreading venomous hatred, deliberate and intended instigation to not only cause violence but even terrorism, it is also capable of indulging in tarnishing the image of individuals and institutions. The said practice is, in fact, rampant," the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said. Maintaining that wider issues should be left to be considered and decided by the central government and the competent legislature, the government said if the court desired to go beyond regulating a TV channel and its programme, it was absolutely inevitable to start with digital media. The Union government filed its affidavit responding to a question posed by the court on how it intended to deal with the issues arising due to Sudarshan TV's Bindass Bol programme which garnered attention to the 'UPSC Jihad' series. Earlier too, the government had asked the court to first regulate digital media due to its serious impact and wider reach. Print and electronic media are already covered under a statutory regime. In a fresh response, the Centre said the regulation of electronic and print media was substantially occupied by either legislative field or judicial pronouncements. Any further regulation of electronic and print media by this court either by way of guidelines or providing for any redressal mechanism would incentivise broadcasters to use electronic media less and telecast and publish the same thing on digital platforms which would remain unregulated despite having wider reach without any corresponding responsibility or obligation, it pointed out. Either for being a broadcaster or for starting a newspaper in the print media, there are several eligibility criterions and qualifying standards to be fulfilled. Web-based digital media include digital web portals, web magazines and channels and are run on video hosting platforms such as Youtube etc, which can garner lakhs and crores of viewers. As against the limitations in the cases of print media, whereby one must be literate to read and understand, and mainstream electronic media, wherein one must have a television set up, nothing is particularly required to access digital media except a smart phone. This shows its potential reach and its ability to harm the very fabric of any nation. Electronic media would normally have a geographical barrier and fail to garner a global presence as widely as digital media. Digital media has a global presence both in terms of content coming out of India and content going out from within the country, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-media-completely-uncontrolled-needs-to-be-regulated-first-centre-tells-sc-890759.html
21-09-2020||National||Nearly 1,200 detained under NSA in 2017, 2018 in India, 563 still in custody||Nearly 1,200 people across the country were detained under the stringent National Security Act (NSA) by police in 2017 and 2018, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said on Monday. Of these, 563 are still in custody, the minister said in the Rajya Sabha.   According to the latest published report of 2018 of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Madhya Pradesh detained the highest number of people under the NSA in 2017 and 2018 among all states followed by Uttar Pradesh, the minister said in a written reply to a question in the Upper House, A total of 501 people were detained in different parts of the country under the stringent law in 2017. Of these, 229 were released by review boards and 272 are under custody, he said. In 2018, 697 people were detained under the NSA across the country and 406 were released by review boards while 291 are under custody, Reddy added. In Madhya Pradesh, 795 people were detained under the NSA in 2017 and 2018; 466 were released by review boards and 329 are under custody. In Uttar Pradesh, of the 338 people detained under the NSA in 2017 and 2018, 150 were released by review boards and 188 are under detention, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-1200-detained-under-nsa-in-2017-2018-in-india-563-still-in-custody-890772.html
21-09-2020||National||IAF's Rafale fleet to have first woman pilot soon||A woman fighter pilot of the Indian Air Force will soon join the Golden Arrows squadron operating the newly-inducted Rafale fighter jets, official sources said on Monday. The woman pilot is undergoing training to fly Rafale aircraft, they said. She has been flying MiG-21 fighters and was selected for the Rafale fleet following an internal process, the sources said. At present, the IAF has 10 women fighter pilots and 18 women navigators. The total strength of women officers serving in the IAF is 1,875. Last week, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik told Parliament that women fighter pilots are inducted and deployed in IAF as per strategic needs and operational requirements. The Golden Arrows squadron of the IAF was resurrected on September 10 last year. The squadron was originally raised at Air Force station, Ambala on Oct 1 1951. The squadron has many firsts to its credit; in 1955 it was equipped with the first jet fighter, the legendary De Havilland Vampire. Five French-made multirole Rafale fighter jets were inducted into the Indian Air Force on September 10 at the Ambala air force base. Ten Rafale jets have been delivered to India so far and five of them stayed back in France for imparting training to IAF pilots. The delivery of all 36 aircraft is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021. A second batch of four to five Rafale jets are likely to arrive in India by November. The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iafs-rafale-fleet-to-have-first-woman-pilot-soon-890781.html
21-09-2020||National||Many states, UTs not providing details of farmer suicides: G Kishan Reddy tells Rajya Sabha||The government on Monday said many states and Union Territories have not provided details of farmer suicides and hence, the national data on the causes of suicide in the farming sector is "untenable" and cannot be published. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said as informed by the National Crime Records Bureau, many states and UTs have reported "nil" data on suicides by farmers, cultivators and agricultural labourers after several validations, even while reporting suicides in other professions. "Due to this limitation, national data on the causes of suicide in farming sector was untenable and not published separately," he said in a written reply. According to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data on accidental deaths and suicides, 10,281 farmers committed suicide in 2019, down from 10,357 in 2018. The suicide rate in the farming sector accounted for 7.4 per cent of the total suicides in the country -- 5,957 farmers and 4,324 agricultural labourers, the NCRB said in the report containing the latest data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-states-uts-not-providing-details-of-farmer-suicides-g-kishan-reddy-tells-rajya-sabha-890783.html
21-09-2020||National||Sushant's talent manager Jaya Saha reaches NCB-SIT office||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput's talent manager Jaya Saha reached the NCB-SIT's office here on Monday afternoon for questioning in connection with the agency's probe into the drugs angle in the actor's death case. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had earlier asked Saha and Rajput's former manager Shruti Modi to appear before it on Monday. Saha reached the office of NCB's Special Investigation Team (SIT) in south Mumbai around 2 pm, an official said. The Mumbai Police have barricaded the area around the SIT's office. Modi's questioning was postponed on September 16 after a member of the SIT tested positive for coronavirus. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June. The federal anti-drug agency has so far arrested more than a dozen persons, including Rajput's girlfriend and actress Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, in the case. Meanwhile, the NCB is going to summon Bollywood actors Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh, and fashion designer Simon Khambata this week in connection with an ongoing drugs probe, a senior official of the probe agency said. Rakul Preet Singh last week moved the Delhi High Court seeking to stop media reports from connecting her with the Rhea Chakraborty drug case. She said leaks to the media need to be investigated as "someone's reputation is totally destroyed by it". The high court on Thursday sought the Centre's reply on her plea. The actor, represented by advocate Aman Hingorani, claimed in her plea that Rhea Chakraborty had already retracted the statement in which she was allegedly named and yet the media reports were connecting her to the case. Hingorani further said his client came to know about her being named in the case from "breaking news" on TV channels which said that she along with actor Sara Ali Khan and designer Simone Khambatta, have been named by Chakraborty as individuals who take drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushants-talent-manager-jaya-saha-reaches-ncb-sit-office-890785.html
21-09-2020||National||'PM Cares Fund not found': New game shows PM Modi jump over obstacles like Chrome dinosaur||The browser-based game opens to a black screen with what looks like a PM Modi's animated icon in a saffron Nehru jacket.  "PM Cares fund details could not be displayed because the Government won't allow you to see it," the screen reads, with the error being 'ERR_HIDDEN_BY_GOVERNMENT' instead of the usual 404. There is one more twist! When an user bumps into an obstacle, instead of the game over screen, one sees a 'GAME NOT OVER' sign. For every obstacle, the game gives the player reasons not to quit. Similarly, when the player bumps into the representative icon of the judiciary, the screen reads, "Supreme Court gives a free pass. Please Continue." When one bumps into the citizen icon, the black screen says 'even though the employment rate and the economy declines, all good. Please continue." The transparency on the PM Cares Fund has long been questioned by the members of Opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-fund-not-found-new-game-shows-pm-modi-jump-over-obstacles-like-chrome-dinosaur-890787.html
21-09-2020||National||There can't be universal policy on right to protest: SC in anti-CAA blockade case||The Supreme Court on Monday said that people can't claim absolute right to hold protests, though they may hold peaceful agitation without causing inconvenience to the general public. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari said that there cannot be a universal policy on the 'Right to Protest' because situations and facts are different every time. The court said the question was to balance the right to protest should be balanced with the right to movement of people. "There cannot be a universal policy because situations and facts are different every time. In a parliamentary democracy, there is always an avenue of debate. The only issue is how to balance it," the bench said. The court reserved its order on a batch of petitions seeking direction to the Delhi police for lifting the Shaheen Bagh protest organised earlier to this year here to oppose CAA-NPR-NRC. The bench said that it had appointed "interlocutors" as an experiment and they had suggested some measures which can be looked into. "There were some supervening circumstances which came into play and it was no one's hand. God almighty itself intervened," said the bench. Taking note of the submissions of lawyers including Shashank Deo Sudhi, the bench said: "We have to balance right to protest and the blocking of roads. We have to deal with the issue. Their cannot be universal policy as the situation may vary on case to case basis. On Monday, advocate Amit Sahni, who filed the petition for removing the road blockade, contended such kind of protests should not take place in future. "Political compulsion cannot be the reason to continue such protests. Despite the direction not to block roads, the protests went on for 100 days," he said, asking the court to pass directions for future. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the matter may not survive now as the protest was over. He, however, maintained that there can't be an absolute right to protest. Advocate Mahmood Pracha, appearing for intervenors contended the state machinery was misused, as the protests proceeded for months peacefully. "There should be a universal policy for holding such demonstrations, as people have a right to peaceful protest," he said. "We have the right to protest. State machinery is not sacrosanct. Members of a political party went there with the police and created the situation," he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-cant-be-universal-policy-on-right-to-protest-sc-in-anti-caa-blockade-case-890791.html
21-09-2020||National||Kafeel Khan writes to United Nations against Yogi Adityanath||Kafeel Khan, the Gorakhpur based doctor, who came out of jail recently after the Allahabad High Court quashed the National Security Act (NSA) slapped on him by the UP government, has written a letter to the United Nations Human Rights Commission (UNHRC) alleging large scale rights 'violations' and 'misuse' of stringent laws to ''suppress the voice of dissent' in India. Kafeel, who had been arrested in January this year for allegedly delivering an 'inflammatory speech' regarding the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), also accused the UP government of 'torturing' him 'physically and mentally' in jail. ''The government has been misusing stringent laws like NSA and UAPA to suppress the voice of dissent...it will greatly affect the poor and marginalised communities in India,'' he said in his letter. Kafeel, who spent seven months in Mathura jail in UP, said that he was kept 'without food and water' for several days. ''I was treated in an inhuman manner in jail...I was kept in a jail, where there were more prisoners than its capacity,'' he wrote in the letter. The Gorakhpur-based doctor, who apprehended that he could be arrested again by the UP government and was shifted to the Congress-ruled state of Rajasthan on the 'advice' of party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, had earlier called UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath an ''obstinate child''. Kafeel had met Priyanka in Delhi on Sunday, according to the sources in the Congress, triggering speculations that he might soon join the grand old party in the near future. Khan was also an accused in the case of the death of over 60 children owing to lack of oxygen at Gorakhpur Medical College three years back. He was arrested in that case and spent nine months in jail before being freed on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kafeel-khan-writes-to-united-nations-against-yogi-adityanath-890808.html
21-09-2020||National||288 people died cleaning sewers, septic tanks in last 3 years: Government||A total of 288 people have died in the country while cleaning sewers or septic tanks during the last three years, the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry said on Monday. Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale said a national survey of manual scavengers was carried out during 2018-19 in 194 districts of 18 states to identify all those manual scavengers who were cleaning the insanitary latrines, which have since been converted into sanitary latrines under the Swachh Bharat Mission. "As per reports received from states, 288 persons have died while cleaning sewers or septic tanks during the last three years up to August 31, 2020," he said in reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. According to the data provided by Athawale, 51,835 manual scavengers have been identified in the survey, out of which 24,932 were identified in Uttar Pradesh alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/288-people-died-cleaning-sewers-septic-tanks-in-last-3-years-government-890812.html
21-09-2020||National||10 central trade unions to support nationwide farmers protest on Friday||As many as 10 central trade union on Monday announced their support to the nationwide protest on September 25 by peasants and farm workers to oppose passage of two agri bills in Parliament, saying the BJP government should stop anti-farmers measures. The joint platform of central trade unions and sectoral federations declares its unstinted support to the initiative of Joint Platform of Peasants and Agricultural Workers Organisations –the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee to hold countrywide protest and resistance on 25th September 2020, the central trade unions said in a joint statement. "We also join them in protesting against the disastrous Electricity Amendment Bill 2020," the statement said. The ten trade unions are NTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC. Two key Farm Bills, dubbed as the biggest reform in agriculture by the government, were on Sunday passed by Rajya Sabha with voice vote. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now go to the President for his assent before they are notified as laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has termed it as a "watershed moment" in the history of Indian agriculture, asserting that the Bills will ensure a complete transformation of the farm sector and add impetus to the efforts to double the income of farmers. The Congress and other opposition parties have slammed the Bills as "death warrants" of farmers. Central trade unions and sectoral federations have called upon workers and their unions of all affiliations and across the sectors to join actively in the programmes of protest and resistance being organised by peasants’ organisations in and around their respective areas, the statement said. The trade unions alleged that the proposed laws are aimed at completely restructuring the management of the agricultural economy including farm trade in total favour of the big-landlord corporate nexus and multinational trading cliques on agricultural produce. "They virtually kill the rights and entitlements of the agricultural population. The Essential Commodities Act and related anti-hoarding, anti-black-marketing regulations are going to be curbed," it sad. They are of the view that the virtual withdrawal of government's role in ensuring fair and remunerative prices for farmers’ produce will pave the way for ultimate doing away with government procurement of agricultural produce with minimum support price. In totality, peasant agriculture will be totally ruined, on which survival of more than 60 per cent population is dependent, the statement said. The new measures are also aimed to facilitate profiteering by big players like Adani, Wilmar, Reliance, Walmart, Birla, ITC etc and also large trading companies, both foreign and domestic, it alleged. The joint countrywide action on September 25 which may turn into total Bandh in Punjab and Haryana and series of blockades in every corner of the country, is therefore a necessary action to protect farmers, food security and the country’s economy, the unions stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-central-trade-unions-to-support-nationwide-farmers-protest-on-friday-890820.html
21-09-2020||National||Indian citizenship granted to 2,120 Pakistanis, 188 Afghans, 99 Bangladeshis in last 4 yrs||A total of 2,120 Pakistanis, 188 Afghans and 99 Bangladeshis were granted Indian citizenship in the last four years, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Monday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said a total of 2,729 people of 44 nationalities were granted Indian citizenship from 2017 till September 17, 2020. Apart from 2,120 Pakistani, 188 Afghanistan and 99 Bangladeshi nationals, as many as 60 American, 58 Sri Lankan, 31 Nepali, 20 British, 19 Malaysian, 14 Canadian and 13 Singapore nationals were also granted Indian citizenship during the same period, he said in a written reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-citizenship-granted-to-2120-pakistanis-188-afghans-99-bangladeshis-in-last-4-yrs-890840.html
21-09-2020||National||Govt working on common video conferencing system for all courts: Sanjay Dhotre||The process of developing a uniform video conferencing platform by the government for all courts across the country in underway, Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology Sanjay Dhotre informed the Rajya Sabha. In a written reply to Congress Rajya Sabha member Vivek K Tankha's question, the Minister said "Under the eCourts Project, all ICT Solutions have been developed in-house by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), whereas video conferencing solution has been procured from the third party and hosted on the cloud at National Data Centre, Delhi as the on-premise solution to ensure the security of the data and to keep the data under complete control of the NIC." "Recently, under the Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has selected a few Made in India Videoconferencing solutions through Innovation Challenge. NIC is entrusted for evaluation and study of the suitability of these solutions for its usefulness in the courts’ function. On finding suitability and acceptance, these solutions could be used for High Courts and District Courts to meet their requirements," the Minister said. To a question on the timeline for its implementation, the Minister said, "expected timeline of evaluation, testing and commissioning of above solutions as per suitability is about 10 to 12 weeks."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-working-on-common-video-conferencing-system-for-all-courts-sanjay-dhotre-890862.html
21-09-2020||National||Maharashtra government files plea in SC over its Maratha quota stay order||The Maharashtra government has filed an application before a larger bench of the Supreme Court, seeking vacation of the apex court's stay on implementation of Maratha quota in jobs and education, an official statement said on Monday. The government's move comes amidst protests by pro- quota organisations representing the community in parts of the state over the issue. Maharashtra PWD Minister Ashok Chavan on Monday called on NCP president Sharad Pawar here to discuss the state governments efforts to vacate the Supreme Court's stay on implementing the Maratha quota in jobs and education. Chavan, who heads the Maharashtra cabinet subcommittee on Maratha quota, met Pawar at the Y B Chavan Centre here. "We had earlier discussed with Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray) the legal issues in connection with vacating the Supreme Courts stay on implementing Maratha quota. "I apprised Pawar saheb on the same today and understood his views, Chavan told reporters here after meeting the NCP chief, whose party is an ally of the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government. The Supreme Court earlier this month stayed the implementation of 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs, but made it clear that the status of those who have availed of the benefits will not be disturbed. A three-judge bench headed by Justice L N Rao had referred to a larger constitution bench, to be set up by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, the batch of pleas challenging the validity of the law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. The apex court had said the status of those who have already taken benefits of the 2018 law shall not be disturbed. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018 was enacted to grant reservation to people of Maratha community in Maharashtra in jobs and admissions. The Bombay High Court, while upholding the law in June last year, held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable, and said quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-government-files-plea-in-sc-over-its-maratha-quota-stay-order-890866.html
21-09-2020||National||Direct cargo ferry services between India and Maldives start||The Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Shipping, Mansukh Mandaviya, and Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation of Maldives, Aishath Nahula, on Monday jointly launched a direct cargo ferry service between India and Maldives through video conference. During its maiden voyage, a vessel with a capacity of 200 TEU and 3000 MT of breakbulk cargo will sail from Thoothukudi to Kochi today, from where it will proceed to Kulhudhuffushi port in North Maldives and then to Male port, the Ministry of Shipping said in a statement. It is scheduled to reach Kulhudhuffushi on September 26, 2020, and Male on September 29, 2020. This ferry service, being operated by the Shipping Corporation of India, will run twice a month and will provide a cost-effective, direct, and alternate means of transportation of goods between India and Maldives, according to a statement. Speaking on the occasion, Mandaviya noted that this service is another milestone in the comprehensive bilateral relations between India and Maldives and further cement the close ties between India and Maldives by enhancing people-to-people contact. Aishath Nahula expressed deep appreciation for the launch of the service as reflective of the close ties of friendship and cooperation between the two nations. The launch of this service concretely fulfills the commitment made by Prime Minister  Narendra Modi during his visit to the Maldives in June last year and the announcement made by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar during his virtual meeting with the Foreign Minister of Maldives on August 13, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/direct-cargo-ferry-services-between-india-and-maldives-start-890871.html
21-09-2020||National||World Peace Day: India climbs two ranks to 139th position on IEP's Global Peace Index||India climbed two spots to become the 139th ‘peaceful’ country on the Global Peace Index 2020 released by the Sydney-based Institute for Economics & Peace. The GPI 2020, which evaluated 163 countries and territories, placed India in the ‘low’ section in terms of peace. The countries were judged on the basis on 23 parameters, including domestic and international conflict, safety and security in society, and the degree of militarisation The study states that tension between different political, ethnic, and religious groups remains a significant threat to peacefulness in India. It notes that the amendment of the Citizenship Act in December 2019 and the ensuing tensions between Muslims and Hindu have been the major reasons for continued turbulence in India. India saw a slight increase of 3% in the incarceration rate at 3% and an increase of 9.9% in deaths from an internal conflict. The report says that India saw some improvement in peacefulness as there was a dip in its military expenditure from total GDP along with its armed service rates. “India’s commitment to UN peacekeeping funding also improved significantly,” it said. India has been ranked above 123 globally on an average since the IEP started this study from 2008. According to IEP, 2008 was the most peaceful year for India as it ranked 123, followed by 2009 (125). 2012 happened to be the least peaceful year for the county as its rank fell to 144. For the last six years, India is ranked between 136 (in 2018) and 143 (2014, 2015). The study shows that there has been a deterioration of peace at the global level, with the average country scores falling by 0.34% as compared to last year. “This is the ninth deterioration in peacefulness in the last 12 years at global level,” the study said, adding that while 81 countries have improved their peacefulness record, 80 others have not. While Iceland continued to be the most peaceful country, a position it has held since 2008, New Zealand remained unchanged in the second position as compared to last year. Austria, Portugal and Denmark take the remaining spots in the top five ranks respectively. For the second year in a row, Afghanistan continues to remain the least peaceful country, followed by Syria, Iraq, South Sudan and Yemen. In the South Asian region, Bhutan (overall 19) continues to be the most peaceful country, followed by Nepal (73), Sri Lanka (77), and Bangladesh (97). India, which ranks fifth in the region is just above Pakistan (152) and Afghanistan. The United Nations celebrates World Peace Day on September 21 with this year's theme being ‘Shaping Peace Together’ which encourages people to celebrate the day by spreading compassion, kindness, and hope in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-peace-day-india-climbs-two-ranks-to-139th-position-on-ieps-global-peace-index-890882.html
21-09-2020||National||Home Minister Amit Shah expresses anguish over building collapse in Bhiwandi||Expressing anguish over the collapse of a building in Maharashtra's Bhiwandi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said NDRF personnel have reached the spot and are helping rescue the trapped people. Seven children and four others were killed and 13, including a four-year-old boy, rescued after a three-storeyed building collapsed in Bhiwandi town. "Anguished to learn about the tragic collapse of a building in Bhiwandi, Thane (Maharashtra). @NDRFHQ is already on the ground and is assisting with the rescue operations. My deepest condolences are with the bereaved families, praying for the speedy recovery of those injured," Shah tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-minister-amit-shah-expresses-anguish-over-building-collapse-in-bhiwandi-890886.html
21-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Eight opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha suspended, PM Modi defends Farm Bills||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, eight opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha suspended; PM Modi defends farm reform bills and non-NDA parties ask the president not to ratify the Farm Bills.  Here are the top stories of today.   Eight opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha, including TMC leader Derek O'Brien and Sanjay Singh of AAP, were on Monday suspended for the remainder of the Monsoon session of Parliament for "unruly behaviour" during the passage of two farm bills, leading to protests and washing out of proceedings. The suspended members refused to leave the House which witnessed multiple adjournments. A motion for the suspension of the eight including Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora (all Cong), Dola Sen (TMC), KK Ragesh and Elamaram Kareen (all CPM) was moved by the government and approved by a voice vote in the House. This came after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu rejected a notice for a no-confidence motion against deputy chairman Harivansh as it was not in proper format and did not give a 14-day notice period. Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Monday that the Farm Bills passed by Parliament were the need of 21 century India and again reassured farmers that the government purchase of their produce coupled with the minimum support price mechanism will continue. With opposition parties vehemently criticising the legislations as "anti-farmers" and protests continuing in states like Punjab and Haryana, Modi again mounted a strong defence of these measures, saying farmers will now have the freedom to sell their produce at a place and price of their choice. Attacking critics, he said a "clique" of people exploited farmers for long as they remained in shackles of rules regulating the sale of their produce and stated that this needed to change, which his government has done. A day after two contentious farm bills were passed by Rajya Sabha amid a bedlam, a number of non-NDA parties wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind over the manner in which the government "pushed through its agenda" and urged him not to grant his assent to the proposed legislations. According to sources, leaders of various political parties including the Congress, the Left parties, NCP, DMK, SP, Trinamool Congress and the RJD have in a memorandum to the President sought his intervention in the matter and asked him not to sign the bills. The bills will become a law only after the President grants his assent to them. A fire broke out at a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Jagatpur town in Odisha's Cuttack district on Monday, fire officials said. No loss of human life has been reported so far, DG (Fire Service) Satyajit Mohanty said. A total of 127 coronavirus patients being treated at the hospital were evacuated and shifted to other medical establishments, he said. The fire broke out in the afternoon at the ICU on the ground floor, Dr Samita Mohanty said. There cannot be a "universal policy" on right to protest and possible curbs as also balancing it with acts like blocking of roads are needed because the situation may "vary" from case-to-case, the Supreme Court said on Monday. The top court's observation came while reserving the verdict on a batch of pleas against the anti-CAA protests which had led to blocking of a road in Shaheen Bagh in the national capital last December. The situation normalized later due to Covid-19 pandemic fear and subsequent observance of protocol. Taking note of the submissions of lawyers including Shashank Deo Sudhi, the bench said: "We have to balance right to protest and the blocking of roads. We have to deal with the issue. There cannot be universal policy as the situation may vary on case to case basis. A Delhi court has dismissed an application by former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, seeking permission to meet his family during his police custody. Khalid is in police custody for 10 days, till September 24, in a case related to the large conspiracy in the communal violence in north east Delhi in February. He was arrested on September 13 and the next day the court allowed police to interrogate him in its custody saying it was a fit case for police custody remand. The cops had said they wanted to confront him with documents running into 11 lakh pages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-eight-opposition-mps-in-rajya-sabha-suspended-pm-modi-defends-farm-bills-890887.html
21-09-2020||National||Over 1,300 posts lying vacant in CBI: Govt to Parliament||Over 1,300 posts are lying vacant in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against its total sanctioned strength of 7,273, the government told Parliament on Monday. Of the sanctioned strength, 5,944 posts are filled and 1,329 vacant in the CBI, according to data shared by Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. Giving category-wise details, he said out of the sanctioned strength of 5,000 of executive ranks, 4,198 is the actual strength, as on August 31, 2020. Of the 370 posts of legal ranks, 285 were filled and 66 out of 166 posts meant for technical ranks were occupied, according to the reply. As many as 1,368 and 27 posts of ministerial ranks and canteen staff were occupied against the sanctioned strength of 1,671 and 70 respectively, the data showed. Singh said proactive efforts are made to ensure filling up of vacancies at all ranks speedily. "All Central Police Organisations (CPOs)/State Police/Banks etc. are regularly requested to send the nomination of officers/officials for deputation in CBI," he said. The minister said the CBI requests various organisations, including public sector banks, Ministry of Home Affairs for sponsoring names for the posts of Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) and inspector on deputation in the agency. "Proposals are sent to Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for induction of suitable officers in various technical ranks in CBI," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1300-posts-lying-vacant-in-cbi-govt-to-parliament-890908.html
21-09-2020||National||Govt hikes support prices for wheat, five other rabi crops||Under attack from the Opposition over farm sector reforms, Centre on Monday declared the minimum support price for winter crops, assuring to buy wheat at Rs 1,975 per quintal, an increase of Rs 50 over last year. At a special meeting of the Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was decided to increase the support price for other rabi crops such as chana, masoor, barley, safflower and mustard. The sudden decision came a day after the government faced opposition fire for overpassing two agri-reforms bills in the Rajya Sabha amid pandemonium. “Congress has been spreading rumours about MSP. We have declared MSP for rabi crops much before the start of the sowing season,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, said in a statement in the Lok Sabha. Tomar said MSP of chana has been increased by Rs 225 to Rs 5,100 per quintal, that of barley by Rs 75 to Rs 1,600 per quintal. The support price for masoor has been hiked by Rs 300 to Rs 5,100 per quintal. The MSP of mustard/ rapeseed has been increased by Rs 225 to Rs 4,650 per quintal, while that of safflower has been hiked by Rs 112 to Rs 5,327 per quintal. A battery of union ministers addressed a press conference to claim that public procurement had nearly doubled during the Modi government in comparison to UPA-II. “Between 2009-14, the UPA government had purchased foodgrains worth Rs 3.76 lakh crore at MSP rates. The Modi government purchased foodgrains worth Rs 6.97 lakh crore between 2014-19,” Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters here. He was flanked by Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi. Congress has been accusing the Modi government of planning to discard the MSP regime and dismantle the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees, which form the backbone of the farm sector. “We have taken the wind out of the confusion spread by the Opposition on MSP and APMC,” Prasad said. He accused the Congress of hypocrisy and said the Opposition party had promised similar farm sector reforms in its manifesto for the Lok Sabha elections last year. Prasad said Congress governments in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Haryana and Punjab had introduced contract farming years ago and were now targeting the Modi government. “Rahul Gandhi should speak with Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Amarinder Singh, and Kamal Nath first before casting aspersions on the Modi government,” Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-hikes-support-prices-for-wheat-five-other-rabi-crops-890926.html
21-09-2020||National||14 years on, execution of SC directives on police reforms still dismal in states||Tuesday marks the 14th year of the Supreme Court issuing directives for police reforms. But an analysis by a private watchdog paints a dismal picture on its implementation across the country. Only six states provide security of tenure for their police chief, only seven provide for independent short-listing of candidates and only 13 allow an internal mechanism to enable police leadership to take decisions on transfers without political interference. Only two states provide the State Security Commissions, which are to be independent police oversight bodies, the power to make binding recommendations, the report showed. Not only that a single state has implemented all the seven directives, but some have even circumvented it, virtually circumventing the process aimed at reducing political interference and providing the freedom to police forces across the country. The Centre, which is mandated to implement it in Union Territories, as well as states. stood wanting in implementing reforms, the Government Compliance with Supreme Court Directive on Police Reforms: An Assessment' by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) shows. Analysing the steps taken to form State Security Commissions, aimed at ensuring that the "State Government does not exercise unwarranted influence or pressure on the state police”, the report said only Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh make the recommendations of this body binding on police. States like Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh make its recommendations subject “only to the extent feasible” while Delhi says “unless...the government decides to disagree with findings of the authority” (Delhi). When it comes to social inclusion in SSCs, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan stand. While Maharashtra requires the representation of at least one woman and one member of Backward Class among non-official members of the SSC, Rajasthan mandates the inclusion of a member from “weaker sections”. When it comes to the selection of police chief and ensuring a fixed tenure of two years, only Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland fully comply with this directive. Twenty-three states, including Karnataka, Gujarat, Kerala, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, omit the provision for shortlisting by the UPSC and give state governments the "sole discretion" to select the candidates for the DGP’s post. Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland and Tamil Nadu are the only states that include short-listing by the UPSC. When it comes to tenure, 16 states, including Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, include problematic provisions for premature removal such as “on other administrative grounds to be recorded in writing” or “in the public interest”. These are liable to be interpreted in multiple ways and misused, the report noted. Removal of the DGP in 18 states, including Karnataka, does not include the provision to consult the SSC. On giving minimum tenure to the inspector general, superintendent of police, and station house officers, the report said seven states, including Kerala, comply fully while five states, including Karnataka, give a tenure of one year "to selective, and not all, ranks of officers". Separation of investigation wing and Law and Order also lags behind though 16 states have taken some measures while 12 states, including West Bengal and UP have failed to comply with the directive. Only Karnataka and Arunachal Pradesh fully comply with the directive on Police Establishment Board, which is mandated to decide on transfers, postings, promotions and other service matters of personnel below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police, make recommendations to the state on postings and transfers of senior officers and act as a forum for appeal of officers of the rank of Superintendent of Police and above. Twenty states are "non-compliant". On Police Complaints Authorities, 8 states – Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, and Uttarakhand – include serving police officers as members of the PCA. While the court did not specifically prohibit this, including serving officers in an authority mandated to inquire into public complaints against the police undermines the principle of independent external oversight and accountability, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-years-on-execution-of-sc-directives-on-police-reforms-still-dismal-in-states-890934.html
21-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha passes Bill to amend Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed the amendments to Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act that seek to make Aadhaar mandatory for office bearers of any NGOs to receive foreign funds. The brief discussion on the bill saw Opposition members voice concerns that the provisions of the draft legislation could be used to target NGOs raising issues related to ‘Dalits’ and minorities, and may create hurdles in running Christian missionary schools. Congress member Anto Antony said the provisions of the bill will be used to “suffocate NGOs” indulging in philanthropic activities. Responding to the discussion, Minister of State for Home Nityananda Rai said the bill will help curb misuse of foreign funds and was not targeted at any religion. On concerns about Aadhaar being made mandatory for office bearers of NGOs, the minister referred to the Supreme Court judgment that allowed the government to make laws to make the document mandatory. “Issue of Aadhaar Card was raised. Supreme Court clearly said it’s not mandatory to make Aadhaar Card a means to identify oneself everywhere. But it can be made mandatory by bringing a law, if important. Hence the amendment,” Rai said. “If director or manager of an organisation want to hide their identity and can’t disclose their address, what work will they do? It casts suspicion on their intention. Why is Aadhaar Card being opposed? The Aadhar Card is a significant proof of identification,” he said. BJP’s Satyapal Singh said that many organisations receiving foreign contributions were not spending the money on the work it was meant for. He said that money received as foreign contribution cannot be spent on terrorist activities. Sougata Roy of the Trinamool Congress said there was “no need” for the bill, stressing that when the Supreme Court has said Aadhaar is not compulsory then why is the government making it mandatory for registration of NGOs. YSRCP’s Bellana Chandra Sekhar supported the bill, saying it is “much needed.” Shiv Sena member Shrirang Appa Barne also supported the bill and said that there is a need to come out with a strict law to stop religious conversion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-amend-foreign-contribution-regulation-act-890936.html
21-09-2020||National||Can't become enforcer of programme code, but have to protect dignity: SC on Sudarshan TV||The Supreme Court on Monday said that it does not have to become the enforcer of the programme code for a TV channel but still it has to protect human dignity, liberty and equality enshrined in the Constitution.  Dealing with the issue of pre-telecast ban on a programme by Sudarshan TV related to alleged infiltration of Muslims into the UPSC, a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said this (pre-telecast ban) is a rare constitutional power that must be wielded with extreme caution.  "Our jurisdiction can't be invoked when there are alternative civil and personal remedies," the bench said, adding court can't dwell on specifics as to what can be removed or added in a particular programme.  After detailed arguments by advocate Shadan Farasat, appearing for Jamia Milia Islamia students, the bench, also comprising Justices Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph, said there are post-telecast mechanism under the criminal law too if a programme promoted hate speech and targetted a community affecting their right to dignity. "This program does deal with certain issues of public interest when it talks about foreign funding of Zakat or reservation for Muslims as an OBC. So we have to look at this aspect as well," the bench said. The court posted the matter for consideration on Wednesday. At the outset, the court pulled up Sudarshan TV editor Suresh Chavhanke for raising the issue of NDTV's programme of 2008 on 'Hindu Terror', with the most sacred symbols. "You don't have a right to shoot your mouth off just because something was asked of you," the bench told his counsel Vishnu Shankar Jain. During the hearing, advocate J Sai Deepak, appearing for news portal OpIndia and others, said the court has to consider a question of the chilling effect of the restraint order. "We are concerned here right to free speech and dignity. Here the community is an amorphous group and we can't ask them to seek civil remedy," the bench said. Justice Joseph, for his part, wondered if there any programme in TV which is not offensive and sought to know from Solicitor General Tushar Mehta if the government watched all these episodes if they violated the code. In his arguments, Farasat contended the four episodes telecast by the TV channel tried to convince the audience that Muslims were their enemy. "Hate speech over a period of times leads to acts of violence," he said. He cited the example of continuous radio transmissions of hate speech which led to the Rwandan genocide. "Similarly non-Jewish were convinced jews were a threat and Myanmar Buddhists were convinced that Rohingyas were a threat. All this leads to genocide," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-become-enforcer-of-programme-code-but-have-to-protect-dignity-sc-on-sudarshan-tv-890955.html
21-09-2020||National||Over 9,000 pilots required in next five years: Civil Aviation Minister||An estimated 9,488 pilots will be required in India in the next five years, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Monday. "The total number of pilots employed in the country with scheduled airlines at present is 9,073," Puri said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha. He said 700-800 commercial pilot licences (CPLs) are issued by the aviation regulator DGCA in a year. Of these, 30 per cent CPLs are given to those who have undergone training in a foreign organisation, Puri added. The aviation sector has been hit hugely by the coronavirus pandemic. Therefore, all domestic carriers have instituted various cost-cutting measures like pay cuts, layoffs or leave without pay in the past few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-9000-pilots-required-in-next-five-years-civil-aviation-minister-890968.html
21-09-2020||National||Congress to launch nationwide protest against Farm Bills||Congress on Monday announced a nationwide agitation from September 24 against the new farm sector reforms passed by Parliament, collecting signatures from farmers to press for repeal of the “draconian laws”. The decision was taken at a meeting of top Congress leaders, chaired by former Defence Minister A K Antony in the absence of party chief Sonia Gandhi, who was consulted on the issue. Gandhi, along with Rahul Gandhi, is traveling abroad for medical treatment of the Congress President. A series of press conferences will also be held across the country against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 which were cleared by voice vote in the Rajya Sabha even as opposition members stormed the well of the House, charged at Deputy Chairman Harivansh and climbed on tables, seeking referral of the bill to a Select Committee for further examination. Besides a series of press conferences across the country, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal said that the party’s state unit chiefs and party leaders along with former ministers, MPs, and MLAs will march to the respective Raj Bhavans and submit a memorandum to Governors demanding to repeal the laws. “From September 24 onwards, Congress will launch an all-India agitation asking the government to repeal the black laws,” Antony told reporters here adding that the protests would continue till the government withdraws the laws. AICC Treasurer Ahmed Patel accused the Modi government of destroying the democratic system. “The agricultural bills are neither in the interest of the state government nor the farmers. We raised our voice against this in Parliament and will now take to the streets,” Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-launch-nationwide-protest-against-farm-bills-890979.html
21-09-2020||National||Phase 3 human clinical trials of Oxford's Covid-19 vaccine begins in Pune||The phase-III human clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Oxford University, and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), began at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital here in Maharashtra on Monday, a senior official said. "We have started the phase-III trials of the vaccine (candidate Covishield). We will administer dose to 150 to 200 volunteers," said Dr Muralidhar Tambe, Dean, Sassoon General Hospital. Under phase-II, trials had been conducted at the Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and also KEM Hospital in the city. The SII has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, being developed by the University of Oxford. Earlier this month, the SII had paused the clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had on September 11 directed the SII to suspend any new recruitment in the phase-II and III clinical trial of the vaccine till further orders after AstraZeneca paused the trials in other countries because of "an unexplained illness" in a participant in the study. However, on September 15, the DCGI gave permission to the SII to resume clinical trial of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phase-3-human-clinical-trials-of-oxfords-covid-19-vaccine-begins-in-pune-890980.html
21-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Government waives permit requirement for movement of oxygen transport vehicles||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Monday announced that it has waived the permit requirement for transport vehicles carrying oxygen in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision will make movement of vehicles easier, ensuring the supply of oxygen across the country, the Transport Ministry said in a statement. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has exempted the transport vehicle operators for the carriage and transportation and delivery of Oxygen Cylinders or Oxygen Tanks across the States or within a State from permit requirements till 31st March 2021," the ministry said in a statement. This has been done as oxygen is an important item required for the treatment of Covid-19, the statement said. "It had been brought to the notice of the Ministry that there are problems being faced by certain Transport Vehicle operators in this regard," the statement said. Following this, a notification for exemption of permit requirements for these vehicles as required under Section 66 of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988 issue, said the Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-government-waives-permit-requirement-for-movement-of-oxygen-transport-vehicles-890986.html
21-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Man refuses to let recovered mother stay with him||A 65-year-old woman at Nizamabad in Telangana was allegedly not allowed by her son to stay with him post her recovery from Covid-19 and the man relented only after being counselled by the police on Monday. The woman's husband had deserted her after marrying another woman and she used to stay with the son, police said. However, the woman and her daughter-in-law did not get along well and she was admitted to an old age home about a year ago, they said. The woman and other senior citizens staying at the old age home had tested positive for Covid-19 and she has since recovered from the infection after taking treatment at a hospital, they said. The old age home could not temporarily accommodate her and she came to her sons house to stay. However, her daughter-in-law allegedly had reservations about the woman staying with them and the couple locked the house and left for Hyderabad, they said. Left with no alternative, the old woman stayed in the premises of the house for the past three days, surviving on food provided by some people, they said. After coming to know about the issue, police and other officials counselled the man on Monday and he has agreed to let his mother stay with him, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-man-refuses-to-let-recovered-mother-stay-with-him-890989.html
21-09-2020||National||Disruptions in Parliament: A case of dissent or rebellion?||It was a repeat of the 2010 incident when eight Rajya Sabha MPs of Opposition parties were suspended on Monday for the Sunday ruckus in the Upper House for their noisy protest against the two contentious farm bills passed by the Upper House. In 2010, seven MPs belonging to RJD, JDU, LJP and Samajwadi Party were suspended for creating unruly scenes in the House while opposing the Women's Reservation Bill. The motion then moved by UPA’s minister Prithviraj Chavan under Rule 256 was adopted by a voice vote. Even then, the charge was a disregard for the dignity of the Council and authority of the Chair. While this time the suspended MPs marshalled out of the House sat on demonstration near Gandhi statue in the Parliament precincts, the MPs in 2010 had created quite a spectacle sitting on the ground in the Upper House after the Chairman had announced their suspension. On both occasions, the use of marshals to evict the MPs raised questions about the democratic functioning of the House. This is not limited to only Rajya Sabha. Lok Sabha also has repeatedly recorded such incidents, raising allegations of "intolerance" and "lack of democracy". In March 2020, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla suspended seven Congress MPs including Gaurav Gogoi for the rest of the budget session after they created a ruckus protesting against the communal violence in Delhi, demanding the resignation of home minister Amit Shah and discussions in both Houses of the Parliament. Gogoi was again among the six Congress MPs suspended from attending the House in July 2017 for five days for throwing papers at the Chair. They were protesting after their demand for an adjournment motion to discuss incidents of lynching was disallowed.  The repeated disruptions in Houses had led to a demand for setting up of evolving a 'Parliamentary disruption index', an idea that emerged at a conference of Presiding Offices of Legislative bodies in November 2019 in Dehradun, mooted by the current Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh. A 'code of conduct' for members of Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, state Assemblies and Councils to minimise disruptions in the House, especially relating to suspension for entering and protesting in the well of the House, was also deliberated upon.  In July last year, the rule review committee chaired by Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu mooted automatic suspension of members creating ruckus in the House. In February this year, Lok Sabha contemplated the idea of a new stricter law to check disruptions in the House. While temporary suspensions of members have been occurring now and then, the frequency has risen in the last 10 years—all the more in the last three years due to the polarised nature of politics between the BJP and the rest of the Opposition. In the last six years, at least a dozen of such suspensions have taken place in both Houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disruptions-in-parliament-a-case-of-dissent-or-rebellion-891004.html
21-09-2020||National||Pakistan targeting Indian professionals working in Afghanistan, says India||India on Monday said Pakistan was targeting Indian professionals working in Afghanistan through a variety of ways and several of them engaged in various development projects have been attacked and kidnapped over the past 12 years. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, replying to a question in Lok Sabha, said Pakistan attempted to designate four Indian nationals, who had previously worked in Afghanistan, as terrorists under UN Security Council resolution 1267. "However, the 1267 Sanctions Committee, based on its internal procedures, has not approved the request," he said. Muraleedharan said Pakistan has been targeting Indian professionals working in Afghanistan in a variety of ways. "Several Indians working in Afghanistan on various development projects have been attacked and kidnapped over the past 12 years. With the assistance of the government of Afghanistan, India has been able to secure the release of many Indians from captivity," he said. Following India's persistent efforts, the minister added that there is enhanced concern globally over terrorism emanating from Pakistan, including the activities by terrorist entities such as Jamaat-ud Dawa (JuD), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad and Hizbul Mujahideen. "The international community strongly condemned the cross-border terrorist attack in Pulwama in February 2019. Several countries have called upon Pakistan to not allow its territory to be used for terrorism in any manner," he said. Muraleedharan said many terrorist entities and individuals, who find shelter in Pakistan and are engaged in terror activities against India, have been proscribed by the United Nations (UN), the European Union and other countries. "On May 1, 2019, the UN 1267 Sanctions Committee designated Masood Azhar, the leader of JeM, as a UN proscribed terrorist. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) at its plenary in June 2018, notified Pakistan in the ‘Grey List’ due to continuing terror financing related concerns," he said. To a separate question, he said the total number of Indian citizens abroad who were infected with coronavirus, stood at 11,616 as on September 10. "Of these, 373 Indians lost their lives," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-targeting-indian-professionals-working-in-afghanistan-says-india-891008.html
21-09-2020||National||Aarogya Setu app has more than 15.7 crore registered users: Sanjay Dhotre||Aarogya Setu, the biggest Covid-19 contact tracing app in the world, has more than 15.7 crore registered users, Parliament was informed on Monday. Minister of State for Electronics and IT, Sanjay Dhotre, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha, said the app has maintained "utmost transparency" in all aspects. He said Aarogya Setu is equipped with security features to protect the confidentiality and security of users' data. Replying to a specific question on low rating reportedly given by an organisation to the app, Dhotre said the rating was by an independent media company MIT Technology Review, and not the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He further said no inputs were taken from the National Informatics Centre (NIC) prior to publishing of the report. "It may also be noted that the review given by the media company was based on their understating and interpretation of the app and the way it functions," Dhotre said. The 'MIT Technology Review Media Company' has given Aarogya Setu two stars out of five, he said, adding the two stars were given for transparency and data destruction parameters. The Aarogya Setu app is not allowed access from outside India, hence it is not clear how the media company evaluated it from outside the country, the minister said. In addition, the app has been "indigenously designed to cater to the specific demographics of India, and the features and functionalities in the app are built accordingly", he said. He added that an organisation publishing a report needs to understand the context of how and why the app was built with particular features suited for India. He pointed out that giving a rating based on the organisation's own interpretations is not justified. Aarogya Setu is the biggest Covid-19 contact tracing app in the world with more than 15.71 crore registered users, Dhotre said. The app's data is encrypted in transit as well as at rest. Personal information provided at the time of registration is encrypted before being uploaded to the back-end server, where it is stored in encrypted form, he said, adding that the data collected by the app is governed by stipulated protocols and policy. Response data from Aarogya Setu is shared with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, state governments and other ministries and departments, "where such sharing is strictly necessary to directly formulate or implement an appropriate health response", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-app-has-more-than-157-crore-registered-users-sanjay-dhotre-891009.html
21-09-2020||National||Retired INS Viraat reaches Bhavnagar waters, anchors off ship breaking yard||Retired Indian Naval Ship (INS) Viraat on Monday reached the waters of Bhavnagar and has been anchored off the Alang Ship Breaking Yard where it will have to go through the formalities of clearances from the Customs and Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) among other agencies, before it is beached at the yard for final dismantling as scrap. Officials said that the dismantling of the former Indian aircraft carrier is most likely to start from September 28 in presence of Union as well as state ministers and naval officers. “INS Viraat has been anchored off Alang coast (outer anchorage) which was escorted by the Coast Guard officials after a special request. It will stay there for a week to finish several formalities such as clearances from Customs, GPCB among other agencies. We are planning to start its dismantling from September 28 in the presence of Mansukh Mandaviya, Gujarat ministers and naval officers,” Mukesh Patel, chairman of Shri Ram Shipping firm, which bought the ship, told DH over phone. He said that Mandaviya, Minister of State for Shipping (independent charge), has confirmed his presence on the occasion. Intivations have been sent to several ministers of Gujarat government and naval officers. “There are emotions attached to the ship from those who has served the nation for over three decades. We are planning to make it a memorable event,” he added. When contacted, Mandaviya confirmed DH that he will be a part of the event most likely to happen on September 28. “This retired ship is part of nation’s pride so I will have to be there to see it off along with naval officers on the occasion,” he said. Sources in the Gujarat Maritime Board that regulates the yard said that Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani is also likely to participate in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retired-ins-viraat-reaches-bhavnagar-waters-anchors-off-ship-breaking-yard-891047.html
21-09-2020||National||India protests abduction, conversion of minority women in Pakistan||With over 55 Sikh women being kidnapped and forcibly converted to Islam in Pakistan over the past few months, New Delhi on Monday took up the issue with Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad and asked it to stop the persecution of religious minority community in the neighbouring country.  A senior diplomat of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi was summoned to the South Block, where top officials of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) conveyed his concerns of the Government of India over a series of incidents of abduction and forced conversion of women of minority communities in the neighbouring country, sources said.  New Delhi also conveyed to Islamabad the anguish of the Sikhs in India over such incidents of persecution of the community in Pakistan. India particularly took up with Pakistan the recent incident of alleged abduction and suspected forced conversion of Bulbul Kaur, the daughter of Pritam Singh, a ‘granthi’ (or reader of holy text Guru Granth Sahib) of the historic Panja Sahib Gurdwara at Hassan Abdal in the neighbouring country. A delegation of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) had on Saturday met the senior MEA officials and requested that the Government of India should take up with Pakistan the issue of alleged abduction and forcible conversion of Bulbul Kaur. The MEA officials summoned the diplomat of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi and conveyed the concerns of India.  Another Sikh girl, Jagjit Kaur, daughter of a ‘granthi’ of Gurdwara Nankana Sahib in Pakistan, was also kidnapped and forced to convert to Islam last year, the DSGMC leaders had pointed out during the meeting with the MEA officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-protests-abduction-conversion-of-minority-women-in-pakistan-891067.html
21-09-2020||National||2548 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, toll crosses 5K||The Covid-19 toll in Delhi crossed the 5,000-mark on Monday with 32 more fatalities, while 2,548 new cases took the tally to 2.49 lakh, the Health Department said. There are 30,941 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 2.13 lakh people have recovered so far, according to the health bulletin. Thirty-two new fatalities and 2,548 cases have been recorded, taking the tally to 2,49,259, including 5014 deaths, the department said. The number of containment zones in Delhi jumped to 1,889 on Monday from 1,872 a day ago. The positivity rate stands at 7.55 per cent, the recovery rate is over 85 per cent and the case fatality rate is 2.01 per cent, it said. The relatively low count of fresh cases came out of 33,733 tests. The tests per million is over 1.32 lakh, while the total number of tests stood at over 25.78 lakh. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev took a review meeting with all district magistrates on Covid-19 management. The additional chief secretary, home, held a meeting with Health Department officers and various nodal officers, it said. Since August 18, cases again have been coming in four digits. According to the bulletin, out of the 15,861 beds in Covid hospitals, 8,691 are vacant., while 1,864 beds in Covid care centres are occupied. The number of people in home isolation is 19,213.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2548-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-toll-crosses-5k-891081.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Farm bills to rob government's vote bank?||High drama was witnessed in Rajya Sabha during the passage of two contentious farm sector Bills on Sunday with the Opposition MPs trooping to the Well of the House, shouting slogans, throwing the rule book at the Chair, breaking microphones and throwing papers. Farmers at several places in Punjab on Sunday burnt copies of farm bills and effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging that the bills related to the agriculture sector will destroy their livelihood. "These farm bills will destroy the farmers and farm labourers and we strongly oppose these bills," a farmer in Talwandi Sabo. The farmers have expressed apprehensions that the three bills will pave a way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-farm-bills-to-rob-governments-vote-bank-890642.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Derek O'Brien, 7 other Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for remainder of Monsoon Session over uproar on Farm Bills||Eight Opposition MPs, including Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien and Karnataka MP Syed Nasir Hussain, were on Monday suspended for the reminder of the Monsoon Session of Parliament for "unruly behaviour" during the passage of two contentious farm sector bills, intensifying the war between the government and its opponents. The suspended MPs -- O'Brien, his AAP counterpart Sanjay Singh, CPI(M) leader Elamaram Kareem, Trinamool Congress' Dola Sen, CPI(M)'s KK Ragesh and Congress' Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Hussain -- refused to leave the House, leading to multiple adjournments till the Chair called it a day at 12:07 PM. The suspended MPs immediately started an indefinite sit-in near Gandhi Statue in Parliament House and said they would stay put there and would not leave the premises. While Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said Deputy Chairman Harivansh, an MP from Bihar, was physically threatened by Opposition MPs on Sunday, the BJP-led played the 'Bihar Card' keeping in mind the upcoming Assembly elections and reminding opponents that people of the state will not forgive  them. The Opposition continued to target the government and Harivansh. In the House, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan moved the motion to suspend the MPs, amid Opposition's objections while Naidu announced that the motion was carried. Naidu also rejected a notice for a no-confidence motion against Deputy Chairman Harivansh as it was not in proper format and did not give a 14-day notice period. The suspended MPs were asked to leave the House but they refused and voiced their protest against the decision. While the Session is scheduled to end on October 1, the government is mulling to curtail it due to a large number of MPs and Ministers contracting Covid-19. After the motion to suspend the MPs was adopted, Naidu announced that he would be taking up the Calling Attention Motion on GST compensation to states, in which O'Brien, Kareem and Ragesh were among the movers. As the protest continued, Naidu went to other business but continuing protests forced him to adjourn the House till 10 AM. The MPs continued to protest when the House re-assembled but was adjourned again and again. Just before taking up the motion, Naidu condemned the behaviour of the MPs and said the incidents of Sunday were unfortunate. "It pained me a lot. It defies logic. It was really a bad day for Rajya Sabha," he said adding some Opposition MPs abused Harivansh. "Some members came to the Well and hurled papers, rule book at the Deputy Chairman and abused him. Some members were climbing on the Secretary General's table, dancing, tearing papers, breaking mikes, obstructing the Deputy Chairman from his duties, throwing papers...The Deputy Chairman was physically threatened. If marshals had not been called on time what would have happened to the Deputy Chairman," he said. He said such behaviour was "very unfortunate, unacceptable and condemnable" and one that "tarnished the image of Parliament". The suspension of MPs led to a war of words between the Government and the Opposition with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeting, "muting of democratic India' continues: by initially silencing and later, suspending MPs in the Parliament and turning a blind eye to farmers' concerns on the black agriculture laws. This 'omniscient' government's endless arrogance has brought economic disaster for the entire country." Union Law Minister Ravishankar Prasad said people of Bihar are pained at the treatment given in Rajya Sabha to its Deputy Chairman Harivansh on Sunday. One of the suspended MPs Kareem said, "suspension won't silence us. We will stand with farmers in their fight. Deputy Chairman throttled Parliamentary procedures yesterday. Suspension of MPs exposed the cowardly face of BJP. People will see through the attempt to divert attention from their undemocratic actions." West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool supremo Mamata Banerjee sounded the war bugle saying they won't "bow down" but will fight this "fascist government inside Parliament and on the streets. She described the suspension of the MPs "who fought to protect farmers interests" as "unfortunate and reflective" of the government's mindset that "does not respect democratic norms and principles".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/derek-obrien-7-other-rajya-sabha-mps-suspended-for-remainder-of-monsoon-session-over-uproar-on-farm-bills-890654.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||RS Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu rejects notice for no-confidence motion against Harivansh||Rajya Sabha on Monday suspended eight members, including TMC leader Derek O'Brien, a day after the House witnessed unprecedented unruly scenes by protesting opposition members during the passage of farm bills. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu also rejected a notice for no-confidence motion against deputy chairman Harivansh on the grounds that proper procedure was not followed. Naidu condemned the unruly behaviour and "threats" to Harivansh during the passage of the farm bills. Shortly thereafter, Parliamentary Affairs Ministers read out a motion seeking suspension of eight members for the remainder of the session. Naidu put the motion to vote and it was carried by voice vote. However, opposition members protested against the decision, leading to adjournment of the proceedings for about 20 minutes. Two key farm bills, dubbed as the biggest reform in agriculture by the government, were on Sunday passed by Rajya Sabha with voice vote amid unprecedented unruly scenes by protesting opposition members who were demanding that the proposed legislation be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rs-chairman-m-venkaiah-naidu-rejects-notice-for-no-confidence-motion-against-harivansh-890669.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||SAD delegation led by Sukhbir Singh Badal to meet President Kovind over Farm Bills today||A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal led by Sukhbir Singh Badal will meet President Ram Nath Kovind today at 4.30 pm, over the passage of Farm Bills in the Parliament, according to ANI.  The two Bills were passed in Rajya Sabha amid high drama on Sunday with the Opposition MPs trooping to the Well of the House, shouting slogans, throwing the rule book at the Chair, breaking microphones and throwing papers. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sad-delegation-led-by-sukhbir-singh-badal-to-meet-president-kovind-over-farm-bills-today-890713.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Muting of democratic India continues: Rahul Gandhi on Rajya Sabha MPs' suspension||The Congress on Monday reacted sharply to the suspension of eight Opposition Rajya Sabha MPs, including three of its own, with Rahul Gandhi saying the "muting of democratic India continues" by initially silencing and later suspending the parliamentarians. The suspension of the eight members comes a day after the Upper House witnessed unprecedented unruly scenes by protesting opposition members during the passage of two farm bills. "'Muting Of Democratic India’ continues: by initially silencing and later, suspending MPs in the Parliament & turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns on the black agriculture laws," Gandhi said in a tweet. "This ‘omniscient’ Govt’s endless arrogance has brought economic disaster for the entire country," the former Congress chief said.   ’Muting Of Democratic India’ continues: by initially silencing and later, suspending MPs in the Parliament & turning a blind eye to farmers’ concerns on the black agriculture laws. This ‘omniscient’ Govt’s endless arrogance has brought economic disaster for the entire country. Reacting to the development, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked whether or not there is any parliamentary system in the country. "Is it a sin to raise the voice of the farmer in Parliament? Have dictators held Parliament hostage?" Surjewala said in a tweet. "Do you not listen to the voice of truth under the influence of power? How many voices will you suppress Modi ji...Of the farmers, of workers, of small shopkeeper, of Parliament," he tweeted with the hashtag 'Kisaan Virodhi (anti-farmer) Modi'. The government on Monday moved a motion seeking the suspension of Derek O'Brien (TMC), Sanjay Singh (AAP), Rajeev Satav (Congress), K K Ragesh (CPM), Syed Nazir Hussain (Congress), Ripun Boren (Congress), Dola Sen (TMC) and Elamaram Kareem (CPM). Amid opposition, the motion was adopted by voice vote and Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked them to leave the House but they remained present and protested the ruling. The chairman also rejected a notice for a no confidence motion against Deputy Chairman Harivansh on the grounds that proper procedure was not followed. Naidu condemned the unruly behaviour and "threats" to Harivansh during the passage of the farm bills. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed by the Rajya Sabha on Sunday with a voice vote, amid unprecedented unruly scenes by protesting opposition members demanding that the proposed legislations be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny. The two bills have already been passed by the Lok Sabha and will now go to the president for his assent before they are notified as laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/muting-of-democratic-india-continues-rahul-gandhi-on-rajya-sabha-mps-suspension-890721.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day amid uproar over suspension of members||Rajya Sabha was on Monday adjourned for the day amid uproar by opposition members over the suspension of eight MPs, including TMC leader Derek O'Brien and Sanjay Singh of AAP, for the remaining part of the Monsoon session over their "unruly behaviour" during the passage of farm bills. The proceedings of the House were almost washed out as it could not take up any legislative business. Earlier in the day, some members managed to raise issues during Zero Hour. The House witnessed five adjournments as some opposition members continued protests over the suspension of members. As soon as the House resumed at 12 pm, Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was in the chair, asked the suspended members to leave the House and urged members to maintain decorum. However, the opposition members refused to budge forcing the Chair to adjourn the House for the day. Earlier in the day, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu termed the behaviour of members during the passage of the bills on Sunday as "very unfortunate, unacceptable and condemnable" and one that has "tarnished" the image of Parliament, particularly the House of Elders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-amid-uproar-over-suspension-of-members-890722.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Delhi Congress leaders stage protest against Farm Bills; detained||Delhi Congress leaders and workers marching towards Parliament on Monday to protest against the new Farm Bills were detained by police. Amid vociferous protest by opposition parties, Rajya Sabha passed the Farmers' and Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 on Sunday. The protesters led by Delhi Congress President Anil Kumar were marching towards the Parliament building but were stopped and detained by the police on R P Road, the party said. The police took the protesters to the Mandir Marg police station here, said Delhi Congress leader Parvez Alam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-congress-leaders-stage-protest-against-farm-bills-detained-890741.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Over 1 lakh vacancies in Central Armed Police Forces: Govt to Rajya Sabha||Over one lakh posts are lying vacant in Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) like the BSF and the CRPF and the vacancies have occurred mostly due to retirement, resignation and deaths, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Monday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the BSF has the highest number of vacancies (28,926), followed by the CRPF (26,506), the CISF (23906), the SSB (18,643), the ITBP (5,784) and the Assam Rifles (7,328). "Vacancies in CAPFs and Assam Rifles arise due to retirement, resignation, death, new raising, creation of new posts, cadre reviews, etc. Majority of these vacancies are in the grade of constable," he said replying to a written question. Rai said there exists a well-established procedure to fill up these vacancies like through direct recruitment, promotion and by deputation, as per the extant provisions of Recruitment Rules. The minister said the government has taken expeditious steps to fill up the vacancies in CAPFs, which is an ongoing continuous process. At present, the process of recruitment for 60,210 posts of constables, 2,534 posts of sub-inspectors through the Staff Selection Commission and 330 posts of assistant commandants through the Union Public Service Commission is underway, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/over-1-lakh-vacancies-in-central-armed-police-forces-govt-to-rajya-sabha-890747.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Nitish Kumar condemns heckling of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman||The heckling of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh in the House during the passage of Farm Bills has "hurt" the prestige of Bihar, and people of the state will give a befitting reply to this, the leaders of the state's ruling BJP-led National Democratic Alliance said on Monday.  Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said whatever happened in Rajya Sabha on Sunday was very wrong and the more it is condemned, the less it would be.  He was speaking at a virtual programme attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who laid the foundation stone of nine highway projects and inaugurated optical fibre internet service.  State's Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi said people of Bihar, which is going to the assembly polls soon, will give a befitting reply.  Harivansh is a respected person in Bihar and across the country, and this incident has hurt the state's pride, he said. Two key Farm Bills, dubbed as the biggest reform in agriculture by the government, were on Sunday passed by Rajya Sabha with voice vote amid unprecedented unruly scenes by protesting opposition members who were demanding that the proposed legislation be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny. After a heated debate, Rajya Sabha passed the two Bills amid a bedlam as some opposition members, ignoring the Covid-19 protocol, charged towards the podium of Deputy Chairman Harivansh, flung the rule book at him and tore official papers. They yanked his microphone and heckled him over their demand for a division of vote on their motion to refer the legislation to a select committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-condemns-heckling-of-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-890770.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition parties hold protest on Parliament premises against suspension of 8 MPs||Opposition parties hit out at the government on Monday over the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha MPs and are holding a protest on the Parliament premises against the move. Eight members from the Congress, CPI(M), Trinamool Congress and the AAP were suspended for the remaining part of the Monsoon session over their "unruly behaviour" during the passage of farm bills in the Upper House of Parliament. "Suspension of the 8 MPs who fought to protect farmers' interests is unfortunate and reflective of this autocratic Govt's mindset that doesn't respect democratic norms & principles. We won't bow down & we'll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets," West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said in a tweet. Opposition parties like the Congress, CPI(M), Shiv Sena, JDS, TMC, CPI, and the Samajwadi Party are holding a protest on the Parliament premises with placards that read "Murder of Democracy", "Death of Parliament" and "Shame, shame". "Suspension won't silence us. We will stand with farmers in their fight. Deputy chairman throttled parliamentary procedures yesterday. Suspension of MPs exposed the coward face of the BJP. People will see through the attempt to divert attention from their undemocratic actions," said CPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem, who is among those suspended. "Wake up crores of farmers of the country, BJP government has mortgaged your life to Adani-Ambani, wake up and oppose this black law. We are on agitation in Parliament, you should agitate outside. The BJP government has passed a black law against farmers. We were terminated for opposing the bill," said AAP MP Sanjay Singh. "That is why we are sitting on dharna and will keep sitting till the BJP government explains why this black law was passed by strangling democracy," he added. The MPs came to the protest site carrying blankets, and pedestal fans were being fitted to help them fight the scorching heat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-hold-protest-on-parliament-premises-against-suspension-of-8-mps-890801.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Voting on Farm Bills would have made things easier for government||The passing of two contentious farm sector Bills without a voting following pandemonium in Rajya Sabha on Sunday has triggered a controversy amid accusations that the government panicked at the last minute on whether they could muster the numbers leading to ignoring the Opposition's demand. However, if one goes by the attendance sheet of MPs in Rajya Sabha, the government could have got the Bills passed by a margin of 5-15 votes. Though it is not necessary that all MPs who have signed the register will vote, MPs who do not sign the register can also attend the proceedings and vote. Opposition believes that the game would have been too close if BJD, BSP and AIADMK, whose at least 18 MPs were present in Parliament on Sunday, decide to vote in favour of the motion to send the Bills to Select Committees and not walk-out, in case the voting was allowed. On previous occasions, these parties had walked out and not participated in voting on Bills though they were opposed to it. Both the BJD and AIADMK had taken a position against the Bill. The BJP could have got 97 votes going by the attendance sheet while the Opposition could have mustered the support of 72 to 91 MPs, depending on the stand taken by BJD, BSP and AIADMK, which keep a distance from the anti-BJP camp. However, Union Law Minister Ravishankar Prasad claimed that the ruling combine would have got 110 votes as against Opposition's 72 in case of a voting. However, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said, "BJP did not have the numbers, that is why they suspended MPs from various parties to pass anti-farmer bills and anti-labour bills." While the Opposition accused the Deputy Chairman Harivansh of rushing through the Bill, BJP leaders rubbish it saying that the Chair could not have held voting when the MPs demanding a division of votes were unwilling to return to their seats. In their now rejected no-confidence motion against Harivansh, they had accused him of not even attempting a consensus to resolve the impasse and go ahead with voting. "The whole world saw that the Chair was following the order of the government and not the other way around. The panic set in the Treasury Benches after the BJD and TRS asked the anti-farmer Bills to be sent to the Select Committee," Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh said during a war of words with senior BJP MP Bhupender Yadav on Twitter. According to the attendance sheet, around 70 BJP MPs, excluding Ministers, were present in Parliament. Its ally JD(U) had at least two of its MPs present while YSR Congress, which supported the Bill, had five MPs present in Parliament. The BJP was also sure about support of at least four MPs from smaller parties and two nominated MPs. Besides this, the government could also count on 12 ministers, including ally Ramdas Athawale, and Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who are exempted from signing the register, taking its support base to 97 votes. On the other side, the Congress-led Opposition had 75 MPs in Parliament. They were also counting on the support of BJD's 8, BSP's 4 and AIADMK's 4 MPs. This would have taken their votes to 91, if the three otherwise BJP-friendly parties did not walk out without participating in the voting. Congress had 30 MPs, including Pratap Singh Bajwa who did not sign the register but was present. Seven MPs from Samajwadi Party, four each from CPI(M), Trinamool Congress, TRS, DMK and RJD and three each from AAP, Akali Dal and NCP, who had registered their presence, were also against the Bill. Several Opposition MPs like former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and former Finance Minister P Chidambaram as well as a number of Trinamool MPs among others have skipped the Monsoon Session owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. While the debate on the two Bills were progressing in the Upper House, a senior Opposition leader had told DH that “they (government) have the numbers”. The same leader said on Monday, “it seems they were not sure about the numbers. They could have won even if there was voting but it might have been close.” Opposition floor managers said that coordination of MPs sitting in two Chambers of Parliament could have been difficult and this might have led to panic in the ruling side. The Opposition was also jittery as some of their members were not present in Parliament when the debate on the Bill was nearing its end. They also said that the absence of senior Ministers who could have guided the floor managers of the ruling side also had an impact. However, the BJP leaders put the blame on the Opposition, saying their unruly behaviour left them with no option for the Chair but to go ahead with passing the Bill through a voice vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/voting-on-farm-bills-would-have-made-things-easier-for-government-890841.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Modi govt sometimes blames God, sometimes people, but not its misrule: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday attacked the Centre over Union Minister Harsh Vardhan's remarks that people's "irresponsible behaviour" has resulted in a surge in Covid-19 spread, saying the Modi government's "blind arrogance" sometimes blames God, sometimes people, but not its own "misrule". Tagging a media report on Vardhan's remarks, Gandhi tweeted, "The blind arrogance of the Modi government sometimes blames God, sometimes people for the plight of the country, but not its own misrule and wrong policies." "How many more 'Act Of Modi' will the country bear?" he said in the tweet in Hindi. Gandhi has been critical of the government over the handling of the Covid-19 crisis and accused it of failing to tackle the situation. The government has dismissed all such claims in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-sometimes-blames-god-sometimes-people-but-not-its-misrule-rahul-gandhi-890869.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harvinash nearly assaulted by opposition members: Govt||Condemning the opposition's conduct during the passage of the farm bills on Sunday as "shameful", the government on Monday said Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh was "nearly assaulted" by opposition members even when he was ready to take up their motion to move the bills to the select committee. Eight members -- distributed among the Congress, CPI(M), Trinamool Congress and the AAP -- were suspended earlier in the day for the remainder of the Monsoon session over their "unruly behaviour" during the passage of farm bills in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. "The conduct of opposition leaders in the Upper House of Parliament on Sunday was shameful, irresponsible and utter disrespect to parliamentary rules and dignity," Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said. He was addressing a press conference along with his cabinet colleagues Pralhad Joshi and Piyush Goyal on the pandemonium in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday and Monday. Suspended members not leaving the House on Monday in spite of declaration of suspension by the Chairperson was "patently illegal and further aggravates their conduct as far as violating the norms are concerned," Prasad said. He asserted that the government had clear majority during the passage of the farm bills. It had 110 members in support of the legislation as against 72 opposed to it, he said. Hailing Harivansh's behaviour as "exemplary", Prasad said the Deputy Chairperson of the Upper House was ready to take up the opposition's motion for sending the bills to the select committee and was urging them to go to their seats so that House could be in order. "..it is matter of record 13 times, honourable Deputy Chairman requested opposition members to go back on their seats so that he can take up the opposition members' motion for sending the bill to the select committee," Prasad said, adding that they rather stood on the table and destroyed the mike in front of him. "It was most shameful day in the history of parliament, mike was destroyed and the rule book was torn. There is enough visual evidence available that if martials would not have protected the Deputy Chairman Harivanshji would have been nearly physically assaulted as to what was happening just by his side at the podium," Prasad said. Describing Harviansh as a respected Indian from Bihar, the Union Ministers said people from the state were hurt by the opposition's behaviour and will give a reply to them. "An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar who has made a mark not in the country but in globe was humiliated and Congress and RJD were encouraging it in most abashed manner," he said. Harivansh is BJP ally JD(U)'s MP from poll-bound Bihar. Citing Congress' election manifesto and statements made by the chief ministers of the states ruled by it, Prasad accused the opposition party of double standards on issues including contract farming and agriculture produce marketing committees. According to sources in the government, there have been 10 instances when members have been suspended from the Rajya Sabha during the tenure of Congress governments. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi who was also present at the press conference said the proposal to curtail the session came from the opposition. Despite being suspended, opposition Rajya Sabha members did not leave the House on Monday, which was an open violation of the rules, Prasad said. "We had a clear majority in Rajya Sabha on farm bills," he said, adding that 110 members supported the bills and a little over 70 opposed it. On the issue of certain opposition members standing on the table in the Upper House, he said people of Bihar are pained at the treatment given in Rajya Sabha to its Deputy Chairman Harivansh on Sunday. Citing Congress' election manifesto and statements by chief ministers of the states ruled by it, he accused the opposition party of double standards on issues including contract farming and agriculture produce marketing committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-harvinash-nearly-assaulted-by-opposition-members-govt-890953.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Nitish Kumar hails passage of Farm Bills, criticises opposition||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on  Monday hailed the passage of the two Farm Bills in Parliament and said that the two pieces of legislation are in the interest of farmers. He congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the passage of the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 in Parliament and condemned the opposition MPs "misbehaviour" with Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh. Singh, the newly elected Rajya Sabha deputy chairman, was presiding over Rajya Sabha when the two bills were passed on Sunday by voice vote amid unprecedented unruly scenes by protesting opposition members demanding that the proposed legislation be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny. The two bills have already been passed by the Lok Sabha. The opposition action was "against parliamentary traditions and dignity," said Kumar, who is also the JD(U) president. Condemning the "misbehaviour" of the opposition MPs, he said that whatever happened in Rajya Sabha yesterday was absolutely wrong and against parliamentary traditions and dignity. It is a highly condemnable incident. He said the Farm Bills are in the interest of farmers and villages across the country as they will raise the farmers' income. Stating that the NDA government in Bihar headed by him had repealed the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act in Bihar way back in 2006, he said "The same thing is being implemented today across the country. It will give the farmers the right to sell their produce wherever they want as there will be no restrictions on them. The farmers will be benefitted from contract farming as they will get market rate for their produce". The prime minister had made it clear that there will be no change in the system of procuring grains from farmers at minimum support price, Kumar said. The NDA government in Bihar had started procuring grains from farmers through the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACS) when it came to power in the year 2005 on a large scale. When the APMC Act was repealed the next year, opposition RJD had created a furore and had even taken out a protest march to the Raj Bhavan, the chief minister said. He took a swipe at the opposition in the state, where assembly elections are due in October-November, especially the RJD and its heir apparent Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav. Without naming him, Kumar said there are people who will speak on every issue. But there is no impact of their speech on the people who see the work being done by the central and state governments. The chief minister was speaking at a function held on the occasion of laying of foundation stones for nine national highways including three mega bridges worth Rs 14,260 crore in Bihar. The Prime Minister laid the foundation stones for these projects through video-conferencing. The projects include three mega four-lane bridges - a parallel bridge to Mahatma Gandhi bridge, parallel bridge to Vikramshila Setu in Bhagalpur and bridge over river Kosi. Modi also launched the project for providing high-speed internet through an optical fibre in all the 45,945 villages of the state. Internet connectivity will be provided to all the villages of the state by March 2021 at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore, he said. Kumar thanked Modi for laying the foundation stone for some schemes which were not originally part of prime ministers Rs 1.25 lakh crore package and expressed happiness over the inclusion of a parallel bridge at Bhagalpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-hails-passage-of-farm-bills-criticises-opposition-890996.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Madhya Pradesh minister apologises after row over remarks on tribal outfit||Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur on Monday apologised after a controversy over her "anti-national" remarks against a tribal outfit that formed an alliance with the Congress in the last assembly polls and amid demand for her dismissal from the cabinet. Thakur's remarks against the Jai Adivasi Yuva Shakti (JAYS) had invited strong condemnation from the opposition Congress which demanded the BJP minister's dismissal from the cabinet and also raised the issue in the assembly. Speaking at an event in her constituency Mhow in Indore district on Saturday, she had said, "Despite many patriotic forest dwellers, why deshdrohi (anti-national) organisations like JAYS are thriving in the region? "Taking inspiration from the life of Tantya Bhil (a tribal leader of freedom struggle), we should take a pledge that no anti-national organisation will flourish in this area and together we will uproot them." JAYS and Congress leaders reacted sharply to Thakur's remarks, saying her utterances have hurt the sentiments of the tribal community. The Congress vociferously raised the issue in the assembly which had its day-long session on Monday. Facing a wave of criticism, the BJP minister clarified that her remarks were aimed at certain people who were trying to "vitiate atmosphere" in the Mhow area. Thakur told reporters in Indore, "We are engaged in overall development of the tribal community in the Mhow region. "But I saw that there are some people who are trying to convert them (to other religions) by misleading them and trying to wean them away from the national mainstream. She said, "These people are also vitiating atmosphere in the Mhow area by demanding a separate religious code for tribals (by separating them from Hindus) in the next Census. "I said that (controversial statements) for such an organisation. If someone felt hurt because of my statements, I apologise." The JAYS, a socio-political organisation, had formed an alliance with the Congress in the 2018 assembly elections in Madhya Pradesh. JAYS patron Hiralal Alawa was elected to the assembly from Manawar in tribal-dominated Dhar district on a Congress ticket. Earlier in the day, a group of Congress legislators led by former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath staged a sit-in in the assembly complex in Bhopal demanding dismissal of Thakur from the cabinet. The opposition MLAs protested near the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the state assembly compound and criticised Thakur for her remarks. Thakur has called an organisation working for tribals as "anti-national and Naxalite", the Congress alleged. "They have this sort of mindset. What is in their hearts and minds slips out of their mouths," Nath told reporters after the protest. "We oppose them strongly. I have spoken to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. We want him to take stern action on this issue. "The minister should be sacked for her objectionable words," the Leader of the Opposition added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/madhya-pradesh-minister-apologises-after-row-over-remarks-on-tribal-outfit-891034.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Parliament: No decision yet to curtail session, says Joshi; slams Oppn for unruly conduct||Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday said no decision has been taken yet to curtail the monsoon session of Parliament and the government would go ahead with the legislative business and also take up issues flagged by the Opposition. Joshi said the proposal had come from opposition parties, but the government was keen on completing the legislative business and issues listed by the Opposition for discussion. “Even today, the GST issue was listed in the Rajya Sabha at the instance of the Opposition. But they did not accommodate themselves,” Joshi said. The government also launched a sharp attack on the Opposition accusing it of resorting to shameful behaviour in the Rajya Sabha by ignoring the directives of Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. “Sunday was a shameful day in Parliament’s history. The mic was broken, a leader of a party tore a rule book while some leaders stood on chairs,” Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters here. “They do not follow rules. The Vice President asked them thrice to withdraw from the House, but they still stayed put. They do not follow norms of democracy, and are speaking of upholding democracy,” Prasad said. Slamming the Opposition for insulting Deputy Chairman Harivansh by charging towards him in the House, Prasad said had the House marshals not come to his rescue the presiding officer could have been physically assaulted in the House. “Harivanshji is the proud son of Bihar and the people of Bihar have seen the treatment meted out to him by the Congress and the RJD. The Opposition will have to answer the people of Bihar for insulting a son of the soil,” Prasad said. Assembly elections in Bihar are scheduled to be held later this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-no-decision-yet-to-curtail-session-says-joshi-slams-oppn-for-unruly-conduct-891056.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||New bills will push farm sector into private hands: Aam Aadmi Party||The farm reform bills will push the farming sector into the hands of private firms, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) claimed on Monday as its workers protested the proposed legislations here. Scores of AAP workers carried out a protest demonstration against the BJP-led Centre for the passage of two bills, dubbed as the biggest reform in agriculture by the government, in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday amid opposition by rival parties. The party workers claimed they were briefly detained by the police while they were en route to the city magistrate's office to hand over a memorandum. "The central government brought those bills to hand over the reins of agriculture from farmer to corporate houses,” AAP's Gautam Buddh Nagar unit president Bhupendra Judaun alleged. He claimed that the proposed legislations will give corporations freedom to exploit the farming community. AAP's Noida city unit chief Prashant Rawat claimed that the bills will “give power to anybody to hoard essential staples” and apprehended that it may lead to a situation of “black marketing and inflation”. AAP's local spokesperson Sanjeev Nigam claimed that it was “unconstitutional” the way the bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha without proper discussion amid bitter opposition. Nigam also alleged that his party workers were briefly detained by the Sector 20 police in Noida while they all were at the city magistrate's office. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were on Sunday passed by Rajya Sabha with voice vote. The two bills were earlier cleared by Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-bills-will-push-farm-sector-into-private-hands-aam-aadmi-party-891064.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||BJP plans mega exercise to reach out to farmers to clear misgivings about Farm Bills||The BJP is planning a mega exercise to reach out to farmers to counter the Opposition's narrative on Farm Bills and attempts to create misgivings on the MSP issue, sources said on Monday. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has held a series of meetings with MPs and Union Ministers from Punjab and Haryana and surrounding states, and virtual interactions with state agricultural ministers of all BJP-led NDA ruled states where he briefed them about the merits of the two bills, the sources said. Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill was passed by both the house of parliament, amid protests by opposition parties like the Congress, TMC, DMK, and the Left, as well as some farmer groups. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, a leader of the BJP's oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal, had resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against the bills. Sources said Tomar also reached out to the office bearers of BJP's ideological parent RSS as well as the Bhartiya Kisan Sangh and Swadesi Jagaran Manch. Both the RSS affiliates have reservations about the bills and came out in the open with their objections. Members of Parliament from Haryana, Punjab, and neighboring states have been given talking points to address their constituents, especially farmers, and clear any misgiving created by the Opposition about the MSP in the context of these bills, the sources said. The Opposition has alleged that the government intends to do away with the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the mandi system, a charge denied by the government which has accused these parties of misleading farmers. The government on Monday hiked the minimum support price for buying six rabi crops, including wheat, by up to six per cent, as it sought to send a strong message to farmers on the continuation of the MSP-based procurement system. The BJP has asked all state units of its Kisan Morcha, MPs and ministers in Union and state governments to categorically convey to farmers and all other state holders in the agriculture sector that the mechanism of minimum support price will be intact even after the implementation of these two bills, they said. Tomar has also briefed the spokespersons of the party's national team and state units about the salient features of these two bills and also on the MSP mechanism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-plans-mega-exercise-to-reach-out-to-farmers-to-clear-misgivings-about-farm-bills-891074.html
21-09-2020||National Politics||Now, farmers will be back to serfdom, at the mercy of big corporates: Manish Tewari||Congress has been on the warpath against the Modi government over the two farm sector bills – the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill passed by both House of Parliament. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari tells Sagar Kulkarni of DH that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertions that the MSP regime would continue is a bogey. Excerpts: DH: Why is the Congress opposing the Farm Bills? Manish Tewari: The reasons are two-fold. First is that it transgresses into areas which are the exclusive jurisdiction of the states. The bills are per se unconstitutional and beyond the legal competence of the government. The second is if you look at the substance of the bill and you juxtapose against the amendments that have been carried out recently through the Companies Amendment Bill, whereby producer companies have been given preeminent position. The intent is very clear that the government wants big corporates to get into the business of agriculture. This essentially would mean that all that was achieved through the first 15 constitutional amendments from the 1950s to 1965 that empowered the marginal farmers, the landless labour, abolished the Zamindari Act and ensured an equitable distribution of land. Something which has ended feudalism in India created a middle class in our agrarian society. All this would be demolished and farmers would become serfs again. Earlier, they used to be at the mercy of landlords and now they will be at the mercy of big corporates. DH: Congress claims the Bills would lead to discontinuation of MSP and dismantling of APMC markets? Manish Tewari: Essentially, that is a possibility because of a simple reason that once you put in place alternate mechanisms of market access, whether it is through electronic trading platforms or through trading areas outside the APMC areas, the government could tomorrow turn around and say if the state wants to give a state-administered price – as UP does in case of sugarcane – they are free to do that, but insofar as GoI is concerned, we would discontinue the MSP. These are legitimate apprehensions which are in the minds of millions and millions of farmers across the country. DH: BJP also claims that Congress made somewhat similar promises in its manifesto for Lok Sabha elections? Manish Tewari: That is good hogwash. The Congress had infact proposed that we would create more APMC like structures whereby the linkages between the farm and the fork will get diversified, where the time lag for the farmer to access the market gets shortened. So, essentially our commitments or our proposals were to strengthen the APMC system rather than weaken it. DH: So, what next for the Congress. The bills have already been passed by Parliament? Do you plan to move court? Manish Tewari: The bills have been passed in the Rajya Sabha in a very unconstitutional manner and they would be open to a legal challenge. It is abundantly clear that the government did not have the numbers. They rammed the bills through in the most draconian and unconstitutional manner. In fact, Sunday was a Black Day in the history of the Council of States, when democracy was completely trampled upon. In fact, the government signed the death warrant of democracy in the manner in which it has behaved in the passage of the bills. The law is very clear, even if one member seeks a division, that division needs to be granted. So, even of if the President were to give his assent to the Bills, their constitutionality and their method of passage is something which will ultimately be challenged in the court of law. DH: Was the ruckus in Rajya Sabha on Sunday avoidable? Manish Tewari: Well, it was absolutely avoidable. The government should have agreed to a division. DH: Suspension of eight of your colleagues in the other House? Manish Tewari: It is extremely unfortunate. First of all, rather than listening to the message, you shoot the messenger. What were these leaders demanding? They were basically demanding that the Rules of Procedure for the conduct of the Rajya Sabha be followed. And the rules are absolutely clear and unequivocal. It is the right of every member to demand a division. Once a division is demanded, the division has to be granted. DH: How will this pan out electorally in Punjab and Haryana? Manish Tewari: That is something which we will have to wait and see. This is not about electoral gains or losses. This is about the lives and livelihoods of crores and crores of farmers across the length and breadth of India. DH: Is the Congress planning a nationwide agitation somewhat similar to the one against the land acquisition bill in 2015? Manish Tewari: This is a logical corollary of what happened on Sunday. There is a lot of consternation and anger amongst the farmers. It wouldn’t have been the case, the Akali Dal representative in the cabinet Harsimrat Kaur Badal wouldn’t have been forced to resign. She has not resigned because she has some empathy for the farmers. Akali Dal also gauged the fact that whatever little they have left in Punjab would be completely demolished. That is why she has taken the resignation route. DH: Congress claims the government has bypassed demands for referring the bills to Select Committee? UPA also functioned in a similar way? Manish Tewari: If you look at the demographics of India, 65% of the population depends on agriculture for their livelihood. So, something that is so critical to the livelihood of 90 crore people of the country, should it be treated in such a cavalier manner in order to benefit certain corporates? If you look at the economic direction of this government, they have tried their best to pulverise the small and medium enterprises, small shopkeepers and traders and promote large corporate interests. DH: The Prime Minister and his council of ministers launched a massive outreach, accused opposition of misleading farmers over MSP and APMC? Manish Tewari: The MSP will only be relevant if government procures. If government agencies stop procuring, what is the relevance of MSP? So, this whole thing that MSP will continue is a bogey. When there will be no procurement, how will there be any MSP?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/now-farmers-will-be-back-to-serfdom-at-the-mercy-of-big-corporates-manish-tewari-891010.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Strict social distancing, thermal screening: Taj Mahal reopens even as India's Covid-19 cases soar||The Taj Mahal reopened to visitors on Monday in a symbolic business-as-usual gesture, even as India looks set to overtake the US as the global leader in coronavirus infections. India, home to 1.3 billion people and some of the world's most crowded cities, has recorded more than 5.4 million Covid-19 cases. Around 100,000 new infections and over 1,000 deaths are reported daily. But after a strict lockdown in March that devastated the livelihoods of tens of millions of people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is reluctant to copy some other nations and tighten the screw on activity again. Instead in recent months his government has eased more and more restrictions including on many train routes, domestic flights, markets, restaurants -- and now, visiting the Taj Mahal. The world-famous white marble mausoleum in the city of Agra south of New Delhi is India's most popular tourist site. It usually draws seven million visitors a year, but has been closed since March. Officials say that when it reopens, strict social distancing rules will be imposed and daily visitor numbers will be capped at 5,000 -- a quarter the normal rate. Tickets can only be bought online. "Circles are being marked, the mask would be a must and nobody would be able to enter without thermal screening," Vasant Swarnkar, a senior archaeologist in charge of Agra's monuments, told reporters. Elsewhere, however, particularly in rural areas where infections are soaring, anecdotal evidence suggests that government guidelines on avoiding the virus are more often ignored than adhered to. "I think, not just in India but all over the world, fatigue with extreme measures that were taken to restrict the growth of the coronavirus is setting in," said Gautam Menon, professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University, predicting that infections will keep rising as a result. Many experts say that even though India is testing more than a million people per day, this is still not enough and the true number of cases may be much higher than officially reported. The same goes for deaths, which currently stand at more than 86,000, with many fatalities not properly recorded even in normal times in one of the world's worst-funded healthcare systems. There is however some resistance to Modi's unlocking of the world's second-most populated country, which saw its economy contract by almost a quarter between April and June. Schools were meant to resume Monday on a voluntary basis for students aged 14 to 17, but many Indian states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat have said it is still too soon. "Cases are still increasing rapidly... I have no idea how we can reopen educational institutions now," West Bengal's education minister Partha Chatterjee said. Elsewhere schools are refusing to open or parents are wary of sending their children in. "I am prepared for my son to lose an academic year by not going to school rather than risk sending him," said Nupur Bhattacharya, the mother of a nine-year-old boy in Bangalore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/strict-social-distancing-thermal-screening-taj-mahal-reopens-even-as-indias-covid-19-cases-soar-890660.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Terrorists attack party of CRPF's 110 battalion in Jammu and Kashmir's Nowgam||Terrorists attack a party of 110 battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Nowgam in the Srinagar district of Jammu and Kashmir, according to ANI. No injury has been reported so far. The area has been cordoned off. Jammu and Kashmir: Terrorists attack a party of 110 battalion of CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) in Nowgam, Srinagar. No injury reported so far. Area cordoned off. More details awaited. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-attack-party-of-crpfs-110-battalion-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-nowgam-890690.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Skeletal remains of four persons found near Kedarnath||Skeletal remains of four persons killed in the Kedarnath disaster have been recovered from above Rambara on way to the Himalayan temple, seven years after the tragedy. The remains were found during a joint search operation by the police and the SDRF personnel in the area on Sunday, Rudraprayag Superintendent of Police Navneet Singh Bhullar said. DNA samples of the remains were taken by the health department personnel accompanying the joint team before they were cremated as per Hindu rituals at Nandprayag, he said. The DNA samples will be matched later with the family members of people who went missing after the tragedy to ascertain their identities, Bhullar said. The search operation launched on Wednesday on the orders of the Uttarakhand High Court has come to an end with the recovery of the skeletal remains, he said. With the latest recoveries, the number of Kedarnath victims whose remains have been found so far from areas surrounding the temple during successive search operations has risen to 703 while 3,183 people are still missing. The teams consisting of 60 police, SDRF and health department personnel together conducted the search operation at a height of above 14,000 feet from the sea level. Similar search operations conducted in areas near the temple in the past had also led to the recovery of skeletal remains of a number of people. The Kedarnath area in Uttarakhand had received unprecedented heavy rainfall between June 14, 2013 to June 17, 2013, and the Chorabari lake had collapsed due to cloudburst that had resulted in a major flash flood. Several roads, buildings and other structures were washed away and around 10,000 people were killed and over 3,000 went missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/skeletal-remains-of-four-persons-found-near-kedarnath-890730.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur recovers from Covid-19, rejoins office||Himachal Pradesh Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur has recovered from coronavirus and rejoined office in the Secretariat here on Monday. In a Facebook post, the 70-year-old leader said, "I have come to my office (Secretariat) after several days following my full recovery." I kept on disposing of important files concerned with public interest from my residence during these days, he added.  The seven-time MLA from Mandi's Dharampur assembly segment could not attend the recently concluded monsoon session of the state Assembly after he tested positive on September 3, four days ahead of the 12-day monsoon session which began on September 7.  The minister was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here for some days. Later, he kept himself isolated at his home before rejoining the office on Monday.  Thakur is among the six Himachal Pradesh MLAs in the 68-member Assembly who have so far tested positive for the virus.  Sundernagar BJP MLA Rakesh Jamwal tested positive on Sunday, two days after state assembly adjourned sine die.  Earlier on the first day of the monsoon session, BJP MLA from Indora Reeta Devi had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. She had attended the assembly session before her Covid-19 test was conducted in the evening.  Similarly, Nalagarh Congress MLA Lakhwinder Rana had tested positive on September 6.  Power Minister Sukhram Chaudhary and Doon MLA Paramjeet Singh too had tested positive for the infection. Both recovered and attended the monsoon session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-jal-shakti-minister-mahender-singh-thakur-recovers-from-covid-19-rejoins-office-890749.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 91 return to MP from UAE on Vande Bharat flight||An Air India flight carrying 91 Indians, who were stranded in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for a long time due to the Covid-19 outbreak, arrived here in Madhya Pradesh early Monday morning, an official said. As part of the central government's Vande Bharat mission, the flight from Dubai landed at Devi Ahilyabai Holkar International Airport at 4.15 am, said Amit Malakar, Indore district's nodal officer for Covid-19 prevention. "A total of 91 passengers, including 27 from Indore and 64 from other places, came back to their home country by the special flight," he said. Malakar said out of the total passengers, 84 carried with them Covid-19 negative reports from Dubai. Rapid antigen tests were conducted on others, who also tested negative for the viral infection, he said. "As a precaution, all the passengers will have to remain in home isolation for 14 days," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-91-return-to-mp-from-uae-on-vande-bharat-flight-890752.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Two girls found hanging from tree in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich||Bodies of two girls were found hanging from a tree in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich district, police said on Monday. According to police, their families were not on good terms but the two girls, aged 17 and 15, continued to be friends. The two girls left their homes on Sunday morning saying that they were going to work in an agricultural field. Later, their bodies were found hanging from a tree in Loni Pravara village which comes under the jurisdiction of Ramgarh police station, ASP (rural) Ashok Kumar said. Police suspect that it is a case of death by suicide. The bodies were sent for postmortem and a probe into the matter was underway, the ASP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-girls-found-hanging-from-tree-in-uttar-pradeshs-bahraich-890757.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police cites DDMA's order, says demonstrations not allowed till September 30 due to Covid-19 pandemic||Citing an order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), police on Monday said people cannot be allowed to hold demonstrations in the city till September 30 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Amid protests against farm bills in the city, the Delhi Police in a series of tweets informed people about the September 3 order of the DDMA which prohibits such activities. "The general public is hereby informed that in view of DDMA order dated 03/09/2020, "Status Quo" is required to be maintained with respect to prohibited/permitted activities in NCT of Delhi till 30/09/2020 (sic)," the Delhi Police tweeted. "As such, all political, cultural and social gatherings in NCT of Delhi shall remain suspended till 30.09.2020 (sic)," it added. Delhi Congress leaders and workers marched towards Parliament on Monday to protest against the new farm bills. The protesters were marching towards the Parliament building but were stopped and detained by the police on R P Road, the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-cites-ddmas-order-says-demonstrations-not-allowed-till-september-30-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-890778.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||PM Modi likely to inaugurate Atal tunnel in Rohtang on October 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate Atal tunnel on Leh-Manali highway in Himachal Pradesh's Rohtang on October 3, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday. According to the prime minister's tentative programme, he will come to Manali on October 3 for inaugurating the tunnel and will also visit Lahaul, Thakur said. Responding to a question during an informal chat with the media here, the CM said it is not yet decided if the prime minister will address a public rally in Lahaul that day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-likely-to-inaugurate-atal-tunnel-in-rohtang-on-october-3-890788.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Four-seater aircraft crashes in UP, trainee pilot dead||A four-seater aircraft crashed in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh on Monday, leaving a 21-year-old trainee pilot dead, officials said, as they suspected that bad weather led to the incident. The aircraft crashed into an agricultural field in Kushaha Fariuddinpur village under the Sarai Mir police station area around 11.30 am, District Magistrate of Azamgarh Rajesh Kumar said. "The plane had taken off around 10.30 am from a training institute and was being controlled by a trainee pilot. There was only one person in the aircraft," he added. The aircraft belonged to the Centre-run flying training institute Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi (IGRUA), located in Amethi, its officials confirmed. The deceased pilot has been identified as Konkark Saran. He was a resident of Palwal in Haryana, a spokesperson for IGRUA said. "Saran had 125 hours of flying experience as a trainee, including over 52 hours solo. He was a skilled trainee pilot with a very good track record. Prima facie his aircraft got caught in the dense CB (cumulonimbus) clouds, which led to the incident," the spokesperson told PTI. "He was flying a four-seater SOCATA TB 20 aircraft with fully equipped avionics and related instruments. The incident is most unfortunate and all due procedures are being carried out," the official added. Azamgarh administration and police officials reached at the crash site to inspect the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-seater-aircraft-crashes-in-up-trainee-pilot-dead-890813.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab Cong holds protests across state against Farm Bills||The Punjab Congress Monday held protests across the state against the three crucial Central farm bills, alleging the proposed legislations would "ruin" the farming community. Congress workers raised slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre for bringing the “anti-farmer” Bills, and also burnt effigies of the Central government. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar led the agitation At Bassi Pathana in Fatehgarh Sahib and slammed the NDA government. “These Bills will ruin farmers,” he said, promising that his party would take every step possible to protect the interests of the farming community. Jakhar also hit out at Punjab’s opposition party Shiromani Akali Dal, saying it took a “U-turn” over the issue of the farm Bills after sensing there was anger among farmers against the proposed legislations. “Earlier, they were trying to mislead farmers by saying that these Bills were in their interest,” he said. Jakhar also said he was happy that all farmer outfits have joined hands to oppose these Bills. Farmers' outfits have given a call for 'Punjab Bandh' on September 25 in protest against these Bills. In Hoshiarpur, state minister Sunder Sham Arora dubbed SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Union cabinet as a “political stunt” and asked why she did not quit the Modi-led government when the corresponding ordinances were brought in. “We are with farmers,” he said. On Sunday, Rajya Sabha passed the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday. A third bill is yet to be passed in Rajya Sabha. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday had said that his government would take the BJP and its allies, including the Akalis, to court over the new “unconstitutional, undemocratic and anti-farmer” laws of the Central government. SAD chief Sukhbir Badal had urged the President not to sign the farm Bills and also requested him that they be returned to Parliament for reconsideration. Farmers in some states including Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these three Bills. They have expressed apprehension that the three Bills would pave the way for dismantling the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cong-holds-protests-across-state-against-farm-bills-890825.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Senior PDP leaders meet for first time after revocation of Jammu & Kashmir's special status||The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday held a meeting of its senior leaders here for the first time since Jammu and Kashmir's special status was revoked by the Centre in August last year, the party said. The meeting was chaired by party's vice president Abdul Rehman Veeri in the absence of party president Mehbooba Mufti, who is under detention, at the PDP headquarters here. The party held its first meeting post the release of party leaders who were detained in August last year when the Centre abrogated Article 370, a PDP spokesman said. The meeting was attended by senior leaders of the party, including former ministers and legislators, he added. Mufti, who is also a former chief minister, continues to remain in custody under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA). She is currently lodged at her 'Fairview' residence on Gupkar road, which has been turned into a sub-jail. Mufti and most other mainstream leaders, including former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah, were taken into custody, and later booked under the PSA, on August 4 last year shortly before the Centre's move. While the Abdullah father-son duo and most other mainstream leaders were gradually released from custody, the PDP chief continues to be under detention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-pdp-leaders-meet-for-first-time-after-revocation-of-jammu-kashmirs-special-status-890835.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand to hold single-day Assembly Session on September 23, no Question Hour||The upcoming Monsoon Session of the Uttarakhand Assembly will be limited to just a day and there will be no Question Hour, Deputy Speaker Raghunath Singh said here, attributing the decision to the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. As per the original schedule, the session was to be held from September 23-25. "In view of the coronavirus crisis, the Business Advisory Committee of the state Assembly has decided to limit the session to a single day on September 23 and do away with the Question Hour," Singh said. There will be no Question Hour due to paucity of time and only written replies to questions of public interest will be given by the government, the deputy speaker said. Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal and Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh are among the latest to test positive for Covid-19. While Hridayesh tested positive on Saturday, Aggarwal's test report came on Sunday. Several more MLAs, including Madan Kaushik, Bansidhar Bhagat and Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion, had also tested positive for the disease a few weeks ago but they have recovered. Uttarakhand's Covid tally has already crossed the 40,000-mark. The deputy speaker, who would preside over the proceedings in the House in the absence of the speaker, said only members who test Covid-19 negative will be allowed to attend the one-day session on September 23. RT-PCR tests of members are being conducted, he said. Special seating arrangements have also been made in the 71-member Assembly, keeping in mind the need for physical distancing, Singh said. Only 30 members will be allowed to sit inside the Assembly pavilion (sabha mandap), 10 in the spectators' and the media galleries and the rest in a separate room, the deputy speaker said. There will be a distance of two yards between the members, he said. Arrangements for attending the session through a virtual platform have also been made, and all members, especially those aged 65 and above, have been advised to attend the session virtually, Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-to-hold-single-day-assembly-session-on-september-23-no-question-hour-890842.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Kirti Chakra awardee's family reaches Raj Bhavan in Himachal Pradesh to return gallantry award||The family of a Kirti Chakra awardee soldier from Kangra district reached Raj Bhavan here on Monday to return the gallantry award to the Governor as they blamed successive state government for failing to honour his sacrifice. Kirti Chakra is the second-highest peacetime military award given for gallantry. Ashoka Chakra is the highest honour in the category. Talking to media before meeting Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, the soldier's mother Raj Kumari said her son Anil Chauhan had died when he was just 23 during 'Operation Rhino' in Assam. A resident of Jaisinghpur in Kangra district, Raj Kumari said the state government failed to fulfil its promises including naming the school after Chauhan and building a gate in the village in his memory. Fed up with the inaction shown by successive governments, she came along with other family members to return the award to the Governor as the promises have not been fulfilled even 18 years after her son's supreme sacrifice. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur came to know about the family's meeting and reached Raj Bhavan to meet her outside the premises Thakur assured her and the other family members of doing the best he can to get the demands fulfilled in this case. Speaking to the media, the CM said he had just come to know that the promises made by the then state government 18 years ago were not fulfilled. The CM asked the family to come to his office for immediate redressal of their grievances. The family said they would visit his office after meeting the Governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kirti-chakra-awardees-family-reaches-raj-bhavan-in-himachal-pradesh-to-return-gallantry-award-890860.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Ansari’s wife, their two sons and nine others booked for fraudulent land deals: Officials||Gangster-turned -politician Mukhtar Ansari's wife and their two sons have been booked for allegedly buying two plots of government land in the city illegally and fraudulently, an official said on Monday. Nine others involved in selling the plots to the trio too have been booked on cheating and forgery charges, a Revenue Department official said. One of the plots of land, on which Ansari’s wife Afsa Ansari and their sons Abbas Ansari and Umar Ansari, have built a hotel in Mahuva Bagh locality, was bought by them on April 29 2005, he said. The land is located in Mohammadpur area and was marked as barren land in the government records, he said, adding they yet managed to buy the land. Similarly, another piece of land was illegally bought by Afsa Ansari on September 23, 2005 and she also got its ownership changed in revenue records, he said. An FIR was lodged in Ghazipur Kotwali police station on Sunday after detailed investigations, lasting over two months, on directions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ansari-s-wife-their-two-sons-and-nine-others-booked-for-fraudulent-land-deals-officials-890861.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Assembly clears finance bill, adjourned sine die||The Madhya Pradesh Assembly was on Monday adjourned sine die after passing the Finance Bill, 2020 and conducting some other important legislative works. While 78 MLAs were present in the House during the one-day session, 23 attended it virtually, an official said. All those came to the House were subjected to thermo and pulse meter checks for coronavirus infection, he said. The session lasted for one-and-a-half hours during which the Finance Bill, that allows the state government to carry out its expenses, was passed. The Madhya Pradesh Moneylender Amendment Bill, 2020, the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Law Amendment Bill, 2020 and the Madhya Pradesh VAT Amendment Bill, 2020, among others, were also passed. In the absence of state Finance Minister Jagdish Devda, Parliamentary Affairs Narottam Mishra presented the Finance Bill-2020 in the House. After the passage of the bills, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in his statement said Madhya Pradesh tackled the Covid-19 situation better than other states. He said better arrangements have been made for the treatment of Covid-19 in the state. Intervening in Chouhans statement, Leader of Opposition Kamal Nath highlighted problems being faced by Covid-19 patients, like non-availability of oxygen and ventilators, among others, and demanded setting up of an open inquiry into it. The senior Congress leader also demanded a complaint centre where public can register their grievances. After Chouhan's speech, Protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma adjourned the House sine die (with no appointed date for resumption). Earlier, the House paid tributes to 21 prominent leaders who recently died, including former president Pranab Mukherjee, former Madhya Pradesh governor Lalji Tandon, Chhattisgarh's former chief minister Ajit Jogi and former Union minister Hansraj Bharadwaj. The protem speaker also mentioned about the Indian soldiers martyred in the border clash at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, the Baramulla terror attack and those who fell prey to the Covid-19 outbreak. Members observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect for the departed souls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-assembly-clears-finance-bill-adjourned-sine-die-890881.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi's DSGMC protests kidnapping of Sikh girl in Pak||Members of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Monday gathered near the Pakistan High Commission here to protest the alleged abduction of a Sikh girl in the neighbouring country. A 22-year-old Sikh girl went missing in Pakistan's Punjab province, with police saying they have launched a case against an "unknown abductor", according to a media report on Sunday. The incident occurred recently in Attock district's Hassanabdal city, which is home to the famous Gurdwara Panja Sahib -- one of the most sacred sites in Sikhism. DSGMC chairman Manjinder Singh Sirsa alleged that the daughter of the head Granthi of Gurdwara Panja Sahib was abducted recently. He alleged that about 15 days back, the daughter of Granthi of Gurdwara Panja Sahib was abducted by two people and there is no news of her yet despite her family's repetitive pleas to the authorities in Pakistan. The Delhi Police said around 40 to 50 people staged a protest near the Chanakyapuri police station. "The protesters were requested to vacate the area following which they left. No one was either detained or arrested," a senior police officer said. Sirsa said on Sunday, a delegation of DSGMC had met an official of the Ministry of External Affairs, demanding that the central government raise the issue of the alleged abduction of Sikh girls in Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-dsgmc-protests-kidnapping-of-sikh-girl-in-pak-890896.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant Governor calls for speedy implementation of NEP||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday called for a speedy implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 in Jammu and Kashmir. Sinha inaugurated a brainstorming session on the implementation of the policy at University of Jammu here. Terming education a blessing, the LG said with right approach and determined efforts a golden future for the youth of Jammu and Kashmir can be created. Sinha said there are bright minds in the union territory and the new education policy will have a greater impact in Jammu and Kashmir. The LG said it is his dream to make the union territory an “oasis of talent” with a skilled population and promised to “work tirelessly to make it a reality". He said the union territory administration and other stake holders will have to speed up discussions and implement the National Education Policy 2020 to transform the education scenario in Jammu and Kashmir. The advisor to the LG, K K Sharma, gave a brief presentation on the roadmap for the of implementation of the NEP 2020 in the union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-lieutenant-governor-calls-for-speedy-implementation-of-nep-890923.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Mayor orders inquiry after old Delhi under-construction building collapses||North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash Monday ordered an inquiry after an under-construction building in Old Delhi’s Sitaram Bazar area collapsed, leaving one person injured. The incident took place in the morning when the lintel supporting the under-construction roof gave in, the mayor said. One labourer was injured in the incident, he had been rescued, he said. "The building's plan was approved by local authorities. However, we have ordered an inquiry to find out if there was any violation during the construction phase. The guilty shall face action," Prakash said. One person was injured in the incident, a Delhi Fire Service official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayor-orders-inquiry-after-old-delhi-under-construction-building-collapses-890931.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 victim's body nibbled by rats in hospital; probe on||The body of an 87-year-old Covid-19 victim was allegedly nibbled by rats at a private hospital here in Madhya Pradesh, his family claimed, prompting the district administration to order a probe on Monday. The shocking incident came to light when a video surfaced on social media. In the video, injury marks on the face and legs of the corpse are visible, and a distraught person is seen complaining that the body handed over to them by the private hospital had bite marks made by rats. Indore's Covid-19 nodal officer Amit Malakar said the elderly man, who was on oxygen support due to the severity of the infection, died in the hospital on Sunday. "The district administration has ordered a probe into the incident," Malakar informed. The additional district magistrate will handle the probe, he said. The deceased's grandson said he was admitted in the hospital four days ago following fluctuation in oxygen levels and had tested positive for the coronavirus infection. "The hospital management handed over his body to us on Monday. We found rat bite marks on his ears and thumbs," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-victims-body-nibbled-by-rats-in-hospital-probe-on-890962.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Man held for collecting nude photos of aspiring models by impersonating as woman on social media||The Delhi Police has arrested a 37-year-old man who used to pose as a female model by creating a fake account on social media and collect nude photos of women on the pretext of giving them a chance to audition for a web series, officials said on Monday. Police said a 17-year-old girl had complained that she was contacted by one Rashi Goel on social media who introduced herself as a model looking for new models for an upcoming web series and asked for her normal and nude photographs for auditions. The girl sent her nude photographs to Goel, but she kept on asking for more. The girl then blocked Goel on the social media platform, a senior police officer said. Thereafter, the complainant was contacted by two persons, who sent her nude photos which she had sent to Goel, and threaten to make that photo viral on social media if she doesn't agree to their demands, he said. Obscene photograph of the girl was also sent to two of her friends. The accused also sent her the screenshot of a profile created by using her name and her photograph, police said. "During the investigation, four social media IDs, created allegedly to contact victims, were identified. Later, Mam Chand was held from outside his residence in Sultanpuri," Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said. Chand created several fake profiles on social media and targeted upcoming models. He was previously involved in a cheating case in Hissar in Haryana, the DCP said. During interrogation, the accused claimed that he never met any victim. An audition form and objectionable photographs of victims was also found in the mobile phone of the accused, police said, adding three mobile phones and four SIM cards were seized from Chand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-collecting-nude-photos-of-aspiring-models-by-impersonating-as-woman-on-social-media-890990.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs hold indefinite protest in Parliament||Eight suspended Rajya Sabha MPs will be spending Monday night in the Parliament in an unprecedented sit-in protest against the way the government got two contentious farm sector bills. Earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha adopted a motion suspending Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien, his AAP counterpart Sanjay Singh, CPI(M) leader Elamaram Kareem, Trinamool's Dola Sen, CPI(M)'s KK Ragesh and Congress' Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora in connection with the incidents on Sunday during the passage of the bills. The MPs had refused to leave the House after the adoption of the motion leading to multiple adjournments. The House was eventually adjourned for the day at 12:07 PM. Soon after the adjournment, the MPs came to Gandhi Statue in Parliament House where they started a sit-in protest. Several Opposition MPs also joined the protest. "Suspension won't silence us. We will stand with farmers in their fight. Deputy Chairman throttled Parliamentary Procedures yesterday. The suspension of MPs exposed the cowardly face of BJP. People will see through the attempt to divert attention from their undemocratic actions," Kareem tweeted. "We will continue our fight until the voice of farmers is heard by this Government. The undemocratic behavior & anti-people policies of the Modi Government will be exposed in public," he added. As the day progressed, fans were brought to the protest site while the MPs announced that they were not leaving the premises. Senior MPs like Congress' Ahmed Patel and RJD's Manoj K Jha were with the MPs late in the evening. The protest also had some uniqueness: it would be for the first time that the Trinamool Congress and CPI(M) would be protesting together, especially on an indefinite sit-in. Incidentally, it was on his birthday that Congress MP Satav was suspended and sat in protest. Opposition sources said that they are waiting to see what happens in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The Opposition would be demanding revocation of suspension of the MPs when the House assembles at 9 am tomorrow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-hold-indefinite-protest-in-parliament-891015.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Tractor overturns in Chitrakoot, 5 dead, 7 critical||Five people were killed and over a dozen injured after their tractor-trolley overturned in Chitrakoot area of Madhya Pradesh on Monday, police said. The condition of seven of the injured is critical, said Additional Superintendent of Police Gautam Solanki. "The group is from Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh and were visiting Chitrakoot as part of a pilgrimage. The tractor- trolley overturned near Jhari river after the driver lost control. Three women and two men died on the spot," he said. Nayagaon police is probing the case, he added. MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief on the incident in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-tractor-overturns-in-chitrakoot-5-dead-7-critical-891030.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Section 144 imposed till November 4 in municipal limits of Mathura city||Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC have been promulgated in the Nagar Nigam area of Mathura, officials said on Monday. “The action has been taken owing to a series of forthcoming celebrations, including Gandhi Jayanti, Ram Barat, Dashahara, Ram Navami, Deepavali, Govardhan Puja,” City Magistrate Manoj Kumar Singh said. Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) empowers an executive magistrate to issue orders in urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger. The orders would remain in force with immediate effect till November 4, he said. He said all the restrictions under Section 144 would be strictly enforced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/section-144-imposed-till-november-4-in-municipal-limits-of-mathura-city-891059.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Delay in recruitment amounts to injustice to youth: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday criticised the "delay" in the appointment of candidates who had qualified in the examination for the post of village development officer in Uttar Pradesh, and said the state government should stop this "injustice" to the youth. The Congress, in a statement, said that examination for VDO was held in 2018, but those who have cleared the examinations have not been given their appointment letter. Similarly, the recruitment for sub-inspectors is pending since 2016, it said. The party said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to such youths, who were awaiting their appointment, and SI aspirants. In a Hindi tweet, the Congress leader said, "The youths want to know as to whether the government is serious about resolving all the issues related to recruitment, and whether it will keep a specific deadline as far as recruitment are concerned. "Delay in recruitment, obstructing and diverting amounts to injustice with the youth. Please stop it," she said. In another tweet, she said, "During a conversation with those who had appeared in VDO examination 2018, the youngsters said that they had appeared in the examination, and the results were out, but no appointments were made. "The government does not tell as to why the appointments are halted. The meetings being held by the government on recruitment should give them justice," she said. "Spoke to SI aspirants today. One thing is common that there is no clear communication nor any deadline," she said. Reacting to it, the BJP said its government is working in a pro-active manner on the recruitment issue and has adopted a transparent approach. "Statistics bear testimony to the fact that the UP Government is serious about recruitment, and is working in a pro-active manner. "The Opposition has every right to criticise the government, but it should also keep an eye on the facts," Vice-President of UP BJP Vijay Bahadur Pathak told PTI. The government adopted a transparent process and provided jobs to over three lakh applicants in the past three years, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delay-in-recruitment-amounts-to-injustice-to-youth-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-891062.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Schools in Haryana partially reopen after being shut for six months||After remaining shut for the past six months due to the Covid-19 outbreak, schools in Haryana partially reopened on Monday to enable students studying in Classes 9 to 12 to visit their institutions on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers. The Haryana government had recently allowed students of class 9 to 12 to visit their schools in areas outside Covid-19 containment zones only, on a voluntary basis for academic guidance. The decision was taken in compliance with the Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The students carried written permission that had the consent of their parents or guardians allowing them to visit schools for guidance from teachers. Schools were asked by authorities to follow all Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently. Though the overall number of students who turned up in schools on the first day was less, the number was more in government schools while only a few turned up in private schools, officials said. In view of the lockdown imposed earlier and due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, schools have remained shut for the past six months, though online teaching is being imparted by schools. A principal of a government school in Sirsa said that students of higher classes, who wished to visit the school to seek teachers' guidance, were allocated different time slots to ensure only a few students are present inside the school at a given time. She also said that despite education being imparted online these days, as schools are shut, many students were excited to visit the school after a long gap and meet their teachers. "The teachers too were happy to see them after months. We are taking every precaution in view of the pandemic and following all the government guidelines,” she said. While students at many places said they were happy to be back in school, even if regular classes had not resumed yet, there were some parents who were apprehensive as coronavirus cases had surged in the state and elsewhere. Ambala's Deputy District Education Officer Sudhir Kalia said all students were required to wear masks, their body temperature was checked and hands were sanitised at the entrance gate of schools and to ensure social distancing only a few students were made to sit at a given time. Teachers were instructed not to share books, dusters, chalks with either students or other teachers. Some schools had installed foot pedals to control water taps. Only one student at a time was allowed to go to the toilet, which was regularly cleaned, officials said. It has been made mandatory for teachers to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones and all were required to take a Covid-19 test before September 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-schools-in-haryana-partially-reopen-after-being-shut-for-six-months-891065.html
21-09-2020||North and Central||Vaishno Devi shrine launches ‘Pooja Prasad’ home delivery service||The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDSB) on Monday formally launched the ‘Pooja Prasad’ home delivery service for devotees throughout the country, an official spokesperson said. The service was launched during a meeting of the SMVDSB presided by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who is also the chairman of the SMVDSB, at the Raj Bhavan here, he said. The devotees who are unable to visit the shrine located between three peaked mountains, popularly known as 'Trikuta', can now get the ‘Pooja Prasad’ delivered to their home, the spokesperson said. To get the ‘Pooja Prasad’ delivered home, a devotee can make the booking through the SMVDSB website. Once the booking is made, the SMVDSB will ensure that the ‘Pooja’ is performed within 72 hours and the ‘Prasad’ is dispatched through speed post, he said. So far, around 1,500 ‘Pooja Prasad’ packets have been dispatched by the board to the devotees across the country through speed post, for which the board has entered into an agreement with the postal department, the spokesperson said. The Board meeting chaired by the LG was attended by the SMVDSB members, including Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, former DGP Dr Ashok Bhan, Justice (Retd) Permod Kohli, K K Sharma, Maj. Gen. (Retd) Shiv Kumar Sharma and K B Kachru. The Board also reviewed the necessary precautionary measures taken by the CEO Ramesh Kumar in view of the coronavirus outbreak for ensuring safety of the pilgrims, staff and the public. The LG directed the CEO for phase-wise increase in the number of pilgrims from outside the union territory based on objective assessment of the ground situation, the spokesperson said. The yatra to the cave shrine of Mata Vaishnodevi has resumed from 16 August and all devotees can now offer special poojas and perform other rituals, the CEO said. The Board also undertook a comprehensive review of its major infrastructure development projects, including those completed earlier. The LG directed the CEO for completion of ongoing works in a time bound manner for facilitating the visiting pilgrims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaishno-devi-shrine-launches-pooja-prasad-home-delivery-service-891077.html
21-09-2020||Opinion||Off the record: September 21, 2020||Repeat warnings With members testing positive for Covid-19, the presiding officers in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha are having a tough time ensuring physical distancing in the House during the proceedings. It is common for members to walk up to their colleagues for a brief chat by leaning over the bench or occupying the seat next to a fellow member to have a quick word. Both Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu have to remind members time and again to maintain physical distance. Another issue the presiding officers emphasise too often is the proper way of wearing a face mask, as members are prone to let it slip off time and again. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Farmers fooled? Samajwadi Party MP Javed Ali Khan, a farmer, is losing Rs 20 for every quintal he sold to an Uttar Pradesh government-mandated procurement centre, thanks to cleaning and unloading charges being deducted. The government had fixed a minimum support price of Rs 1925 per quintal for wheat but farmers are being paid only Rs 1905. When he went to sell the product, he was told to pay Rs 20 per quintal in cash as cleaning and unloading charges. He was shown a government order in this regard and was told that this money would be reimbursed. However, farmers have not received any reimbursement in the last three years. They don’t take cheque or do an (RTGS) account transfer. After he raised the matter, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked the government to take note of the issue. Shemin Joy Open manholes Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) remains in the news for the wrong reasons. From alleged corruption charges against its officials to open manholes in the city, the civic body always gets bad publicity. To avoid some bad publicity, it may soon have to release a sewer map of the city to help people avoid falling into open manholes. As the SMC is not in a position to cover all the open manholes due to shortage of funds, with the help of maps, people can at least get directions to keep from falling into these traps. Alternatively, the body may have to open a toll free number to provide directions to people to avoid open manholes as covering these looks a Herculean task. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Bamboo cookies  On World Bamboo Day on Friday, Tripura has something new to offer -- bamboo shoot cookies. The cookies mixed with the soft and sweet bamboo species called Muli bamboo were launched by Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Friday.” Abhinav Kant, the chief of Bamboo and Cane Development Institute (BCDI), the brain behind the cookies said this was for the first time that bamboo shoots were used in preparing biscuits. “This is a healthy product as bamboo shoots are rich in proteins, minerals and full of fibre. We chose the muli variety of bamboo shoot as others are not sweet,” Deb said. The bamboo shoot cookies are also beneficial for diabetic patients as they are low in fat and sugar, the CM said. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati  Sick manpower  A recent decision of Kerala government to allow asymptomatic Covid-19 positive migrant workers to continue their work at areas exclusively marked for them, without mingling with others had to be withdrawn within hours after it invited criticism. The justification given by the government in issuing such an order was that various industries were raising concerns over the shortage of manpower. It was learnt later that the upcoming elections were a factor. Progress of many government construction projects was affected owing to manpower shortage. The state government intends to complete such projects before the election in order to highlight the government’s achievements.  Arjun Raghunath,Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-september-21-2020-890614.html
21-09-2020||Opinion||How the GOP might get a yes on replacing Ruth Bader Ginsburg||Imagine a Republican senator uncertain whether to vote for the Supreme Court nominee that President Donald Trump is poised to put forward. He is part of a select group, our senator; perhaps we can even guess how many children and grandchildren he has, how steeply his hair still rises from his brow, how close he once came to being president himself. Here is how he might consider the problem. On the one hand, there is the threat of what keeps being called a “legitimacy crisis” should Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who died Friday, be quickly replaced by a conservative jurist. It would be Trump’s third appointment following a presidential election in which Senate Republicans declined to vote on Barack Obama’s final nominee. Trump did not win the popular vote in 2016; his Senate coalition doesn’t represent a popular majority. In replacing Ginsburg, he would be altering the balance of the court more decisively than with his previous picks, both of whom took seats from Republican appointees. And he would be doing so in a country that’s already polarized, maddened, suffused with hysteria. The madness around Supreme Court battles has been building steadily since Robert Bork’s defeated nomination in 1987, and at some point it has to be defused. If someone — which means some Republicans, at the moment, because the power is in their hands — doesn’t find a way to de-escalate, to concede some ground, then the court and even the Constitution could be in the gravest sort of peril. That’s the situation as understood on the left and much of the center. But our senator is a Republican senator, mindful of his own coalition’s views. He knows there is more than one way for an institution to lose legitimacy and that, for many conservatives, the high court eviscerated its own authority decades ago when it set itself up as the arbiter of America’s major moral controversies, removing from the democratic process not just debates about sex and marriage and school prayer but life and death itself. Those “many conservatives” include this columnist. Since I became opposed to abortion, sometime in my later teens, I have never regarded the Supreme Court with warmth, admiration or patriotic trust. What my liberal friends felt after Bush v. Gore or after Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation or in imagining some future ruling by Amy Coney Barrett, I have felt for my entire adult life. And our Republican senator knows that this feeling has sustained itself because the conservative effort to change the courts was balked and limited, over and over again, despite many seemingly no-doubt electoral victories and sweeping presidential mandates. For decades, conservatives elected Republican presidents, Republican presidents appointed Supreme Court justices — and yet about half of those justices turned out to be either outright judicial liberals or “swing” votes who always seemed to swing toward social liberalism. So if it seems unfair and delegitimizing to liberals today that a president without a popular-vote mandate should be able to appoint the successor to Ginsburg, conservatives might respond by asking what democratic “fairness” delivered David Souter and John Paul Stevens to a combined 54 years on the court as Republican appointees? Or what “fairness” made Anthony Kennedy rather than Antonin Scalia the dominant judicial figure for the decades that followed Ronald Reagan’s presidential landslides? And further, what would it say to the millions of voters who have supported the Republican Party almost exclusively because of judicial politics for decades for a situation to come along where there is no constitutional bar to appointing Ginsburg’s successor, and then Republican senators simply cede the opportunity, extracting at most a vague no-future-court-packing promise in return? At least with Souter, the seat wasn’t ceded to liberals on purpose. That’s what our senator encounters when he inclines his ear rightward. But if he has wisdom, he can also sense in the clashing arguments a substrate of agreement — a shared recognition that a system in which the great questions of our country are settled by the deaths of octogenarians is too close to late-Soviet Politburo politics for comfort, a shared acknowledgment that too much deliberation that belongs in other branches is being shunted to the Supreme Court. The question is what, if anything, would need to happen to make that substrate the foundation for a better system, a decisive change in judicial appointments and a step back from juristocracy? One answer, the “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington” answer, is that a brave stand in favor of bipartisanship by a few Republican senators might set the stage for a return of wise-man politics, in which various reforms proposed for the Supreme Court — shorter terms, rotating appointments, a larger bench appointed by bipartisan committee — could be pushed through by Republicans and Democrats together, in a Joe Biden presidency or thereafter. The message of the stand would be, "Let’s not do this," but its goal would be to get both parties to say, "Let’s never get in this situation again." But that might be an idealist’s fancy. Suppose that Ginsburg isn’t replaced this fall, Biden is elected, and he fills her seat and then replaces at least one conservative justice as well, flipping the court back to liberal control. The Democratic incentive to reform our juristocracy would diminish or evaporate, and liberalism’s self-understanding as the party of hypereducated mandarins would come back to the fore, making progressives enthusiastic about judicial power once again. Meanwhile, conservatives would have all of their suspicions about establishment Republicans confirmed yet one more time, and they could add the Supreme Court to the lengthening list of elite institutions in which cultural liberalism’s power seems more consolidated every day. The likely result would be a right-wing coalition that’s angrier and Trumpier than the GOP that nominated Trump himself four years ago. So our imagined Republican senator’s reward for his high-minded vote could easily be a longer-term defeat for moderate conservatism; the judiciary would be handed over to ambitious liberals, and his own party would become more populist, paranoid and hostile to any form of compromise. Whereas if he voted to confirm, then the worst-case scenario, the threat that Democrats are waving, would probably be an attempt at court packing in a Biden presidency or perhaps in a Kamala Harris presidency down the line. Such a development would no doubt make Twitter unbearable and inspire Republicans to their own round of angst about legitimacy and norms. But once you recognize the current system’s brokenness, it’s not clear it would be all that terrible a fight to have. For one thing, to fight a battle over the court on those terms would commit the Democrats decisively to the position that the courts should be under small-D democratic control, rather than allowing them to replace Ginsburg, breathe a sigh of relief and revert to a liberalism of philosopher kings (and queens). For another, if an era of court packing tit-for-tat weakened the high court, making its members more cautious and its decisions appear more overtly political, then that could have one of two positive consequences: It could push some power back toward the legislative branch, where under our constitutional schema it still formally belongs, and it could eventually push the warring parties toward an exhausted stalemate from which bipartisan court reform might be more likely to emerge. Of course I am speculating, but my point is to suggest the inherent unknowability of some “what’s best for the republic” outcome as our Republican senator contemplates his vote. It might be that a high-minded renunciation of power saves us from a crisis … but it might just as easily be that the only way out of the crisis is through , meaning for both sides to contest frankly for the power to change a broken system and to look for new norms on the other side rather than propping up old ones that clearly don’t work anymore. And the unknowability means that the decision is probably better reduced to its simplest form. All that our senator knows about this vote for certain is that it will give one of the (unfortunately) most powerful offices in America to either the person nominated or some person chosen by the current Democratic nominee. If the person nominated seems like a better choice to be entrusted with that power, then despite all the atmospherics, there’s a clear case for voting yes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-the-gop-might-get-a-yes-on-replacing-ruth-bader-ginsburg-890693.html
21-09-2020||Panorama||Many facets of global drug trade: India extremely vulnerable||The investigation of the death of film star Sushant Singh Rajput in Mumbai took a sudden twist with drug abuse getting focus instead of the cause of his death. Separately, several drug-related arrests were made in Karnataka.  Drug trade is truly an international one leading to the common saying, “opium is harvested in Lebanon, heroin manufactured in the south of France and the addict is located in the New York or France”. Smuggling of drugs is so lucrative in Myanmar, Laos and Cambodia that it has earned the sobriquet ’Golden Triangle’ while Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan constitute the ‘Golden Crescent’, notorious for illicit opium production.   Ganja, also known as Marijuana or Cannibis is grown extensively in India whose use can cause marked alterations in moods. It is used as Bhang, Siddhi, Patti and Sabji as an ingredient in ’Thandai’, ‘Pakoras’ and ‘halwa’.  Charas is the Hindi name for Hashish. Marijuana and Hashish are smoked with tobacco and it emanates an unmistakable smell akin to sweetish hay. They are also consumed in the form of jam, cake or tea. Amphetamine and Methamphetamine are the synthetic drug varieties (stimulants) while barbiturates and tranquillisers sold in pharmacies under prescription, are depressants. Under the category of narcotics are opium, morphine and Codeine (plant source) while Pethidine, Meperidine and Methadone are synthetically prepared. There is a wide variety of hallucinogens - Lycergic Acid Diethalamide (LSD), Dimethoxy Methylene Amphetamine (STP), Dimethyl Tryptamine (DMT), Mescaline and Phencylidine (PCP). These are generally smuggled into our country Designer drugs and rave parties: Also called ‘club drugs’ because of their use in clubs, these drugs are made in such a  manner that they mimic the pharmacological effects of the original drug thereby avoiding classification as illegal. MDMA, Ketamine, GHB, Rohypnol, LSD etc are therefore popular in rave parties perhaps because they escape detection in standard drug tests. Another drug known as Psilocybin, sourced from a certain variety of mushroom, is said to be commonly in vogue in rave parties. The estimate of global drug trade is of the order of $360 billion contributed by Heroin - $100-110 billion, Cocaine $110-130 billion, Cannabis $75 billion and synthetic drugs $60 billion. The world drug report 2020 of the UN states that the economic hardship resulting from Covid-19 has aggravated illegal drug production, supply and consumption. India is extremely vulnerable in this.  Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS Act): It is the common lament of enforcement personnel that laws in our country are toothless. But the NDPS Act is an honourable exception. While the Act makes a distinction among possession, transporting and selling, the quantity one possesses makes a big difference in deciding the quantum of penalty.  The law thus treats a victim and an active trader differently. An enlightened feature of the Act is the creation of a national fund for drug abuse intended to be used for education against abuse, treatment and rehabilitation of victims etc. If the governing body of the fund supports and collaborates with international non-profit like Narcotic Anonymous, it will go a long way in reducing drug abuse and related crime.  All special laws in general and NDPS Act in particular call for proactive enforcement. Unlike crimes relating to the Indian Penal Code where a case is launched after receiving a complaint, there are fewer or no complaints under NDPS Act. The trick is in collecting intelligence to track down transportation, smuggling, supply and abuse leading to the apprehension of drug peddlers. Therefore, statistics do not reflect the true situation regarding the extent and volume of drug trade and consumption in our country.   In 2017, a total of 63,800 cases were booked under the Act - 41,056 cases for personal consumption and 22,744 cases trafficking; 1,126 cases were booked in Karnataka (481-645). Enforcement in Bengaluru has been poor with just 354 cases (2-352). The drive against drugs did not get any better in 2018 with 63,137 cases (38,715-24,422) for the country, Karnataka and Bengaluru  booking 1,030 (517-513) and  286 (2-284) cases, respectively.  The quantity of contraband drugs seized was 36,16,881 kg and 44,00,389 kg in 2017 and 2018, respectively. The seized contraband is only the tip of the iceberg as compared to the extent of smuggling and trafficking in drugs. Out of 36,067 persons prosecuted in 2017 under the NDPS Act, 27,949 were convicted in the courts as against 31,510 persons getting convicted out of 40,660 prosecuted (77.49%) in 2016.  Bengaluru prison A  report, “ Minds Imprisoned: Mental Health Care of Prisons” by Nimhans produced after a study conducted with the support of Karnataka Legal Services Authority at the Bengaluru Central Prison brought out shockingly high prevalence of drug and substance abuse - 3% of the deaths in the prison was drug-related. Prison inmates tested positive for various types of drugs with as many as 43% testing positive for Benzodiazepines. Female prison inmates were no exception to drug use.  What is more, substance abuse was found to be closely associated with mental health. An earlier report of United Nations Office of Drug and Crimes brought out that globally, 35 million people suffered from drug-related disorders adding that prevention and treatment fell short. Films like ‘Udta Punjab’ have graphically portrayed the crisis faced by the society and its youth with regard to the drug menace. While the film highlighted the drug menace in a bordering state, the rest of the country can by no means be complacent. Scaling up enforcement within and strict surveillance along our porous borders, airports and sea ports are the only way to check drug abuse.  The number and diversity of substances, the short-lived nature of some substances in the drug market and the evolution of sequences of closely-related substances manufactured indigenously in order to circumvent control measures, are the challenges for the forensic scientists of the country. The non-availability of ‘Certified Reference Standards’ and validated methods of analysis which have not matched the number of new drugs, pose difficulties for the forensic personnel while conducting analysis and proving the cases in the courts. (The writer is former Director General and Inspector General of Police, Karnataka. Inputs on forensic science were provided by V G Nayak, Deputy Director (retd) and N G Prabhakar, Assistant Director (retd), Karnataka State Forensic Science Laboratory)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/many-facets-of-global-drug-trade-india-extremely-vulnerable-890615.html
21-09-2020||Right in the Middle||My trysts with the law||If someone were to look at me – a middle-aged, balding man – I’m sure they would say that I am a mild and model citizen, and I would fully agree with them. However, I wasn’t always like this. In fact, during my heyday, I had a few (unpleasant) encounters with the police! My first confrontation waχs when my friends and I went to a late-night movie on our bicycles. It must have been about midnight when we started back. The roads were empty and we decided to play a game of following the leader. Each of us would take turns riding in the lead and the others would have to follow wherever the leader went. Naturally, the game included shouting and screaming and given the vacant roads we rode really fast! The game ended abruptly when a couple of beat cops stopped and took us to the police station. Disturbing peace was the charge. We were locked up and there we stayed all night until my friend’s father came the next morning, expressed regret for our behavior and got us released. What a relief it was to see daylight again! The next encounter was in Chennai. A rich pal had taken us to a hotel and we drank more than what was good for us. On the ride back, we came across a vehicle on the wrong side with its headlamps on full-beam. Seeing this, my pillion shouted a rather terrible insult loudly. Immediately, the vehicle did a quick U-turn, chased and stopped us. It was a police jeep! Constables burst out and caught the two of us. Once again, we were taken to the station and thrown into a cell. Both of us were in tears but there was no forgiveness as the cops were really angry with the insult my friend had hurled at them. We stayed in the cell till the morning when my friend came, apologised and got us free. I returned home a sober and much-changed man. Yet, that was not the end. The last instance was a few years later. Three of us bachelors decided to have a party one weekend and invited a whole host of friends. There was of course lots of loud music. The neighbours complained at first to us and then to the police– who arrived swiftly, shut the party down and warned us very sternly. That, dear readers, made me swear never to get on the wrong side of the law again. And here I am – the wrong side of forty – still keeping my promise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-trysts-with-the-law-890613.html
21-09-2020||Second Edit||Take steps to protect Western Ghats||The Karnataka government had, some time ago, come out with a proposal to pump water from river Sharavathi in Shivamogga district to meet the consumptive requirements of Bengaluru over 300 km away. This was seen as another deadly blow on the already fragile Western Ghats. Fortunately, it was not pursued in the light of opposition. It is illogical to expect green districts to make huge ecological sacrifices to satisfy the unquenchable thirst of a city that has exhibited total callousness towards water conservation and reuse, lake restoration, and rainwater harvesting. Shivamogga is already on the brink of an environmental disaster with an Indian Institute of Science (IISc) study indicating that the vegetation cover has decreased from 96% in 1973 to 86% in 2018 and forest area from 44% to 34%.  The rampant change in land use saw the area under plantation increase from 9% to 30% and the built-up area from 0.63% to 2.3%. According to the study, 650 villages in the western parts of the district are highly sensitive and even small changes can have an adverse impact on the environment. Thus, it is imperative that the government drops the Sharavathi project officially and explores other options to meet Bengaluru’s needs. The Western Ghats, a Unesco World Heritage Site, which is one of the eight hot-spots of biological diversity in world, hosts a large proportion of the country’s flora and fauna and largely impacts climatic conditions and rainfall patterns in the peninsula. Both the Gadgil and Kasturirangan reports which recommended declaring a part of the ghats as an ecologically sensitive zone have been gathering dust due to several misconceptions, mainly fuelled by politicians. While one Bishop in Kerala described the reports as “ecological terrorism” aimed at throwing out farmers from their homes, the real beneficiaries are mining units and luxury resorts that possess large tracts of land in forest areas. While there are no two views on protecting the Western Ghats, there is also a need to strike a balance between safeguarding the forests and the right to livelihood of the local people. The people of the ghats have for long questioned why they should be the sole custodians of the environment while their counterparts in urban areas are free to strip forests and fell trees for infrastructure and other projects so that they can lead a comfortable life. There is also a growing demand that the local population should decide what is good for them, instead of being dictated by environmentalists. While they do have a point and their right to the livelihood needs to be respected, a large-scale commercial activity that is detrimental to the environment and to the local people themselves should be prohibited. The Western Ghats do not belong to this generation alone and it is everyone’s duty to preserve it for posterity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/take-steps-to-protect-western-ghats-890609.html
21-09-2020||South||Two workers killed in quarry blast in Kerala||Two workers were killed in a blast that occurred at a building adjacent to a quarry in Malayattoor near here on Monday, police said. The incident occurred when explosives kept at the building for quarrying activities allegedly went off at around 3 am, police said. Two migrant workers, who were staying there, died in the blast. They have been identified as D Naga, 36, from Karnataka and Periyannan Latchumanan, 38, from Tamil Nadu,police said. The workers, who had returned from their hometowns recently, were using the building as a quarantine facility. The 1500 sq ft concrete building in which the explosives were kept, was heavily damaged in the explosion, police said. Body parts of one worker were found strewn around. The reason for the blast is not known, police said, adding, an investigation has been launched into the incident. Ernakulam District Collector S Suhas has ordered a magisterial inquiry. Additional District Magistrate will conduct the probe based on the preliminary report prepared by the Tahsildar, a district administration official said. Officials said initial inquiry has revealed lapses on the part of quarry owners.The explosives were not stored as per rules, they said. The district collector has also sought a report from police about the incident. The bodies of workers will be handed over to the relatives after completing all formalities including COVID-19 test, police said. Some houses in the neighbourhood were damaged in the explosion.Panic-stricken people ran out of their houses, hearing the blast sound. Ernakulam Rural police chief K Kaarthik, who visited the site, constituted a special team to probe the incident.Besides police, scientific experts and a dog squad visited the spot and carried out necessary examination, police said. Malayattoor Panchayat authorities said the quarry has been functioning for several years and the license for operating the quarry was renewed periodically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-workers-killed-in-quarry-blast-in-kerala-890692.html
21-09-2020||South||Heavy rains lash Kerala, orange alert in 10 districts||Heavy rains continued to lash Kerala on Monday with the IMD issuing an orange alert for 10 districts after a low pressure area had formed over the North East Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. The districts of Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod have been issued Orange alert. The Kundala, Kallarkutti, Malankara and Ponmudi dam shutters have been opened resulting in water rise in Periyar, Muthirapuzha and Muvattupuzha rivers. "There was one death reported from Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. The death occured after the person came in contact with a live electric wire which got snapped due to heavy rain and wind," State Disaster Management Authority told PTI. "We have also received information about one death from Kasaragod on Monday morning, but yet to receive the details officially," it added. A weather bulletin said that a low pressure area has formed over Northeast Bay of Bengal and neighborhood on Sunday morning and is likely to move west-northwest during the next 2-3 days. The Idukki reservoir is at 80 per cent of its storage capacity as on Monday morning, district officials said. Hosdurg in Kasaragod received 9 cm of rainfall, as per the latest bulletin on the IMD website, while Vythiri in Wayanad district received 9.4 cm, Munnar and Peerumedu in Idukki received over 7 cm of rain, while Nedumangadu in Thiruvananthapuram also received 7 cms of rain. At least eight houses have been destroyed in yesterday's rain in Kasaragod district. The state has received an average of 7 cm of rainfall in the last24 hours. TheIMD had issued a red alert for Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts for Sunday. A red alert is sounded for rainfall of over 20 cm while an orange alert is for 6 cm to 20 cm of rain. Three units of the National Disaster Response Force have reached Kerala on Sunday and have been deployed in Wayanad,Malappuram and Thrissur districts. Already there are two teams in Idukki and Kozhikode districts. Fishermen have been warned not to put out to sea as strong winds with speed reaching 45-55 kmph are likely to prevail along and off Kerala, Karnataka coasts and over Lakshadweep area. A landslide triggered by heavy rains in the hilly district of Idukki on August 7 had flattened a row of dwelling units of tea estate workers at Pettimudi in Rajamalai claiming 66 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-lash-kerala-orange-alert-in-10-districts-890743.html
21-09-2020||South||Puducherry reports 273 new Covid-19 cases, 9 fatalities||Puducherry logged 273 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday pushing the overall tally in the union territory to 23,191. Nine more people including three women succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours ending 10 am today, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told a virtual press conference. He said that the 273 fresh cases were identified at the end of examination of 3,783 samples. The overall tally of infections stood at 23,191 (after transfer of five cases to Tamil Nadu), he added. As many as 1,40,107 samples have been tested so far and it was found that 1,11,514 samples out of them were negative. Result of examination of remaining specimens was awaited, the Minister said. Rao said that the fatality rate was 2.01 per cent as of Monday while the recovery rate was 77.9 per cent. A total of 509 patients recovered and were discharged during the last 24 hours. Rao said that as of now cumulatively there were 23,191 cases while 4,659 were active and 18,065 patients had recovered and were discharged so far. The number of fatalities stood at 467. The nine persons who died of infection were in the age group ranging between 52 and 75 years and most of them had comorbidities particularly diabetes. The Health Minister said testing of samples had been intensified. He appealed to people to strictly adhere to safety norms so that the spread of the virus could be "drastically curtailed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-273-new-covid-19-cases-9-fatalities-890748.html
21-09-2020||South||Nine succumb to Covid-19 in Telangana, death toll at 1,042||Telangana reported 1,302 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total infection count to 1,72,608, while death toll rose to 1,042 with nine more fatalities. Out of the 1,302 fresh cases, 266 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Karimngar (102), Rangareddy (98), Siddipet (92) and other districts, a state government bulletin said on Monday, providing data as of 8 pm on September 20. Jayashankar Bhupalpally district reported zero cases, while Adilabad (8), Komaram Bheem Asifabad (8) and Narayanpet (4) saw cases being recorded in single digits, according to the bulletin. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,41,930, while 29,636 were under treatment. The bulletin said 31,095 samples were tested on September 20. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 25,19,315. The samples tested per million population was 67,858, it said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.60 per cent, while it was 1.60 per cent at the national level, it said. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 82.22 per cent, while it was 79.87 per cent in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nine-succumb-to-covid-19-in-telangana-death-toll-at-1042-890753.html
21-09-2020||South||3,000 cases registered for protests against Kerala Minister Jaleel||Cases have been registered against 3,000 people by the police and at least 100 arrested so far in connection with the violent protests by outfits of opposition parties here demanding the resignation of Kerala Minister K T Jaleel following his questioning by central agencies in connection with the gold smuggling case. The Cantonment police registered the cases against activists of the BJP, Yuva Morcha, Mahila Morcha, the Youth Congress and Kerala Students Union for unlawful assembly, blocking roads, and defying Covid-19 protocol, a police official said. The Opposition parties and their youth fronts have been on warpath since early this month after Jaleel appeared before the Enforcement Directorateand NIA officials. While the minister was questioned by the ED in connection with the alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) in accepting consignments of Holy Quran and about 18,000 kg of dates broght from UAE through diplomatic channels, his statement was recorded by the National Investigation Agency probing the terror link of the gold smuggling case. The opposition parties have been alleging that gold was smuggled in the guise of import of Quran and dates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3000-cases-registered-for-protests-against-kerala-minister-jaleel-890775.html
21-09-2020||South||DMK, allies demand withdrawal of Farm Bills, to stage protests across Tamil Nadu on September 28||Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party, DMK, and its allies will stage protests in all district headquarters on September 28 demanding that the Centre withdraw bills relating to farmers passed in Parliament. The decision to stage the protest was taken at a meeting of allies chaired by DMK President M K Stalin. Leaders from Congress, Left parties, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) participated in the meeting during which the farm bills were discussed threadbare. All the above mentioned parties had opposed the bills in Parliament when they came up for discussion and voting. The meeting also condemned the AIADMK’s stand on the bills and said the legislations have once again put a question mark on "federalism" besides pushing poor farmers to a state of suffering. "This meeting places on record its strong opposition to the farm bills passed by the Centre which is against the farmers, farm labourers, consumers and the general public and which would cause a setback to progress of agriculture," a resolution passed in the meeting read. The DMK and Congress have opposed the bills in both houses of parliament and have decided to take the fight to the people. Stalin had issued a long statement on Saturday accusing the BJP of favouring corporates through the legislation and tearing into the AIADMK for supporting the legislation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-allies-demand-withdrawal-of-farm-bills-to-stage-protests-across-tamil-nadu-on-september-28-890805.html
21-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu rolls out 3501 Amma mobile fair price shops||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday expanded the Amma mobile fair price shop scheme across the state, rolling out over 3000 such units to benefit more than 5.37 lakh ration card holders. Presently, 48 such mobile units were serving people in remote and hilly areas in Nilgiris, Namakkal and Salem among others, where essential commodities are being delivered at people's places of stay. The scheme was launched by late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2014, an official release said. Chief Minister K Palaniswami had announced in the state Assembly in March, expanding the scheme across the state following requests from various quarters. Accordingly, the government expanded the scheme by adding another 3501 mobile fair price shops at a cost of Rsn9.66 crore to benefit a little over 5.37 lakh ration card holders in all 37 districts of the state, it said. Palaniswami flagged off seven mobile fair price shops on Monday to mark the symbolic rollout of the scheme, wherein a salesperson from the parent ration shop will visit designated areas once in a month to distribute the essential commodities at places convenient to the people, the release said. Further, the chief minister launched a pilot project of providing fortified rice for ration card holders in Tiruchirappalli district. The fortified rice will contain iron, folic acid and Vitamin B12, the release said, adding, it will benefit women, children and the elderly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-rolls-out-3501-amma-mobile-fair-price-shops-890832.html
21-09-2020||South||Two women officers to operate helicopters from warships||Breaking yet another glass ceiling, two women sub lieutenants on Monday became the first batch of women officers who would operate from the decks of a warship that hitherto remained a male bastion. Sub lieutenants Kumudini Tyagi and Riti Singh were the first set of women airborne combatants who would be operating from warships. Tyagi and Singh, along with 15 other officers, were awarded Wings on graduating as Observers at a ceremony at INS Garuda in Kochi on Monday. Chief staff officer (Training) Rear Admiral Antony George, who presented the awards and Wings, said that it was a landmark occasion wherein for the first-time women are going to be trained in helicopter operations which would ultimately pave way for the deployment of women in frontline warships of Indian Navy. “They would, in effect, be the first set of women airborne combatants who would be operating from warships. Earlier, entry of women was restricted to the fixed-wing aircraft that took off and landed ashore,” a navy spokesperson said. “In an operation, the observers are practically the mission commanders, whatever may be their seniority,” said a navy officer. Tyagi who hailed from Ghaziabad in UP is from a civilian background with her father being a pharmacist, Riti Singh is fourth-generation service personnel and daughter of a retired naval officer, said a defence spokesperson. Sub-Lt Singh, whose father retired as a Commodore, is a fourth-generation military officer. The officers were trained in air navigation, flying procedures, tactics employed in air warfare, anti-submarine warfare, and exploitation of airborne avionic systems. They would serve on-board Maritime Reconnaissance and Anti-Submarine Warfare aircraft of the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard. The task of an observer (airborne tacticians) in combat is to operate the on-board sensors to identify targets like a submarine so that the pilot can fire the weapons. They would also operate the sonar console and the ISR (intelligence, reconnaissance and surveillance) payload. Eventually, they will fly as the supporting crew in the Indian Navy’s new MH-60R helicopters that are being procured from the US. While the navy allowed women officers to fly as pilots in surveillance aircraft since 2017, they were still restricted to shore-based establishments. Absence of a proper crew separation facility and different wash rooms for males and females are the reasons that the navy cited as reasons for not permitting women officers on board the warships. The new platforms that are under construction and trial at various shipyards have separate facilities for men and women. The Indian Air Force, too, has identified a woman fighter pilot to fly its new Rafale fighter aircraft though her identity has not been disclosed. From three fighter pilots in 2016, the IAF has 10 women officers flying combat jets. In December last year, Sub Lieutenant Shivangi joined operations as the first woman pilot of the Indian Navy. As of February, 2020, the Indian Navy has 527 women officers whereas the IAF and the Indian Army have 1,601 and 1,648 of them respectively. The number of women officers recruited by the Navy in 2017, 2018 and 2019 is 57, 38 and 54 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-women-officers-to-operate-helicopters-from-warships-890845.html
21-09-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: CPM tries to trigger NRI sentiments||The CPM in Kerala is seemingly trying to trigger 'Pravasi' (Non-Resident Indian) sentiments to counter the mounting attack from Opposition parties, especially the Indian Union Muslim League, a key coalition partner of the Congress. Allegations have been raised against members of the ruling party in relation to a gold smuggling case. This follows the Left Front's attempts to trigger religious sentiments over an issue involving Higher Education Ministret KT Jaleel who is facing flak for accepting the Quran in bulk quantity from the UAE consulate in the state. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan raised fresh concerns that the allegations being raised against the UAE consulate by the Opposition parties in Kerala, especially the IUML, might affect the future of thousands of Malayalis working in the UAE. Balakrishnan took to Twitter to criticise the Opposition, specifically naming the IUML national general secretary and MP P K Kunhalikutty in his tweets. He also said that even as Kunhalikutty alleged that religious books and dates were not imported through a proper channel by the UAE consulate, all those parcels were cleared by the Customs Department. The CPM's attack targeting the IUML comes close on the heels of the IUML accusing the CPM of triggering communal sentiments over the issue. A major chunk of the NRI population from Kerala, especially in the Gulf countries, is from the Muslim community. The IUML's strongholds in North Kerala also has a sizable NRI population. The CPM seems to be eyeing the NRI sentiments to resist the attack on the government over the allegations linked with the UAE consulate. Meanwhile, former diplomat T P Sreenivasan said that it needed to be ensured that the allegations against the UAE consulate did not affect the bilateral relations between India and the UAE. A cordial relationship with the UAE was very important for India, not only due to the sizable NRI population but also due to other strategic reasons, he said. According to a study in 2018, of the 21.2 lakh NRIs from Kerala, the highest number -- 8.3 lakh -- is in the UAE. It was following the seizure of 30-kilogram gold from a baggage with a diplomatic baggage tag addressed to the UAE consulate in Kerala that a series of allegations came up. Links of UAE consulate former employees, who are accused in gold smuggling, with Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel and CM's former principal secretary M Sivasankar and alleged links of the accused with Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri has put the Left Front government in the defensive. Allegations of a huge commission were also being raised over a housing project in Kerala funded by Emirates Red Crescent for the victims of the natural calamities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-cpm-tries-to-trigger-nri-sentiments-890859.html
21-09-2020||South||Mother offers to sell all her organs to meet treatment expenses of children||A woman in Kerala has offered to sell all her organs for meeting treatment expenses of her teenage children. The hapless woman had placed a board in front of the shack in which she stayed with her five children in Kochi stating that 'Mother's body organs for sale (including heart) to pay for her children medical care and pay off debts.' While two of her elder sons suffered serious injuries in road accidents, her daughter was suffering from a neuro ailment that was affecting her vision also. The woman, who was reportedly estranged from her husband, was living in a rented house at Varappuzha on the outskirts of the Kochi city. But owing to mounting rent, they vacated the house and put up a shack on the roadside on the container road in the city on Sunday. The family spent the night in the shack despite the heavy rain. Santhi said that she owed lakhs or rupees of debt to several persons. With the three children becoming sick, she was not able to go for any job. "There was no other option for me, and hence I was forced to place this board. It was not in protest against anyone, but due to helplessness," she said. With the matter coming to the notice of the government, the family was shifted to a shelter home and the state government assured to take care of the treatment of the children. Some voluntary organisations also came forward offering to meet the expenses of her family. Hence the family returned to their rented home by evening. The family hailing from North Kerala reportedly came down to Kochi several years back for treatment of the neuro treatment of the girl. In between, two elder sons suffered serious injuries in road accidents that required surgeries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mother-offers-to-sell-all-her-organs-to-meet-treatment-expenses-of-children-890888.html
21-09-2020||South||Six highway projects running behind schedule in Karnataka: Nitin Gadkari||The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is executing 14 projects of four-laning of national highways in Karnataka, in which 6 projects are running behind the schedule due to the delay in acquiring land and forest clearance, Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari informed the Lok Sabha during the ongoing Monsoon Session. In his written reply to BJP member Nalin Kumar Kateel, the Minister said that currently, 14 projects of four-laning of national highways in Karnataka comprising a length of about 1,209 km with a total cost of about Rs 17,263 crores are in different stages of implementation.  "Out of those 14 projects, six projects are running behind the schedule due to delay in different issues including land acquisition, forest clearance, Covid-19 pandemic and stoppage of work by local workers for want of higher compensation," Gadkari said. "Several meetings have been conducted at various levels for expeditious completion of the highway projects. The payment of supplementary awards to the landowners has been planned to be completed by December 2020," the Minister said. The projects of converting two-lane highways into four-lane highways that have made tardy progress are as follows: Hassan to Maranahalli (17% work completed), Bellary to Byrapura (39.38% completed), Belgaum to Khanapur (30.07% completed), Mallasandra to Karadi ( 25.72% completed), Karadi to Banavara (22.4% completed) and Hospet to Bellary-Andhra Pradesh-Karnataka border (41% completed).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-highway-projects-running-behind-schedule-in-karnataka-nitin-gadkari-890900.html
21-09-2020||South||Woman govt employee assaulted by former colleague in Telangana||A woman government employee was allegedly assaulted by a man, a former colleague, over some personal issues at her office in Kamareddy district on Monday, police said. The woman suffered an injury on the nose when the man, who had earlier worked with her and now stationed in another office, attacked her, they said. She was treated as an outpatient at a hospital. The woman lodged a complaint and a case would be registered after obtaining permission from a concerned court as it was a non-cognisable offence, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-govt-employee-assaulted-by-former-colleague-in-telangana-890933.html
21-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM launches mobile app to register police complaints||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy, on Monday, launched the 'AP Police Seva' app which could become handy for the public in the Covid-19 pandemic time. The app enables online registration of complaints and also lets the public monitor the action taken. To curb the spread of fake news and messages, the app also consists of a fact-check feature, which helps to know the authenticity of the news reports or the news being circulating on social media, officials said. It offers 87 different types of services while connecting all the police stations across the state. Congratulating the police department for developing the app, the chief minister, on Monday, said the app was in tune with the state’s friendly policing concept and would help instill confidence among the people (to approach the police with their grievances). “The need for citizens to visit police stations would be lessened with the app. The initiative helps in making the police accessible to the public all the time,” Reddy stated. Along with complaints directed through WhatsApp, Facebook, and Twitter, the app also offers the facility of making video calls in case of such need. House monitoring, passport services, lost document search, no-objection certificates and other such services are also made available through the app. The new app, with 12 modules related to women’s safety, is integrated with the existing Disha App meant for women’s protection. It has six road safety modules, where a report of an accident victim can be filed online and further, the incident would be linked to the hospital services. Similarly, it has 15 modules of cybercrime, to report any sort of cybercrime. So far, 11 lakh people have downloaded the Disha app. While 568 complaints were received, FIRs have been registered in 117 cases, and action was taken, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-launches-mobile-app-to-register-police-complaints-890942.html
21-09-2020||South||Indian School of Business to strategise Tamil Nadu's post-Covid-19 economic recovery||The Indian School of Business (ISB) has entered an MoU with Guidance Tamil Nadu, the state’s nodal agency for investment promotion, to work on economic recovery and growth monitoring, especially in the post-Covid-19 period. ISB will specifically look into developing a strategy for the pharma/chemical sector in Tamil Nadu and sync it with environmental sustainability. Dr. Neeraj Mittal, IAS, MD & CEO, Guidance Tamil Nadu, and Professor Rajendra Srivastava, Dean, ISB exchanged the MoU at a virtual event on Friday. ISB would also come up with suggestions on drivers for investment in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. It will execute the identified projects under its new initiative titled- ‘JumpStartIndia@ISB’, wherein the current batch of ISB students will be working with the research team and expert faculty on specific problems of importance for economic recovery and growth. The partnership will bring ISB’s intellectual resources to address some of the critical issues of economic recovery as well as on investment promotion. Dr. Mittal said that the Guidance’s engagement with ISB through ‘Jump Start India’ is an important beginning in the collaboration of government, academia, and industry in these testing times. The role of academia to develop innovative solutions for economic recovery has never been more critical, he opined. Professor Srivastava underlined that the government-academic partnership has become very critical to solve the growing socio-economic problems. “ISB has the required rigor to come up with evidence-based research work, which will enhance the government’s decision-making abilities leading to the fulfilment of aspirational development goals.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indian-school-of-business-to-strategise-tamil-nadus-post-covid-19-economic-recovery-890946.html
21-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami flags off women-operated solar, electric autos||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday flagged off 13 types of solar and electric powered autos, to be operated by women, as part of the initiative to ensure women empowerment and environment protection. This project is the result of the Chief Minister's efforts on fetching investment to Tamil Nadu and facilitating job opportunities for the youth, an official release said. During his overseas trip last year, Palaniswami signed a memorandum of understanding with M Auto at Dubai, and offered his government's support on providing charging stations, manufacturing units among the other things. M Auto is the first firm to receive a license for starting the operation. The project, involving an investment of about Rs 100 crores, will create employment opportunities to 5,000 employees, the release said. These autos manufactured by M Auto Electric Mobility are equipped with GPS, CCTV cameras, panic button and tabs and can be used for various purposes. Most of the drivers will be women. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, Industries minister M C Sampath, senior ministers, officials, M Auto Electric Mobility chairman Mansoor Ali Khan and the company's managing director Yasmeen Jawahar participated in the launch event. During his trip which also included the UK and US, Palaniswami signed MoUs with 41 companies which committed an investment of Rs 8,835 crore totally. These projects would create new jobs for over 35,520 persons, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-flags-off-women-operated-solar-electric-autos-890951.html
21-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh High Court extends status quo on three capitals till October 5||The Andhra Pradesh high court has further extended its status quo orders barring the Jaganmohan Reddy government’s capital shift move till October 5. The two legislations which enable the setting up of three capitals in the state were notified after governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s assent, on July 31. But the Reddy government could not move forward because of the legal hurdle in the form of over 90 petitions from Amaravati’s local farmers, politicians, who are challenging the capital change on various grounds. Hearing these petitions, the court had first imposed the freeze orders on August 4, which were extended till September 21. The case would be now heard on October 5. The orders have restrained the government, which was keen to relocate the executive capital to Visakhapatnam and later the judiciary to Kurnool, leaving Amaravati as the only legislative capital. The Supreme Court had, last month, declined to examine the government’s special leave petition challenging the high court’s orders. On Monday, the high court, which is also reviewing a contempt petition alleging that the state was going ahead with the construction of a guest house near Visakhapatnam despite the restraint imposed, has reportedly allowed Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Nilam Sawhney one week time to file a counter-affidavit. However, in what came as a shot in the arm for Reddy, an affidavit filed earlier before the high court by the Central government asserted that it has no role in deciding the location of the capital of a state. The Ministry of Home Affairs has also declared that there is no statutory provision disallowing the state government from having more than one capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-high-court-extends-status-quo-on-three-capitals-till-october-5-890974.html
21-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt moves SC against HC's stay on probe into land scam and gag order against media||The Andhra Pradesh government has moved Supreme Court against the September 15 order by the High Court staying an FIR in a case of alleged corruption and illegal land transactions in shifting of the state capital to Amravati. The HC has also directed that news with regard to the registration of the said FIR should not be made public in any electronic, print, or social media. "In an unprecedented manner, the High Court has erroneously proceeded to hear the accused in a writ petition, which was filed even prior to the registration of the FIR on the apprehension of the accused," the state government said.  The state government, in its petition filed by advocate Mahfooz A Nazki, sought a stay on the HC's order, saying "the investigation process is at a nascent stage and the stay of the investigation may lead to the destruction of material documents, tampering of evidence and evasion of the investigation process". It said the HC's order, granting the blanket stay, was erroneous, illegal, perverse, and liable to be set aside as the accused persons did not enjoy any immunity or privilege.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-moves-sc-against-hcs-stay-on-probe-into-land-scam-and-gag-order-against-media-890978.html
21-09-2020||South||Referendum mooted to solve church power tussle in Kerala||Discussions over the tussle between two Christian factions in Kerala over rights of over 1,000 churches remained inconclusive with the faction that lost the case in the Supreme Court (SC) suggesting a referendum at each parish, while the other faction insisted on implementing the court's order. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday held talks with representatives of the Jacobite and Orthodox faction of Kerala Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church to find an amicable solution on rights over churches. After a long legal battle, the Supreme Court gave control of about 1,100 churches to the Orthodox faction in 2017. The Jacobite faction is not willing to handover the control of many churches under its control. The state has witnessed tensions at many churches with the members of the Jacobite faction, including bishops and priests, resisting handing over of control to the Orthodox faction. The chief minister held separate discussions with the representatives of the Jacobite and Orthodox factions to find an amicable solution. The Jacobite faction said that the sentiments and interests of the members of the parish need to be considered in a democratic manner before handing over control of the church to the Orthodox faction, and mooted a referendum. However, the representatives of the Orthodox faction wanted the court order to be implemented amicably and suggested that the Orthodox and Jacobite factions stand united as a single church. The Jacobite faction is learnt to have suggested to bring in legislations if required to settle the issue overcoming the SC order. Vijyan is likely to have more discussions with the factions before arriving at a decision on the sensitive matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/referendum-mooted-to-solve-church-power-tussle-in-kerala-890987.html
21-09-2020||South||Two drown as rains continue to lash in Kerala, heavy winds damage multiple homes||Two persons were killed in havocs caused due to rainfall at Kasargod in Kerala on Monday, while heavy winds caused extensive damages at many parts of the state. One person, identified as Sudhan, 50, died after falling in a waterlogged area at Hosdurg. Another person, identified as Chandrasekharan, 30, died at a pit at Madhur village. Several houses along with the coastal areas as well as at many parts of Manjeshwar, Bandadka, Kumbadaje were damaged in heavy winds in the morning. Meanwhile, at Adimali in Idukki district, seven, including women and children, were rescued after their boat capsized in a river. Local people and Fire and Rescue Service personnel carried out the operations. Orange alert was sounded at nine districts in the state on Monday. Heavy rains were forecast at many parts of the state on Tuesday also. Hundreds of families were shifted to safe locations from flood and landslide-prone areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-drown-as-rains-continue-to-lash-in-kerala-heavy-winds-damage-multiple-homes-891006.html
21-09-2020||South||Temple staff winner of Kerala Rs 12 crore Onam lottery||The winner of the Onam bumper lottery ticket of the Kerala government with prize money of Rs 12 crore was a temple staff hailing from the Idukki district. Though the result was announced on Sunday, the winner remained unidentified till late in the evening. Later it was known that it was Ananthu Vijayan hailing from Idukki won the lottery. He did not give much publicity owing to safety concerns and later handed over the ticket to a bank. Ananthu, who is 24, has been working as a clerk at a temple in Kochi and he hailed from a weak financial background. He used to take bumper tickets occasionally with expectations of addressing the financial crunches of a family comprising parents and two siblings. Over 40 lakh Onam bumper lottery tickets were sold out. The winning lottery ticket was sold by Tamilnadu native Alakaswami who used to work under a major lottery agency in Kochi. Ananthu will get around Rs. 7.5 crore after taxes and agent commission. The ticket price was 300.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temple-staff-winner-of-kerala-rs-12-crore-onam-lottery-891018.html
21-09-2020||South||NIA detains two for suspected extremist links in Kerala||Two persons were detained by the NIA at Thiruvananthapuram international airport on Monday in view of suspected extremist links and involvement in a blast case in Bengaluru. Both were being deported from Riyadh. The reports that the two were suspected to have links with the Bengaluru blast case were not confirmed. According to sources, Gul Navaz, a native of Uttar Pradesh, and Shuhail, who hails from Kannur in Kerala, were detained on their arrival by evening. Both, aged around 30, were returning after a jail term in Riyadh. The two were quizzed by the NIA at the airport and later detained. Gul Navaz was in Saudi Arabia since 2008 and was suspected to be involved in a hawala case registered by the NIA in Delhi in 2017 with regard to terror funding by Laskar-e-Taiba through Gulf countries. Suhail was wanted in a case pertaining to ISIS recruitment case in Kerala. The detention of two came close on the heels of NIA taking into custody three West Bengal natives with Al-Qaeda links from Kochi. The state intelligence wings had also stepped up vigil especially among the huge population of migrant workers in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-detains-two-for-suspected-extremist-links-in-kerala-891036.html
21-09-2020||South||Suspension of Opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha an attack on democracy, says Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday slammed the suspensionof eight opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha for protesting against the farm bills and said it was an attack on democracy. In the last six years, over 60,000 farmers had committed suicide and in 2019 alone, 10,281 farmers had ended their lives in the country, Vijayan said in aFacebook Post. "Through the two bills, an attempt is being made by the central government to push the lives of farmers into eternal misery", he said. In the name of doing away with middlemen, the farmers will be forced to become slaves of corporate farming, pushing the country into destruction, the Chief Minister alleged. Theattempts to stifle the voices being raised against this injustice,even in Parliament, is against all democratic values. The entire country needs to stand with farmers atthis juncture as their problems should be the country's priority, he said. The MPs were suspended on Monday, a day after the Upper House witnessed unprecedented unruly scenes by protesting opposition members during passage of the two bills, described as the biggest reform in agriculture by the government. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020 have already been passed by the Lok Sabha and will now go to the President for his assent before they are notified as laws. The Opposition, led by the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, had criticised the bills, saying they will not sign on the "death warrant" of farmers and demanded that they be sent to the Select Committee for scrutiny, while the ruling BJP had accused these parties of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/suspension-of-opposition-mps-in-rajya-sabha-an-attack-on-democracy-says-pinarayi-vijayan-891058.html
21-09-2020||State||Karnataka farmers demand dropping anti-farmer amendments, to launch overnight protest in Bengaluru||Thousands of farmers descended to Bengaluru on Monday morning protesting against the state government's proposed amendment to the Land Reforms Act, Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and Electricity Act in the ongoing monsoon session of the state legislature. Taking out a massive protest rally from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station to Vidhana Soudha, the farmers were stopped near Freedom Park by the police. Venting their ire against the state government and its anti-farmer policies, thousands of farmers sat on Sheshadri Road shouting slogans against the state government. The farmers will stage protest day and night till the completion of the state legislature's monsoon session. Addressing the farmers, Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha State President Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said that they will fight day and night till the government drops amendments to the Acts. “Both the state and central government are taking anti-agriculture and anti-farmer policies and we will continue our protest against such decisions,” he said. Adding further he reacted, “The proposed amendments at the behest of various corporate and multi-national companies will spell doom for the agrarian sector and farm community. Farmers will be deprived of their land and right for better price for their agricultural commodities. We appeal to the governments to drop these amendments in the interest of the farming community.” The All Karnataka Sugarcane Growers Association headed by Kurubur Shanthakumar has also participated in the protest rally. Chandrashekhar cautioned that all these years the successive governments kept assuring the farming community. “We will not go back with assurances this time and will not move away till our demands are met,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-farmers-demand-dropping-anti-farmer-amendments-to-launch-overnight-protest-in-bengaluru-890802.html
21-09-2020||State||MLA Duryodhan Aihole tests positive for Covid-19||Raibag MLA Duryodhan Aihole tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He said he was asymptomatic and was in home isolation in Bengaluru and urged those who have come in contact with him to get themselves tested as precautionary measure. Aihole said he would oversee development work in his constituency despite isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-duryodhan-aihole-tests-positive-for-covid-19-890821.html
21-09-2020||State||Congress MLA B K Sangamesh tests positive for Covid-19||Congress MLA B K Sangamesh and his wife have tested positive for coronavirus and been admitted to a private hospital here, the legislator said on Monday. "Me and my wife were found positive for coronavirus. We are asymptomatic but we rushed to Bengaluru and got ourselves admitted to the Manipal Hospital here," Sangamesh, representing Bhadravathi constituency, told PTI. They tested positive for the virus on Sunday, he said. Several legislators, including ministers, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-mla-b-k-sangamesh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-891014.html
21-09-2020||State||CUK to hold virtual convocation tomorrow||The fifth convocation of Central University of Karnataka will be held virtually on September 23 at 11 am and University Grants' Commission (UGC) Chairman D P Singh will deliver a convocation speech||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cuk-to-hold-virtual-convocation-tomorrow-891035.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government panel to analyse long-term effects of Covid-19||Amid reports of Covid-19 survivors coming down with post-recovery complications, the government said it will assemble a special technical committee of medical experts to examine the long-term effects of the disease. The announcement was made on Sunday by Minister for Medical Education Dr. K Sudhakar who tweeted, “We will evaluate those who had mild and severe symptoms special to people with comorbidities.” A health official who did not want to be named said rural districts have been reporting incidents of Covid-19 survivors reporting issues such as brain fog, fatigue, continued breathlessness and cardiac issues. However, data to determine the ratio of such cases within Covid-19 survivors is still in its infancy.  “The lack of data means the scale of the problem is unknown,” said Dr. C N Manjunath, nodal officer for testing in Karnataka.  Dr. Sudhakar told DH that the decision to start the committee was prompted by “countries across the world beginning to realise the importance of evaluating the long-term effects of the infection.” He cited the Vaccine Research Group of Mayo Clinic in the United States as having listed organs that may be affected by Covid-19 while raising concerns about the significant cellular damage the virus can cause. “Doctors in Chennai who have recovered have complained about chronic fatigue,” he said. “Experts will soon be identified for the committee. They will study the symptoms of patients who have recovered and help the medical community to improve the treatment further,” he added. Initial findings Dr. Satynarayan Mysore, in-charge of post-Covid care at Manipal Hospital and a member of the state’s Covid-19 Technical Committee, said that for every 100 Covid patients admitted at his centre, 70 return for a follow-up examination. This inflow has allowed doctors to build up a database on symptoms. “About 20% to 30% of cases are people with anxiety stemming from the stigma around the disease and fear about their acceptance back into communities. About 3% to 5% are people with blood clots and about 6% arelung fibrosis cases. Cardiomyopathy comprises less than 2%,” he said. The clinic has also seen cases with tremors, vitamin D deficiency because of having been indoors and even internal burns to the trachea and esophagus. “These are due to steam inhalation or the ingestion of boiling water after people try ill-advised self-help measures found on social media which, for example, advocate sipping on hot water to keep Covid at bay,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-panel-to-analyse-long-term-effects-of-covid-19-890590.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Verbal duel erupts between Narayana Gowda and BJP MLA Belli Prakash in Vidhana Soudha||Municipalities Minister K C Narayana Gowda and BJP’s Kadur legislator Belli Prakash “almost came to blows” at the Vidhana Soudha as the two had a verbal duel.  The development took place at the makeshift lounge on the first floor of the Vidhana Soudha, just before the start of the Assembly Session.  Those who witnessed the spat said Gowda and Prakash “almost came to blows” before legislators Satish Jarkiholi, K Annadani and others intervened to separate them.  According to sources, Prakash complained that Gowda was inaccessible. “Prakash got the chief minister to sign on a file pertaining to the Kadur constituency that was referred to Gowda for further action. But, Prakash complained that Gowda was dilly-dallying and gave excuses to say he was busy. This led to an argument between them,” a source said.  The incident also underlines the disgruntlement among ruling BJP MLAs over the style of functioning of some ministers. Gowda was with the JD(S) before he jumped ship to the BJP and became a minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/verbal-duel-erupts-between-narayana-gowda-and-bjp-mla-belli-prakash-in-vidhana-soudha-890795.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka rivers in spate as torrential rain continues||A majority of rivers in Karnataka are in spate due to torrential rains for the past few days inundating many villages, submerging houses, vehicles and destroying standing crops. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), all the dams are full to the brim due to the heavy downpour resulting in their floodgates being opened. "Opening the floodgates has led to flooding in the regions in the downstream. We have sounded an alert in many areas but still some villages will face the problem," said a KSNDMC official. According to the sources in the water resource department, Cauvery, Hemavathi, Kapila and Harangi rivers were flowing above the danger level. The sources also said the floodgates of the dams on these four rivers have been opened. "We have released 40,000 cusec water from the KRS today. We have alerted people in the downstream," an official in the Water Resource Department said. Similarly, rivers in north Karnataka and interior Karnataka are also wreaking havoc. The important dams there Bhadra, Tungabhadra, Ghataprabha, Malaprabha, Almatti and Narayanapura are full to the brim. The situation in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada district in coastal Karnataka remained grim, which is receiving heavy rains since Friday night. Udupi suffered the worst damage, with the rains leaving a trail of destruction in many taluks, resulting in losses amounting to crores of rupees. A team of NDRF personnel from Mangaluru reached Udupi on Sunday to assist in relief operations, as instructed by Dakshina Kannada district in-charge minister Kota Srinivas Poojary. Many areas in Udupi, including the 'Rajangana' at the Sri Krishna Mutt, shops and business establishments, parking areas and godowns were submerged in water. Road connectivity to different parts of the district were lost. Hundreds of people were evacuated from their houses in flooded areas by the NDRF personnel. The two rivers in the district, Swarna and Sitanadi, were flowing above danger levels, official sources said. A total of 31 relief camps were opened in the district. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha visited the affected areas and gave instructions into the personnel involved in rescue efforts. In Dakshina Kannada district, several houses and buildings were submerged and vehicular movement was disrupted in many parts due to the rains during the last two days. Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks received the highest rainfall in the district. Five relief camps were opened in the district and 1,250 people were shifted to safer places on Sunday, official sources said. The KSNDMC has informed that the rains will continue for the next two days and warned fishermen against venturing into the sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-rivers-in-spate-as-torrential-rain-continues-890800.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 clouds Karnataka Assembly session; members share virus travails||Shiny face shields, blue gloves, and a small bottle of hand sanitizer welcomed legislators at the Legislative Assembly on Monday when the monsoon session started amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The welcome kit comprising these three items was mandatory for legislators to use. More than 60 MLAs have been infected with Covid-19, because of which there was spare attendance in the Assembly hall. Glass shields attached to the seats separated the members, who were made to keep one seat vacant in between them. As per convention, obituary references were made to personalities from various walks of life who passed away in recent months. Invariably, this provided a platform for members to narrate their Covid-19 experiences. “Covid-19 is a dangerous disease,” said Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who recovered from the infection recently. “Those who haven’t been infected should keep it that way. Those who get it face social boycott,” he said, citing how he could not meet his wife and son when he was infected. Underlining the importance of wearing a mask, maintaining distance, and using hand sanitizer, Siddaramaiah pointed at his party colleague D K Shivakumar, who was infected with Covid-19 recently. “Look at Shivakumar. He’s become careful only after getting infected. Before that, he’d not care when we’d tell him to wear a mask,” Siddaramaiah said. Obituary references were made to 16 people, including former president Pranab Mukherjee, Sira MLA B Sathyanarayana, former union minister M V Rajashekharan, Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti, former MLA M J Appaji Gowda among others. “Every day, I pray to God that nobody should die of Covid-19,” BJP’s Araga Jnanendra said, remembering former Bhadravathi MLA Appaji Gowda. “I was infected with Covid-19 around the same time Gowda was. I knew him well. Those who knew him couldn’t even attend his funeral,” he said. The obituary motion also included a reference to the 20 Indian soldiers martyred at Gulwan valley, Covid-19 warriors and victims, and those who lost their life during the recent floods. Proceedings of the Assembly were adjourned post noon to mark the demise of Sira legislator B Sathyanarayana, who passed away in August. It will convene at 10 am on Tuesday. In the Legislative Council, leader of the House Kota Sreenivasa Poojary and Opposition leader SR Patil condoled the demise of BJP MP Ashok Gasti. Reflecting on the general sentiment on his unfortunate demise before Gasti could attend a single session as Rajya Sabha MP, Poojary recalled his days in BJP’s BC Morcha, working with Gasti. “It was indeed motivating to see a grassroots party worker elevated to the position of the MP,” both Patil and Poojary remarked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-clouds-karnataka-assembly-session-members-share-virus-travails-890970.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 7,339 Covid-19 cases; 9,925 patients recover||Karnataka reported 7,339 new Covid-19 cases and 122 deaths on Monday. With this, the active case count is 95,335 and death toll touched 8,145, excluding 19 who died due to non-Covid-19 reasons. Monday's 9,925 discharges took the total number of recoveries to more than 4.23 lakh.   The total number of positive cases are more than 5.26 lakh in the state now. As many as 809 patients are in the state's ICUs with 259 in Bengaluru alone.  There were 2,886 cases reported in Bengaluru taking the active cases to 41,072 and 32 deaths took the death toll to 2,690. Mysuru reported 524 cases, Shivamogga 348, Chitradurga 326 and Tumakuru 300. Twenty districts reported cases in triple digits. As on September 20, there were 5,03,570 patients in home isolation and 42,691 tests were done, out of which 11,154 were rapid antigen tests.  Test report online Covid War Room head Munish Moudgil said, "SRF ID is a 13 digit number shared only with the patient by ICMR, Government of India. Unless he or she shares with another, others can't access the result. No address is shown. Idea is to enable citizens to access, and privacy is practically protected." "Note that delay in admissions can cause deaths. Also, persons may lose jobs for not being able to produce their (negative) report," he said, stressing that the State War Room does not send SRF ID.  "Once you have it (SRF ID) and lab uploads report into the ICMR portal, then State War Room automatically downloads and makes the result available online on the portal for citizens to see his or her result by feeding SRF ID," he said. ASHA workers' stir ASHA Workers from various districts will assemble in Bengaluru on September 23. They are demanding a monthly honorarium of Rs 12,000. They also want regular health checkups for all ASHA workers including face masks, hand sanitisers and gloves. They are also demanding pending incentives and wages. They also want Rs 3,000 Covid-19 incentives to be deposited. Meena, an ASHA worker with Hesaraghatta PHC, was the eighth worker to die of Covid-19 on September 18. “ASHA workers have been doing home visits, collecting swab samples, screening travellers, putting them at great risk,” said D Nagalakshmi, president of Karnataka state ASHA workers' Union.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-7339-covid-19-cases-9925-patients-recover-890981.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rivers in spate as torrential rains lash parts of Karnataka||A majority of rivers in Karnataka are in spate following heavy downpour in the past few days while the situation remained grim in worst-hit Udupi district where floods waters were yet to recede despite some respite in rains on Monday, officials said. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), almost all the dams were full to the brim due to the heavy rains since Friday, prompting officials to open the floodgates. "Opening the floodgates has led to flooding in the regions in the downstream. We have sounded an alert in many areas but still some villages will face the problem," said a KSNDMC official. Water resource department sources said Cauvery, Hemavathi, Kapila and Harangi rivers were flowing above the danger level and water was being discharged from dams built across them. "We have released 40,000 cusec water from the KRS (Krishna Raja Sagar dam across Cauvery) today. We have alerted people in the downstream," an official in the Water Resource Department said. Similarly, rivers in north Karnataka and interior Karnataka are also flowing above danger level and important dams such as Bhadra, Tungabhadra, Ghataprabha, Malaprabha, Almatti and Narayanapura are full to the brim. Low-lying areas in Udupi battered by unprecedented rains in four decades continued to be flooded and rescue teams led by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel faced a tough time evacuating marooned people to safer places, a report from Mangaluru said. Life is slowly coming back to normal in parts of the district with the rains keeping away for most of the time on Monday. Many areas in Udupi town, including the 'Rajangana' at the Sri Krishna Mutt, shops and business establishments, parking areas and godowns were submerged in water, while road connectivity to different parts of the district had been lost. A landslide on Monday morning is posing grave danger to a premier residential and commercial enclave in Manipal in the district. The municipal authorities are taking urgent steps to vacate the people in the building, which has ten floors, official sources said. They said Udupi district, which suffered extensive damage in many taluks, had not witnessed such heavy rains in the last four decades. The two rivers in the district, Swarna and Sitanadi, were flowing above danger levels. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha visited the affected areas and gave instructions into the personnel involved in rescue efforts. A total of 31 relief camps had been opened in the district where the red alert continued as heavy rains are expected till Tuesday. In Dakshina Kannada district, several houses and buildings were submerged and vehicular movement was disrupted in many parts due to the rains during the last two days. Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks received the highest rainfall in the district, officials said. Five relief camps were opened in the district and 1,250 people were shifted to safer places on Sunday, official sources said. The KSNDMC has informed that the rains will continue for the next two days and warned fishermen against venturing into the sea. In Vijayapura district, nearly half a dozen villages have lost road connection due to the swollen Don River in Muddebihal taluk. Deputy Commissioner of the Vijayapura Suneel Kumar told reporters that more than 100 houses were damaged by heavy rain in different parts of district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rivers-in-spate-as-torrential-rains-lash-parts-of-karnataka-890998.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||More than 30,000 National Health Mission workers strike for higher salaries||As many as 30,053 National Health Mission (NHM) workers went on strike from Thursday demanding salaries on par with permanent staff of health department. Bengaluru has the highest number of NHM workers at 2,464 followed by Belagavi 1,737, Ballari 1,464, Hassan 1,404, and Kalaburagi 1,398. These five districts were the most affected because of the unavailability of services of MBBS doctors, specialists like anaesthetists, paediatricians, physicians and staff nurses among others like lab technicians, midwives and pharmacists. Billing counters of the district hospital in Tumakuru were crowded because of lack of staff. NHM Director Arundathi Chandrashekar issued a pre-emptive circular to the staff on Wednesday saying that strict action will be taken against those not attending work. Also, no leaves are to be granted to the contract workers and that Covid-19 related reports need to be submitted. But the staff continued with the strike. Dr Keshavraju G, Reproductive and Child Health Officer (RCHO), Tumakuru, said, "We have 24/7 services in taluk hospitals and primary health centres that is manned by staff nurses. In their absence, delivery and continuity of services becomes difficult. We have substituted them with field staff like junior health assistants for now. They are trained in midwifery. But we can manage for two days. This cannot be a long term arrangement. It takes time to substitute for all of their posts." The doctor said for a primary health centre to provide round-the-clock services, there are three staff nurses deployed, two of whom are from NHM. Now with only one permanent staff nurse remaining, the centre cannot run 24/7. In all, there are 48 PHCs in Tumakuru district that provide delivery assistance.  NHM staff at various levels comprise teams under programmes like Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram. "In Kunigal, Sira and Pavgada, we have an obstetrician, anaesthetist, and AYUSH doctors from NHM. Billing counters are also manned by data entry operators from NHM. Hence, in their absence, crowding will happen. In all, there are around 800 NHM workers in our district," he added.    Vishvaradya H Yamoji, President of Karnataka State Health and Medical Education Department Contractual and Outsourced Employees Association (KSHCOEA), said, "The NHM Director has directed to take action instead of addressing our demands. This shows the inhumane approach of the department. During Covid, the staff have dedicated themselves and worked on very low salaries, risking their families. Many of our employees have came in contracted Covid-19 and few of our employees have also sacrificed their lives. Such negligence is condemnable."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-than-30000-national-health-mission-workers-strike-for-higher-salaries-891039.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers oppose ordinances, take out massive rally||Hundreds of farmers descended on Bengaluru on Monday morning and protested against the state government’s proposed amendment to the Land Reforms Act, Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, and Electricity Act.  Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Harisu Sene leaders and workers took out a massive protest rally from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station to Vidhana Soudha. The protesters were stopped near Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna flyover by thepolice. Venting ire against the government and its ‘anti-farmer policies’, thousands of farmers sat on the flyover raising slogans against the government. The farmers decided to stage protest day and night till the completion of the monsoon session of the state legislature. Addressing the farmers, Rajya Raitha Sangha state president Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said that they will fight day and night till the government drops these amendments to the Acts. He said, “Both the state and the central government are taking anti-agriculture and anti-farmer policies and we will continue our protest against suchdecisions.”   “The proposed amendments, being made at the behest of various corporate and multinational companies, will spell doom for the agrarian sector and farmers’ community. The farmers will be deprived of their land and right for the better price for their agricultural commodities. We appeal to the governments to drop these amendments in the interest of the farming community,” he said.  Chandrashekhar cautioned that successive governments, all these years, have given only assurances to the farmers. “We will not go back with assurances this time. We will not move away till our demands are met,” he said. Thousands of farmers sat on the flyover and protested, Kodihalli Chandrashekar addressed them from the middle of the road.  Akhila Karnataka Sugarcane Growers’ Association, headed by Kurubur Shanthakumar, also participated in the protest rally. This was a huge protest, which led a traffic jam on Race Course Road, Sankey Road, Sheshadri Road, Nrupathunga Road, Majestic, Chalukya Circle, and surrounding areas, after six months. There were hardly any big protests ever since the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown.  Police diverted the traffic leading to Race Course Road. The people had to take longer routes to reach their destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-oppose-ordinances-take-out-massive-rally-891040.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CUK receives 70k applications for just 860 seats||The Central University of Karnataka has received around 70,000 applications seeking admission to a total of 860 seats in graduate and undergraduate courses for the academic year 2020-21. CUK Vice-Chancellor H M Maheshwaraiah told DH that CUK Rajasthan had received around 74,000 applications and thus CUK Kalaburagi stands second in the country in terms of number of applications received. The selection will be made through the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CU-CET). The varsity was established at Kadaganchi near Kalaburagi during 2009-10. The CUCET is a national level examination which is regulated by central universities jointly.  “The students who passed out of the CUK have given a good opinion about the varsity. It might have triggered a spike in the number of applications seeking admission in the varsity. The CUK has about 48% girl students from across the nation,” the VC explained. According to the statistics, the varsity had received only 131 applications for the Common Entrance Test held in 2009-10, and a total of 38 students got admitted. The number of applications rose to 2,832 in 2012-13 and 296 students had secured admission. Virtual convocation The fifth convocation of Central University of Karnataka will be held virtually on September 23 at 11 am and University Grants’ Commission (UGC) Chairman D P Singh will deliver a convocation speech||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cuk-receives-70k-applications-for-just-860-seats-891042.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 3,900 applications rejected under agriculture quota||As many as 3,916 applications for the admission to UG courses, through the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET), were rejected by the agriculture universities for faking documents to claim seats under the agriculture quota During the e-verification, the authorities found that over 3,900 candidates had submitted fake/false documents and promptly rejected the applications in the first-level itself. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government had decided to do away with the practical test (identification of agri-related specimens) to claim the seats under the agriculture quota. Instead, the Agri varsities carried out an e-verification of the documents.   According to the University of Agriculture Sciences (UAS) Bengaluru, “A total of 28,899 students had applied for seats under agriculture quota. Of which, 3,916 applications were rejected due to the submission of false/fake certificates, which include false affidavit claiming Agri quota, wards of government employees applying under the quota, and false income certificate. The report on the same has been submitted to Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) for further action,” said an official of UAS Bengaluru. This year, through KCET 2020, a total of 1,27,627 candidates have qualified for B.Sc Agri courses and 1,29,611 for BVSc (veterinary) courses. The total number of seats available for these courses is 3,000. “Of this, 40% of the seats have been reserved for students from an agriculture background, and the demand to claim the seat under this quota is high,” sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-3900-applications-rejected-under-agriculture-quota-891043.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Students demand refund, NLSIU to return half the fees||Several candidates, who appeared for the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT 2020) conducted the National Law School India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, have demanded the refund of the fee paid for the registration of the test. Launching a campaign on social media platforms soon after the Supreme Court's verdict quashing NLAT, the students have been asking the NLSIU to refund the fee. The university, later in the day, agreed to refund half of the fees.  Further, the online test conducted by the NLSIU also met with a lot of technical glitches and many candidates could not take up the test. Considering the complaints, the university conducted a re-test, which also ended up with technical glitches. As many as 27,000 students had registered for NLAT. Prafull Bharadwaj, an aspirant, tweeted, "There was a legitimate expectation of legality of this NLAT 2020 in the minds of aspirants. And hence, the aspirants paid. The act of NLSIU is not only illegal but contrary to their actions. It should refund the full amount paid by the aspirants." Another student, Shreya Verma wrote, "Thank you for giving us anxiety and lots of tension from 3rd September to till now but at least NLSIU give our Rs 150 back." According to students, the NLSIU had reportedly collected Rs 39,10,650 for conducting of NLAT 2020. A statement released by NLSIU said, "The university shall admit students based on the results of the CLAT-2020 and not based on NLAT 2020. The university will implement the judgment and orders of the Supreme Court in letter and spirit." On the refunding part, the NLSIU said, "We have begun working with our vendors to initiate refunds to all students. Students may expect refunds after a deduction of Rs 75 as application processing charges, to reach them in the next 9 to 14 working days." The university further reacted that following the apex court's judgment, the university, in consultation with its governing bodies, will take necessary steps to welcome a new batch of students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/students-demand-refund-nlsiu-to-return-half-the-fees-891046.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Thinkers’ forum seeks Bharat Ratna to Devaraj Urs||The Bengaluru-based Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Thinkers Forum-Karnataka has appealed to the prime minister to posthumously confer the Bharat Ratna on the former chief minister, late D Devaraj Urs. Hailing "Land to the tiller" clarion call of Urs as the tour-de-force in the history of Karnataka, the thinkers' forum stated that the historic Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, was the brainchild of Devaraj Urs and helped in addressing social inequality among the agricultural classes. Recalling his pro-people legislation and policies such as the abolition of bonded labour, redistribution of land to the landless, setting up of hostels for the underprivileged, and others, the forum pointed that present-day Electronics City had conceptual genesis during his tenure as the CM of Karnataka. The thinkers' forum includes a former judge of Supreme Court Justice V Gopala Gowda, former chairperson of Kannada Development Authority Baraguru Ramachandrappa, former advocate general of Karnataka Prof Ravi Varma Kumar, BS Shivanna, chairperson of the Thinkers Forum and several advocates of the high court and academicians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/thinkers-forum-seeks-bharat-ratna-to-devaraj-urs-891049.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka requests Centre to lift export ban on 'Bangalore Rose' onion||The Karnataka government on Monday requested the Centre to lift the ban on export of 'Bangalore Rose Onion' with immediate effect to benefit the large number of small and marginal farmers of the state. In a letter to Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, Minister for Horticulture and Sericulture Narayana Gowda requested the Centre to assign a separate Harmonised System (HS) code for Bangalore Rose Onion. "I would like to share with you that Bangalore Rose Onion is a unique GI product grown in Karnataka. This variety of onion is grown by the small and marginal farmers and only for export purpose with insignificant domestic market," Gowda said in his letter. He said any restriction on export of this variety of onion would directly affect the farmers and the exporters engaged in it and put them to hardship. The Centre has banned export of all types of onions to regulate the price and ensure hassle free supply of essential commodities in the market. The government, he said, also requested the Centre to assign a separate HS code for Bangalore Rose Onion to facilitate and promote the export of this variety, he said. "I wish to bring to your kind attention that during 2000 -2001, the Government of India assigned a separate HS code for Bangalore Rose onion. However, this was subsequently done away with," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-requests-centre-to-lift-export-ban-on-bangalore-rose-onion-891057.html
21-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Private schools ignore govt order, open campus to students||Despite the state government deciding against the Centre's order on allowing kids to visit schools, various schools across the state were open for 'consultation' with students on Monday. Further, in some of the schools, children had gathered on the premises in the morning waiting to meet teachers and discuss academic matters. Many children revealed that they were not aware of the government's order restricting the visit until the end of September. In some schools, classes were held for those who came up with doubts about the academic syllabus. But a majority of the schools failed to maintain physical distance and other safety measures that need to be followed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The state government issued an order towards the last minute and we were well prepared to hold consultations. Also, as it was late to reach out to the students to communicate about the order, some of the students had come to the school and we were also compelled to discuss with them," a principal of a private school in Bengaluru said. The government's decision to defer students' voluntary visits to the schools until the end of September is strongly criticised by the private school management association. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said, "The government has continued with its Vidyagama program. But it is restricting kids from consulting teachers in private schools. This explains the actual intention of the state government. The department is trying to attract students from private schools to government schools by misleading them." He further added, "We were well prepared to welcome students and had even spent thousands of rupees on the sanitisation of the campuses."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/private-schools-ignore-govt-order-open-campus-to-students-891076.html
21-09-2020||West||12 killed, many feared trapped as 3-storey building collapses in Bhiwandi||At least 12 persons died when part of a three-storey building collapsed in Bhiwandi in Thane district near Mumbai in the wee hours of Mumbai. The financial capital of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region have been receiving rainfall over the last few days. The Jilani building located in the Patel compound collapsed at 3.45 in the morning. The crash site is located in Narpoli in Dhamankar Naka of Bhiwandi area, nearly 60 kms off downtown Mumbai  At least 20 to 25 families occupied the building that was built more than 30 years ago. Teams of Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation, National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force are continuing with the rescue and relief operations.  Teams of Thane police and Thane Municipal Corporation are also present. More than 40 people have been pulled out of the debris, including a child and some senior citizens. A dozen are still feared trapped in the rubbles and the operations are expected to continue overnight. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and state’s Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde visited the spot and oversaw the operations. “The government has decided to extend an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the kin of the deceased and free treatment to the injured,” he said. The teams are taking help of a canine squad and high-tech cameras to search the victims. JCB machines too have been deployed. However, because of narrow lanes and bylanes, it appears to be a difficult task. Gas cutters were to cut off the iron mesh and take the concrete out – so that people could be rescued. “The rescue and relief operations were being undertaken in full swing,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said. Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Commissioner Dr Pankaj Ashiya said that the building was in the ist of 'dangerous buildings' and notice was issued by the civic body to vacate it. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of people in the building collapse. "The loss of lives in the building collapse at Bhiwandi, Maharashtra is quite distressing. In this hour of grief, my thoughts and prayers are with the accident victims. I wish speedy recovery of the injured. Local authorities are coordinating rescue and relief efforts,” Kovind said. “Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” said Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-killed-many-feared-trapped-as-3-storey-building-collapses-in-bhiwandi-890616.html
21-09-2020||West||Maharashtra rations oxygen to meet Covid-19 demand, doctors up in arms||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, a major controversy has erupted in Maharashtra over the Maha Vikas Aghadi government's move to ration oxygen in wards and ICUs. Professional doctors’ bodies like the Indian Medical Association’s Maharashtra chapter are up in arms against the Uddhav Thackeray government’s circular, that came last week. The state government issued the order in the wake of very high consumption of oxygen – more than three times the national average. According to the order issued by Principal Secretary (Health) Dr Pradeep Vyas, oxygen consumption in wards should not be more than 7 litres per minute in wards and 12 litres per minute in ICUs. “Please do a consumption audit of oxygen in private hospitals calculating 7 liters per minute for patients in wards and 12 liters per minute for ICU patients and ensure that no medical oxygen is wasted due to leaks etc,” said the order issued to district collectors, municipal commissioners, district civil surgeons, district health officers and executive health officers of municipal corporations. “We condemn the unscientific restriction of using oxygen at 7 liters per minute for oxygen beds and 12 liters per minute for ICUs,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, President, IMA-Maharashtra. The government in its order said that oxygen consumption in the state is being monitored regularly and it has been noticed that it has crossed 600 MT per day and is growing at a very rapid rate. “The consumption is not commensurate with the reported number of patients needing oxygen. There is a gross mismatch in private and municipal hospitals,” Dr Vyas said, adding that it was clear that oxygen was not being used judiciously. He, however, had pointed out that the oxygen production is much more than what we are consuming but there is a risk of the stocks getting exhausted at this rate.  “There is a tendency in private hospitals to put patients on oxygen for duration more than necessary for commercial reasons. We need to monitor such activities scrupulously,” he said in the strongly-worded note. Explaining the issue further and the objections, Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra, said: “There cannot be rationing of Oxygen. The need would vary from person to person…you cannot decide on an average, it is on a need to need basis, case to case basis and it may vary from case to case, whether in Oxygen beds or ICUs…it is given as per doctor’s knowledge and experience…the government has taken an unscientific approach.” Dr Pingle said that since the beginning of the Covid-19 crisis, the doctors have been at the receiving end. “If anything happens to the patients, doctors are beaten up,” he said. “It’s yet another direct battering on the professional autonomy of clinicians. It is an attempt without a thought to cover up bad governance of supply of oxygen by unprofessional and unethical notification. The curb on Oxygen use is unprincipled. It is an unwarranted question on clinical acumen of doctors,” said a note issued by Dr Bhondwe and Dr. Pankaj Bandarkar, Honorary State Secretary, IMA-Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rations-oxygen-to-meet-covid-19-demand-doctors-up-in-arms-890731.html
21-09-2020||West||MNS leaders board suburban trains to protest curbs||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leaders on Monday travelled in local trains, currently available only for essential services staff, as part of a protest to demand that the services be made available for common citizens also. The Raj Thackeray-led party undertook the savinay kaydebhang (civil disobedience) protest after its repeated demands to allow the general public to travel in local trains in Mumbai and suburbs. Common citizens have not been allowed so far to travel in suburban trains given the Covid-19 outbreak. At present, only certain sections, including the essential services staff and government employees, are allowed to travel in local trains. MNS general secretary Sandeep Deshpande in a video message said the Maharashtra government has allowed common people to travel by state transport (ST) buses to reach their work places, but not in local trains, which is "ironical". "We requested the government several times to allow common people to travel in local trains as they face hardships while travelling in ST buses which consumes a lot of their time," he said in the video clip, in which he could be seen travelling in a local train with some other party leaders. The government must be thinking that coronavirus does not spread in buses, but in local trains, Deshmukh quipped. "Hence, we staged the protest by travelling in local trains," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mns-leaders-board-suburban-trains-to-protest-curbs-890755.html
21-09-2020||West||Didn't make illegal alterations in my bungalow, Kangana Ranaut tells Bombay HC||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday denied the Mumbai civic body's claim in the Bombay High Court that she had made illegal structural alterations at her Pali Hill bungalow, part of which was demolished on September 9. In a rejoinder affidavit filed in response to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) reply to her plea, Ranaut stated she didn't make any structural changes or repairs illegally. She also denied that her plea seeking that the demolition be declared illegal and that she be paid Rs 2 crore in damage by the BMC, was an abuse of the process of law. "I deny that I have carried out unlawful additions and alterations as alleged or at all," the affidavit said. Last week, the BMC, through its counsel Joel Carlos, had filed an affidavit before a bench led by Justice SJ Kathawalla, responding to Ranaut's petition. The civic body had said the actress had made major structural changes to the building without the civic body's permission. It had said BMC officials were merely following the rule of law in razing these alterations on September 9. The civic body had urged the high court to dismiss Ranaut's plea and impose a cost upon her for filing the petition, which it said was an "abuse" of the process of law. In her rejoinder affidavit, Ranaut said the civic body had abused the statutory process by initiating the demolition of a part of her property without giving her adequate notice. She had said earlier that the BMC had given her only 24 hours to respond to the demolition notice and had hurriedly rejected her reply to its notice. Ranaut further said the BMC acted out of bias against her as on September 9, it had also issued a notice to fashion designer Manish Malhotra over alleged illegal alterations at his property adjacent to her bungalow. However, Malhotra was given seven days to respond, she stated. "While the Respondent No. 1 (BMC) and its officials, malafidely issued me the Impugned Notice to seek personal vendetta, they, on the contrary on the same day, issued a Notice to an adjacent bungalow occupied by the famous fashion designer, Manish Malhotra giving him 7 days' time to provide explanation," Ranaut stated. "This conduct of the Respondent No.1 and its officials clearly demonstrates bias and further displays that the Impugned Notice issued to me is vitiated by malice and was issued as a counterblast to the statements made by me," she said. The actress had previously alleged the BMC had carried out the demolition because she had made some comments that were adverse to the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra. On September 9, the bench led by Justice Kathawalla had stayed the razing and remarked that the civic body's action seemed malafide. The HC is likely to conduct a final hearing on Ranaut's plea on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/didnt-make-illegal-alterations-in-my-bungalow-kangana-ranaut-tells-bombay-hc-890868.html
21-09-2020||West||Gujarat CM talks religion, sanskar at UPSC training centre event||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has said a UPSC training centre set up by the Gujarat University and Jain International Organisation (JIO) will help train administrators who know about the "Upanishad" (religious texts), needed to make people "sanskari", as well as about "upagraha" (satellites). He was speaking at an e-function on Saturday to inaugurate the 'Pragya Peetham-GU and JIO Shodhan UPSC Training Centre', which will have 200 candidates in the first batch. "To create good administrators, this UPSC training centre will provide great opportunities to the youth. Like what Bhupendrasinh (Chudasama, state education minister) said, blessing of the saints is not just for personal career (enhancement) but to also offer administration with kindness, compassion, sympathy, culture, and tradition for betterment of people," he said. "Like it is said, from the Upanishad to Upagraha (satellite).... we have to launch satellites and also teach the Upanishad to make people sanskari (virtuous)," Rupani said, adding the centre will help create administrators for "new India", giving opportunity to youth irrespective of caste, creed, religion. "This centre will help realise PM Modi's vision of new India, 'atmanirbhar' India, and help establish Ram Rajya. When such a country will require administrators, people of Gujarat will join the UPSC cadre and become IAS, IPS, IRS (officers)," he said. State Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said when officers, who are required to implement government policies, "get proper training in a religious environment", they are better able to understand the plight faced by people while implementing them. "When a religious organisation comes together with a university to train administrators, we will get sanskari officers," he said. The centre will train UPSC aspirants from across the state, and also has hostel facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-talks-religion-sanskar-at-upsc-training-centre-event-890893.html
21-09-2020||West||Covid-19: BMC ropes in 35 doctors, experts to mentor jumbo field hospitals||Thirty-five doctors and experts from Mumbai’s top private hospitals have joined forces with the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation and would mentor the jumbo field hospitals meant to combat Covid-19 in India’s financial capital of Mumbai. The specialist doctors are from private hospitals including Breach Candy Hospital, Lilavati Hospital, Hinduja Hospital, Bombay Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Nanavati Hospital. “Our jumbo hospitals have started working under mentorship of eminent and expert doctors from various private hospitals,” Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Monday. “I am really grateful to 35 such top doctors from these hospitals who will guide our doctors at Jumbo hospitals for patient treatment through telephonic medical guidance and occasional visits, to reassure our jumbo hospital patients,” he said. Chahal said that in the last 31 days, from 20 August-20 September, average Covid-19 death rate under BMC for these 31 days has come down to 2.2% and overall Covid-19 death rate has consequently fallen from 5.4% to 4.6%. According to him, the BMC has started monitoring the weekly mortality rate every Monday morning with all the public and private hospitals and this has resulted in a drastic fall in the mortality rate. “We are striving to bring the average mortality rate per day further down in the next 30 days. Besides this, due to our enhanced testing, even though the number of cases have increased from an average of 1,000 per day to approximately 2,000 per day, but still we have 4,777 Covid beds and 271 ICU beds vacant as on Sunday, ensuring smooth patient management through our 24 ward war rooms,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bmc-ropes-in-35-doctors-experts-to-mentor-jumbo-field-hospitals-890899.html
21-09-2020||West||Pakistan apprehended 49 fishermen off Gujarat coast on September 15: CM Vijay Rupani||The Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) had apprehended 49 fishermen and seized eight boats off the Gujarat coast on September 15, the state government told the Legislative Assembly on Monday. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told the House that the fishermen were apprehended by the PMSA near the International Maritime Boundary Line. He said six of the eight boats were from Porbandar while the remaining two were from Gir Somnath district. Such incidents have been happening at regular intervals as the maritime boundary is notional - not visible- in the sea, he said. Rupani, who handles Home portfolio, was responding to a query raised by senior Congress MLA Punja Vansh regarding the incident. Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja said the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) regularly issues warnings to fishermen if they go near the IMBL in search of a better catch. Based on reports of the ICG, the state Fisheries department suspends boat operating licences of erring fishermen found guilty of venturing into No Fishing Zone in the Arabian Sea after crossing IMBL, he said. The state government provides a subsidy of Rs 20,000 to fishermen for installing GPS system in their boats, Jadeja said. He said GPS system has been fitted in 5,000 of about 30,000 fishing boats registered in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pakistan-apprehended-49-fishermen-off-gujarat-coast-on-september-15-cm-vijay-rupani-890928.html
21-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Doctor held in Shirdi for molesting 12-year-old girl||A doctor was arrested on Monday for allegedly molesting a 12-year-old girl at a hospital in Shirdi in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district, police said. Dr Vasant Tambe committed the offence in the early hours of September 19 when the girl was brought to the hospital with respiratory problems, said Deputy Superintendent of Police Somnath Wakchoure. "He sent the child's father to get medicines and then molested the child. We arrested him today and have charged him under provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and section 354 of IPC. He has been remanded in police custody for two days," Wakchoure added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-doctor-held-in-shirdi-for-molesting-12-year-old-girl-890959.html
21-09-2020||West||Maharashtra hospitals discharge over a lakh Covid-19 patients in 5 days||As Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra continue to compound, over one lakh patients were treated and discharged in a matter of only five days in the state. On Monday, a record-high of 32,007 patients were treated – taking the total number of discharged patients to 9,16,348. Between Thursday to Monday, the total patients discharged spiked to 1,20,787. The total progressive cases in Maharashtra now stands at 12,24,380 – while the number of active patients are 2,74,623. The numbers are expected to cross the 10-lakh mark in three to four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-hospitals-discharge-over-a-lakh-covid-19-patients-in-5-days-890985.html
21-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Narcotics Control Bureau told to file reply on bail plea||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the Narcotics Control Bureau to file its reply to a bail plea filed by Zaid Vilatra, one of those arrested by the central agency in a drugs case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A single bench presided over by Justice Revati Mohite-Dere accepted the NCB counsel Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh's request for a week to file the reply and directed the agency to file it by September 30. Vilatra (20), a resident of Bandra area in the metropolis, was arrested by NCB in connection with the ongoing probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Vilatra moved the Bombay High Court on September 12 seeking bail after it was rejected by the sessions court on September 9. In his plea filed through advocate Taraq Sayed, Vilatra said he was "innocent" and had been "framed in the case". Vilatra was arrested on September 4on the basis of information NCB received from Bandra resident Abbas Ali Lakhani, and his alleged drug supplier Karn Arora. Both Arora and Lakhani were arrested by the NCB in the case in August. In the sessions court, NCB claimed to have recovered Rs 9.55 lakh, as well as some foreign currency, including USD 2,081, from Vilatra. The agency said Vilatra had stated the seized amounts were sale proceeds from supply of marijuana to many persons. However, in his plea in HC, Vilatra said the contraband recovered from Lakhani and Arora was very small in quantity. "There is absolutely no nexus between the Applicant (Vilatra) and any contraband of commercial quantity," the plea read. He also said he had been booked for a bailable offence and yet the sessions court rejected his bail plea. And the stringent conditions imposed on granting bail under the Act cannot be applicable in his case considering the small, non commercial quantity of contraband recovered from Arora and Lakhani, he said in the plea. "According to the case of the prosecution, the Applicant was arrested on the basis of statements of two persons Abbas Ramzan Ali and Karn Arora who were both allegedly found in possession of total of 69 grams of Ganja which is small quantity," his plea read||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-narcotics-control-bureau-told-to-file-reply-on-bail-plea-891003.html
21-09-2020||West||Raj Thackeray fined Rs 1,000 for not wearing mask aboard ferry||MNS chief Raj Thackeray was fined Rs 1,000 for not wearing a face mask aboard a boat to Mandwa jetty in adjoining Raigad district, sources said on Monday. The incident happened on Friday when Thackeray, along with some family members and friends, was on board the Mumbai-Mandva RoRo boat. Officials on the boat pointed out that he had flouted the Covid-19 norms mandating wearing of mask in public, after which he paid the Rs 1,000 fine, the sources said. The roll on-roll off (RoRo)-cum-passenger ferry service between Mumbai and Mandwa near Alibaug, allowing passengers to board along with their vehicles, was launched in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-thackeray-fined-rs-1000-for-not-wearing-mask-aboard-ferry-891053.html
