22-09-2020||Comment||Parliament’s loss, people’s loss||The President of India summoned Parliament on September 1 for its monsoon session from September 14, thereby not allowing for the Question Hour of Parliament, which requires a 15-day notice for the questions to be asked. While the measure has been taken citing the Covid-19 pandemic, several questions have been raised on its implications for parliamentary democracy and the system of checks and balances within the Indian Constitution. Question Hour is the time during which parliamentarians can ask the ministers of the government questions to hold them accountable. Questions can be on any aspect of the functioning or plan of a ministry, except secret matters or matters that are sub-judice. Generally, the allotted time for Question Hour used to be 11 am–12 noon, which was changed in 2014 to 12 noon–1 pm for the Rajya Sabha to avoid disruptions. Three types of questions can be asked – starred, unstarred and short-notice questions. A starred question is asked by an MP and responded to verbally by the minister concerned. These questions have to be submitted 15 days in advance and only 15 starred questions, picked through ballot, are answered. Two supplementary questions can be asked on a question, subject to the discretion of the Speaker/Chairman, by three more MPs. An unstarred question receives a written reply from the ministry concerned and it too has to be submitted 15 days in advance. Short-notice questions are questions of urgent public importance and do not require a 15-day notice. These are admitted at the discretion of the Speaker/Chairman. It is noteworthy that in the last three years, only 10 short-notice questions have been asked in the Rajya Sabha. While Question Hour seems simple, its importance cannot be emphasised enough. It has major political ramifications. The Mundhra Scandal, India’s first major financial scam, was revealed during Question Hour in 1957 and led to the resignation of the then finance minister and shook the Nehru government. Question Hour holds one of the keys to parliamentary democracy in the country and has often led to the formation of commissions, parliamentary enquiries or enactment of new legislation. Question Hour also helps the government to gauge the mood of the nation through the MPs, who are representatives of the people. Checks and Balances The Constitution envisages a system of checks and balances for better administration of our democracy. In this regard, a check on the executive is considered the most important aspect of our parliamentary democracy. The typical executive, comprising the bureaucracy, is checked by the political executive, who we typically understand as the government or the elected representatives. The political executive has a dual role – it forms part of the executive as well as that of the legislature. The legislature, in the present case Parliament, through its various in-house mechanisms, is empowered to keep a check on the political executive who, in turn, checks the bureaucracy. In the absence of Question Hour, the government can come to Parliament and pass any Bill and there will be no mechanism to hold the government accountable by focusing public attention on issues of legislation and governance through MPs’ questions. This undermines the principles of parliamentary democracy, which is held to be a part of the basic structure of the Constitution by the Supreme Court in the monumental case of Keshavananda Bharti vs State of Kerala. A check on the government also assumes significance during this Covid-19 pandemic, which has witnessed a higher degree of executive control over the State and on our lives than in normal times. Under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, the central government has been issuing instructions to the states and supervising affairs. There has also been a lot of questions on how the central government has been handling the pandemic, especially given the migrant labourers’ crisis and the shrinking economy. It is important to prevent the executive from acting with impunity. Question Hour would have served as an effective check and highlighted these aspects in detail to general public and also Parliament’s power to hold the central government collectively responsible and accountable to it. Under the system of collective responsibility, the central government is collectively responsible to Parliament for all the actions it undertakes. Thus, doing away with Question Hour reduces a significant level of checks – the constitutionally envisaged check of the Parliament and of general public pressure on the executive – which are necessary for a healthy democracy. In such a scenario, the judiciary is the only check mechanism, but the judiciary is also bound by the principle of separation of powers and some checks can be performed only by Parliament. One such role is ensuring the system of parliamentary checks, which can only be done by Parliament and by no other institution of our democracy. On the first day of the monsoon session, it was revealed by the government that it has no data on the deaths of migrant workers who were subjected to immense difficulties for months by the government’s own decision-making during the pandemic and millions of whom chose to walk hundreds of miles back home to their villages. That the government had no data on this matter was not in the public domain before the start of the parliamentary session, and it would not have come to light but for it. This is illustrative of the checking role that the Parliament performs. Had there been the usual Question Hour, it would have proved more revealing to the public on how the executive is functioning. While Covid-19 has forced people, institutions and governments to innovate and adapt to new ways of doing things, it is essential that some much cherished principles, more so of something as foundational as parliamentary democracy, be preserved and treated as non-negotiable. Such a situation makes the role of MPs to keep a check on the government even more important than before. In fact, the present situation calls for a greater participation of the legislature in matters of governance so as to mitigate the executive’s shortcomings, rather than the weakening of the processes of checks and balances that we are seeing now. (The writer is a student at the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/parliament-s-loss-people-s-loss-891112.html
22-09-2020||First Edit||Agri bills: Farmers need stronger safeguards||The bills on agriculture and farm trade passed by Parliament amidst strong opposition by many parties are intended to reform the agriculture sector but have evoked widespread protests from the very farmers who are being told they will benefit from them. The bills enable far-reaching changes, mainly relating to the marketing and trade of farm produce. They seek to create a common market for farm produce, apparently reduce the importance of the marketing system based on Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC), facilitate contract farming in a major way and lift stockholding restrictions. The minimum support price (MSP) mechanism for major farm produce and procurement by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) served to stabilise the prices of farm produce for many years. There is fear that these stabilising influences are in danger now.  The government has said that the apprehensions are misplaced as the APMCs and MSP will continue. It has said that farmers will have more freedom and choice than before. But no consultations have been done on the matter with farmers. There are complaints that the new system is violative of the federal spirit. States have also not been consulted on the new laws although agriculture is a state subject and the trade at APMCs is a key source of revenue for them. Any agency, including corporates, can now buy any amount of produce from farmers, unconstrained by stockholding regulations. Small farmers worry that they may be exploited in the new scheme, especially if the APMC and MSP system becomes weak. A new corporate culture and practices associated with it may come to dominate agriculture and farm trade, and farmers may have to submit to price manipulation and other pressures, and whatever autonomy they have now may suffer. The government’s assurances on these matters have not reassured the farmers.   The laws are intended to modernise farming and the farm market. But ‘reforms’ and ‘modernisation’ are often mere codewords for corporatisation of a sector. While the laws are being sold to the nation as born of a commitment to free markets, there can be no free market when commerce is between unequal parties, such as it would be between big corporates and their buying power and the small and marginal farmers, who dominate India’s farm landscape, and their need to quickly sell their perishable produce. Farmers will gain from competition and choice only if the entry of corporate interests and practices goes hand in hand with a strengthening of the APMC system and farmers’ cooperatives. It is not late even now for the government and Parliament to incorporate into the new laws stronger safeguards against exploitation of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/agri-bills-farmers-need-stronger-safeguards-891111.html
22-09-2020||First Edit||Unsavoury scenes in Rajya Sabha||Much of the responsibility for the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday related to the passage of two farm bills, the suspension of eight members and their dharna outside the House rests with Deputy Chairman Harivansh, whose decisions were questioned by the Opposition. He also went on a fast on Tuesday in protest against the “humiliating conduct’’ of the members towards him. He rejected the demand for a division on the bills and declared them as having been passed after a voice vote. According to the rules, a division is required to be carried out even if there is a demand from only one member of the House. It has been claimed that the demands for division were not allowed because they were made when there was an uproar and that they were not made by members from their seats. These are untenable excuses. The government's hurry to declare the bills as passed was obvious.  A number of opposition parties had opposed the bills and brought in amendments. There was a demand that the bills should be referred to a select committee. There were claims on both the Opposition as well as the government side that they had enough support in the House. But then, even some NDA allies, such as Akali Dal, have opposed these bills. Some of them could also have wanted them to be referred to a select committee. The opposition parties have contended that the deputy chairman was partisan and acted in a manner that ensured the quick passage of the bills. The ruckus in the House was cited as the reason for not allowing a division. But the House could very well have been adjourned for the next day. However, the acts of some Opposition members in tearing off the bills and breaking the mics cannot be supported either. The Opposition has also charged that instances of high-handed and arrogant behaviour of the government and the ruling party in Parliament are increasing. This often evokes wrong and unparliamentary conduct from the opposition parties, too. Respect for the Opposition and building consensus is essential for the successful working of parliamentary democracy. The Rajya Sabha, which is the House of Elders and is therefore considered to be more mature, had most often displayed the spirit of consensus. Differences and confrontations have often been resolved through negotiations and deliberations there. It is therefore unfortunate that there were such disorderly scenes, suspension of members, and protests by them outside the House. The process is as important as the outcome in the functioning of Parliament. Already, the session has been deprived of Question Hour. It is wrong to deny the Opposition their legitimate rights, and to force them out when they protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/unsavoury-scenes-in-rajya-sabha-891585.html
22-09-2020||In Perspective||The myth of Western superiority||As the November US presidential elections approach, there is a sense of foreboding that nothing is going right for a nation that has taken its global leadership position seriously for more than a century now. For a purported example of liberal democracy, there are questions if the election verdict delivered in November would even be respected. There is fear of violence which is charging up an already intense polarisation. Washington’s response to Covid-19 pandemic has been so haphazard that no one is even looking at the US for answers. Early reports in January of an outbreak of an unfamiliar virus in Wuhan morphed into a full-blown global pandemic by the end of February. In the absence of an effective medical response, the only available option was to shut down the entire economy. As a consequence, today the US is reeling under an unemployment crisis with numbers that match those of the Great Depression. There are concerns that as many as 100,000 small US businesses are likely to go bust. The US-China trade and technology conflict is fast becoming the fundamental faultline in global politics, with no real prospect of a reconciliation. The self-professed image constructed by the US of itself as a global leader stands tarnished beyond recognition as the devastation caused by the coronavirus still continues unabated, with no sign that the political system is able to contain the damage. This crisis has exposed the weak underbelly of the US as the country’s weak welfare state and shambolic policy response have only exacerbated the current crisis. Around 43% of people live in the US without any type of health insurance or with minimal protection from the government’s Medicare or Medicaid programmes and this crisis has been wreaking havoc on them. And even as this crisis was brewing, racial tensions got ignited in America by an ugly incident of police brutality. The killing of George Floyd, a 46-year-old African-American man, at the hands of the Minneapolis police in May, sparked a furious backlash from all sections of American society, leading to protests, violence, rioting and police crackdowns. For a nation that has often lectured the rest of the world on governance and human rights, America has been found wanting at a time of grave national crisis. The protests in the US, which continue even today, have further polarised America as violent reprisals against the police have increased. The political leadership in America is not interested in healing, in unifying and bringing the country together. These are election times and pandering to their respective vote banks has meant that US President Donald Trump is trying to project it as a law and order issue even as his own rhetoric towards his political opponents has been incendiary, like saying that “the only good democrat is a dead democrat.” The legitimacy of American institutions is at an all-time low. The protests are fuelled by anger at other recent deaths of minorities due to police brutality, and at the disproportionate effects of the coronavirus pandemic on African-Americans. The issue of race sits at the very heart of American society and polity, and for a nation that has often been contemptuous of other nations, such as India, when it comes to how they manage their internal dissonance, today America finds that its internal lack of cohesion has no real short-term quick fix. The consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, growing socio-economic disparities, surging nationalism and racial tensions are a potent mix that will shape the trajectory of the US in ways that few can comprehend today. Many observing this are talking about the end of American supremacy in global affairs. That may or may not come true. The US has immense internal capacity to regenerate itself, as it has shown in the past. But what the present moment in American politics has done is to shatter this idea that America is somehow superior in managing its internal turmoil. Compared to the US, India is a young nation. It is a democracy that manages to survive despite internal contradictions and faultlines. Yet, Western elites have never been shy of bemoaning the challenges India faces as it seeks to construct a modern nation-state. More recently, whether it is the Citizenship Amendment Act or the issue of minorities, there has been a tendency to hector India to follow what is believed to be a superior Western model. Today, as that superiority myth gets shattered, India can provide an alternative model, one which is more organic and rooted in Indian values. America is likely to become even more polarised and its polity even more contested in the short to medium term. It is time perhaps for India to provide the US a piece of advice or two on how to manage its internal dysfunctionalities. For many in India, criticism of India’s internal matters by the US is a great sign that it is India that needs to change track. An article in a Western media outlet is taken as a sign that something is definitely wrong in the way India manages its business. But it is time now to be more self-confident about India’s achievements and to ignore gratuitous interference in its domestic matters with the contempt it deserves. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-myth-of-western-superiority-891113.html
22-09-2020||In Perspective||Transforming Andaman & Nicobar Islands||In August, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 2,312-km submarine optical fibre cable project between Chennai and Port Blair, which put the far flung and usually tranquil Andaman & Nicobar Islands (ANI) under media glare. This project will bring ANI closer to mainland India digitally and promote e-governance, tourism, fisheries, the blue economy, and maritime logistics. Speaking on the occasion, Modi said that a maritime hub would be set up in the islands. The government is working on a Rs 10,000 crore trans-shipment port at South Bay in the Great Nicobar Island (GNI), the southern-most island of the group, which lies approximately halfway between Colombo and Singapore along the east-west maritime route. When completed, it could emerge as a viable alternative to Colombo where some 70% of Indian containers are trans-shipped, that too by Chinese companies, which besides causing loss of revenue is also a security risk. Hopefully, bunkering and ship repair facilities would also be set up on GNI, which could undercut the importance of the China-leased Hambantota port in Sri Lanka in the long run. New Delhi is well aware that India’s economy and security are both linked to the seas. The strategic salience of these islands have increased tremendously since the Chinese surge into the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) began over a decade ago through the so-called ‘String of Pearls’ strategy, anti-piracy patrols, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and the increasing Chinese submarine deployments in IOR in recent years. The development of ANI would act as the lynchpin for India’s east-ward push in terms of ‘Act East’ policy, the ‘Indo-Pacific’ policy and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad with the US, Japan and Australia. The ANI stretch for about 1,000 km in the north-south direction, with the northern-most island of the group, Landfall Island, being some 643 km from the port of Kyaukphu in Myanmar, which is the hub for the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor (CMEC). The islands dominate the Sea Lines of Communication (SLOC) along the ‘Ten and Six Degree Channels’ which funnel into the choke point of Malacca Straits, through which at least 70,000 ships transit annually. About 80% of China’s crude oil imports passes through these straits, which is a serious vulnerability and has been termed as China’s ‘Malacca dilemma’. The Indira Point on GNI, the southern-most tip of the islands, is only 90 nautical miles from Aceh in Sumatra. A few years ago, Indonesia agreed to give India access to Sabang in Aceh for development of maritime infrastructure. Thus, India will eventually dominate both sides of the Malacca Straits. With the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea emerging as an important strategic space, it is clear that India’s only tri-Service Command, the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), established in 2001 and headquartered at Port Blair, would need to acquire greater military heft. India has failed to fortify these islands, which are its maritime frontiers, similar to the blunder of waking up rather belatedly to develop infrastructure along its northern land border with China. The Islands are akin to a fixed aircraft carrier, with four airports spread along the north-south axis. The Indian Navy has recently commissioned an air station, INS Kohassa at Diglipur in the north. The airport at Port Blair, which also has a civilian enclave, is operated by the navy while the airport at Car Nicobar is controlled by the IAF. The navy had earlier commissioned an airbase, INS Baaz, on GNI to keep an eye on the Malacca Straits, aided by the Boeing P8I maritime surveillance aircraft. All these airports need extension and up-gradation to enable permanent basing of military aircraft there and to permit operation of civilian aircraft. The creation of a third fleet for the navy based in these islands would be required for operations in the South China Sea (SCS), just as China is reportedly planning to create  its fourth fleet based in the Hainan Islands for Indian Ocean operations. Similarly, creation of facilities for submarine operations and maintenance are necessary. A permanent amphibious capability of at least one army formation of around 10,000 troops, besides deployment of at least one battalion of combined  Special Forces, would also be necessary. Post-Galwan incident, there has been a spurt in military activities around the ANI. Warships of the navy’s Visakhapatnam-based Eastern Fleet are now deployed at critical positions in the Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea to keep an eye on Chinese ships that may enter Indian waters. Only in December 2019, a Chinese research ship was sighted carrying out a hydrographic and oceanographic survey in the Andaman waters and was chased away by the Indian Navy. The IAF’s Jaguar aircraft, armed with Harpoon anti-ship missiles, have also been stationed at Car Nicobar recently. Moreover, Indian Navy ships conducted joint exercises with the Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Forces (JMSDF) in June 2020 and passage exercises or PASSEX with the USS Nimitz carrier battle group in mid-July. This was followed recently by INDRA 2020, a joint exercise with ships of the Russian Navy on 4-5 September in the Bay of Bengal. The message to China was clear. If the Andaman & Nicobar Islands finally get their much overdue strategic and economic transformation, they could act as India’s ‘Great Wall at Sea’ against an aggressive Chinese surge into the Indian Ocean Region and enable India, in turn, to launch itself into the South China Sea.   (The writer is a former Principal Director, Naval Intelligence, and has served as a Director in the Cabinet Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/transforming-andaman-nicobar-islands-891582.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Relatives of dead Covid-19 patient allege negligence of BIMS staff led to death||Staff of Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital faced the ire of relatives of a patient who passed away during treatment Monday night. A woman who had been brought to the hospital for treatment for respiratory ailments succumbed. Relatives of the woman alleged that negligence of staff in providing treatment resulted in her death and entered into argument with nurses present and later with doctors who intervened. Hospital staff informed jurisdictional police who rushed to the spot and diffused the tense environment. Police said no case has been filed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/relatives-of-dead-covid-19-patient-allege-negligence-of-bims-staff-led-to-death-891180.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Trees uprooted as rain continues to lash parts of Chikkamagaluru||Rain continued to lash different parts of Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday. The gusty wind uprooted several trees in the Malnad area. A huge tree, which was uprooted, fell on the road at Kelagooru near Kottigehara blocking the vehicular movement. In Mathikatte, the roof of a house was damaged after a tree fell on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/trees-uprooted-as-rain-continues-to-lash-parts-of-chikkamagaluru-891226.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Srirangapatna MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah, wife test positive for Covid-19||While Srikantaiah and his wife are under home isolation, Parvathamma has been shifted to Mallya Hospital in Bengaluru for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/srirangapatna-mla-ravindra-srikantaiah-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-891228.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hindustani vocalist Gangubai Hanagal's ‘Gangotri’ lies in shambles||‘Gangotri', the home of noted Hindustani vocalist Gangubai Hanagal in Shukravar Peth of Dharwad which had been renovated and converted into a museum-cum-music school in 2007-2008, is again in a dilapidated condition thanks to the apathy of the administration and patrons. The walls and doors of the house have collapsed and there is debris inside the house making the entry into the house difficult. Dust, cobwebs, and pieces of bricks and cement plaster welcome visitors. The wall of the house adjacent to ‘Gangotri’ has collapsed and the debris is in Gangotri's compound. It was in this house that Gangubai spent her childhood before moving to Hubballi in 1928. Gangubai, till her demise cherished the memories of her childhood in this house and remembered her mother Ambabai with whom the singer stayed for several years. However, as this house was in a pathetic condition, the music lovers, Gangajji’s fans, and family members appealed the government to renovate the house and turn it into a heritage place. A fund of Rs 25 lakh was sanctioned in 2008 for renovation of this house, and also to make this heritage place into a museum-cum-music learning school. Accordingly, it was repaired to be preserved as a heritage home with walls plastered, and roof and floor re-laid at a cost of Rs 15 lakh. The house also served as a museum displaying pictures of Gangubai Hanagal’s traverse in life, and also as a music school. Instead of making the house a modern one with ceramic tiles and cement walls, care was been taken to ensure that it was given its original look. But, all these efforts went in vain within few years of renovation.The glitter of 'Gangotri' started to fade. Today, this heritage house stands as a testimony for the apathy of the officials and patrons. Local residents Uday Yandigeri and Harshavardhan Sheelvanth stated that the present situation of ‘Gangotri’ hurts the sentiments of Dharwadigas. This house has exposed the negligence of the officials. As the government has shown keen interest in preserving some of the houses of eminent personalities in Bengaluru, a similar gesture should be shown to turn this house in a heritage place and see that music classes are regularly held here to continue the legacy of Hindustani music, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hindustani-vocalist-gangubai-hanagals-gangotri-lies-in-shambles-891407.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: Three children die after falling into agricultural pond||Three children met a watery grave, after falling into an agricultural pond, at Ankanahalli, Bannur hobli, Mysuru district, on Tuesday evening. The deceased are Rohith (2), son of Ravi Nayaka, Kaveri (2), daughter of Ambarish Nayaka, and Sanjay (4) son of Ramanayaka, the migrant workers from Hosapete, Ballari district. They were living in a tent erected at a land belonging to Shivaraju, for several days. They were eking out a living as farm laborers. According to sources, the children might have accidentally fallen into the five-feet deep agricultural pond nearby, while playing. The parents, who returned from work, searched for their children, only to find the bodies floating in the pond. The bodies were retrieved and sent for post-mortem. Bannur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-three-children-die-after-falling-into-agricultural-pond-891508.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Permission sought for Mahisha Dasara||Former mayor Purushotham appealed to the state government to allow celebration of ‘Mahisha Dasara’ in Mysuru on October 15. Meanwhile, B P Mahesh Chandra Guru, a retired professor, warned that if the celebration is stalled, the government will be toppled. Writer K S Bhagawan asserted that Mahisha Dasara will be definitely held on October 15. They addressed a media conference in the city, on Tuesday. A few organisations like Ashokapuram Abhimanigala Balaga, Urilinga Peddimutt Mahasamsthanam, Dalit Sangharsha Samithi, Gangothri Research Students Union and B R Ambedkar Dalit Mahila Organisation come together to celebrate Mahisha Dasara, to mark Dasara in Mysuru, since a few years. They take out a procession and garland the statue of Mahishasura atop the Chamundi Hill in Mysuru. Purushotham appealed to the government and also to the people, not to hinder the celebrations of Mahisha Dasara. “We do not intend to hurt anybody’s feelings. If our words hurt anybody, we will change the terms. We have already written letters to the Deputy Commissioner, District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Last year, a complaint was lodged with the National Human Rights Commission as the celebrations were hindered. This year, such attempts can be avoided,” he said. Shantharaju of Dalit Welfare Trust said, “We are open for a debate on Mahisha Dasara. Opposition without a debate is not proper. MLA L Nagendra’s verbal attack on the organisers of Mahisha Dasara is condemnable. Nobody should curtail our democratic rights.” Challenging MP Pratap Simha for a public debate in front of Rangacharlu Town Hall, writer Bhagawan said that Mahisha Dasara is the festival of the downtrodden and of the culture of the grassroots-level. He claimed that if Mahisha was a demon or a bad character, the place would not have been named after him. “He was a Buddhist monk and we are celebrating his birth anniversary. If you like, you can participate. Otherwise, you can stay away,” he said. However, in Karnataka Gazetteer, edited by Suryanatha U Kamath, it is mentioned: “It is difficult to identify Mahishamandala mentioned in ‘Deepavamsa’ of Ashoka era with Mysore (earlier spelling), with Mahishmathi in Madhya Pradesh is also identified with the place.” The Gazetteer states, “The earlier, reference to Mysore is in a copper plate inscription dated 862 AD from Kadaluru in Maddur taluk of Mandya district, ‘Maysooru’ is mentioned. Later, Maisunad or Maisurnad is mentioned in inscriptions of 11th and 12th centuries. Etymologically, the place can be associated with Mayu, an antelope, than Mahisa, the buffalo.” Bhagawan said, “As per Arya Dharma, those born to prostitutes are Shudras. We do not want such dharmas. Asura means, one who does not consume alcohol. One should understand history properly. I am open for a debate.” Retired professor Mahesh Chandra Guru said that his name was actually Mahisha Chandra Guru, but his schoolteacher changed it. “If I do not celebrate Mahisha’s festival, should I celebrate Godse and Sarvarkar anniversaries?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/permission-sought-for-mahisha-dasara-891514.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Only 10 caretakers to accompany Dasara elephants to Mysuru||This year, caretakers of Dasara elephants will arrive at Mysuru Palace, without their family members and children, courtesy Covid-19 crisis. It has to be noted that the state government has decided for a simple Dasara and only five elephants — Abhimanyu, Vikrama, Vijaya, Gopi and Kaveri — will arrive for Jamboo Savari on October 26 inside Mysuru Palace premises. The Dasara festivities will begin on October 17. Thus, only a mahout and a kaavadi will accompany each elephant, this year. The families of the caretakers usually camp on the Palace premises, since many years. Since a couple of years, the family members were provided designated seating arrangements, to see the Jamboo Savari. Besides, the children would play around on the Palace premises and tour the city. They would participate in various activities and attend ‘Tent School’, during Dasara season. Mysuru Division Deputy Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) M G Alexander said, “As a precautionary measure, due to the Covid scare, the families of the caretakers have not been invited. Only 10 members will come. It is feared that Covid can reach the hamlets of the forests, if they come to the cities.” “The family members used to cook food separately, earlier. The food ration was provided by the government. This year, the caretakers will be provided food by the Forest department,” he said. Alexander said, “As the Jamboo Savari, with Abhimanyu carrying the golden howdah, will be held inside the Palace premises, rehearsals will also be restricted to the Palace. Thus, chances of infection to the elephants, mahouts and kaavadis is reduced.” Elephants from Mathigodu, Anekaadu and Dubare camps will reach Veeranahosahalli in Hunsur taluk on October 1. Deputy Commissioner B Sharath will extend an invitation to them there. The same evening, the elephants will reach Aranya Bhavan in Mysuru. They will enter the Palace at 12.18 pm, under the auspices Dhanur Lagna, on October 2 in the presence of District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/only-10-caretakers-to-accompany-dasara-elephants-to-mysuru-891515.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||'No shortage of fertilisers, urea in Mandya dist'||There is no shortage of fertilisers, including urea in Mandya district. Around 10,000 tonne of urea, manufactured by various companies will be supplied to the farmers in Mandya district from September 24 to 29. Hence, there is no need for anxiety among farmers, said B S Chandrashekar, Joint Director (JD), Agriculture department. Addressing media persons here, on Tuesday, he said, "There is a demand for 43,650 tonne of urea in Mandya district and 35,838 tonne is already supplied. The remaining would be supplied by the end of the month." The consignment of fertilisers is delayed due to heavy rain in North Karnataka, Mumbai, Pune and Mangaluru. Around 2,280 tonne is available with Primary Agriculture Credit Society (PACS), shops and federations. Each bag of urea is sold at Rs 266 and is supplied on production of Aadhaar card number of the farmer. If it is sold at extra cost, the farmers can immediately complain to the officials at nearby farmer contact centre, he said. The JD advised the farmers to minimise the use of urea. "Heavy use of urea will affect the quality of soil. The silica content in paddy will be lost and the crop turns vulnerable to pest attack," he explained. Mandya is in the second place in crop survey, in the state, after Tumakuru district. However, around 6,81,604 plots are yet to surveyed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-shortage-of-fertilisers-urea-in-mandya-dist-891516.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain pounds Hassan for fourth day||Heavy rain that have been lashing the Malnad region in Hassan district, since four days has paralysed the lives of the people. Paddy fields in Sakleshpur, Hethuru, Sathegal village in Sakleshpur taluk have been inundated. As the fields are waterlogged, agriculture activities are affected. Coffee, pepper, arecanut and paddy crops have been damaged. Kempuhole is overflowing due to the downpour. All water bodies have filled. Besides, incessant rain and chilly winds have impacted the health of the people of the district. Hassan, Sakleshpur, Hethuru, Alur, Belur regions experienced heavy rain on Tuesday also. Channarayapatna, Holenarasipur, Arsikere received scattered rain, and remained overcast. It started raining from Tuesday morning affecting movement of office goers and others in Hassan city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-pounds-hassan-for-fourth-day-891517.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: House panel wants more perks for netas||Soon, not only can legislators whiz past national highway toll booths, they will have “special protocol” arrangements at Tirumala Tirupathi and other major temples, besides them having the power to select beneficiaries under various government schemes.  All these and more are privileges that legislators should get, according to recommendations made by the Privileges Committee that tabled its report in the Assembly on Tuesday.  The committee also sought arrangements for legislators to rest at the Delhi Airport lounge and uniform policy to appoint gunmen for them. The committee headed by former minister S A Ravindranath (BJP) has suggested measures to address the concerns raised by the legislators. The recommendations were provided under six heads and dealt with the responsibilities of various departments towards the elected representatives. Under the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms, the committee said that all officials working at local levels will have to undergo compulsory training on “maintaining protocol of honorable MLAs” and ensuring that only local MLAs inaugurate projects worth Rs 5 crore or less, among others. The committee wants the Public Works Department to address the problems faced by the legislators at toll booths. "Two FastTag passes should be issued to MLAs, instead of just one,” the report said. Similarly, the Muzrai department should ensure 'darshan' and accommodation at Tirupathi, and such arrangements should be made during the MLAs' visits to prominent temples in different states. The power to select beneficiaries under various schemes of Backward Classes Welfare and Minority Welfare, Hajj, and Waqf departments should vest with local MLAs, the committee recommended, adding that all projects should be implemented by officials, by bringing it to the notice of the local MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-house-panel-wants-more-perks-for-netas-891374.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP strongly refutes reports about changing Yediyurappa as CM||The BJP in Karnataka on Tuesday termed as baseless and misleading reports about leadership change in the state by replacing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. State BJP spokesperson Captain Ganesh Karnik said a few TV channels have repeatedly reported that there is going to be a change in the leadership of Chief Minister Yediyurappa. "BJP strongly refutes this report," he clarified in an official statement. "We categorically state that such reports are absolutely baseless, misleading and far from truth," he added. There have been strong speculations about possible change in leadership in the future, considering Yediyurappa's age. The speculation had gained momentum during the 77-year-old leader's recent visit to New Delhi, during which he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several union ministers and BJP national president J P Nadda. There were reports that Yediyurappa might be replaced after the Bihar assembly polls or after him presenting the budget in March 2021. They suggested that looking at BJP's policy towards seniors crossing 75 years of age, the party was considering honourable exit to the Lingayat strongman by giving him a gubernatorial position and a key post for his younger son B Y Vijayendra, who is now the state BJP vice president. Several state BJP leaders, including state unit President Nalin Kumar Kateel, minister R Ashoka among others have rejected such reports. Despite this, there were rumours that several Lingayat legislators, especially from the north Karnataka region, were unhappy with the Chief Minister and were rallying behind a leader from the community who belongs to their region. Yediyurappa on Monday had said he was awaiting the high command's directive to undertake the much awaited expansion of his cabinet. The cabinet currently has 28 members, and six berths are still vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-strongly-refutes-reports-about-changing-yediyurappa-as-cm-891399.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka MLAs narrate their Covid-19 ordeal||Legislators, who have recovered from Covid-19, sought to corner the BJP government by narrating their ordeal during a day-long discussion on the pandemic in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday.  “When I tested positive for Covid-19, I checked with Victoria Hospital. My father is 90 years old and my mother is 80 years. All 32 ICU beds were filled up. Once in ICU, patients don’t come out for 15 days. I was forced to go to a private hospital,” Congress’ Kunigal MLA H D Ranganath, a doctor, said.  “The health minister admitting himself at Bangalore Medical College for treatment was a good move, but a common farmer will not get the same treatment. I’m having to exert my influence to get people admitted. Whose failure is this?” he asked.  Arsikere MLA KL Shivalinge Gowda said the Covid-19 pandemic helped private hospitals make money. At this point, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said Covid-19 treatment was free in government hospitals and private hospitals. “Then why was I charged Rs 1.64 lakh at Manipal Hospital,” Gowda said. Sringeri MLA TD Rajegowda, too, said he had to pay Rs 2.10 lakh for Covid-19 treatment. Sudhakar asked them if they had a Bengaluru Urban (BU) number at the time of admission.  “As soon as I left home, I called up BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad, who got a room booked for me at Manipal Hospital,” Gowda said, adding that no one should take Covid-19 lightly. “It was only when I got it that I realized it is a dangerous disease.”  Sudhakar clarified that there were two types of treatment for Covid-19. “Those, who inform the government, their treatment cost will be borne by the government either in a government hospital or a private hospital. Those who go to a private hospital on their own will have to pay for treatment for which the government has fixed costs to ensure there’s no exploitation.” He admitted that the Covid-19 pandemic could have been controlled better if passengers from “all countries” were screened at airports in March. He was responding to K J George (Congress) who said not all international passengers were screened. “We might have been able to control the virus better if all international passengers were screened. But, screening was limited to passengers from only those countries identified by the Ministry of Home Affairs,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-mlas-narrate-their-covid-19-ordeal-891529.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress demands judicial probe into Covid-19 irregularities||Blaming the 'miserable failure' of the Central and the state governments for the rapid spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah demanded an inquiry by a judicial commission to bring out irregularities in procuring equipment to handle the pandemic. Speaking at the Legislative Assembly, Siddaramaiah said that data provided by the Health and Family Welfare Department revealed wide variations in procurement cost of PPE kits, masks, ventilators, and sanitisers. Citing procurement of PPE kits at seven times the market price, Siddaramaiah questioned how could the price increase so much even if there was admitted scarcity. The relief package announced by the state government, too, hasn't reached everyone. Moreover, around Rs 60,000-70,000 were spent per day at 34,000 containment zones in Bengaluru, providing room for corruption. "A judicial inquiry is essential on all these irregularities pertaining to Covid-19 procurement and relief," he said, adding that it would help fix responsibility on errant parties. "Anybody can presume that there are irregularities (due to variation in prices)," Siddaramaiah said, adding that even Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had failed to provide data on Covid procurement after he promised to do so in 24 hours. "I had written to the CM on various issues related to Covid-19 and information was not provided for even a single query," he said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar, in an animated speech, said the government did not come to the rescue of farmers and auto/taxi drivers. "If you give the aid 5-6 months later, the person will be dead by then. It's just Rs 5,000! You announced the aid during a crisis. If the money doesn't reach them during that crisis, then what's the point?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-demands-judicial-probe-into-covid-19-irregularities-891531.html
22-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP MLC protests against govt apathy towards guest lecturers||Leaving the ruling BJP embarrassed, BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath protested against the state government for its apathy towards guest lecturers.  Holding the ruling party and the Opposition leaders captive to the peculiar moment, Manjunath jumped to the Well of the House in protest against the state government. While demanding the government to immediately release salaries of the guest lecturers, Manjunath spoke about how the pandemic had pushed some lecturers to die by suicide, unable to bear the financial stress.  "Guest lecturers haven't received salaries from March. In response to a question raised by other MLCs, the government has stated that the lecturers were employed for a period of 10 months in the academic year and hence their salaries were stopped after March. However, until now, no university has told them about the last day of work and hence they are technically still employed with their institutions. The Centre has also said these lecturers should be considered on-duty during the pandemic. The colleges have used them for all exam work, online classes and evaluation work during this period, too," he said. Moreover, there is a government order that no employee should be removed from work during the pandemic, he added.  Opposition leaders immediately extended support to the MLC and joined him in the Well, demanding justice for the guest lecturers. When the MLCs did not budge, the session was adjourned.  The protest ended only when Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa arrived in the Council and personally assured to release the lecturers' salaries at the earliest. "The issue has been brought to my notice. The Central government has directed to consider these lecturers as on-duty during the pandemic. I will ensure that they get their salaries," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-mlc-protests-against-govt-apathy-towards-guest-lecturers-891538.html
22-09-2020||Mysuru||2 held for poaching, smuggling deer meat in Hunsur||The Forest Department has arrested two persons for poaching deer and smuggling the meat at Anechowkur Wildlife Ranger, Nagarahole National Park limits, in Hunsur taluk, said Assistant Conservator of Forest A V Sathish. The accused were said to have hunted the deer near Kembukolli elephant trench and were shifting the meat when the officials nabbed them. Two others escaped during the raid. A country rifle, deer meat and other equipment used for the crime have been seized and cases have been filed against the duo. A seven-member team took part in the operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/2-held-for-poaching-smuggling-deer-meat-in-hunsur-891231.html
22-09-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Retired doctor, also Covid-19 warrior, dies of novel coronavirus infection||A 66-year-old doctor, who was also a Covid-19 warrior died of the same infection in a private hospital, in Mysuru, on Tuesday. Dr Venkatesh of Bokkalli in Nanjangud taluk, was working on contract basic at urban health care centrw in Nanjangud. He tested positive for Covid-19 a few days back and was isolated at a private hospital in the city. Venkatesh along with his two sons and wife residing at Pragathi Layout in Nanjangud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-retired-doctor-also-covid-19-warrior-dies-of-novel-coronavirus-infection-891552.html
22-09-2020||National||Ishrat Jahan, Tahir Hussain, others received Rs 1.61 crore for executing conspiracy in Delhi riots: Charge sheet||Former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, activist Khalid Saifi, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, Jamia Millia Islamia Alumni Association President Shifa Ur Rehman and Jamia student Meeran Haider allegedly received Rs 1.61 crore for managing protest sites against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Delhi and executing the conspiracy hatched for the riots in northeast Delhi in February, police have said in their charge sheet. Police have filed the charge sheet against 15 accused in the case related to 'larger conspiracy' in the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. “During the investigation it has come to notice that during the period December 1, 2019, to February 26, 2020, total Rs 1,61,33,703 was received by the accused persons Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Tahir Hussain, Shifa-Ur Rehman and Meeran's Haider through a bank account or cash. Out of the total Rs 1.61 crores, Rs 1,48,01186 was withdrawn as cash and spent in managing the protest sites as well to execute the conspiracy hatched in riots in Delhi," the chargesheet said. The document claimed that on further investigation it has been found that on December 10, accused Ishrat Jahan received Rs 4 lakh in her bank account from a corporation bank account. On investigation, the account was found in the name of Mahadev Vijay Kaste from Maharasthra, it said, adding that during his examination Kaste disclosed that he does not know Jahan directly and he works as a driver for Sameer Abdul Sai, a resident of Maharashtra.  “He further disclosed on the instruction of his employer Sai he took a gold loan of Rs 4,31,700 from ICICI bank. This amount was transferred by the ICICI bank to the above mentioned corporation bank account. He further disclosed that on asking, his employer Sai transferred Rs 4 lakh to Jahan's account from total amount,” police alleged in the chargesheet. It further alleged that Sai disclosed during the examination that Imran Siddiqui from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh was his business partner.  “On December 9, 2019, Imran had given three bank account numbers belonging to Jahan, Gulzar Ali, and Bilal Ahmad and asked him to transfer Rs 10 lakhs to these 3 accounts urgently. As he showed his inability to transfer Rs 10 lakhs, he insisted for Rs 5 lakhs to Jahan's account urgently," it said. Police further alleged that Imran, brother-in-law of Jahan, disclosed that he took Rs 4 lakh from his sister-in-law for some business. “He did not mention in his IT return that he has taken a loan of Rs 4 lakh from Jahan. He did not give any satisfactory answer regarding expenditure/use of that money,” police said. Police further alleged in their chargesheet that on scrutiny of bank accounts of Jahan, it was found that on January 10, 2020, there was a cash deposit of Rs 1, 41,000 in her account by herself.  “During interrogation, she could explain the source of this amount. On scrutiny of the bank statements, it has been found that Jahan has withdrawn Rs 4,60,900 as cash from her bank account. “During the investigation, it was found that Jahan had used this money to manage the protest sites and in purchasing the weapons through accused Abdul Khalid. The weapons were used during the riots,” the chargesheet alleged. During the investigation, two bank accounts of accused Tahir Hussain's company and one bank account, which belongs to his brother-in-law and partners of his company were investigated, it claimed. “On the analysis of this account, it was found that during this period of December 1, 2019, to February 26, 2020, Rs 17,25,000 was withdrawn. It was further found that Rs 20 lakh on Jan 7, Rs 10 lakh on Jan 13 and Rs 16 lakh, and Rs 14 lakh on Jan 14, were transferred through RTGS in the account from Sri Sai Traders. In this regard, the owner of Sai Traders, Jitender, and the brokers namely Roushan Thakur, were examined and their statements were recorded,” it said. From the statements of the witnesses, it was found that the Hussain converted Rs 60 lakhs into cash through the channels against the commission, the chargesheet said. “From the statement of the protected witnesses and from the disclosure statement of the accused Tahir Hussain it was found that accused Hussain had spent huge amount of cash in running the protests, mobilizing of the people for riots and procuring the materials, which was later used in the riots,” the chargesheet alleged. It further said that during the investigation, it was found that the Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia (AAJMI) has played a crucial role through its president Shifa Ur Rehman in the protests and riots which happened in Delhi.  “During its investigation, it has come to the notice that AAJMI has two bank accounts. The bank account statements' analysis has found that from December 1, 2019, to February 26, 2020, Rs 87,500 was credited in an Indian Bank account, out of which, Rs 37,500 was credited to this account through an online transfer and Rs 50,000 were credited as cash deposits.  “During the investigation, accused Rehman had disclosed that he had deposited Rs 50,000 in cash amount in the account of AAJMI through someone whose name he could not remember. He had withdrawn Rs 70,000 from this account for the expenses of the ongoing protests,” it claimed. Analysis of the second bank account showed that from December 1 to February 26, 2020, Rs 4,41,059 was credited online in this account and Rs 60,600 was withdrawn during this period, it stated. “Rehman had disclosed that he withdrew Rs 60,000 from his bank account for managing the protests going on against NRC/CAB,” it alleged. Police further said the office of AAJMI was raided and documents were seized, whose analysis has shown that AAJMI had received Rs 7,60,000 as cash during this period.  “It was found that out of the total amount, Rs 5,55,000 was received from the alumni working abroad, that is Saudi, UAE, Oman, and Qatar. .. The police have relied on the statement of a protected witness who stated that Rehman had spent this money in the ongoing protest. “During verification of seized documents, fake bills and expenses in the name of AAJMI to the tune of Rs 1,69,554 were found on verification. This showed that the accused had tried to cover up his mistakes. Further investigation in this regard is going on,” it stated. The chargesheet further said Haider had one Indian bank account and its analysis showed that from December 1, 2019, to February 26, 2020, he received Rs 86,644 in his bank account through online transfer. “On April 6, 2020, a register was seized from Haider's room on which it was found that he has received Rs 4,82,500. Out of the total cash amount, Rs 50,000 was handed over by one Tanveer Ali, on behalf of a Dubai based resident. Ali disclosed to the police that in mid-February 2020, Haider asked him for Rs 50,000 that he needed for protests in CAA/NRC.  “Meeran Haider had also received Rs 1,05,000 as cash from a Saudi Arabia based resident. Out of the total amount Rs 3,33,000 was received at the instance of accused Meeran. During the investigation, it was found that he distributed Rs 2,86,000 to the Muslim community for the purpose of instigation of riots,” it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ishrat-jahan-tahir-hussain-others-received-rs-161-crore-for-executing-conspiracy-in-delhi-riots-charge-sheet-891099.html
22-09-2020||National||Karnataka's Covid-19 outbreak may peak in January: Study||Scientists who have been conducting a predictive analysis of the Covid-19 outbreak have cautioned that the latest mathematical analysis of the outbreak predicts that 50% of the population is set to get infected by January 2021. This analysis incorporates findings from serosurveys conducted in India and in Europe, notably about how many potential unknown Covid-19 cases there are for every case which is found. Associate professor Dr. Sashikumar Ganesan, chair of the Department of Computational and Data Sciences, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), who helped develop the Partial Differential-Equation (PDE)-based model, explained that “current trend” assumes there is 10 times the number of Covid-19 cases within the population.  Its “worst scenario” assumes 20 times the number of Covid-19 positive cases within the population, plus no vaccine. Other scenarios consider the introduction of a vaccine in either January or April 2021.  As of Monday, the state had 95,335 active cases, 4.2 lakh people recovered patients and 8,145 deaths. However, Ganesan clarified that the “worst scenario” is in some ways better because more infections mean an earlier end to the epidemic.  This has been the finding in several European serosurveys which indicate as many as 25 unknown cases for every case found. The first round of India’s national seroprevalence study determined that the case-to-infection ratio is 1:100.  In Karnataka, the case-to-infection ratio is still unknown because the first phase of the survey is on. Noted epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, who is involved in the survey, said that if the national serosurvey results are considered, then the peak should happen a lot sooner. Indeed, running the model’s “worst” scenario of 1:20 shows that Karnataka’s peak happened between August 28 and 30. Does that mean the state’s case to infection ratio is not 20 or higher? “Not necessarily,” said Dr. Babu. “The first national serosurvey result came before increased testing and other measures. The ongoing second round will offer moreclarity.” In the case of Bengaluru Urban, another well-known model which makes one-week predictions shows that the state’s curve is ascending. It predicts the city will have 2.23 lakh total cases by September 28, an increase of 25,645 cases since September 21. The city’s seven-day figures have been increasing by a thousand additional cases each week. Dr. Gautham Menon of Ashoka University, who helped create the successful model, said it is “often best to just predict a week ahead at a time from current numbers||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnatakas-covid-19-outbreak-may-peak-in-january-study-891104.html
22-09-2020||National||Without comprehensive reforms, UN faces 'crisis of confidence': PM Narendra Modi||The United Nations faces a "crisis of confidence” without comprehensive reforms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, asserting that the world needs a reformed multilateralism that reflects today's realities, gives voice to all stakeholders, addresses contemporary challenges, and focuses on human welfare. Prime Minister Modi's call for reformed multilateralism assumes special significance as it comes on the eve of India taking a seat at the powerful UN Security Council as an elected non-permanent member for a two-year term beginning January 1, 2021. "We cannot fight today’s challenges with outdated structures. Without comprehensive reforms, the UN faces a crisis of confidence,” Modi said on Monday in his video address to the High-Level meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations. Noting that the declaration also acknowledges the need for reform of the United Nations itself, Modi said, "For today’s interconnected world, we need a reformed multilateralism that reflects today’s realities, gives voice to all stakeholders, addresses contemporary challenges and focuses on human welfare.” He said India looks forward to working with all other nations towards this end. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti introduced Prime Minister Modi’s pre-recorded statement from the UN General Assembly Hall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/without-comprehensive-reforms-un-faces-crisis-of-confidence-pm-narendra-modi-891119.html
22-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 22||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 55 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 56,35,275 as of September 22 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 89,942  No. of people discharged: 45,68,479 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-22-891131.html
22-09-2020||National||Indian coronavirus vaccine likely to be ready by early 2021, says scientist||A vaccine for the coronavirus will likely be ready by early 2021 but rolling it out safely across India’s 1.3 billion people will be the country’s biggest challenge in fighting its surging epidemic, a leading vaccine scientist told Bloomberg. India, which is host to some of the front-runner vaccine clinical trials, currently has no local infrastructure in place to go beyond immunizing babies and pregnant women, said Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at the Vellore-based Christian Medical College and a member of the WHO’s Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety. The timing of the vaccine is a contentious subject around the world. In the US, President Donald Trump has contradicted a top administration health expert by saying a vaccine would be available by October. In India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government had promised an indigenous vaccine as early as mid-August, a claim the government and its apex medical research body has since walked back. For a country of its size, and with a virus curve that shows no sign of flattening, a safe and quick vaccine is a top priority for the Modi administration. The country’s broken health-care system, already struggling to deliver adequate care before the outbreak, cannot cope with the strain of a prolonged pandemic. A strict lockdown implemented in late March led to the biggest contraction among major economies with gross domestic product shrinking 23.9% in the three months to June from a year earlier. “By year-end we will have data that will tell us which vaccines are working and which ones are not going to do so well,” said Kang, who until July was heading the Indian government committee looking into prospective indigenous vaccine candidates. “If we get good results by year-end then we are looking at vaccines being potentially available in tiny numbers in first half of 2021 and larger numbers in the latter part.” Kang said that any vaccine currently in phase three trials, whether locally made or being tested by major western pharmaceutical companies, had a 50% chance of success. Immunization Challenges India is hosting clinical trials for all the major vaccine contenders. Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, is conducting trials for the vaccine developed by Oxford University. The drugmaker Dr Reddy’s Laboratories said last week it will distribute the Russian vaccine in India after conducting final-stage human trials and receiving regulatory approval. India’s indigenous vaccine developers Bharat Biotech International Ltd. are at the second-phase human trial stage and Zydus Cadila is in the process to receive approvals for conducting third-phase clinical trials. Even after an effective vaccine is available, India will be staring at storage and delivery barriers as the outbreak escalates through the nation’s hinterland. The world’s second most populous country also has no experience of, and infrastructure for, mass immunization across age groups. “We have no life cycle immunization structures, we have no way of vaccinating the elderly who are a particular risk group here,” said Kang. “Just building the system to be able to immunize all ages is going to be a challenge.” Data Troubles Even as the South Asian nation races to get access to a reliable vaccine to control its fast moving pandemic, its patchy testing strategy may end up underestimating the true extent of its outbreak. India has been relying increasingly on quick antigen tests that can report false negatives as much as 50% of the time and its daily testing data doesn’t specify what type of tests -- antigen or the more sensitive real time-polymerase chain reaction tests -- make up the total or whether they were conducted on symptomatic or asymptomatic people, said Kang. Despite boosting antigen tests, India’s 8% testing positivity rate is far higher than the World Health Organization’s 5% benchmark for controlling the outbreak. “It seems at many places antigen and RT-PCR are being used interchangeably. That doesn’t make sense to me,” she said. “It’s hard to tell whether the rate at which cases are rising will accelerate when you don’t know the testing strategy in different states.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-coronavirus-vaccine-likely-to-be-ready-by-early-2021-says-scientist-891140.html
22-09-2020||National||India needs to invest Rs 3-5k crore to create enough Covid-19 vaccine, says Zydus Cadila Chairman||As the world waits expectantly for Covid-19 vaccine, Zydus Cadila Chairman Pankaj R Patel said India would need to invest between Rs 3,000-5,000 crore to create additional facilities for making a huge number of vaccines required for the Indian population. He also said that the vaccine alone is not the solution to the Covid-19 problem. "... If India has to produce and deliver 130 crore doses to Indian people in one year time, my opinion is that India would need to invest in manufacturing facilities to the extent of roughly Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 crore to create additional capacity to make it happen," Patel said. These vaccines are coming from a very difficult platform, and as a result, the cost of the vaccine is going to be significantly higher compared to many other vaccines, so there is going to be a requirement to think about how are we going to fund this, he said in a panel discussion on 'Race for Covid Vaccine: More than just a Cure' at an AIMA event. Emphasising that while the vaccine will play an important role in the control of the pandemic, Patel said: "Vaccine alone in my opinion is not the solution to the problem. We need the vaccine and also we need more treatment protocols to make sure we are able to take care of it because I think the way the vaccine trials are designed currently globally, there is not going to be a possibility of immunity in 100 per cent of people." Moreover, the requirement of the vaccine doses is going to be very high. Given the fact almost all vaccines are going to work at least two doses, if we look at India's population and decide to immunise 50 per cent of the population, we would require over 130 crore doses and that's not the capacity anybody has. Even if people have the capacity to produce, it cannot happen in one day. It can only happen over a long period, Patel said. Another challenge we would have is "how long the immunity will last with this vaccine? If the vaccine is going to give a long-term immunity, it will be wonderful, but if it provides short-term immunity then we will have to keep on immunising people again and again," he added. A vaccine is definitely needed to control the spread of this disease, but the vaccine alone is not enough, and other efforts such as social distancing, wearing mask, isolating and testing people will continue to remain important, Patel said. Speaking about logistics of the distribution system, Patel said the country needs to have a very strong distribution system. Because of the number of doses, "there could be challenges of glass vials supply, though I don't see challenges to supply of syringes", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-to-invest-rs-3-5k-crore-to-create-enough-covid-19-vaccine-says-zydus-cadila-chairman-891150.html
22-09-2020||National||Opposition slams Modi govt over Central Vista project amid Covid-19||The Modi government came under a sharp attack from the Opposition for not cutting down on “luxuries” like the Central Vista redevelopment project and construction of a new Parliament building amid the coronavirus outbreak.  During the Monsoon Session of the Parliament, DMK member P Wilson said the Centre is suspending MPLAD scheme when various infrastructure projects like Central Vista project were still being taken up. Rajiv Satav (Congress) welcomed the step towards MPs’ salary cuts but questioned the government's move to suspend the MPLAD scheme. "You are talking about the common people and have suspended MPLAD scheme, which was meant for the welfare of people," he said. Satav said government efforts to tackle the pandemic are a "live example of mismanagement and failure" and no chief ministers were consulted before the lockdown. "In 2014, the GDP growth rate was 7.4 per cent and now it has come to a minus 23.9 per cent," he said, adding, "Instead of being corona free, the country has become employment free (Corona mukt ke jagah, Rojgar Mukt ho gaya)." Referring to the PMCARES fund, Satav said "no one knows to whom it is caring." He also pointed out expenses by the government during the pandemic on projects such as Central Vista, bullet train and a special Rs 850 crore aircraft for the prime minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-slams-modi-govt-over-central-vista-project-amid-covid-19-891155.html
22-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Central Vista: 'Our party will do all the demolition work to cut rising costs!'||The Modi government came under a sharp attack from the Opposition for not cutting down on “luxuries” like the Central Vista redevelopment project and construction of a new Parliament building amid the coronavirus outbreak.  During the Monsoon Session of the Parliament, DMK member P Wilson said the Centre is suspending MPLAD scheme when various infrastructure projects like Central Vista project were still being taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-central-vista-our-party-will-do-all-the-demolition-work-to-cut-rising-costs-891157.html
22-09-2020||National||Privacy concerns as India pushes for digital health ID||India's number of confirmed coronavirus cases have topped 5.4 million according to government data, with the virus spreading at one of the fastest paces in the world. In a speech last month to mark Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the launch of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), under which unique Health IDs will be created to hold digital health records of individuals. "Whether it is making a doctor's appointment, depositing money or running around for documents in the hospital, the Mission will help remove all such challenges," Modi said. Praveen Gedam of the National Health Authority (NHA) said in emailed comments that the pandemic had highlighted the need to "move swiftly to improve medical infrastructure". But without a data protection law or an independent data protection authority, there are few safeguards and no recourse if rights are violated, said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia policy director at Access Now, a digital rights non-profit. "It will possibly be the largest centralised health ID and data storage system in the world, and it is being done in the absence of a data protection law and data protection authority," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "Health is a state subject, but the central government is rushing this policy in the middle of a public health emergency, and forcing states to play ball. It's very problematic." There has been a move in recent years to digitise medical records and data as part of the Digital India campaign to deliver services electronically. A federal medical insurance scheme aimed at 500 million people launched in 2018. A draft Health Data Management Policy unveiled last month has guidelines for regulating the collection and storage of the data that can only be accessed with the individual's consent. The aim of the NDHM is to create and maintain registries that are portable and accessible across India to everyone associated with healthcare delivery, according to the draft. The new Health ID, which the health minister said will be "entirely voluntary" with an opt-out option, will hold information such as tests, prescriptions, treatments and medical records. Gedam of the NHA, which oversees the NDHM, said that "the policy has been years in the making and undergone multiple rounds of consultation. Hence it is incorrect to assume that this has been a rushed undertaking". Matter of concern It has been more than a decade since India created Aadhaar, the world's largest biometric identity system, with more than 1.2 billion IDs issued. The 12-digit ID, which is linked to an individual's fingerprints, face and iris scan, was introduced to streamline welfare payments and reduce wastage in public spending. Yet it soon became mandatory for a host of public and private services. The Supreme Court ruled in 2014 that Aadhaar could not be a requirement for welfare programmes. In 2018, the top court flagged privacy concerns and reined in a government push to make it compulsory for everything from mobile services to pensions. The government has repeatedly denied charges of data misuse or surveillance, even as large numbers of people remain excluded and many are denied essential services, a report by consulting firm Dalberg said last year. The new Health ID has the potential to be made mandatory and deny services to those who opt out, while also posing the risk of data abuse, human rights campaigners say. The draft policy is only available online and in English, thus preventing access to a large majority of people, said Satendra Singh, a physician and disability rights campaigner who petitioned to extend the deadline for feedback to September 21. The policy also allows the sharing of anonymised data with third parties - "a matter of grave concern", particularly for sexual minorities and those with disabilities, he said. "The privacy implications of such data sharing requires in-depth examination because anonymised data can be identified if combined with other data sets such as voter records," he said. "This could be more problematic as we do not have a data protection law yet," he added. Privacy of data will receive "the highest degree of attention", said Gedam. "The draft Policy draws from provisions of the Personal Data Protection Bill and will be kept compliant with any future legislations and rulings," he added, referring to the draft bill that was tabled in Parliament last year. Tracing app India's public and private hospitals, clinics and labs have varying levels of digitisation, and patients usually cannot digitally transfer their health records from one to another. Private healthcare providers have long argued that lack of digitisation and interoperability leads to delays, inconvenience and higher costs. Like several other nations, India quickly embraced technology to track and trace the spread of the coronavirus. The Aarogya Setu, or "Health Bridge" mobile app uses GPS location data to augment information gathered via Bluetooth and build a centralised database - an approach avoided by most countries because of privacy concerns. While the use of the app is voluntary, it has been made mandatory for food-delivery workers, government and some private-sector employees, for public transit and airports. More than 100,000 Health IDs have already been created in six federal territories, and made mandatory for doctors in government hospitals in at least one city, according to local media reports. The experience with Aadhaar and Aarogya Setu - and the Health ID pilot - does not inspire confidence, said Amulya Nidhi, co-convenor of the People's Health Movement (Jan Swasthya Abhiyan) non-profit. "At a time when we are struggling for hospital beds and oxygen, the government is focusing on digitisation," he said. "People's vulnerability while seeking health services may be misused to get consent. Informed consent is a real issue when people are poor, illiterate or desperate," he said. It is also an issue for vulnerable populations such as those living with HIV; if they are worried that their data may be exposed, they may shun medical care completely, said Chima. "The government says it wants to do analytics and trend forecasting to improve the healthcare system - that is a form of health surveillance," he said. "Your health data - once it's out there, it's out there. You can't do anything about it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/privacy-concerns-as-india-pushes-for-digital-health-id-891164.html
22-09-2020||National||Special Court extends Rhea Chakraborty's judicial custody till October 6||Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty will remain in jail with a Mumbai court on Tuesday extending her judicial custody by another fortnight. Couple of weeks ago, Rhea was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for allegedly sourcing and purchasing drugs for her live-in partner and actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The 28-year-old actor was produced before the Magistrate’s court through video-conference from the Byculla Women’s Prison, on expiry of her judicial remand. Meanwhile, Rhea and her brother Showik moved the Bombay High Court for bail. Rhea and Showik’s counsel Satish Maneshinde said that the bail plea would be heard on Wednesday. Their bail plea was earlier rejected by the Magistrate’s court and the Mumbai Sessions Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-court-extends-rhea-chakrabortys-judicial-custody-till-october-6-891264.html
22-09-2020||National||Newly passed Farm Bills will ensure sustainable, profitable future for farming community: FAIFA||The newly passed Farm Bills will give farmers the freedom to trade across states and empower them to turn into traders of their own produce and be in control of the process, Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) said on Tuesday. Welcoming the step taken by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, FAIFA which claims to represent farmers and farm workers of commercial crops across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Gujarat, said the new set of bills passed by the Parliament will go a long way in ensuring farmer prosperity and doubling of income. "These visionary bills will ensure a sustainable and profitable future for the farming community," FAIFA said in a statement. Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by both the house of parliament, amid protests by opposition parties like the Congress, TMC, DMK and the Left, as well as some farmer groups. "The new regulation will create an ecosystem where the farmers and traders will enjoy freedom of choice of sale and purchase of agri-produce and promote barrier-free inter and intra-state trade and commerce outside the physical premises of markets notified under State Agricultural Produce Marketing legislations," FAIFA President B V Jaware Gowda said. These timely crucial steps taken by the government will serve as cornerstones for envisioning a fair market for farmers that lets them receive their fair price by letting them be in control of their incomes with freedom to trade, he added. "These are cohesive decisions that will go a long way in fortifying an agri-led economic development agenda for India that values its farmers at every step of the way," Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/newly-passed-farm-bills-will-ensure-sustainable-profitable-future-for-farming-community-faifa-891266.html
22-09-2020||National||Covid-19: India records over 1 lakh single-day recoveries for first time, fresh cases dip below 76k||India reported over 1 lakh coronavirus recoveries in a single-day for the first time, improving the recovery rate to 80.86 per cent, while fresh cases also dropped below 76,000 after two weeks, according to the Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The data updated at 8 am showed that during the past 24 hours, 1,01,468 Covid-19 patients recuperated, while 75,809 new cases were recorded, pushing the overall figures to 55,62,663 infections and 44,97,867 recoveries. Also, 1,053 patients died during the period, taking the cumulative death figures to 88,935, the data showed, reporting a Covid-19 case fatality rate of 1.60 per cent. There are 9,75,861 active coronavirus cases in the country, which make 17.54 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India’s single-day coronavirus cases had dipped below 76,000 on September 8 also, when 75,809 cases were reported. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative 6,53,25,779 samples have been tested up to September 21 --9,33,185 of them on Monday. The 1,053 new deaths include 344 from Maharashtra, 122 from Karnataka, 88 from Uttar Pradesh, 62 from West Bengal, 60 from Tamil Nadu, 51 from Andhra Pradesh, 47 from Punjab, 37 from Madhya Pradesh and 32 from Delhi. A total of 88,935 deaths reported so far includes 33,015 from Maharashtra, followed by 8,871 from Tamil Nadu, 8,145 from Karnataka, 5,410 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,135 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,014 from Delhi, 4,421 from West Bengal, 3,336 from Gujarat, 2,860 from Punjab and 2,007 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-records-over-1-lakh-single-day-recoveries-for-first-time-fresh-cases-dip-below-76k-891271.html
22-09-2020||National||Akali Dal to hold chakka jaam in Punjab on September 25 against Farm Bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the BJP's oldest ally, on Tuesday announced road blockades across Punjab on September 25 to protest against the contentious farm Bills passed by Parliament. Rajya Sabha passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 during the day. It had cleared the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 on Sunday. The Bills had been passed by Lok Sabha last week. "It has been decided to hold a 'chakka jaam' (road blockade) on September 25 in Punjab against these farm Bills," SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said. He said the party's senior leaders, workers, farmers and farm labourers would block roads in the state for three hours from 11 am in a peaceful manner. Notably, around 30 farmers' outfits have already given a call for a complete shutdown in Punjab on September 25 in protest against the Bills. Party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal would launch a four-day state-wide mass contact programme on September 26 during which he would make party workers aware about the "adverse impact" of these Bills on the farming community, Cheema said. He added that on October 1, the party leadership would present to the Punjab governor a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind. An appeal would be made to take back these Bills, Cheema said. A Shiromani Akali Dal delegation on Monday had urged the President to come to the rescue of farmers and farm labourers by not giving his assent to the farm Bills. Last week, SAD leader and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest against the Bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akali-dal-to-hold-chakka-jaam-in-punjab-on-september-25-against-farm-bills-891272.html
22-09-2020||National||NEP 2020 will play key role in creating Atmanirbhar Bharat: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday the New Education Policy (NEP) announced by his government will play a key role in creating a self-reliant India and open up the education sector for facilitating greater global exposure for Indian students. Modi said holistic knowledge blended with the understanding of science is the answer to all problems. "I firmly believe the future of the nation is what you think today. Your dreams will shape the future of India. We need to be future-ready, future-fit," he said addressing the 22nd convocation of IIT (Guwahati) through a video conference from the national capital. Modi spoke about the importance of education as a key component for creating an "Atmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India). The NEP, which is designed to ease the burden of classroom teaching and examination on students, will play an important role in the country's march forward, he said. "The NEP will open up the education sector. It will facilitate setting up campuses of foreign universities in India and enable Indian students to get global exposure," the Prime Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-2020-will-play-key-role-in-creating-atmanirbhar-bharat-pm-modi-891280.html
22-09-2020||National||Government to scrutinise fintech companies for security, privacy breach: Report||App-based lenders with Chinese links will most probably be banned by the the Central Government similar to the ban on 177 Chinese apps after clashes with China on the border in June.  “The potential implications of a data compromise from fintechs such as lending apps are quite grave, since it involves sharing sensitive financial data of the user to the lender," sources told the publication. “The kind of data one provides to fintech firms is riskier than what one would share on social media networks. Data on income tax, Aadhaar card and other details are taken by these app-based lenders." Another source told the website that the presence of Chinese nationals as directors in these companies is alarming and that the government is trying to ascertain the reason behind this. For instance, a Thane-based company, which operates a lending app, has a Chinese director. Similarly, a Bengaluru-based company, which runs a lending app, has two Chinese directors. According to the report, central banks do not have powers to regulate such companies as no public deposits are involved.  “RBI can, however, alert the central government and the respective state governments if it finds something suspicious," another source told the publication. “This regulatory grey area could have implications from an espionage perspective."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-scrutinise-fintech-companies-for-security-privacy-breach-report-891281.html
22-09-2020||National||Sixth round of India-China military talks lasts 14 hours; focus on defusing tensions at friction points in Ladakh||The sixth round of military talks between India and China that lasted 14 hours focused on ways to defuse rising tensions along the treacherous and high-altitude friction points in eastern Ladakh considering the approaching harsh winter, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The outcome of the marathon talks on Monday was not immediately known, but it is learnt that both sides agreed to meet again to take forward the negotiations. At the talks, the Indian side pressed for an early and complete disengagement of Chinese troops from all the friction points and insisted it was for China to take the first steps to de-escalate the situation, government sources said. "The focus was to defuse tensions," a source said. The Indian side conveyed its position as the two delegations extensively deliberated on implementing the five-point agreement reached between India and China on September 10 to ease the border standoff that began in early May. It is learnt that the Indian delegation also insisted on a time-bound implementation of the agreement finalised during the extensive talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet. The sources said the agenda for the talks was to chart a specific timeline for implementation of the five-point agreement. The agreement aimed at ending the tense standoff included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. The government sources said the talks began at around 9 am in Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) across India's Chushul sector in eastern Ladakh and ended at 11 pm. The two sides also mentioned about the harsh winter in the Ladakh region beginning October when temperatures fall upto minus 25 degree and oxygen becomes scarce, the sources said. The Indian delegation was headed by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps of the Indian Army. For the first time, the Indian team for the military talks also included a senior official from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). MEA Joint Secretary Naveen Srivastava, who has been engaged in diplomatic talks with China on the border row under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, was part of the delegation. The team also comprised Lt Gen PGK Menon, who is expected to succeed Singh as the commander of the 14 Corps next month. At the previous five rounds of Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side insisted on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The fifth round of Corps commander talks on August 2 lasted for nearly 11 hours while the fourth round went on for nearly 15 hours on July 14. The sources said the Indian Army has made elaborate arrangements to maintain the current level of troop and weapons deployment in all forward areas in eastern Ladakh and other sensitive high-altitude sectors in the harsh winter months. They said the situation remained tense at both the southern and northern bank of the Pangong lake area as well as in other friction points. There have been at least three attempts by the soldiers of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) to "intimidate" Indian troops along the northern and southern bank of Pangong lake area in the last three weeks where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the LAC in 45 years. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong Lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. On September 7, the Chinese troops again made an unsuccessful bid to close in on the Indian position and even fired shots in the air in the Mukhpari area of Rezang-La ridgeline on the southern bank of Pangong lake. As Jaishankar and Wang were set to hold talks in Moscow, Chinese soldiers fired a barrage of "warning shots" in the air on the North Bank of Pangong lake to "intimidate" the Indian troops, Indian Army sources had said. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has been occupying the areas between Finger 4 and Finger 8. The mountain spurs in the area are called Fingers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sixth-round-of-india-china-military-talks-lasts-14-hours-focus-on-defusing-tensions-at-friction-points-in-ladakh-891286.html
22-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to chair Covid-19 review meeting with CMs of 7 high-burden states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a high-level virtual meeting with chief ministers and health ministers of seven high-burden states on Wednesday to review the Covid-19 situation. These states are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab, an official statement said, noting that more than 63 per of the active cases in the country are concentrated in these seven states. They also account for 65.5 per cent of the total confirmed cases and 77 per cent of the total deaths. "Along with the other five states, Punjab and Delhi have reported an increase in the number of cases being reported recently. Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi are reporting high mortality with more than 2.0% Case Fatality Rate (CFR). Other than Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, their positivity rate is observed to be above the national average of 8.52 per cent," the statement said. The Centre, it added, has been leading the fight against Covid-19 in effective collaboration and close coordination with the state and union territory governments. The Union government is supporting them to ramp up healthcare and medical infrastructure, with the clinical management capacities of the doctors manning the ICUs having been substantially upgraded through the e-ICU tele-consultation exercise undertaken by the Health Ministry in collaboration with AIIMS, New Delhi. The statement said high-level reviews have ensured adequate availability of medical oxygen in hospitals and Covid healthcare facilities. The Centre is also regularly deputing multi-disciplinary teams to states and UTs to support and handhold them in matters of containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of the positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-chair-covid-19-review-meeting-with-cms-of-7-high-burden-states-891290.html
22-09-2020||National||India trials for Russia's 'Sputnik-V' vaccine may start in next few weeks||Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd could begin late-stage Indian clinical trials of Russia's potential coronavirus vaccine in the next few weeks, an executive at the Indian drugmaker said on Tuesday. Indian trials of the Sputnik-V vaccine candidate, being developed by Russia's sovereign wealth fund, will enroll 1,000-2,000 participants and be conducted at multiple government and private hospitals across the country, Deepak Sapra, CEO for API and pharmaceutical services at Dr. Reddy's, told Reuters. "We want to get to the first step - which is the commencement of the clinical trials by getting the necessary approvals from the Indian regulators - within the next few weeks," Sapra said. The trials are part of a deal between the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Dr Reddy's, in which the Indian firm will conduct Phase III studies in India, pursue local regulatory approvals and, subject to approval, distribute the finished vaccine product in India. RDIF will supply 100 million doses to Dr Reddy's. The RDIF has also reached agreements with Indian manufacturers to produce 300 million doses of the shot in India. Russia was the first country to grant regulatory approval for a novel coronavirus vaccine. Sputnik-V doses supplied in India will likely be a combination of Indian- and Russian-made doses, Sapra said, adding that RDIF and Dr Reddy's would soon identify potential manufacturers in India. The RDIF has said vaccine deliveries to India could begin in late 2020, but Sapra suggested it could take longer. "I think it's going to be several months before we accomplish all the steps in the process," he added. India, which has a population of more than 1.3 billion, is the world's second-worst affected country by Covid-19 behind the United States. For weeks, it has reported the world's highest daily jump in infections, which reached a total of 5.6 million on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-trials-for-russias-sputnik-v-vaccine-may-start-in-next-few-weeks-891297.html
22-09-2020||National||INS Viraat arrives at Alang in Gujarat for dismantling||INS Viraat, the world's longest-serving warship that was decommissioned by the Indian Navy three years ago, has arrived off the Alang coast in Gujarat for dismantling, an official said on Tuesday. The aircraft carrier began its final journey from the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai on Saturday and reached the waters at Alang in Bhavnagar district on Monday evening. It will be dismantled at the ship-breaking yard in Alang and then sold as scrap. The warship, which was inducted into the Indian Navy in 1987, was purchased by Shree Ram Group for a sum of Rs 38.54 crore at an auction in July this year. Government officials are on board the ship to carry out formalities as per the shipbreaking code, Shree Ram Group Chairman Mukesh Patel said. "After all the formalities are completed, subject to weather conditions and tide, we are scheduling its beaching at our yard for dismantling during high tide at 1 pm on September 28," he said. INS Viraat holds the record for being the world's longest-serving warship. It was the second centaur-class aircraft carrier which was in service with the Indian Navy for 29 years before being decommissioned in March 2017. There were proposals in the past to preserve it as a maritime museum. In July 2019, the central government said in Parliament that the decision to scrap INS Viraat was taken in due consultation with the Indian Navy. It is the second aircraft carrier to be broken down in India. In 2014, INS Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai. The aircraft carrier, in its earlier avatar, had won the Falklands War against Argentina in 1982 for the Royal British Navy. It weighs about 27,800 tonnes and served in the British Navy as HMS Hermes from November 1959 to April 1984 and after refurbishment, was commissioned into the Indian Navy. In late 80s, the Indian Navy purchased it at a cost of $65 million and it was re-commissioned on May 12, 1987.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-viraat-arrives-at-alang-in-gujarat-for-dismantling-891309.html
22-09-2020||National||Bills to set up Forensic Sciences University, Rashtriya Raksha University passed in RS||Two bills to set up the National Forensic Sciences University and the Rashtriya Raksha University were passed in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday by voice vote. Both the bills have already been cleared by Lok Sabha. The National Forensic Sciences University Bill seeks to establish a National Forensic Sciences University by upgrading the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University. The proposed university would facilitate and promote studies and research, and help achieve excellence in the field of forensic science in conjunction with applied behavioural science studies, law, criminology and other allied areas. Replying to a short discussion, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, who moved both the bills in the Upper House, said a proper forensic investigation plays an important role in a police investigation. Around 1.5 lakh cases were pending in the country due to lack of forensic professionals, he noted. Reddy also pointed out that there are over 1.14 lakh posts of forensic experts and the coming up of the university would help in filling such posts. The Rashtriya Raksha University Bill, on the other hand, seeks to establish the Rashtriya Raksha University in Gujarat. Its key objectives include providing dynamic and high standards of learning and research and providing a working environment dedicated to advancing research, education and training in the domain of policing. The debate on each of the two bills remained short as several opposition parties boycotted the House proceedings to protest the suspension of eight members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bills-to-set-up-forensic-sciences-university-rashtriya-raksha-university-passed-in-rs-891323.html
22-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to interact with fitness influencers, citizens on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with fitness influencers and citizens on Thursday during a nationwide "Fit India Dialogue" to celebrate the first anniversary of the Fit India Movement. The online interaction will see participants sharing tips and anecdotes from their fitness journey and the prime minister expressing his thoughts on the virtues of a healthy life, according to an official statement issued Tuesday. Cricketer Virat Kohli, model and avid runner Milind Soman, nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar and other fitness influencers will participate in the event. In times of Covid-19, fitness has become an even more important aspect of life, and this dialogue will see a timely and fruitful conversation on nutrition, wellness and various other aspects of fitness, the statement said. A brainchild of Modi, the Fit India Dialogue is yet another effort to involve citizens of the country to draw out a plan to make India a fit nation. "The basic tenet on which the Fit India Movement was envisaged, that of involving citizens to imbibe fun, easy and non-expensive ways in which to remain fit and therefore bring about a behavioural change which makes fitness an imperative part of every Indian's life, is being strengthened by this dialogue," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-interact-with-fitness-influencers-citizens-on-thursday-891344.html
22-09-2020||National||Supreme Court asks Shapoorji Pallonji group to maintain status quo on Tata Sons shares till October 28||The Supreme Court on Tuesday restrained Shapoorji Pallonji group and Cyrus Mistry from pledging or transferring Tata Sons shares owned by them. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde ordered them not to take any further action on the shares they have already pledged for raising money, as the court fixed October 28 as the date for final hearing the appeals related to Tata-Mistry tussle. After a brief submission by senior advocate Harish Salve, for Tata group and senior counsel C A Sundaram for the opposite side, the court directed the Shapoorji Pallonji Group to maintain status quo regarding pledging of their shares held in Tata Sons and not take any further action concerning transfer of pledgings already made. "The parties shall maintain status quo regarding transfer and pledging of shares and further action in regard to the transfer and pledging of shares already made," the court said in its order. Salve alleged mischief was being conducted by the group. He asked the court to stop sale of shares. In four weeks, the situation may be beyond the repairs, if it was not stopped. Sundaram, for his part, said Tata Sons' actions caused havoc and throttled him. He claimed the group had 60,000 employees and one lakh workers to feed. The move by Tata Sons came after Pallonji Group's agreement with Canada based Brookfield to raise Rs 3,750 crore by pledging Tata Sons shares. Tata Sons relied upon Articles of Association (AoA) to claim that it restricted Pallonji Group from transferring shares, without allowing Tata Sons right of first refusal. The Shapoorji Pallonji Group, through its two investment firms,  Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investments, held around 18% in Tata Sons. The group opposed Tata Sons plea, on the ground that pledging of shares was not the same as transferring ownership of shares. On January 10, the top court had stayed the NCLAT order restoring Mistry as executive chairman of the Tata Group, observing that there were "lacunae" in the orders passed by the tribunal. NCLAT had on December 18 ordered reinstatement of Mistry as the head of Tata Sons, the holding company of USD 110 billion salt-to-software conglomerate, saying his 2016 sacking was wrong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-shapoorji-pallonji-group-to-maintain-status-quo-on-tata-sons-shares-till-october-28-891355.html
22-09-2020||National||Court issues LoR to US for aiding CBI in probe against Mallya||A special CBI court in Mumbai has issued a Letter of Request to the United States for aiding the Central Bureau of Investigation in its probe into a multi- crore bank fraud case against Vijay Mallya. Special court judge Jayendra C Jagdale issued the Letter of Request (LoR) on Monday after the CBI filed an application for the same. The Central Bureau of Investigation said it needed some new evidence from the United States and permission from the US Attorney general for use of some evidence that the CBI already has received from the US. An LoR is a formal communication sent in writing by a court to a foreign court or concerned judicial authority in cases where probe or judicial proceedings are pending. The CBI recently approached the special court here for issuance of LoR to conduct a probe to ascertain utilisation of funds received in the US-based bank accounts of Mallya and now defunct Kingfisher Airlines (KAL). The probe agency had also prayed for collecting evidence pertaining to these bank accounts. The CBI told the court their probe in India has revealed that after availing loans from the IDBI Bank, the State Bank of India and other consortium of banks, the accused diverted the sanctioned amounts for purposes other than those avowed to the banks. Giving a specific example, the CBI said an aggregate amount of Rs 263.08 crore, out of loans availed from IDBI Bank in 2009, was diverted for purposes like payment of TDS overdues, lease rentals of corporate jet used by Mallya privately, payment of salaries and others. Citing another instance, the probe agency said a diversion of Rs 15.90 crore to Royal Challengers Sports Private Limited, a Bengaluru-based based IPL Team, from proceeds of SBI loan in May 2009 has also surfaced. Similarly, there are significant diversions to related parties, associates and entities like Force India Formula One team, it said. It further submitted that there are other large scale transfer of funds from loans availed by KAL to its own USA/overseas accounts. Thus, there are reasons to believe that the loans availed from Indian banks were diverted out of the country and invested by Mallya in several overseas companies based in USA and other countries, the CBI said. The funds lying in such accounts are proceeds of crime, it added. Accepting CBI's submissions, judge Jagdale on Monday ordered issuance of LoR to the Attorney General, Washington DC, for conducting probe and providing evidence with regard to the accounts associated with Mallya and KAL. The case against Mallya pertains to an alleged fraud of Rs 900 crore in the IDBI Bank. The embattled liquor baron also faces probe in another case related to alleged fraud amounting of more than Rs 9,000 crore in a consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-issues-lor-to-us-for-aiding-cbi-in-probe-against-mallya-891359.html
22-09-2020||National||Centre spent Rs 393 crore on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme ads since 2014: WCD||The Centre has spent Rs 393 crore since 2014 for advertising the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme that aims to improve child sex ratio, the Ministry of Women and Child Development told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. According to data provided by Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani in the Upper House in reply to a query, Rs 96.71 lakh has been spent till September 17 in the financial year 2020-21 on advertisement or media advocacy of the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme. In 2019-20 fiscal, Rs 23.67 crore has been spent for the purpose. The government spent Rs 18.91 crore in 2014-15, Rs 24.54 crore in 2015-16, Rs 29.79 crore in 2016-17 and Rs 135.71 crore in 2017-18 and Rs 160 crore in 2018-19, according to the data. Irani said the evaluation of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme carried out by the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) in August indicated a positive behavioural change towards the value of girl child. "Sex Ratio at Birth (as per Health Management Information System of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) has been set as a parameter for monitoring the progress of this scheme. Sex Ratio at Birth has shown an improvement of 16 points at National level from 918 (2014-15) to 934(2019-20)," she said in a written reply. The Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme addresses issues relating to declining child sex ratio and aims to change the mindset of people to make them appreciate the value of girl child, Irani said. It is a tri-ministerial, convergent effort of the Ministries of Women and Child Development, Health and Family Welfare, and Education, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-spent-rs-393-crore-on-beti-bachao-beti-padhao-scheme-ads-since-2014-wcd-891383.html
22-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Opposition boycotts Rajya Sabha proceedings; Upper House passes 7 key bills in 3.5 hours||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, The Opposition on Tuesday announced the boycott of Rajya Sabha till suspension of its eight MPs gets revoked; Rajya Sabha in a matter of three and half hours passed seven key bills including one that removes cereals, pulses and onion from the essential commodities list; The sixth round of military talks between India and China that lasted 14 hours focused on ways to defuse rising tensions ahead of a harsh winter.  The Opposition on Tuesday announced the boycott of Rajya Sabha till suspension of its eight MPs gets revoked even as the BJP-led NDA sought to play the 'Bihar pride' card ahead of the Assembly elections in the state with Deputy Chairman Harivansh going on a 24-hour fast, serving tea to protesting lawmakers and Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeting in his support. In one of the most productive days in its history, Rajya Sabha in a matter of three and half hours passed seven key bills including one that removes cereals, pulses and onion from the essential commodities list and another that abolishes penalty for certain offences by companies. This is after most of the Opposition including the Congress, Left parties, the TMC, the Samajwadi Party and the NCP decided to boycott House proceedings in protest against the suspension of eight MPs for the remainder of the session for unruly behaviour. The sixth round of military talks between India and China that lasted 14 hours focused on ways to defuse rising tensions along the treacherous and high-altitude friction points in eastern Ladakh considering the approaching harsh winter, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday. The outcome of the marathon talks on Monday was not immediately known, but it is learnt that both sides agreed to meet again to continue negotiations. Actor-model Rhea Chakraborty will remain in jail with a Mumbai court on Tuesday extending her judicial custody by another fortnight, that is, till October 6 Couple of weeks ago, Rhea was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for alleged sourcing and purchasing drugs for her live-in partner and actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd may begin late-stage Indian clinical trials of Russia's potential coronavirus vaccine in the next few weeks, an executive at the Indian drugmaker said on Tuesday. Indian trials of the Sputnik-V vaccine candidate, being developed by Russia's sovereign wealth fund RDIF, will enroll 1,000-2,000 participants and be conducted at multiple government and private hospitals across the country, Deepak Sapra, CEO for API and pharmaceutical services at Dr. Reddy's, told news agency Reuters. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-opposition-boycotts-rajya-sabha-proceedings-upper-house-passes-7-key-bills-in-35-hours-891388.html
22-09-2020||National||Lockdown woes: Over one crore migrant labourers returned to home states on foot||The Centre on Tuesday said that more than one crore migrant labourers returned to their home states on foot during March-June 2020, including those who travelled during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. As per the data compiled by Ministry of Labour and Employment, more than 1.6 crore migrant workers, including those who travelled on foot during the lockdown, returned to their home states, Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V K Singh said in a written reply in Lok Sabha. As per provisional available information, 81,385 accidents occurred on the roads (including national highways) during the period March-June 2020 with 29,415 fatalities, he informed the Parliament, during the ongoing Monsoon Session. He also said that the Road Transport Ministry does not maintain a separate data in respect of migrant workers who have died in road accidents during the coronavirus lockdown. He said that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued regular advisories to state/union territories to take all necessary measures to provide shelters, food, water, health facilities and also proper counselling to migrant workers. The Road Transport Ministry also assisted the movement of migrant labourers walking on the various national highways across the country by providing them food, drinking water, basic medicines and footwears, etc," the minister said. They were also provided with the resting places and assistance in terms of the arrangement of transport with the help of local administration to take them to the places nearest to their destinations, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-woes-over-one-crore-migrant-labourers-returned-to-home-states-on-foot-891401.html
22-09-2020||National||Girls turn to football pitch to tackle child marriage in India||When India began lifting its coronavirus lockdown, Meera, a child bride from northwestern India, was focused on just one thing: when she could start playing football again. In Rajasthan, one of the Indian regions where early marriage persists despite being outlawed more than a decade ago, a girls' soccer initiative is tackling gender inequality, and giving child brides the confidence to fight for their rights. "The day I was married, I was supposed to go to my first football camp. I protested, but my father didn't listen to me," the soccer-crazy 15-year-old told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone. "I'm more assertive now. I'm no longer shy. I started playing again about a month ago... The question of me leaving does not arise," said Meera, who was married three years ago in a mass wedding along with her two sisters. In keeping with the usual practice for girls married early in Rajasthan, most child brides do not have their 'gauna' - the ritual sending off to live with their husband and in-laws - until they turn 18, the legal marriage age in India. But as the coronavirus pandemic closed schools and deepened rural hardship in one of the world's worst-hit countries, Meera feared the 'gauna' might come early for girls in her village. UNICEF data from 2018 found that about 27% of girls in India get married before they turn 18, down from 47% a decade earlier, but advocates have warned that the Covid-19 crisis could lead to a spike in child marriage and put paid to recent progress. Of 223 million women and girls in India who were married off as children, almost half were wed before turning 15, according to statistics by the United Nations' children's agency UNICEF. 'SEEN THE WORLD' Meera and her team-mates got their first taste of the Beautiful Game thanks to a programme launched four years ago by the non-profit Mahila Jan Adhikar Samiti (MJAS), which aimed to fight child marriage and help girls achieve their dreams. It focuses on four villages in the Ajmer district of Rajasthan where early marriage is common. When Indira Pancholi, founder of MJAS and joint head of the Girls Not Brides Rajasthan Alliance, got funding for a sport-based initiative, she went out to ask girls which was their favourite game, only to find most had never played anything. But in the end, they opted for soccer. "We didn't know why they chose football, but realised from their conversations that they wanted to run in an open ground," Pancholi said. More than a quarter of the 170 girls who belong to Meera's team were also married as children or engaged to be married. When the coronavirus lockdown brought India to a virtual standstill in March, Sudhir Joseph, joint secretary at the Rajasthan Football Association, which coaches the girls, said he worried that many of them would give up. "I was scared they would drop out... But they are still interested," he said, adding that the game had boosted the girls' confidence and broadened their horizons by allowing them to travel for games. "Football took them out of their homes... they have seen the world outside their villages," he said. When Rashi, 17, returned from her first football camp wearing shorts and a t-shirt and not the wide skirt, blouse and long scarf that she had set off in, her parents reacted angrily. "The villagers protested and said the campaigners were sullying us by making us play a boys' game. Even girls who were not playing would say we were sullied," said Rashi, who was married two years ago and declined to give her real name. Determined not to be cowed, they started wearing leggings under their shorts. Little by little, parents and neighbours began to accept the football-playing girls as they brought trophies home from local tournaments or matches in big cities. "We live in a remote village, so we had no idea what this (girls playing football) was... we couldn't trust the girls going out on their own," said Ramlal Bhadana, a member of Hasiyawas village council in Rajasthan. "But the girls never missed a day of practice, even now... and they started doing well in studies. Five girls from our village are studying in college," he said. 'COURAGE TO SPEAK UP' Pancholi said football had turned out to be a "great strategy", highlighting the success of convincing the girls' families to let them take part in week-long camps. The camps were liberating, Meera said, recalling how they allowed her to improve her technique and strategy on the pitch while also learning about child marriage laws, career options and meeting legal officials from her home district. Meera, who wants to train to become a football coach when she finishes school, spent some of her free time during lockdown visiting local families to encourage them to send their daughters to play. She said much still needs to be done. "I want them to have the courage to speak up and not get trapped in marriage," she said. "Besides, if more of us step out, it would become normal for the villagers to see girls playing."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/girls-turn-to-football-pitch-to-tackle-child-marriage-in-india-891419.html
22-09-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi, Rahul return from abroad after her medical check-up||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi returned from abroad early Tuesday, sources said. Gandhi, 73, had gone to the United States for her routine medical check up on September 12, two days ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament. Rahul Gandhi had accompanied her during the visit. Sources had said her medical check-up was overdue and was delayed due to the COvid-19 pandemic. Gandhi had cleared the Congress' organisational restructuring before leaving for the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-rahul-return-from-abroad-after-her-medical-check-up-891420.html
22-09-2020||National||Court sends six Al-Qaeda members to NIA custody||A Delhi court on Tuesday sent six alleged Al-Qaeda members, arrested recently from West Bengal and Kerala, to four-day NIA custody, the court sources said. Special Judge Praveen Singh handed over the accused to NIA for custodial interrogation after they were produced before the court in an in-chamber proceeding. Three other suspects of the terror outfit arrested in the case were also sent for custodial interrogation on Monday, the sources said. According to the NIA, it had conducted simultaneous raids at several locations at Kerala and West Bengal and arrested nine terrorists associated with Pakistan sponsored module of Al-Qaeda. The agency said that the arrested men were radicalised by Pakistan-based Al-Qaeda terrorists on social media platforms and were motivated to launch attacks at multiple locations, including in the National Capital Region (NCR). The module was actively involved in fund-raising and some of its members were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition, the official said, adding that the arrests have prevented possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-sends-six-al-qaeda-members-to-nia-custody-891421.html
22-09-2020||National||Kolkata Police official arrested for harassing transgender activist||A Kolkata Police official was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly harassing a transgender activist and two women who were accompanying her. The accused were arrested after the activist and her friends lodged a complaint with the Bowbazar Police Station. According to police sources the incident took place on Monday night when the activist, a member of the state’s Transgender Welfare Board, and her two friends went to a cafe for tea. The accused allegedly stooped their car when they came out of the cafe and on being asked why he was blocking the car he started to misbehave with them, sources said. Then the activist and her friend dialed 100 and soon after lodged a written complaint. According to police sources although there was an altercation between the two sides but the nature of it was still not clear. They further revealed that currently investigators are examining the video of the incident shot by the complainants and recording the statement of those who were present at the spot during the incident. The accused was later released on bail. However, the activist alleged that when police arrived at the spot after she dialed 100 they were addressing the accused as “ Sir” which made them realise that he was a police official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-police-official-arrested-for-harassing-transgender-activist-891424.html
22-09-2020||National||HC vacates stay on publication of book on Asaram's conviction||The Delhi High Court Tuesday set aside an interim stay on the publication of a book on self-styled preacher Asaram Bapu -- ‘Gunning for the Godman: The True Story Behind Asaram’s Conviction’. In April 2018, Asaram was sentenced to life imprisonment in the 2013 case of sexual assault on a minor. Justice Najmi Waziri said the trial court's order granting ex-parte injunction and staying release of the book on the eve of its launch is set aside. The high court, which was of the view that no case was made out to grant ex-parte injunction, said it would be against free speech to debar all discussions. The high court passed the order on a plea by publisher HarperCollins seeking vacation of the interim stay on the publication and distribution of the book granted by the trial court on the suit by woman co-convict Sanchita Gupta alias Shilpi. The high court directed that the already printed copies of the book be sold along with disclaimer attached as flyer in the book that it is based on the judgement of a trial court against which an appeal is pending in the Rajasthan High Court. The disclaimer should be attached either inside of the front cover or back cover, it said, adding that for online sale, the disclaimer should be given electronically. The publisher approached the high court challenging the trial court’s September 4 ex-parte interim injunction order restraining the publication of the book. It said the stay should be vacated. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the publisher, had said “This is very serious. All the books have already been distributed to the distributors. It has become a trend in the last few years that they move court on the eve of release of a book and get an ex-parte stay.” He had said the plaintiff woman has not come to court with clean hands and she had not annexed a copy of the judgement in the rape case before the trial court which could have then seen whether objections raised by her have any basis in the law. He said the book was written on the basis of the record of the case and it was a story of an investigating officer of the case, based on the evidence recorded during the trial and the God-man along with the plaintiff was convicted. However, the counsel for the woman opposed the appeal saying the contents of the book were not found in record and if it is allowed to be published, it will cause her irreparable loss. Senior advocate Devdutt Kamat, appearing for the woman, had said there was defamatory material published in the book. Amazon and Flipkart were deleted as parties after they submitted that they were not necessary parties to the case and they will abide by the court’s order to be passed in the suit. The book is authored by Ajay Lamba, Additional Commissioner of Police, Jaipur and Sanjiv Mathur, and was scheduled to be released on September 5. On September 4, an additional district judge had stayed the publication of the book on the ground that the appeal against the conviction in the rape case was sub-judice before the Rajasthan High Court. In April 2018, Asaram was sentenced to life term in the 2013 case of rape of a minor firl. Co-convicts Sharatchandra and Sanchita alias Shilpi were sentenced to 20 years in prison and co-accused Shiva and Prakash were acquitted. In the suit, Sanchita had argued that allowing the publication of the book would prejudice her appeal and run counter to her rights under Article 21 of the Constitution. It was claimed that the book was a one-sided narration of events and did not even follow the trial record.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-vacates-stay-on-publication-of-book-on-asarams-conviction-891426.html
22-09-2020||National||Air tickets booked before and during coronavirus lockdown refundable, DGCA tells SC||In case the tickets were booked prior to the lockdown up to May 24, the refund would be governed by the credit shell and incentive scheme, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) told the top court. The Centre had earlier introduced an incentive scheme by which 0.5 per cent interest will accrue on the original fare lying in the credit shell from the date of cancellation of the flight till June 30, 2020. Beyond this period, the passenger can avail 0.75 per cent interest every month till March 31, 2021. Following the clarification sought by the apex court on September 9 in a PIL filed by NGO Pravasi Legal Cell, the DGCA filed a supplementary affidavit, saying that the refunds were broadly divided into three categories. The first category is of those who booked tickets prior to the lockdown for travel up to May 24 (as calibrated domestic operation recommenced from May 25, 2020), who will be governed by the proposed credit shell and incentive scheme. In the second category, passengers who booked tickets during the lockdown will be entitled to an immediate refund of fares by the respective airlines as the latter were not supposed to book such tickets. In the third category are persons who booked tickets at any point in time, but for travel after May 24, to whom refunds will be governed by CAR (Civil Aviation Requirement) provisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-tickets-booked-before-and-during-coronavirus-lockdown-refundable-dgca-tells-sc-891429.html
22-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi has visited 58 countries since 2015 at Rs 517 crore||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has visited 58 countries since 2015 and a total expenditure of Rs 517 crore was incurred on them, the government said on Tuesday. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan provided details of the Prime Minister's visits abroad since 2015, including their outcome, in a written reply in Rajya Sabha. "The total expenditure on these visits was Rs 517.82 crore," he said. According to the details provided by Muraleedharan, the Prime Minister made five visits each to the US, Russia and China, and multiple trips to some other countries like Singapore, Germany, France, Sri Lanka and the United Arab Emirates. Some of the visits the Prime Minister undertook were multi-nation trips while some were standalone bilateral visits. Modi's last trip was to Brazil on November 13-14 in 2019 where he attended a summit of influential grouping BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa). Muraleedharan said Modi's visits to the countries have enhanced their understanding of India’s perspectives on bilateral, regional and global issues. He said the visits helped in strengthening India's relations with the countries in a wide range of sectors including trade and investment, technology, defence collaboration and people-to-people contact. "These, in turn, have contributed to India’s national development agenda to promote economic growth and well being of our people," the minister said. "India is now increasingly contributing to shaping the global agenda at the multilateral level including on climate change, trans-national crime and terrorism, cybersecurity and nuclear non-proliferation, and offering to the world its own unique initiatives for global issues like the International Solar Alliance," he added. To a separate question on Nepal, Muraleedharan said India’s age-old ties with the neighbouring country are "unique and special", based on shared history, geography, culture, close people–to–people ties, mutual security and close economic linkages. Asked whether the government is aware that Nepal has signed a number of transit and transportation treaties with China in the past few years to shrug off its dependence on India, he said New Delhi's ties with Kathmandu stand on their own merit. "Two–thirds of Nepal’s global trade is with India and over 90 per cent of Nepal’s third country import-export transit is through India. India's ties with Nepal stand on their own merit, and are independent of Nepal's relations with third countries," he said. India's ties with Nepal came under strain after the Himalayan nation came up with a new political map in May showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand as its territories. India maintains that these areas along the border with Nepal in Uttarakhand belong to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-has-visited-58-countries-since-2015-at-rs-517-crore-891432.html
22-09-2020||National||Enforcement Directorate attaches Rs 203-cr worth Dubai assets of Iqbal Mirchi's family||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday said it has attached Dubai-based assets worth over Rs 203 crore of late gangster Iqbal Mirchi's family in connection with a money laundering case. The attached assets include 15 commercial and residential properties belonging to the "family members" of Mirchi. They include a hotel called Midwest Hotel Apartment, the ED said. They are valued at Rs 203.27 crore and have been provisionally attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the central probe agency said in a statement. Officials said these assets were transferred to the Mirchi family by a Dubai-based company owned by the Wadhawan brothers, Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan. The Wadhawan's are the promoters of the Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). They were arrested by the ED in another money laundering case linked to allegedly dubious loans given by Yes Bank. Kapil Wadhawan was also arrested by the agency in connection with the Mirchi PMLA case but he later obtained bail. With this action, the total attachment in this case by the ED stands at Rs 776 crore. Two similar attachment orders were issued by the ED in December last year. Mirchi, who died in 2013 in London, was alleged to be the right-hand man of global terrorist Dawood Ibrahim in drug trafficking and extortion crimes. "He (Mirchi) was an international drugs dealer and smuggler who had amassed huge wealth and acquired various immovable properties and businesses across the globe," the ED had said earlier. The agency alleged Mirchi "indirectly owned various properties in and around Mumbai". It has filed a criminal case against Mirchi, his family and others to probe the money laundering charges for alleged illegal dealings in the purchase and sale of costly real estate assets in Mumbai. This PMLA case is based on multiple FIRs lodged by the Mumbai police. The agency had filed a charge sheet in this case before a Mumbai court in December and the court had subsequently issued open-ended non-bailable warrants against Mirchi's sons Asif Memon and Junaid Memon and his wife Hajra Memon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcement-directorate-attaches-rs-203-cr-worth-dubai-assets-of-iqbal-mirchis-family-891434.html
22-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha passes three Labour Code Bills amid absence of Opposition||Opposition voice was missing as the Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed three Labour Code Bills that replace 25 laws governing the sector, a move that could cheer the industry. Opposition parties were raring to raise their concerns on the Industrial Relation Code Bill, the Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code and the Code On Social Security. However, opposition parties – Congress, Trinamool Congress, DMK, NCP, Left parties among others were missing from the Lok Sabha protesting against the Agri reform Bills and suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members. Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Gangwar said the labour codes were being enacted with a view to balance the interests, rights and obligations of employees and the employers in the country, The Industrial Relation Code allows companies having up to 300 workers to fire people or close units without prior approval of the government. Companies having more than 300 workers would require to apply for approval, but the proposal would be deemed to have been approved if authorities do not respond to their request. The three labour codes were expected to allow states to roll out reforms and empower them to exempt any company or companies from complying with one or more labour laws, a move that is expected to boost investment. Gangwar said the Social Security Code talks about universalizing social security by bringing informal workers, gig and platform workers under its ambit. He said companies having less than 20 workers can voluntarily join EPFO to get social security benefits and internal workers will be free to voluntarily join employee state insurance schemes for getting healthcare benefits. Gangwar said that the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code has a provision that asks employers to have a free health check-up of workers above a certain age. It also grants workers the legal right to be given an appointment letter. Gangwar said the OSH Code has provisions for “Negotiating Union” and “Negotiating Council” for undertaking negotiation on any dispute. “With conferring of this recognition, resolving disputes through dialogue would be facilitated and workers would be better able to get their rights,” the minister said. Among the non-NDA parties who participated in the discussion were BJD, YSRCP and TDP who supported the labour reforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-three-labour-code-bills-amid-absence-of-opposition-891435.html
22-09-2020||National||Opposition sets three conditions for returning to Parliament; let MPs first express regret, says govt||The Opposition on Tuesday set three conditions for returning to Parliament after their boycott but the government said it could revoke the suspension of eight MPs only if they expressed regret. The Opposition announced the boycott of the proceedings in Rajya Sabha by Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad while in Lok Sabha, it was done by Leader of Congress Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Soon after the Zero Hour, Azad told the Upper House that they would boycott the proceedings till the suspension of its members is revoked while also demanding that the government bring another bill to ensure that no private player should buy food grains from farmers below the MSP fixed by the government. The third condition was that the government should ensure MSP as recommended by the Swaminathan Committee as well as procurement by central, state governments and FCI should not be done below MSP. "Till the government does these three things, we will boycott the session," he said in the House while leading the walkout. Emphasising that time constraint has become a major issue of discontent among opposition parties, he said the sense of the House should not mean mere numbers. "I think the day before yesterday was the last straw that broke the Camel's back," he said referring to Deputy Chairman Harivansh going ahead with the passage of the Bill while the Opposition wanted the passage postponed by a day. While former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda maintained that the government and Opposition should sit together to run the House, Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav referred to the Sunday incident in the Upper House and said, "A mistake has taken place by opposition members, but elders should be large-hearted. I urge that their suspension be revoked and I apologise on their behalf". K Keshava Rao (TRS) said whatever happened in the House is condemnable and "we are sorry for it" while DMK's Tiruchi Siva said opposition members got agitated after the chair did not allow division of votes. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, however, said, the Chair has been dragged into the controversy and said members should not put the blame on the chair. "I appeal to all members to rethink their decision of boycott and participate in the discussion," he said expressing his disagreement with the suspended MPs who justified their action and showed no remorse. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that the government is not hell-bent upon keeping the MPs out of the House. "If they express regret, the government will look into it," he said. Leader of the House Thawarchand Gehlot said the suspended members tried to portray that it is the mistake of the Chair. "This is not proper. Everyone is condemning that day's incident and saying it is sad. LoP also termed it sad but he tried to prove it by saying against the Chair, that the chair had taken a wrong decision. This is not proper." "Breaking mikes, sitting on the table, showing hands at Harivansh Ji, climbing on the table, tearing the rule book and bill's copy. This is a condemnable and sad state of affairs," he added. JD(U) floor leader RCP Singh said "What was their intention as they were tearing papers and throwing at Harivash babu. Division can happen only when there will be order. They showed aggression towards Harivansh. It is his (Harivansh) decency that no untoward incident took place. They disobeyed, staged dharna as if fighting for the freedom of the country. This should not be forgiven." The issue had its echo in Lok Sabha where Congress' Chowdhury was prevented by Speaker Om Birla from raising the issue as it concerned another House of Parliament. Chowdhury said all opposition parties are boycotting Parliament in solidarity with the Rajya Sabha MPs. "You have compelled us to do so," he said while Trinamool Congress' Kalyan Banerjee and TRS' Nama Nageshwar Rao also supported the boycott.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-sets-three-conditions-for-returning-to-parliament-let-mps-first-express-regret-says-govt-891440.html
22-09-2020||National||Covid-19: CBSE conducts compartment exam for class 10, 12 at over 1,200 centres||The compartment examination for class 10 and 12 began on Tuesday at 1,268 centres across the country amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The board has also given a chance to class 12 students to appear for the exam if they were unsatisfied with the marks awarded to them on the basis of an alternate assessment scheme after the exams were cancelled due to the spread of Covid-19. However, class 10 students have not got any option to improve their performance. Over 2.3 lakh candidates are appearing for the compartment exam this year. While class 10 students appeared for Social Science exam, for class 12 exams of multiple subjects were scheduled, including Political Sciences, Physics, Biology, History and Accountancy. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Tuesday suggested that the CBSE declare the results of compartment examination expeditiously and asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) to ensure that students get admission in colleges saying "these are exceptional times". "All candidates will carry their own hand sanitiser in transparent bottles and (their own) water bottles, and will be required to cover their mouth and nose with mask or cloth. Students were allotted centre in their home school only unless they had placed a request otherwise due to change in location during lockdown," a senior board official said. "Optional examination for class 12 students whose result has been declared based on the assessment scheme and wish to improve their performance, is also be conducted with the compartment examination. The marks obtained by a candidate in these optional examinations will be treated as final for those who have opted to take these examinations," the official added. The results of the board exams, which were cancelled in view of the pandemic, were announced in July on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme. Girls outshone boys by nearly six percentage points in the CBSE class 12 examination results. The overall pass percentage increased by 5.38 points this year. While 83.40 per cent students cleared the exam last year, 88.78 per cent students cleared it this year. Marks were awarded on the basis of marks scored by a student in his or her best performing subjects, according to the four-pointer assessment scheme. Students were divided into four categories. The first had students who sat in tests for all their subjects; their results have been declared on the basis of their performance in all the papers. Students in the second category had appeared for more than three subjects. They have been awarded marks for subjects they did not appear for based on the average of the marks obtained by them in the three best performing subjects. The board identified a third category of students who appeared in only three subjects. For them, the average of marks obtained in the two best performing subjects has been awarded in the subjects whose examinations were not conducted. The students in the fourth category were mainly from the February riot-affected northeast Delhi region, where exams had to be postponed. The results of these students have been declared on the basis of their performance in the subjects they took the test for, besides their performance in internal or practical project assessment. The board also decided against announcing a merit list this year in view of the exceptional circumstances. The number of students scoring over 95 per cent in class 12 exam this year is more than double the 2019 figure of 17,693, the CBSE said. This year, when the examinations were disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic, the figure more than doubled, with 38,686 students scoring above 95 per cent. Similarly, the number of students who scored above 90 per cent also increased from about 94,000 students in 2019 to almost 1.6 lakh this year, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cbse-conducts-compartment-exam-for-class-10-12-at-over-1200-centres-891441.html
22-09-2020||National||SC dismisses plea against order denying bail to large number of prisoners in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea against a decision by the High-powered Committee (HPC) of the Maharashtra government, excluding a large number of people arrested or convicted under the special laws for release on bail or parole, amid ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, "the categorisation in our view cannot be considered as unreasonable" and the "exclusion made has a reasonable basis and cannot be termed arbitrary". The court rejected a petition filed by activist Medha Patkar and NGO, National Alliance for People's Movement and Patkar, against the Bombay HC's August 5 order which upheld the decision on classification of prisoners for temporary parole as well as interim bail. In its judgement, the court said, "All that the HPC has denied is the benefit of seeking interim bail in view of the Covid-19 situation and no other legal right has been denied." "Such of those persons charged or convicted under the special laws... cannot treat the pandemic as fortuitous circumstance to secure bail to which they were otherwise not entitled to in law by claiming equal treatment," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. On March 23, acting Suo Motu, the top court took judicial notice of the necessity of maintaining social distancing in the prisons in the light of Covid-19 and directed the states to constitute a High-Powered Committee so as to release the prisoners on interim bail or emergency parole. The panel in Maharashtra decided that those who are accused or convicted of offences punishable with imprisonment of seven years or less shall be released on interim bail or emergency parole. However, it said the directions would not apply to the prisoners who are accused of or convicted for offences under the Special Acts like MCOCA, PMLA, NDPS, UAPA etc or the serious economic offences. The court noted as on July 24, 2020, 10338 prisoners were released on interim bail or parole and presently 26,279 prisoners are in prison. Temporary prisons have been set up in 36 locations and about 2597 prisoners have been shifted over there and more will be sent there to avoid overcrowding. The court said the HPC may modify its guidelines if the measures were not sufficient to deal with the situation. "In circumstances where there is any individuous discrimination amongst the prisoners in same category and similarly placed, it would be open for the competent court to examine the same to that limited extent when grievance is raised by the person who is denied the benefit if he/she is entitled to such benefit," the bench said. The petitioners led by advocates S B Talekar, P B Suresh and Vipin Nair, submitted that 10 people, including four prison staff, have died due to Covid-19, and about 2,500 people are affected over there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-against-order-denying-bail-to-large-number-of-prisoners-in-maharashtra-891457.html
22-09-2020||National||Businessman Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry's daughter loses Rs 90,000 in bank fraud||An unidentified person fraudulently withdrew Rs 90,000 from the bank account of 62- year-old daughter of billionaire businessman Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry, a police official said on Tuesday. An offence has been registered in connection with the cyber fraud at the Colaba Police Station in South Mumbai, he said. The incident came to light in July when Jayesh Merchant (60), Mistry-led companys deputy general manager (accounts), received messages about withdrawal of the amount from the bank account on his mobile phone, the official said. The bank account belongs to Laila Rustom Jehangir, one of the two daughters of Mistry, a construction tycoon. Laila stays in Dubai and had authorised her father to manage the account on her behalf, the official said. Mistry, in 2018, had authorised his company director Firoz Bhatena to oversee financial activities in the account. Bhatena, in turn, had entrusted the task to Merchant, he said. Merchants mobile number was given to the bank for transaction alerts, the official said. Since the bank account was quite old, transactions were done only through cheques, he said. After receiving messages about cash withdrawals, Merchant enquired with the bank, which informed him that Rs 90,000 had been taken out from the account in multiple transactions using a debit card, the official said. Merchant then lodged a complaint with the Colaba Police Station. Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered under sections 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and also 66C (identity theft) and 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the Information Technology Act against an unidentified person, he said, adding further probe was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/businessman-pallonji-shapoorji-mistrys-daughter-loses-rs-90000-in-bank-fraud-891470.html
22-09-2020||National||There was no requirement for mandatory Covid-19 test during Trump's India visit: Govt||There was no requirement for mandatory Covid-19 testing when US President Donald Trump visited India from February 24 to 25, the government said on Tuesday. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, in a written reply to a query in Rajya Sabha, said the mandatory screening for Covid-19 of all international passengers arriving in India was implemented from March 4. The minister was asked whether the US President's staff and delegation were tested for the Covid-19 during the visit. "At the time of President Trump’s visit, that is February 24-25, there was no requirement of mandatory Covid-19 test for travellers coming from foreign countries," Muraleedharan said. He mentioned that the World Health Organisation declared novel coronavirus a pandemic on March 11. "The requirement of mandatory universal screening of all international passengers arriving in 21 airports in India for Covid-19 was implemented by the government of India with effect from March 4," Muraleedharan said. "Therefore, during President Trump's visit to India, established norms and protocols for handling such high-level visits were followed," he said. During his India visit, Trump was accompanied by First Lady Melania, daughter Ivanka, son-in-law Jared Kushner and the top brass of his administration. Asked as to when did the government first receive information from the US about the planned visit of the US President, Muraleedharan said dates for the State visit were decided in mutual consultation by the two sides. Replying to a separate question, Muraleedharan said India provided assistance in the form of medicines and medical equipment to over 150 countries to fight the coronavirus pandemic. The assistance included grants-in-aid valued at around Rs 80 crore to 82 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-was-no-requirement-for-mandatory-covid-19-test-during-trumps-india-visit-govt-891479.html
22-09-2020||National||16 countries provide visa-free entry to Indian passport holders: Govt||Sixteen countries, including Nepal, Bhutan and Mauritius, provide visa-free entry to Indian passport holders, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. In a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said there are 43 countries which provide visa-on-arrival facility and there are 36 countries which provide e-visa facility to Indian ordinary passport holders. "There are 16 countries which provide visa-free entry to Indian ordinary passport holders," Muraleedharan said. Barbados, Bhutan, Dominica, Grenada, Haiti, Hong Kong SAR, the Maldives, Mauritius, Montserrat, Nepal, Niue Island, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Senegal, Serbia and Trinidad and Tobago, provide visa free entry to Indian ordinary passport holders, according to the information provided by the minister. Iran, Indonesia and Myanmar were among the 43 countries which provide visa-on-arrival facility to Indian ordinary passport holders. Sri Lanka, New Zealand and Malaysia are among the are 36 countries which provide e-visa facility to Indian ordinary passport holders, according to the information provided by the minister. The government has been making efforts to increase the number of countries that provide visa free travel, visa-on-arrival and e-visa facility so as to further ease international travel for Indians, Muraleedharan said. While issuance of visa and visa related process is the sovereign and unilateral decision of the respective country, the matter regarding easier and liberalised visa policy for Indian nationals is taken up regularly in bilateral meetings and forums with foreign countries, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-countries-provide-visa-free-entry-to-indian-passport-holders-govt-891490.html
22-09-2020||National||Israel, India sign MoU to collaborate in tech innovation||An agreement was signed on Tuesday between Israel's Start-Up Nation Central and India's International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology (iCreate) to initiate a bilateral program to accelerate innovation and technology cooperation. In a statement, the Israeli embassy said the aim of this program is to bring together Israeli and Indian entrepreneurs and start-ups to collaborate on innovative projects. The MoU was signed by Eugene Kandel, CEO of Start-Up Nation Central from Jerusalem and Anupam Jalote, CEO of iCreate from Ahmedabad. Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to the government and Sanjeev Kumar Singla, India's Ambassador to Israel were present at the event through video-conferencing, while Ron Malka, Israel's Ambassador to India and Yaakov Finkelstein, Israel's Consul General in Mumbai were physically present, the statement said. “This agreement is an important milestone in the growing innovation collaboration between Israel and India and stands in line with the visions of the Prime Ministers. Israel has the most start-ups per capita worldwide, and India is the top innovation destination in Asia," Malka said.  "Together, both countries continue to form partnerships and collaborations in technology and innovation to solve a range of global issues like Covid 19, renewable energy and more,  implementing high end technologies like AI, big data analysis and more,” Malka said. iCreate and Start-Up Nation Central will initiate a unique Online Acceleration Program for market penetration to work with relevant technologies that match up with requirements originating from Indian corporations, it said. The program will begin by defining a set of challenges that will then be shortlisted to the most relevant solutions and technology providers. This will be followed by a matchmaking mechanism that will be developed by leveraging both countries' networks to support the process of adaptation and piloting these solutions in India, the statement added. The Israel-India growing partnership has developed into a strategic partnership in recent years, and since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, the two countries have collaborated on a number of joint ventures such as Operation Open Skies and integration of Israeli medical equipment and technologies in Indian hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/israel-india-sign-mou-to-collaborate-in-tech-innovation-891496.html
22-09-2020||National||'China was building military infrastructure along LAC amid attempts to repair bilateral ties post-Doklam'||China started building at least 13 new military positions along the disputed boundary with India during the period when the two sides were trying to mend the bilateral relations, which were strained by June-August 2017 military stand-off at Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan. A report by the leading geopolitical intelligence platform, Stratfor Worldview, revealed that China started construction of at least 13 new military positions, including three air bases, five permanent air defence positions and five heliports near its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India after the 72-day-long standoff at Doklam in Bhutan in 2017. It was the same period when New Delhi and Beijing had a series of engagements, including between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chinese President Xi Jinping. “The 2017 Doklam crisis appears to have shifted China’s strategic objectives, with China more than doubling its total number of airbases, air defence positions, and heliports near the Indian border over the past three years,” Sim Tack, a military analyst, wrote in a report on Stratfor. The report indicated that China stepped up construction of military infrastructure along its LAC with India in the months leading to April-May this year, when the current stand-off in eastern Ladakh started. An infographic published by Stratfor Worldview along with the report indicated that China had just one heliport and one air defence site near its disputed boundary with India in Tibet in 2016. But it substantially expanded and upgraded its military infrastructure in the area after the 2017 stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in western Bhutan. China in 2019 not only built four air-bases and four air defence sites, but also a heliport and an electronic warfare station near its LAC with India. Modi and Xi had held the first “informal summit” at Wuhan in central China in April 2018. They had built on the “positive momentum” and held three other bilateral meetings on the side-line of multilateral conclaves at Qingdao, Johannesburg and Buenos Aires by December 2018. New Delhi had agreed with Beijing after the meeting in Buenos Aires that the series of engagements between the leaders had brought about a “perceptible improvement” in the bilateral relations. The Prime Minister had the second “informal summit” with the Chinese President at a seaside resort near Chennai in October 2019. The report by the Stratfor Worldview, however, revealed that China was expanding military infrastructure even when it was continuing engagements with India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-was-building-military-infrastructure-along-lac-amid-attempts-to-repair-bilateral-ties-post-doklam-891506.html
22-09-2020||National||Rajya Sabha member demands to extend validity of health workers' insurance||Karnataka BJP Rajya Sabha member K C Ramamurthy on Tuesday urged the Centre to extend the Covid-19 frontline warriors insurance scheme's validity. Under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana, the Centre had announced insurance coverage of Rs 50 lakh to the COVID frontline warriors like doctors, nurses, ASHA workers, medical, sanitary workers, paramedics and others who have been racing against time to provide critical medical care, he said in Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha.  The scheme, which was started initially on March 30, has validity till September 30, 2020  "There are more than 22 lakh public healthcare providers, including community health workers standing as a shield to protect patients inflicted with Coronavirus. There are no signs of this pandemic disappearing in the immediate future.  Eminent doctors, scientists and epidemiologists have also been saying that virus may stay for at least another 6-12 months," he said. To protect frontline worriers, the government should extend the validity period of the insurance scheme from existing September 30, 2020, to at least another six months, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-member-demands-to-extend-validity-of-health-workers-insurance-891509.html
22-09-2020||National||Colleges and universities can start from November 1: UGC||Colleges and universities across the country will begin the new academic session from November 1, with shorter winter and summer vacation to make up for the time lost due to the Covid-19 outbreak. However, this is subject to decision by the Home Ministry on re-opening of colleges by November, failing which freshers will begin their college education online. The University Grants Commission on Tuesday released the revised Guidelines on Academic Calendar for the First Year of Under-Graduate and Post-Graduate Students of the Universities for the Session 2020-21 Schools were opened for students of Class IX to XII on a voluntary basis from September 21 as part of Unlock 4.0. Besides, the government had also allowed the opening of higher education institutions for PhD scholars and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory and experimental work. The UGC had in April released an alternative academic calendar for colleges to reopen, with guidelines on exams, mode of study and the schedule. The colleges were then expected to open in September. As per the revised calendar, the admission process for first-year students needs to be completed by October 31 and classes for the first semester should commence by November 1. In order to compensate for the loss of academic time, the UGC has asked colleges to teach six days a week and shorten the winter break this year and the summer break next year. “The universities are requested to compensate the delay in the start of the academic session in the subsequent years by curtailing the breaks/vacations so that this batch of students would get their final results for the timely award of degree,” the guidelines said. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shut down as part of measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said that a full refund for the admission cancellation will be made to students till November. “To avoid financial hardship being faced by the parents due to lockdown and related factors, a full refund of fees will be made on account of all cancellation of admissions/ migration of students, up to 30.11.2020, for this very session as a special case," he said. On cancellation/ withdrawal of admissions up to December 31, 2020, the entire fee collected from a student will be refunded in full after deduction of not more than Rs 1000 as processing fee, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/colleges-and-universities-can-start-from-november-1-ugc-891510.html
22-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Active cases drop by 27,000 for the first time, but experts remain worried||Six days after India reported one million plus active corona positive cases, the number of such cases dropped by more than 27,000 for the first time in the last 24 hours. The one million-mark was reached on September 17 when there were 10,09,976 active Covid-19 patients. The number stayed at 10 lakh plus for the next four days, but dipped to 9,75,861 on Tuesday – a reduction of 27,438 active cases. Since September 19, for four consecutive days, the number of new cases was less than new recoveries reported daily. The gap was the widest on September 22 when 75,083 fresh cases were recorded but the number of new recoveries was more than a lakh, thereby reducing the overall number of active cases. “Such successive increase in recovery cases over active numbers is being seen for the first time since May,” said Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan at a press conference here. “A sudden drop in the number of cases while a welcome sign is also a cause for concern. There is a need to closely review testing data and transmission dynamics and have mechanisms to determine that those who need the tests have access to it,” Oommen John, a senior research fellow at the George Institute for Global Health told DH. The government insisted that testing numbers were on a rise and more than six crore tests were carried out even on Tuesday. Despite such an increase in the number of tests, India’s death per million (64) and cases per million (4031) figures remained one of the world’s lowest, said Bhushan Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India. Some of these issues may come up for discussion at a high-level review meeting of the Covid-19 scenario in seven states on Wednesday. The meeting would be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The situation in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Punjab that account for 65.5% of the total confirmed cases and 77% of the total deaths will be discussed in the review. Maharashtra, Punjab, and Delhi now report high mortality with more than 2% Case Fatality Rate. Also, more than 63% of active cases are concentrated in these seven states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-active-cases-drop-by-27000-for-the-first-time-but-experts-remain-worried-891519.html
22-09-2020||National||Five Indians on Schwab Foundation's 2020 list of social innovators||Five Indians including Azim Sabahat of Global Healthcare and Ashif Shaikh of Jan Sahas have been selected by the Schwab Foundation for 'social innovators of 2020' awards for being among the first responders to the Covid-19 crisis. The other three Indian awardees are Shanti Raghavan and Dipesh Sutariya of EnAble India, which is building an Indian ecosystem of skilling, employment and entrepreneurship for persons with disabilities, and Prashant Mehra of Mindtree (India). Announcing 23 awardees from across the world, the Foundation said their work ranges from "building hospitals in rural India, empowering Black-communities in Brazil, providing financial resources to last-mile communities in Ghana, raising over 100 million USD for lower-income families in the US, to breaking the glass ceiling in the public sector in Spain". These include business and government leaders as well as renowned experts in their respective fields. Sabahat is CEO of Global Healthcare Systems (India), which established 12 hospitals, over 250 digital dispensaries and a telemedicine network spanning 8 countries, delivering low-cost healthcare using technology to over 15 lakh patients in a short time, the Foundation said in a statement. Shaikh is Founder and Director of Jan Sahas (India), which it said has empowered millions of migrant workers in India by establishing and providing access to social security delivery systems using a mobile app. Raghavan is co-founder and Managing Trustee at EnAble India, while Sutariya is co-founder and CEO of the same organisation. These four Indians have been awarded in the category of 'social entrepreneurs', while Mehra (Vice-President, Social Inclusion, Mindtree), has been awarded as a 'corporate social intrapreneur' for spearheading technology platforms as a public good and capital asset that work at the grassroots level and address market inefficiencies reaching over 20 lakh people, the statement said. The Foundation said this ecosystem of change-makers is being recognised for driving significant social and environmental impact in service of vulnerable and excluded communities and has been well placed to respond to the needs of those disproportionately affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. It said social innovators are needed more than ever, but face immense challenges to operate, serve and support communities during this crisis. The awardees also included Anushka Ratnayake, founder and CEO of myAgro (Senegal), which is creating village entrepreneurs in 60,000 farmers in West Africa by creating a unique mobile layaway platform that allows farmers to use mobile phones to purchase seeds and fertiliser in small increments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-indians-on-schwab-foundations-2020-list-of-social-innovators-891524.html
22-09-2020||National||India, China agree to stop sending more troops to LAC, but no deal yet on withdrawal of soldiers already deployed||India and China have agreed to stop sending more soldiers to the face-off points along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, but could not yet end the stalemate over the withdrawal of large numbers of troops they already deployed over the past four-and-a-half months since the stand-off started.    The two sides agreed to “stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation”, according to a joint statement issued in New Delhi and Beijing a day after the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) restarted talks after a gap of almost seven weeks. The joint statement, however, had no reference to the restoration of the status quo ante that existed along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – before the Chinese PLA started unilaterally altering it in late April and early May, leading to the stand-off with the Indian Army. A source in New Delhi said that the talks on restarting the stalled process of mutual withdrawal of soldiers from the face-off points had remained inconclusive, with the PLA still not ready to pull back troops from Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of Pangong Tso (lake). The Chinese Army instead demanded that the Indian Army should pull back troops on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.   The meeting between the senior military commanders of the two nations, however, ended with both sides agreeing to hold the next round of meeting “as soon as possible” to continue the discussion on resolving the stand-off.    Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had a more-than-14-hour-long meeting at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector – on Monday. Lt. Gen. Singh was joined by Lt Gen P G K Menon, who would take over as the commander of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army next month. Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs, also participated in the meeting. So did his counterparts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government. Though the military commanders of India and China held five rounds of meetings since the stand-off started, the sixth one was the first to have diplomats of the two sides participating in the discussion. The two sides had “candid and in-depth exchanges of views on stabilizing the situation along the LAC”, according to the joint statement issued simultaneously in New Delhi and Beijing. “They agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, strengthen communication on the ground, avoid misunderstandings and misjudgments.” Lt. Gen. Singh and Maj. Gen. Liu earlier had five rounds of talks since the stand-off started, but they did not have any meeting after the last on August 2. The talks were stalled as the Chinese PLA declined to adhere to the process it earlier mutually agreed with the Indian Army for pulling back soldiers from the face-off scenes along the LAC. The local commanders however continued talks, keeping the channels of communications open, even as the soldiers of the two nations remained engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation on the face-off points, particularly on the north and south bank of Pangong Tso.   The two sides agreed to restart talks between the senior military commanders when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi had talks on the side-line of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Moscow on September 10. New Delhi has been pointing out that China flouted its key 1993 and 1996 border peace pacts with India by deploying a large number of troops along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-agree-to-stop-sending-more-troops-to-lac-but-no-deal-yet-on-withdrawal-of-soldiers-already-deployed-891534.html
22-09-2020||National||Delhi riots: Facebook India's VP Ajit Mohan moves Supreme Court against Delhi Assembly's summons ||Facebook India's Vice President Ajit Mohan has moved the Supreme Court against summons issued by the Delhi Assembly's committee in proceedings related to the alleged complicity of the social media giant in riots that struck northeast Delhi in February this year. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose, and Krishna Murari would take up the petition jointly filed with Facebook Inc, for consideration on Wednesday. Mohan has been issued a summons on September 18 by the Delhi Assembly's panel headed by Raghav Chadha for an appearance on Wednesday failing which he would proceed for breach of privilege of the committee. He was earlier issued a summons on September 10. The action has apparently come after the Wall Street Journal on August 14 published an article titled “Facebook’s hate-speech rules collide with Indian Politics”.  In a writ petition, he contended that the summons should be set aside as the committee sought to compel witnesses to testify on matters, of “public order” and “police” and “communication”, which fell within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Union government. The plea said on September 2, Facebook appeared before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology and offered its testimony on the subject of “Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”. The plea stated, "Summons by the Delhi Assembly's Committee are unconstitutional as they seek to compel non-members to testify on matters related to, the alleged “disruption of peace and harmony across the NCT of Delhi”, which is a matter reserved exclusively for the Union government as per Article 239AA(3)(a) of the Constitution". The petitioner further said he was not even being accorded the constitutional right to be silent and was instead being compelled to speak against himself in response to the committee’s assertions that Facebook was complicit in the Delhi riots. "This is impermissible under the law and constitutes a gross violation of due process and fundamental rights under Article 19(1)(a) and Article 21 of the Constitution," he said. Among other grounds, the plea said targeting a platform used for communication, created a chilling effect on even lawful speech, in violation of the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression.  The petition also raised critical questions of constitutional importance relating to the interplay between the right to freedom of speech and expression and powers, privileges, and immunities of members of a Legislature, which have already been referred to a seven-judge Bench in N. Ravi and Others vs Speaker, Legislative Assembly, Chennai (2005). Even before the summons, the plea pointed out the panel's Chairman held a press conference on August 31 announcing that “Facebook should be treated as a co-accused” in the Delhi riots and that there was a “premeditated conspiracy between Facebook, rioters and anti-social elements”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-facebook-indias-vp-ajit-mohan-moves-supreme-court-against-delhi-assemblys-summons-891544.html
22-09-2020||National||Monsoon Session: Lok Sabha passes Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed a bill under which Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, apart from the existing Urdu and English, will be the official languages in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Introducing the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said it was a demand of the people of Jammu and Kashmir that the language they speak should be the official language. The minister pointed out that 53.26 per cent of the population of Jammu and Kashmir speaks Kashmiri language. Reddy said 26.64 per cent of the population of the UT speaks Dogri while Urdu, which is currently its official language, is spoken only by 0.16 per cent population there. Still for the last 70 years, Urdu continues to be the official language of Jammu and Kashmir, he said, adding that 2.36 per cent population in the UT speaks Hindi. Opposing the Bill, Hasnain Masoodi (National Conference) said the central government does not have the legislative competence to frame a bill in this regard. He said it is not a fact that only 0.16 per cent population of the UT speaks Urdu which is a link language between Jammu region and Kashmir. Masoodi said if only 0.16 per cent people in the UT speak Urdu, then why would the government include it as an official language. No other state has five official languages, he said. Intervening in the discussion, Union minister Jitendra Singh said he wondered why the NC was opposing the inclusion of Kashmiri as an official language. He alleged that the NC has done politics in the name of "Kashmiriyat" and still it was opposing the bill. The Bill was later passed by a voice vote. Sikh and Gujjar communities have protested the exclusion of Punjabi and Gojri languages from the bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-session-lok-sabha-passes-jammu-and-kashmir-official-languages-bill-891545.html
22-09-2020||National||India, Australia to conduct 2-day naval exercise in Indian Ocean from Wednesday||Navies of India and Australia will carry out a two-day mega exercise in the Indian Ocean Region beginning Wednesday that will involve a range of complex naval manoeuvres, anti-aircraft drills and helicopter operations, officials said. The exercise comes in the midst of India's tense border row with China and in the backdrop of growing activities by the Chinese navy in the Indian Ocean Region. "The exercise is aimed at enhancing interoperability, improving understanding and imbibing best practices from each other. It would involve advanced surface and anti-air exercises including weapon firings, seamanship exercises, naval manoeuvres and cross deck flying operations," a Navy spokesperson said. It will be the fourth major military drill by the Indian Navy since June. It has already carried out similar exercises with the navies of the US, Japan and Russia. HMAS Hobart, the lead ship of the Hobart-class air warfare destroyers, will be among the assets to be deployed in the exercise by the Royal Australian Navy, officials said, adding Indian Navy ships Sahyadri and Karmuk will be part of Indian platforms. "The exercise, which is in keeping with the strong bond shared by the two navies, would be another step towards strengthening Indo-Australia defence relations and the continued efforts of both governments to work closely to enhance safety and security of the global commons," the Navy spokesperson said. He said the two navies have built a robust relationship through regular exercises. Earlier this month, navies of India and Russia carried out an exercise in the Bay of Bengal. In July, the Indian Navy carried out a military exercise with a US Navy carrier strike group led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz off the coast of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The USS Nimitz is the world's largest warship. In the exercise with the US Navy, four frontline warships of the Indian Navy participated. The US carrier strike group was transiting through the Indian Ocean Region on its way from the South China Sea. The US Navy carrier strike group comprises USS Nimitz, Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser USS Princeton and Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyers USS Sterett and USS Ralph Johnson. The Indian Navy carried out a similar exercise with the Japanese navy in June. India has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region with a plethora of warships and submarines following the border row to send across a message to Beijing. The maritime space around the Malacca Strait is very critical for China's supply chain through sea routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-to-conduct-2-day-naval-exercise-in-indian-ocean-from-wednesday-891549.html
22-09-2020||National||India has highest 19.5% share in global Covid-19 recoveries, 17.7% of cases in world: Centre||India has the highest number of recoveries in the world and for the past four days, the number of people who recuperated from Covid-19 daily was more than new instances of the infection reported each day, the government said on Tuesday. At a press briefing, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said India has the highest number of recovered cases in the world at 44,97,867. "India's share in global Covid-19 cases is around 17.7 per cent, while those who have recuperated are 19.5 per cent of the total recoveries in the world. Daily recoveries are more than the number of new infections reported each day for the past four days," he said. While the United States' share in global Covid-19 cases is 22.4 per cent, those who have recuperated there comprise 18.6 per cent of total worldwide recoveries, according to data presented by Bhushan. Brazil contributed 14.5 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases globally while in terms of recoveries, its share is 16.8 per cent, the data showed. Bhushan said the number of active Covid-19 cases in India was 9,75,861, which was less than one-fifth of the total 55,62,663 instances of infection recorded in India so far. "We get swayed by the narrative that India has over 50 lakh cases, but we forget that nearly 45 lakh people have already recovered," the health secretary said. He also said early detection, isolation and seamless hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients has been made possible due to an exponential increase in testing infrastructure in the country. At the briefing, Dr V K Paul, Member (Health) in the NITI Aayog, who also heads the national task force on Covid-19, urged people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and following social distancing norms more diligently, especially, as the festive season is about to begin next month. Even now, 80-85 per cent of the people are susceptible to the virus, he said. Paul said the overall Covid-19 situation in the country remains under control and asserted that scientific estimates have shown that pandemic can be controlled up to 36-50 per cent if people continue to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour. He also warned against large gatherings during the festivities, saying chances of contagion increases in such cases and may lead to an explosive situation. "Going by the daily increase in numbers of coronavirus infections, we cannot afford complacency on any aspect for the next two to three months," Paul said. He urged people to protect the elderly, take ayurvedic immunity-boosting products and also do yoga to increase the body's immunity against respiratory ailments which occur more during the winters. "Masks can play an important role in preventing the transmission of the disease. Social distancing, wearing masks, avoiding large gatherings, no spitting and hand hygiene will be the social vaccine against coronavirus infection till the time a vaccine comes," Paul added. Ruling out apprehensions that less testing in some states might have caused daily to rise above new infections each day over the last four days, Bhushan said that more than eight lakh tests were done every day between September 19 and 22. "India still figures among the countries with the lowest deaths and cases per million population. India has 64 deaths per million population, whereas the world's average stands at 123," he said. To a question over Punjab seeing high Covid-19 fatality rate, Bhushan mentioned that one area where efforts need to be put in with renewed vigour is increasing testing and also trying to detect those who are symptomatic negative in rapid antigen tests and ensuring that they undergo RT-PCR tests. "This has been our request to states and Union Territories that they should follow ICMR guidelines according to which all symptomatic individuals testing negative in rapid antigen test should be confirmed with a real-time PCR test," he said. The Union health secretary further said the information of augmented hospital facilities must be proactively put in public domain so that there is a feeling of confidence among people that if they go to a hospital they will get a bed. To a question over the efficacy of vaccines against Covid-19 in view of the draft regulatory guidelines for the development of vaccines with special consideration for one against coronavirus, ICMR Director-General, Dr Balram Bhargava said all vaccines for respiratory viruses are not 100 per cent effective. "There are three things for a vaccine -- the safety, the immunogenicity and the efficacy. WHO says that if we can get more than 50 per cent efficacy that is an accepted vaccine. For respiratory viruses, we never get 100 per cent efficacy. "We are aiming for 100 per cent efficacy but may get 50-100 per cent," he said. Elaborating on the exponential increase in testing infrastructure for detection of Covid-19 being done in the country, Bhushan said the journey from one crore tests as on July 7 done by 1,100 labs to three crore tests in 27 days as on August 3 when the country had 1,300 labs. "It just took us nine days to reach from five crore on September 8 to six crore tests on September 17. Today we have 1,776 labs both in the public and private sector. Even now, every day private sector labs conduct more than 1.5 lakh tests while public sector labs conduct more than 9 lakh tests," he said. The health secretary also said the top seven states in terms of daily cases are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-highest-195-share-in-global-covid-19-recoveries-177-of-cases-in-world-centre-891551.html
22-09-2020||National||PM Modi to interact with fitness influencers, citizens on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with fitness influencers and citizens on Thursday during a nationwide "Fit India Dialogue" to celebrate the first anniversary of the Fit India Movement. The online interaction will see participants sharing tips and anecdotes from their fitness journey and the prime minister expressing his thoughts on the virtues of a healthy life, according to an official statement issued Tuesday. Cricketer Virat Kohli, model and avid runner Milind Soman, nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar and other fitness influencers will participate in the event. Urging people to join the event, Modi tweeted, "Are you already a fitness aficionado? Do you intend to make fitness a part of your routine? Bringing to you, an interesting Fit India Dialogue to discuss aspects related to nutrition, physical health, mental well-being and more... See you on 24th at 12 noon!"  The official statement said in times of COVID-19, fitness has become an even more important aspect of life, and this dialogue will see a timely and fruitful conversation on nutrition, wellness and various other aspects of fitness, the statement said. A brainchild of Modi, the Fit India Dialogue is yet another effort to involve citizens of the country to draw out a plan to make India a fit nation. "The basic tenet on which the Fit India Movement was envisaged, that of involving citizens to imbibe fun, easy and non-expensive ways in which to remain fit and therefore bring about a behavioural change which makes fitness an imperative part of every Indian's life, is being strengthened by this dialogue," it said. Anyone can join the dialogue via NIC link https://pmindiawebcast.nic.in from 11.30 am onwards on September 24, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-fitness-influencers-citizens-on-thursday-891556.html
22-09-2020||National||Gujarat Assembly passes PASA Bill, Opposition warns of misuse||The Gujarat assembly on Tuesday passed a bill that expands the scope of PASA (Prevention of Anti-social Activity Act) with a majority vote after opposition Congress objected to it raising concerns of the misuse of the new provisions. The amendment expands the scope of PASA to cybercrime, loan sharks and sexual offences. Under the PASA Act, habitual or repeat offenders can be held in preventive detention on orders of district magistrate for up to one year. Congress leaders opposed the bill saying that extending PASA's scope to detain offenders of Information and Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act) will give power to the government to detain people who are critical of the government on social media platforms. Under the amended provision, a person booked under IT Act can also be detained. Along with the IT Act, the government has brought in loan sharks, gambling den owners and sexual offenders under its scope.   Till now, its scope was limited to cases falling under Indian Penal Code, Arms Act, bootlegging, gambling, prostitution, cow slaughtering, among others. They are applied in cases of repeat or habitual offenders who are considered "dangerous" who could cause law and order problems. However, over the years, in a number of orders, the judiciary has highlighted the "casual approach" of the government in detaining citizens who are booked under petty offences. Earlier this year, a man in Surat, associated with the Congress, was detained under PASA for seeking information on trains ferrying migrant workers. Similarly, in August, a division bench of Gujarat high court had cautioned the government to use the provisions under the act seriously. In fact, when the court was informed that the state government is amending the PASA Act, the bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala had observed, "While it is a welcome step on the part of the State Government, but unless and until the defects pointed out in the aforesaid observations (an order passed in 2014) are not duly considered and deliberated, no amount of amendments will serve the purpose. In such circumstances, we once again request the State Government to seriously study the observations and deliberate upon the same for effective implementation and execution of the provisions of the Act and at the same time also for the purpose of preventing the misuse of the provisions of the Act, 1985." The bench had reminded the state on its previous order passed in 2014 when it said  "preventive detention are more or less passed in a very casual manner... If appropriate guidelines are framed in accordance with the law, probably that would be more helpful in ensuring that the order of detention is in accordance with the law.”   The bench went on to say that "We are constrained to observe that ordinarily, suggestions made by the High Court are not paid heed as they are not in the form of directions. However, we would like to remind the State Government that the High Court would very rarely make suggestions and if in a particular case, any suggestions are made, they are always in the larger public interest."   The BJP, that has majority in the House, passed the bill comfortably amid the opposition from the Congress. The law is in effect from September 7.  As the provision, after detaining a person, the case has to go to PASA advisory board in three weeks which gives its opinion on whether the detention is valid or not. It is widely known that half of the cases are rejected by the board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-assembly-passes-pasa-bill-opposition-warns-of-misuse-891558.html
22-09-2020||National||Monsoon session: Pragya Thakur demands probe by cental agencies into Palghar lynching||A BJP member in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday demanded a probe by central agencies such as CBI and NIA into the Palghar lynching case, alleging a conspiracy behind the killing of two 'sadhus' and their driver by a mob in April this year. Sadhvi Pragya Singh, while raising the issue during Zero Hour, said it should be ascertained why there was a mob during the coronavirus-induced lockdown and why innocent victims were killed. She alleged that the CPI(M) has influence in the area where the incident took place and similar cases have come to light in the past. The incident took place at Gadchinchle village on April 16 when two seers were heading towards Surat from Mumbai in a car with a driver to attend a funeral. A mob of villagers stopped them and beat them to death on the suspicion that they were child-lifters, even after a few police personnel had reached the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-session-pragya-thakur-demands-probe-by-cental-agencies-into-palghar-lynching-891575.html
22-09-2020||National||50% efficacy in phase 3 trials needed for Covid-19 vaccine approval: Drug authority's draft guidelines||A Covid-19 vaccine candidate should show at least 50 per cent efficacy during phase III of clinical trials for it to be widely deployed, according to a draft guidance document for vaccine developers issued by the central drug authority. However, adequate data informing about the potential risk of vaccine-associated Enhanced Respiratory Disease (ERD) will need to be generated, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) said in its draft 'Regulatory Guidelines for Development of Vaccines with Special Consideration for Covid-19 Vaccine'. It said people with a history or laboratory evidence of prior novel coronavirus infection should be allowed to participate in trials if they did not have acute Covid-19 or other acute infectious illnesses. The draft guidelines have been uploaded on the CDSCO's website. It is seeking comments and feedback from the public till October 12. "To ensure that a widely deployed Covid-19 vaccine is effective, the primary efficacy endpoint point estimate for a placebo-controlled efficacy trial should be at least 50 per cent...," the guidelines said. Considering the urgent need for a safe and effective vaccine for the prevention of Covid-19, clinical development programs of Covid-19 vaccine may proceed through an adaptive and seamless approach. "However, as applicable for any vaccine, regardless of whether clinical development programs proceed in discrete phases with separate studies or via a more seamless approach, an adequate data, including data to inform the potential risk of vaccine-associated Enhanced Respiratory Disease (ERD) will be needed," they said.  Consideration may be needed for conducting more than one vaccine efficacy trial in case different subtypes of a pathogen are involved, the guidelines underlined. In such cases, the efficacy trials may be required to be conducted in different regions where certain subtypes are known to predominate. It is anticipated that adequately powered efficacy trials for Covid-19 vaccines will be of sufficient size to provide an acceptable safety database for younger adult and elderly populations, provided that no significant safety concerns arise during clinical development that would warrant further pre-licensure evaluation. Speaking at a press conference on Tuesday, Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research, said all vaccines for respiratory viruses are not 100 per cent effective. "There are three things for a vaccine -- first the safety, second the immunogenicity and third the efficacy. The WHO says that if we can get more than 50 per cent efficacy that is an accepted vaccine. For respiratory viruses, we never get 100 per cent efficacy. We are aiming for 100 per cent efficacy but may get 50-100 per cent." According to the CDSCO guidelines, as it is possible that a Covid-19 vaccine "might be much more effective in preventing moderate to severe versus mild Covid-19", consideration should be given for powering efficacy trials for formal hypothesis testing on a severe Covid-19 endpoint. Regardless, moderate to severe Covid-19 should be evaluated as a secondary endpoint (with or without formal hypothesis testing) if not evaluated as a primary endpoint, the guidelines said. Establishing vaccine safety and efficacy in SARS-CoV-2 naïve individuals is critical, they added. Vaccine safety and Covid-19 outcomes in individuals with prior SARS-CoV-2 infection who might have been asymptomatic are also important to examine because pre-vaccination screening for prior infection may not be feasible in practice when the Covid-19 vaccine is approved and introduced in the market. "Therefore, subjects with history or laboratory evidence of prior Covid-19 infection should not be excluded from the Covid-19 vaccine trial. However, subjects with acute Covid-19 or other acute infectious illness should be excluded from such trials," the guidelines said. Evaluation of vaccine safety and efficacy in phase III clinical trial in adults should include adequate representation of elderly individuals and individuals with comorbidities, they said. Further, productive and developmental toxicity data should be there as per the requirements specified in the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019 to support the inclusion of pregnant women and women of childbearing potential, they added. It is important for Covid-19 vaccines to plan for pediatric assessments of safety and effectiveness considering the pandemic in accordance with the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. After approval of a vaccine, it is essential to monitor vaccine safety in routine use, the guidelines underscored. They also recommended the use of an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for vaccine-associated ERD and other safety signal monitoring, especially during the later stage development. In general, all vaccines, including those against coronavirus infection manufactured or imported into the country, are required to comply with the requirements and guidelines for chemistry, manufacturing and controls (CMC) specified in the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 and New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. All vaccines are required to be characterised and manufactured in compliance with good manufacturing practices as prescribed in the rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-efficacy-in-phase-3-trials-needed-for-covid-19-vaccine-approval-drug-authoritys-draft-guidelines-891576.html
22-09-2020||National||Delhi riots: Protected witnesses allege main accused gave provocative speeches||Protected witnesses have alleged that former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, activist Khalid Saifi, and others gave provocative speeches against top BJP leaders and 'Hindutva' during their protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), police have said in its charge sheet. The charge sheet said that the protected witnesses have alleged that provocative speeches were delivered at various sites against the CAA and the government. "Through their speeches, they attempted to provoke the crowd gathered there against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and 'Hindutva'. Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi and others said in their speeches 'freedom from Hindus', 'freedom from Modi and Amit Shah' and said that this government was for Hindus and against Muslims," the charge sheet quoted one of the protected witnesses as alleged in his statement. The charge sheet filed in a court here on September 16 stated that the statements of various protected witnesses recorded under section 161 (examination by police) of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the case have revealed that the speakers not only gave speeches against CAA but also against the government and the country. One of the protected witnesses stated in his statement that Jahan, Saifi, and other local leaders had started the protests in the Khureji Khas area. During the ongoing protests, some students of Jamia Millia Islamia rented rooms in the nearby areas to stay there, the witness said. The witness further alleged that on February 26, while they were giving provocative speeches police asked them to stop. "Following this Jahan and Saifi started fighting with the police. Along with the crowd, they started pelting stones on the police," the witness alleged. The witness further alleged that when he heard gunshots, he went inside an ashram and got to know later that the police had taken Jahan, Saifi, and other people to the police station. Another protected witness stated in his statement that during US President Trump's visit to India in February, riots were instigated at several places in northeast Delhi by members of Pinjra Tod, left-wing student organisation All India Students' Association, Students Islamic Organisation, Popular Front of India (PFI), former JNU student Umar Khalid and his group United Against Hate under the leadership of Jamia Coordination Committee. One other protected witness alleged in his statement that Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal gathered women and men and reached Jaffrabad metro station and blocked the roads, due to which 'Chakka Jaam' was created in Delhi which led to the clashes starting between Hindu and Muslim communities. Popular Front of India (PFI), formed in 2006 in Kerala as a successor to the National Democratic Front (NDF), provided financial support to the protests, police alleged in the charge sheet. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-protected-witnesses-allege-main-accused-gave-provocative-speeches-891594.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Now, farmers will be back to serfdom, at the mercy of big corporates: Manish Tewari||Congress has been on the warpath against the Modi government over the two farm sector bills – the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill passed by both House of Parliament. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari tells Sagar Kulkarni of DH that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertions that the MSP regime would continue is a bogey. Excerpts: DH: Why is the Congress opposing the Farm Bills? Manish Tewari: The reasons are two-fold. First is that it transgresses into areas which are the exclusive jurisdiction of the states. The bills are per se unconstitutional and beyond the legal competence of the government. The second is if you look at the substance of the bill and you juxtapose against the amendments that have been carried out recently through the Companies Amendment Bill, whereby producer companies have been given preeminent position. The intent is very clear that the government wants big corporates to get into the business of agriculture. This essentially would mean that all that was achieved through the first 15 constitutional amendments from the 1950s to 1965 that empowered the marginal farmers, the landless labour, abolished the Zamindari Act and ensured an equitable distribution of land. Something which has ended feudalism in India created a middle class in our agrarian society. All this would be demolished and farmers would become serfs again. Earlier, they used to be at the mercy of landlords and now they will be at the mercy of big corporates. DH: Congress claims the Bills would lead to discontinuation of MSP and dismantling of APMC markets? Manish Tewari: Essentially, that is a possibility because of a simple reason that once you put in place alternate mechanisms of market access, whether it is through electronic trading platforms or through trading areas outside the APMC areas, the government could tomorrow turn around and say if the state wants to give a state-administered price – as UP does in case of sugarcane – they are free to do that, but insofar as GoI is concerned, we would discontinue the MSP. These are legitimate apprehensions which are in the minds of millions and millions of farmers across the country. DH: BJP also claims that Congress made somewhat similar promises in its manifesto for Lok Sabha elections? Manish Tewari: That is good hogwash. The Congress had infact proposed that we would create more APMC like structures whereby the linkages between the farm and the fork will get diversified, where the time lag for the farmer to access the market gets shortened. So, essentially our commitments or our proposals were to strengthen the APMC system rather than weaken it. DH: So, what next for the Congress. The bills have already been passed by Parliament? Do you plan to move court? Manish Tewari: The bills have been passed in the Rajya Sabha in a very unconstitutional manner and they would be open to a legal challenge. It is abundantly clear that the government did not have the numbers. They rammed the bills through in the most draconian and unconstitutional manner. In fact, Sunday was a Black Day in the history of the Council of States, when democracy was completely trampled upon. In fact, the government signed the death warrant of democracy in the manner in which it has behaved in the passage of the bills. The law is very clear, even if one member seeks a division, that division needs to be granted. So, even of if the President were to give his assent to the Bills, their constitutionality and their method of passage is something which will ultimately be challenged in the court of law. DH: Was the ruckus in Rajya Sabha on Sunday avoidable? Manish Tewari: Well, it was absolutely avoidable. The government should have agreed to a division. DH: Suspension of eight of your colleagues in the other House? Manish Tewari: It is extremely unfortunate. First of all, rather than listening to the message, you shoot the messenger. What were these leaders demanding? They were basically demanding that the Rules of Procedure for the conduct of the Rajya Sabha be followed. And the rules are absolutely clear and unequivocal. It is the right of every member to demand a division. Once a division is demanded, the division has to be granted. DH: How will this pan out electorally in Punjab and Haryana? Manish Tewari: That is something which we will have to wait and see. This is not about electoral gains or losses. This is about the lives and livelihoods of crores and crores of farmers across the length and breadth of India. DH: Is the Congress planning a nationwide agitation somewhat similar to the one against the land acquisition bill in 2015? Manish Tewari: This is a logical corollary of what happened on Sunday. There is a lot of consternation and anger amongst the farmers. It wouldn’t have been the case, the Akali Dal representative in the cabinet Harsimrat Kaur Badal wouldn’t have been forced to resign. She has not resigned because she has some empathy for the farmers. Akali Dal also gauged the fact that whatever little they have left in Punjab would be completely demolished. That is why she has taken the resignation route. DH: Congress claims the government has bypassed demands for referring the bills to Select Committee? UPA also functioned in a similar way? Manish Tewari: If you look at the demographics of India, 65% of the population depends on agriculture for their livelihood. So, something that is so critical to the livelihood of 90 crore people of the country, should it be treated in such a cavalier manner in order to benefit certain corporates? If you look at the economic direction of this government, they have tried their best to pulverise the small and medium enterprises, small shopkeepers and traders and promote large corporate interests. DH: The Prime Minister and his council of ministers launched a massive outreach, accused opposition of misleading farmers over MSP and APMC? Manish Tewari: The MSP will only be relevant if government procures. If government agencies stop procuring, what is the relevance of MSP? So, this whole thing that MSP will continue is a bogey. When there will be no procurement, how will there be any MSP?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/now-farmers-will-be-back-to-serfdom-at-the-mercy-of-big-corporates-manish-tewari-891010.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Suspension of MPs: Opposition likely to boycott RS if discussion not allowed||Opposition parties are likely to boycott Rajya Sabha proceedings on Tuesday if their demand for discussing events that led to the suspension of eight MPs on charges of unruly behaviour is not met. As the MPs continued their indefinite protest in Parliament House, sources said that the Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad would raise the issue at the beginning of proceedings on Tuesday.  Azad will demand the revocation of suspension of the eight MPs and discuss the circumstances that led to the protest by Opposition during the passage of the contentious farm sector bills. The Opposition wants to raise their concerns about the way Deputy Chairman Harivansh conducted the House during the passage of the bill. They have already accused him of not even attempting to evolve a consensus to break the stalemate on Sunday, they said. Sources said the Opposition is clear that they want a discussion on these issues. "The government has claimed that there is no provision for a discussion on action taken under Rule 256 (suspension). There is a thinking in the Opposition. We will be forced to boycott Rajya Sabha if the government remains adamant to disallow us to raise the issue on one pretext or the other," a senior leader said. Contentious Bills like The Essential Commodities Amendment Bill and the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, which the Opposition wants to be sent to Select Committees, have been listed for passing on Tuesday. On Sunday, the Opposition launched vociferous protests against not allowing voting on sending the two farm sector bills to Select Committee. Eight MPs— Derek O'Brien, Sanjay Singh, Elamaram Kareem, KK Ragesh, Dola Sen, Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syder Nasir Hussain— were suspended on Monday for their conduct in the House on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suspension-of-mps-opposition-likely-to-boycott-rs-if-discussion-not-allowed-891094.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Parliament nod to two Bills related to Indian medicine council and Homeopathy central council||Parliament on Monday night approved two bills replacing ordinances related to the Central Council of Homoeopathy (CCH) and the Indian Medicine Central Council (IMC). The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to further extend the time to form the Central Council of Homeopathy by a year, after exhausting two years for the purpose. The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks a year's time to reconstitute the central council and provides for a board of directors to exercise its powers in the interim period. Lok Sabha passed the two bills past midnight by voice vote. Rajya Sabha had passed the two measures earlier this month. The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill seeks to amend the Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973 and replaces the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on April 24. The 1973 Act was amended in 2018 to provide for the supersession of the Central Council of Homoeopathy. The council was required to be reconstituted within a year from the date of its supersession. This provision was amended in 2019 to require the reconstitution of the council in two years. In the interim period, the Centre constituted a board of governors to exercise the powers of the council. The bill seeks to amend the Act to increase the period for the supersession of the council from two to three years. The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020 amends the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970. The Act provides for the constitution of a central council, which regulates the education and practice of the Indian medicine system including Ayurveda, yoga and, naturopathy. The bill replaces an ordinance promulgated on April 24. The proposed legislation provides that the central council will stand superseded from April 24 (the date of promulgation of the ordinance). The council will be reconstituted within a year from the date of its supersession. In the interim period, the Centre will constitute a board of governors that will exercise the powers of the council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-nod-to-two-bills-related-to-indian-medicine-council-and-homeopathy-central-council-891108.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Suspension of 8 MPs symbol of dictatorship: Sachin Pilot||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Monday said the center has passed "anti-farmer" bills in the Rajya Sabha by suppressing the voice of the opposition but Congress is standing with farmers and will continue their fight. Condemning the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha MPs, the Congress leader said it was symbolic of dictatorship. "After passing the bills in the Rajya Sabha in an undemocratic manner, the decision to suspend 8 Rajya Sabha MPs today is a symbol of utter dictatorship," Pilot tweeted in Hindi. “Our parliamentary traditions were not like this. Rather they have been respectful of deliberation, consent and disagreement,” he said. Pilot said the "anti-farmer" bills were passed by suppressing the opposition's voice which was condemnable. “Why does the BJP not care for farmers? The Congress party stands with the farmers of the country and we will continue their fight,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suspension-of-8-mps-symbol-of-dictatorship-sachin-pilot-891109.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||'The one who broke the rules', protesting Rajya Sabha MPs reject Deputy Chairman Harivansh's tea offering||The sit-in protest by eight suspended MPs on Parliament premises continued for the second day on Tuesday, with Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh offering them tea in the morning. The suspended parliamentarians spent the night in the lawns near Mahatma Gandhi's statue. AAP's Sanjay Singh posted a picture on Twitter from the protest site in the morning and said that the "whole night was spent under the open sky in front of Bapu's statue". The RS deputy chairman, the leaders said, came in bright and early with a posse of news cameras and was told by a senior MP to visit them without the cameras and sit with them. "Another senior MP also told him that while bringing tea was a nice gesture, he was still in the wrong in what he did. He was told that he was the one who broke the rules," a protesting MP told PTI. The protesting MPs did not accept the tea and snacks offered by the deputy chairman. Harivansh Singh has been in the thick of things since the suspension drama unfolded. The eight MPs were suspended for the remaining part of the current session over their "misbehavior" with the deputy chairman during the passage of the farm Bills on Sunday. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said Deputy Chairman Harivansh, an MP from Bihar, was physically threatened by opposition MPs on Sunday. Naidu also rejected a notice for a no-confidence motion against the deputy chairman as it was not in proper format and a 14-day notice period was not given. Opposition parties hit out at the government over the suspension of the Rajya Sabha MPs, with the Congress terming it "undemocratic" and "one-sided". The suspended MPs have vowed to continue their protest and are even likely to demand that they be allowed to attend the session. Four of the eight suspended Upper House members had moved resolutions opposing some key Bills that appear in the Rajya Sabha List of Business announced for Tuesday. The four MPs are Derek O'Brien, Rajeev Satav, Elamaram Kareem and K K Ragesh. Since they are suspended, their names don't figure in the list. The Monsoon Session is scheduled to end on October 1. However, the session is likely to be curtailed with several MPs testing positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/the-one-who-broke-the-rules-protesting-rajya-sabha-mps-reject-deputy-chairman-harivanshs-tea-offering-891169.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Suspended MPs end sit-in protest in Parliament, leaders say other protests to continue||Eight suspended MPs on Tuesday ended their unprecedented sit-in protest in Parliament House against two contentious farm sector Bills after the Opposition announced to boycott Rajya Sabha proceedings till the action against them is revoked. The MPs said while the indefinite sit-in protest near the Gandhi Statue in Parliament House ended, the parties would continue other modes of protest against the contentious bills. In solidarity with the protesters, NCP chief Sharad Pawar also undertook a day-long fast in Mumbai. The eight MPs -- Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien, AAP Parliamentary Party leader Sanjay Singh, CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem, Trinamool Dola Sen, CPI(M) 's K K Ragesh and Congress' Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain -- spent the night at the protest site near Gandhi Statue in Parliament House.  Hussain said the sit-in protest has ended following the decision to boycott the session but other protests would continue. Echoing Hussain, Sen said, “After many Opposition parties have boycotted the remainder of the Monsoon Session of Rajya Sabha, the dharna at Gandhi statue has ended. Now we will take our fight for the rights of the farmers to every town and village in the country.” Earlier in the morning, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh, whom the Opposition accused of not allowing voting during the Bills, visited the protesters and served the tea, which his opponents said was nothing but drama. The leaders said Harivansh came with a posse of news cameras and one of the MPs told him to visit them without cameras. Another MP told him that it was a nice gesture to bring tea but he was still in the wrong.  AAP's Singh said they were protesting against the "black laws" against farmers and that they told the Deputy Chairman that he did not allow voting on the bills. This is not personal and we will continue our fight, he said.  “The Bills were passed without voting knowing that the BJP was in minority and you are also responsible for it. Farmers have been cheated. We kept asking for proper voting and we were ignored completely. This is not the time to make friends but to fight for the rights of farmers, and we sat here the whole night to protest against the anti-farmer Bills," he added. Kareem told DH that Harivansh meeting them was a "cosmetic" measure taken by him for the benefit of the camera. Harivansh did not speak about revocation of suspension, he said.  Ragesh, another suspended MP, said Harivansh told them that his visit was in personal capacity and not as the Deputy Chairman. "It is a drama. It is clear from the fact that the Prime Minister tweet describing the 'magnanimity of Harivansh came soon after the visit," he said. "You can suspend me. You cannot silence me," O'Brien said.  Congress, Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, DMK, TRS, RJD, JD(S) and other smaller parties like Muslim League and Kerala Congress (Mani) joined the boycott. The MPs who left the Rajya Sabha after Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad's boycott announcement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suspended-mps-end-sit-in-protest-in-parliament-leaders-say-other-protests-to-continue-891186.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi praises Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh for offering tea to protesting opposition MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi showered praise on Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh on Tuesday after he offered tea to opposition MPs sitting on dharna in Parliament complex, saying his "inspiring" and "statesmanlike" conduct will make every democracy lover proud. To personally serve tea to those who "attacked and insulted" him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna, Modi tweeted, shows that Harivansh has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness, the prime minister said and added that he joins the people of India in congratulating Harivansh . "For centuries, the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Shri Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesmanlike conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud," he said. Eight Rajya Sabha MPs were suspended from the House on Monday for their "misconduct" during the passage of two farm bills on Sunday. Some of them threw rule book, tore its page and climbed the secretary general's table as they attacked Harivansh, who was in the Chair, for going ahead with the process of the bills' passage. Protesting their suspension, the MPs are on a dharna. Harivansh met them on Tuesday morning, enquired after their well-being and offered them tea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-praises-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-harivansh-for-offering-tea-to-protesting-opposition-mps-891190.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh says anguished at conduct of Opposition members, to observe fast||Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh on Tuesday expressed deep anguish and pain at the "humiliating" conduct of Opposition MPs towards him and announced a 24-hour-long fast expecting that it might inspire a feeling of self purification in them. In letters to President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, he said the sight of "disrobing of democracy" jolted his mind and heart and he could not sleep for the whole night, after Opposition MPs protested against two contentious agriculture bills by tearing papers, throwing rule book at him, breaking microphones and standing on a table. The Opposition MPs had accused him of not allowing their demand of voting to their motions to send the Bills to Select Committees. Recounting the ruckus in Rajya Sabha on Sunday, he said the MPs engaged in violent conduct in the name of democracy and tried to frighten the Chair. He accused them of tearing to shreds every norm and conventions of the House.  Harivansh also said the Opposition MPs displayed brazenly aggressive behaviour and raised unparliamentary slogans. "Whatever happened in front of me on September 20 has caused unimaginable loss to the dignity of House and Chair," Harivansh said.  Referring to the birth anniversary of poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar falls on Wednesday, he said he will end his fast tomorrow.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi commented Harivansh for the letter and said, "each word of the letter has given new impetus to the faith in democracy. This letter is inspiring and praiseworthy."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-harivansh-says-anguished-at-conduct-of-opposition-members-to-observe-fast-891195.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition to boycott Rajya Sabha till suspension of 8 members revoked: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad on Tuesday said the opposition will boycott the proceedings of the House till the suspension of eight members is revoked. Speaking after the Zero Hour, Azad also demanded that the government brings a bill which should ensure private players don't procure food grains below the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government. He also asked the government that the MSP should be fixed from time to time as the C2 Swaminathan formula. As many as eight members of the Rajya Sabha were suspended on Monday after the government brought a motion in this regard which was passed by the House by voice vote. These eight members were suspended for "unruly behaviour" during the passage of the two key farm bills that were passed on Sunday by Rajya Sabha amid chaos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-to-boycott-rajya-sabha-till-suspension-of-8-members-revoked-ghulam-nabi-azad-891196.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition members led by Congress stage Rajya Sabha walkout||A number of opposition parties led by the Congress on Tuesday staged a walkout from Rajya Sabha demanding that the suspension of eight members be revoked. The Congress was the first to walkout from the House along with members of the AAP, TMC and Left parties. The members of all these three parties are among those who have been suspended by the House for the remaining part of the Monsoon session. Some parties like the NCP, SP, Shiv Sena and RJD also staged a walkout later. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu made a fresh appeal to members of all opposition parties to rethink their decision of boycotting the House proceedings and participate in the discussions of the House. "I appeal to all members to rethink their decision of boycott and participate in the discussion," Naidu said in the House. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said: "The government is not hell-bent upon keeping the suspended MPs out of the House," he says. "If they express regret, the government will look into it." Former PM HD Deve Gowda said the government and Opposition should sit together to run the House. Earlier Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said the opposition will boycott the proceedings of the House till the suspension of eight members is revoked. Speaking after the Zero Hour, Azad also demanded that the government brings a bill which should ensure private players don't procure food grains below the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government. As many as eight members of the Rajya Sabha were suspended on Monday after the government brought a motion in this regard which was passed by the House by voice vote. These eight members were suspended for "unruly behaviour" during the passage of the two key farm bills on Sunday by Rajya Sabha amid chaos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-members-led-by-congress-stage-rajya-sabha-walkout-891208.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs end sit-in after Opposition announces House boycott||Eight suspended Rajya Sabha MPs on Tuesday ended their unprecedented sit-in protest in Parliament House against two contentious farm sector Bills after the Opposition decided to boycott Rajya Sabha proceedings till the action against them was revoked. The MPs said while the indefinite sit-in protest near the Gandhi Statue in Parliament House ended, the parties would continue other modes of protest against the contentious Bills. In solidarity with the protesters, NCP chief Sharad Pawar also undertook a day-long fast in Mumbai. The eight MPs -- Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien, AAP Parliamentary Party leader Sanjay Singh, CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem, Trinamool's Dola Sen, CPI(M)'s K K Ragesh and Congress' Rajeev Satav, Ripun Bora and Syed Nasir Hussain -- spent the night at the protest site near the Gandhi Statue in Parliament House.  Hussain said the sit-in protest has ended following the decision to boycott the Session but other protests would continue. Echoing Hussain, Sen said, “After many Opposition parties have boycotted the remainder of the Monsoon Session of Rajya Sabha, the dharna at Gandhi statue has ended. Now, we will take our fight for the rights of the farmers to every town and village in the country.” Earlier in the morning, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, whom the Opposition accused of not allowing voting during the Bills, visited the protesters and served the tea, which his opponents said was nothing but drama. AAP's Singh said they were protesting the "black laws" against farmers and the Deputy Chairman's call to not allow voting on the Bills. This is not personal and we will continue our fight, he said.  Kareem told DH that Harivansh's move to meet them was a "cosmetic" measure taken by him for benefit of the camera. Harivansh did not speak about revocation of suspension, he said.  Ragesh, another suspended MP, said Harivansh told them that his visit was in personal capacity and not as the Deputy Chairman. "It is a drama. It is clear from the fact that the Prime Minister's tweet describing the 'magnanimity' of Harivansh came soon after the visit," he said. "You can suspend me. You cannot silence me," O'Brien said.  Congress, Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, DMK, TRS, RJD, JD(S) and other smaller parties like Muslim League and Kerala Congress (Mani) joined the boycott. The MPs left the Rajya Sabha after Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad announced the boycott.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-end-sit-in-after-opposition-announces-house-boycott-891230.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal targets government over passage of Farm Bills, lauds protest by suspended Rajya Sabha MPs||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday targeted the government over the passage of the "dangerous" farm Bills without division of votes in Rajya Sabha, while lauding the sit-in protest on the Parliament premises by the eight suspended MPs. The eight Rajya Sabha members, including AAP MP Sanjay Singh, were suspended for the remaining part of the Monsoon Session over "unruly behaviour" during the passage of the farm Bills in the Upper House of Parliament. The other MPs are Derek O'Brien (TMC), Rajeev Satav (Congress), Elamaram Kareem (CPI-M), K K Ragesh (CPI-M), Syed Nazir Hussain (Congress), Ripun Boren (Congress) and Dola Sen (TMC). Since their suspension on Monday, the eight MPs have been holding a protest on the Parliament premises. Kejriwal said these eight MPs were fighting for the rights of farmers without worrying about heat, mosquitoes or other inconveniences and have spent the night protesting in the Parliament complex. "They are not asking for anything for themselves. They are fighting for democracy and the Constitution. They are struggling for the farmers of the country," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Farmers across the country are saying that these laws will end them, he added. "Such a dangerous Bill was passed without division of votes. Then what is the meaning of Parliament, what is the meaning of elections? If you have to pass the law this way, then why did you call a Parliament session," Kejriwal asked in another tweet in Hindi. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia compared the present government to the British colonial rulers. "The British ruled the same way. They would commit atrocities on the farmers, labourers and businessmen. They would make black laws to perpetuate the atrocities. And when they met Gandhiji and other leaders, they (the British) would offer them tea. Our rulers are running the government in the same way still," Sisodia said in a tweet in Hindi. He was referring to Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh offering tea to the protesting MPs in the morning. Prime Minister Narendra Modi showered praises on Harivansh Singh for the gesture, saying his "inspiring" and "statesmanlike" conduct will make every democracy lover proud. Responding to Modi's tweet, Sanjay Singh said he was "humbly" returning the tea and requesting the government to return the farmers' morsels. "We are not fighting for our tea. We are fighting for the morsels of our farmers which you have taken away. I humbly request you - I am returning your tea with all due respect, please return our farmers' morsel," Singh tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-targets-government-over-passage-of-farm-bills-lauds-protest-by-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-891233.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Parliament passes IIIT amendment bill, giving national importance tag to five new institutes||Parliament on Tuesday passed a bill to declare five newly established Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) as institutions of national importance. The five new IIITs set up under the Public Private Partnership mode are in -- Surat, Bhopal, Bhagalpur, Agartala, and Raichur. The Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has alreaby been passed by Lok Sabha in the previous session on March 20, 2020. The bill was introduced in the upper house on Monday by Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. The education minister said that there are 25 IIITs in the country out of which 5 are purely run by the central government and 15 operate under public private partnership (PPP) mode. "We have brought the proposal before this House to bring five new operational institute which are located and have started operations in Surat (Gujarat), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Bhagalpur (Bihar), Agartala (Tripura) and Raichur (Karnataka) to bring under this act," Nishank said. He said bringing the five new institutes under IIITs Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020 will make them institute of national importance and they will have legal right to issue diploma, degree, PhD etc. These 5 IIITs along with 15 other IIITs, which are also built on public private partnership (PPP) mode will now be able to use the nomenclature of Bachelor of Technology (BTech) or Master of Technology (MTech) or PhD degree. It will also enable the institutes to attract enough students required to develop a strong research base in the country in the field of information technology. BJP MP Kamakhya Prasad Tasa thanked the prime minister and the education minister for including the institute in Agartala in the bill. BJD MP Dr Sasmit Patra  supported the bill. "I support his bill on behalf of my pary Biju Janta Dal," Patra said. The bill amends the Indian Institutes of Information Technology Act, 2014 and the Indian Institutes of Information Technology (Public-Private Partnership) Act, 2017. Currently, these institutes are registered as Societies under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and do not have the power to grant degrees or diplomas. On being declared institutions of national importance, the five institutes will be granted the power to grant degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-passes-iiit-amendment-bill-giving-national-importance-tag-to-five-new-institutes-891234.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition boycotts Parliament; BJP-led NDA seeks to turn it into battle of 'Bihar pride'||The Opposition on Tuesday announced the boycott of Parliament till the suspension of its eight MPs are revoked even as the BJP-led NDA sought to play the 'Bihar pride' card ahead of the Assembly elections in the state with Deputy Chairman Harivansh going on a 24-hour fast, serving tea to protesting lawmakers and Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeting in his support. The government insisted that it could revoke the suspension of the lawmakers, who were accused of "unruly behaviour" during the passage of two contentious agriculture Bills in Rajya Sabha on Sunday, if they expressed regret even as the eight MPs sat on an overnight sit-in protest in Parliament House, which ended soon after Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad announced the boycott. The announcement was made by Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad in Rajya Sabha in the morning and Leader of Congress Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in Lok Sabha in the evening. The day started with 'Gandhigiri' by Harivansh, a JD(U) MP from Bihar who is in the eye of the controversy with the Opposition accusing him of not allowing voting on the contentious "anti-farmer" Bills, by driving to Parliament House and serving tea to the protesting MPs and later announcing that he will observe a 24-hour fast, which Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu described as a "Gandhian way and JP's (Jaiprakash Narayan) way". Modi followed it up with tweets saying, "To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna shows that Harivansh-ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh-ji.” To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on Dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji. He highlighted that Harivansh is an MP from Bihar and said, “For centuries, the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos...Harivansh-ji’s inspiring and statesman like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud." For centuries, the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Shri Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesman like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud. Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh responded, “The shadow of the forthcoming Bihar elections has fallen over Parliament now. It is all very well for Constitutional authorities to demand respect. They must, in fact, command respect by their non-partisan actions.” The shadow of the forthcoming Bihar elections has fallen over Parliament now. It is all very well for Constitutional authorities to demand respect. They must, in fact, command respect by their non-partisan actions. Bihar is going to polls in the next couple of months and in the past two days, NDA leaders have been raking up the 'Bihar pride' claim through Harivansh. However, the Opposition was not impressed and continued to target Harivansh. They said the NDA strategy would not work and the farmers of the country would rise in revolt against the Bill. Suspended MP and CPI(M) Rajya Sabha leader Elamaram Kareem told DH that Harivansh's visit to their protest site was "nothing but drama" and one staged for the cameras. Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma said Harivansh was "shedding crocodile tears" for Parliamentary democracy after “brazenly violating” rules and his "token fast" was "nothing but a farce". "Hypocrisy will not wash away the sin of doing injustice to India's farmers," Sharma tweeted. Hypocrisy will not wash away the sin of doing injustice to India's farmers. Rajya Sabha witnessed passionate speeches by Azad, former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda (JD-S), Tirchi Siva (DMK), K Keshava Rao (TRS) and Praful Patel (NCP ) demanding revocation of suspension while Leader of House Tawarchand Gehlot, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and JD(U) floor leader RCP Singh training guns at the Opposition. Soon after Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha, Azad raised the issue of suspension of MPs and the incidents of Sunday and said nobody would be happy about what transpired on Sunday but highlighted that the "last straw that broke the camel's back" came when Harivansh did not allow voting on the motion to send the Bills to Select Committees. Emphasising that he would not approve the breaking of microphones or standing on table by three MPs inside Rajya Sabha, Azad said the Leader of Opposition is being reduced to be a mere member as restrictions are put on the time he could take for his interventions. Announcing the boycott of Rajya Sabha, he set three conditions for the Opposition's return to the House -- government bring a new bill to rein in private players and ensure that they adhere to Minimum Support Price for agricultural products, ensuring MSP as per M S Swaminathan Commission report and revoking suspension of the MPs. Ramesh cited seven reasons for the boycott of the session, which included the manner in which the Bills were "bulldozed" and the suspension of MPs without listening to them, the manner in which the Leader of Opposition was not allowed to speak and not referring Bills to Parliamentary panels. Gehlot said Azad was trying to defend the Opposition MPs' conduct, which the latter himself described as unfortunate. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the government will not press for continuation of suspension of MPs if they expressed regret. "Is it not painful that the Opposition MPs almost attacked the Deputy Chairman? One marshal was attacked, they threw papers at the Chair. Is it the right way?" he said. JD(U)’s Singh opposed any move to revoke the suspensions and said the intention of the MPs should be taken into consideration though they are talking about emotions. "They are sitting on a dharna as if they are fighting for independence," he said. Harivansh is a JD(U) MP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-boycotts-parliament-bjp-led-nda-seeks-to-turn-it-into-battle-of-bihar-pride-891249.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha passes amendments to essential commodities law||Parliament on Tuesday passed a bill to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which was approved by the lower house on September 15, was approved by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha. The bill replaces an ordinance promulgated in June. The bill is also aimed at removing fears of private investors of excessive regulatory interference in their business operations. The freedom to produce, hold, move, distribute and supply will lead to harnessing of economies of scale and attract private sector/foreign direct investment into agriculture sector, the government had said earlier. Replying to a short debate, Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Danve Raosaheb Dadarao said the stock limit conditions imposed through the law were hindering investment in the agriculture infrastructure. The amendments to the six-and-half-decade law provides that stock holding limit on commodities will only be imposed under exceptional circumstances like national calamities, famine with a surge in prices, the minister said. Also, processors and value chain participants are exempted from the stock limit. The minster said the move will boost investment in agriculture sector and will also create more storage capacities to reduce post harvest loss of crops. "This amendment is in favour of both farmers and consumers," Dadarao added. According to him, the changes in the 1955 law is an important step by the government to achieve its target of doubling farmers' income and also for ease of doing business. He said the essential commodities act was brought when the country was not a self sufficient in food grains production. But now the situation has changed, therefore the amendment was required, he said. While India has become surplus in most agri-commodities, farmers have been unable to get better prices due to lack of investment in cold storage, warehouses, processing and export. Farmers suffer huge losses when there are bumper harvests, especially of perishable commodities, he said. Earlier in the day, many opposition members had staged a walkout from the House demanding that the suspension of eight members be revoked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-passes-amendments-to-essential-commodities-law-891256.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Government will consider revoking suspension of Rajya Sabha MPs if they apologise, says Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||The government will consider revoking the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members only after they apologise for their behaviour in the Upper House, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Tuesday. The assertion came after a number of Opposition parties, led by the Congress, staged a walkout from the Rajya Sabha demanding that the suspension of eight members be revoked. The Congress was the first to walkout from the House and was later joined by the members of AAP, TMC and Left parties. "We will consider withdrawal of suspension only after suspended members apologise for their behaviour in Rajya Sabha," Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters outside Parliament. "We expected the Congress would oppose such unruly behaviour by Opposition members in the Rajya Sabha," he said. What kind of politics is this that a tweet comes from abroad and MPs behave like this, the minister said, apparently referring to tweets by Rahul Gandhi, who is outside the country accompanying his mother Sonia Gandhi for her medical check-up. "We have never seen a Congress MP dancing on the Rajya Sabha table and tear papers," Prasad said. He also asserted that the government had a clear majority in the Rajya Sabha for the passing of the farm Bills on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-will-consider-revoking-suspension-of-rajya-sabha-mps-if-they-apologise-says-union-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-891258.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha passes bill to amend Companies Act; various offences decriminalised||Parliament on Tuesday passed a bill to further amend the Companies Act and decriminalise various compoundable offences as well as promote ease of doing business in the country. The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha, amid several opposition MPs boycotting the proceedings of the House to protest suspension of eight members. The Lok Sabha had given its approval to the bill on September 19. The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to decriminalise various penal provisions, permit direct overseas listing of Indian corporates and introduce a new chapter related to producer organisations in the legislation. Reduction in penalties for certain offences as well as in timeline for rights issues, relaxation in CSR compliance requirements and creation of separate benches at the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) are also among the proposed changes. Speaking on the bill after a brief discussion in Rajya Sabha, Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government keeps coming to Parliament with amendments as the Companies Act 2013 still has issues. She said the stakeholders keep giving inputs as they say the law was not still helping them and they were facing issues related to compliances. Around 48 sections of the Companies Act, 2013 are being amended to decriminalise various offences. Sitharaman said there are currently around 124 penal provisions compared to 134 in 2013 under the Companies Act. The minister, however, stressed that those engaged in fraud, deceit and injuries to public interest, will be dealt with firmly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-amend-companies-act-various-offences-decriminalised-891259.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha passes Banking Regulation Act amendments to bring cooperative banks under RBI supervision||Parliament on Tuesday passed amendments to the Banking Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI, a move aimed at protecting the interest of depositors. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which replaces an ordinance that was promulgated on June 26, was passed by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha. The amendment had got approval from Lok Sabha on September 16. The bill, which comes in the backdrop of the PMC Bank scam, seeks to strengthen cooperative banks by increasing their professionalism, enabling access to capital, improving governance and ensuring sound banking through the RBI. Parliament on Tuesday passed amendments to the Banking Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI, a move aimed at protecting the interest of depositors. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which replaces an ordinance that was promulgated on June 26, was passed by a voice vote in the Rajya Sabha. The amendment had received approval from the Lok Sabha on September 16. The bill, which comes in the backdrop of the PMC Bank scam, seeks to strengthen cooperative banks by increasing their professionalism, enabling access to capital, improving governance and ensuring sound banking through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Replying to a short debate on the bill in the Rajya Sabha, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in the last one-and-a-half to two years, "we came to know of so many cooperative banks or cooperative societies functioning as banks and calling themselves as banks falling into difficulties." The oft repeated example is of the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank, while there are also other banks, she said. The minister said the amendments to the Banking Regulation Act have been brought to completely protect the interest of depositors. "Amendments are coming in with a singular objective of protecting the interests of the depositors," Sitharaman said. The government was able to quickly resolve the crisis at Yes Bank as it was governed by commercial bank rules, but resolution for the PMC Bank crisis is yet to be found, she pointed out. Within a matter of two weeks, everything was sorted out for Yes Bank which was governed by the commercial bank rules, "whereas, even till today, the PMC Bank solutions are not completely emerging, thus putting the depositors into difficulty," the minister said. Currently, commercial banks' rules do not extend to cooperative societies which function as banks. The minister further said the amendments are purely to govern those cooperative societies which offer banking services and call themselves banks. "So, the cooperative societies doing other activities are not going to be covered," she emphasised. The amendments will not apply to Primary Agricultural Credit Societies or cooperative societies whose primary object or principal business is providing long-term finance for agricultural development, she clarified. The minister further said during the Covid-19 period, many cooperative banks have come under stress. "Their finances are also being closely monitored by the regulator, the RBI, which regulates them from 1965 onwards," she said. She informed the Upper House that about 277 urban cooperative banks have reported losses. As many as 105 urban cooperative banks are unable to meet the minimum regulatory capital requirements and 47 are having negative networth. Besides, 328 urban cooperative banks have more than 15 per cent gross NPA ratio, as of March 2019. "And, with the pandemic setting in, this stress has also increased in cooperatives with gross NPA ratios of urban cooperative banks increasing from 7.27 per cent in March 2019 to 10 per cent in March 2020," she said. Therefore, these changes are very much required and absolutely necessary to protect the depositors, Sitharaman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-passes-banking-regulation-act-amendments-to-bring-cooperative-banks-under-rbi-supervision-891263.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Sharad Pawar to fast for a day in solidarity with 8 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs||NCP chief Sharad Pawar said he is observing a day-long fast on Tueaday to protest the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members of the Upper House. The MPs were suspended for the remaining part of the current session over their "misbehavior" with the House deputy chairman during the passage of the farm Bills on Sunday. Addressing a Press conference here, Pawar, a Rajya Sabha member, also bemoaned the conduct of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Venkaiah Naidu and the Modi government's decision of "bulldozing" the Opposition in the House. The eight MPs were expelled for expressing their opinion, Pawar said, adding the depty chairman did not give priority to (House) rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-to-fast-for-a-day-in-solidarity-with-8-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps-891285.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Dhankhar asks Mamata not to shed 'crocodile tears', instead implement PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday criticised Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for opposing farm sector reform bills, saying "crocodile tears will not relieve the pain of farmers", and urged her to implement the Centre's PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme in the state. Claiming that 70 lakh farmers in the state have been deprived of the benefits of the programme, Dhankhar said the "palpable injustice" to them is "poor politics". "Why deny @MamataOfficial benefit Rs 8,400 crores to 70 lac WB farmers. By failure to participation in PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi! "So far every farmer has lost Rs 12,000 that would have come to his bank account. Urge CM -Crocodile Tears will not relieve the pain of farmers," Dhankhar said on Twitter. He also wrote a letter to the chief minister, urging her to implement the central scheme in the state. "Farmers in the country, except WB, have enormously benefited from PM-Kisan scheme and so far more than Rs 92,000 crores have been defrayed to them. "This palpable injustice to WB farmers is poor politics and bad exonomics @MamataOfficial," he said. Dhankhar, who has been at loggerheads with the state government over a host of issues, said the scheme is fully funded by the Centre and there is "no rationale to deny" the benefits of it to farmers. "Denial of the benefits of the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi to over 70 lakh farmers in the state on account of laxity and inaction of the state government is hurting them, especially during these stressed and crisis times. The situation has not looked up even after attention was drawn from my end," he wrote in his letter. He claimed the Centre's scheme is functional since December 2018 and the state government will not incur any financial burden or liability for implementing it. "It has only to impart details, which it has unfortunately not done, without any explicable premise or rational approach," Dhankhar wrote. His comment came after Banerjee on Monday attacked the BJP-led central government over the passage of two farm sector reform bills, claiming that the "anti-farmer" legislations which were bulldozed through the Rajya Sabha by a "fascist" regime will lead to famine. Urging the state government to reconsider its decision over the implementation of the programme in the state, Dhankhar said aggressive stance at the cost of farmers' suffering is "indeed problematic". "The saga that unfolds can neither be reckoned as prudent economics or farmer friendly governance. Confrontational stance at the cost of farmers' suffering is indeed worrisome," he said. Dhankhar said the "grave injustice" to the farmers of the state should be redressed so that they can enjoy the benefits of the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dhankhar-asks-mamata-not-to-shed-crocodile-tears-instead-implement-pm-kisan-samman-nidhi-scheme-891316.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha passes bill providing relief to taxpayers on compliance front amid Covid-19||Parliament on Tuesday gave its approval to a taxation bill that seeks to provide various reliefs in terms of compliance requirements for taxpayers amid the coronavirus pandemic. The Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020, which seeks to replace an ordinance and make few other changes in direct and indirect tax laws, was returned by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha. The bill was returned amid several opposition parties boycotted the House proceedings protesting suspension of eight members. The Lok Sabha had cleared the bill on September 19. The reliefs in the bill include extending deadlines for filing returns and for linking PAN and Aadhaar. It also provides tax benefits on donation made to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES FUND) set up in March in the wake of the pandemic. The Bill amends the provisions of the Income Tax Act to provide the same tax treatment to PM-CARES Fund as available to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. The Taxation and other Laws (Relaxation of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020, was promulgated in March. Replying to a short debate on the bill, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the ordinance was necessary to defer various compliance deadlines under GST and Income Tax (I-T) Act during the Covid-19 times. She said as a bill was being brought to replace the ordinance, the government incorporated other matters like facilitating investment in IFSC Gift City. The bill seeks to make faceless assessment applicable to at least eight processes under the I-T Act, including for collection and recovery of tax and gathering of information. Also, the bill amends the Finance Act, 2020 to clarify with regard to capping of surcharge at 15 per cent on dividend income of the Foreign Portfolio Investor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-providing-relief-to-taxpayers-on-compliance-front-amid-covid-19-891322.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Never seen bills passed like this, says Sharad Pawar, undertakes day-long fast||Expressing solidarity with the group of 8 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday undertook a day-long fast and said that he has never seen bills passed like this. "I have never seen bills being passed like this. They (the BJP-led NDA government) wanted to pass these bills soon. Members had questions regarding the bill and they wanted a discussion,” Pawar, one of the seniormost politicians, told a news conference in Mumbai. However, he went on to add that when the members did not get a response they came into the well. “Generally, the members are allowed to speak, deliberate and oppose the bills. I didn’t understand the haste in this particular matter,” he said, adding the basic concern was about mentioning the protection of minimum support price (MSP) in the bills. “Now the government has clarified that such a protection mechanism is there,” he added. Pawar denied reports that his party supported the BJP by walking out of the house when the bills were put to voice votes. “The information isn’t true. Our members protested and walked out when the deputy chairman rushed through the bills. In the Lok Sabha, (NCP MP) Supriya Sule has spoken against the bills. My assessment of the deputy chairman, who is a disciple of (a great socialist leader) Karpuri Thakur, has proved wrong today. His conduct was unprecedented. I haven’t seen such a thing in my 50-year parliamentary career. That’s why I have observed a fast today to support the MPs,” said Pawar. On Shiv Sena’s flip flop, Pawar said: “But haven’t they opposed it in the Rajya Sabha?” Pawar said his party would formally announce its support to the nation-wide agitation by several parties and farmers’ organisations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/never-seen-bills-passed-like-this-says-sharad-pawar-undertakes-day-long-fast-891375.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition parties boycott Lok Sabha proceedings in solidarity with suspended Rajya Sabha members||Various opposition parties, including the Congress and the TMC, on Tuesday, boycotted Lok Sabha in solidarity with the eight Rajya Sabha members who were suspended for unruly behaviour. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said all opposition parties are boycotting Parliament in solidarity with the Rajya Sabha members who were suspended on Monday. "You have compelled us to do so," he said. Opposition parties, including Congress, TMC, BSP and TRS, walked out of the Lok Sabha. Chowdhury did not specify for how long the boycott would continue. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla warned that members should not mention about the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha. He said all references made by members would be removed from the records.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-boycott-lok-sabha-proceedings-in-solidarity-with-suspended-rajya-sabha-members-891380.html
22-09-2020||National Politics||Parliament's Monsoon session likely to end on September 23||The monsoon session began on September 14 and was originally scheduled to conclude on October 1. However, with several MPs and union ministers testing positive for Covid-19, there was pressure on the government to curtail the session. The decision to adjourn the monsoon session was taken at a meeting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had with floor leaders on Tuesday evening. The government had replaced 11 ordinances with bills, got Parliament nod for supplementary demands for grants and passed three labour codes that seek to replace 25 labour laws. The curtailment of the session also comes amid a stand-off with the opposition and suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members for unruly conduct in the House during the discussion on farm sector reforms bills. Opposition parties boycotted the proceedings of both Houses of Parliament on Tuesday demanding revocation of suspension of the eight members. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar added fuel to the fire by claiming that farmers protesting against the farm sector reforms were Congress activists and not real farmers. “Most of those protesting in Punjab and Haryana are not farmers, but Congress workers,” Tomar said in the Lok Sabha adding that the bills passed by Parliament would benefit farmers and free them from the clutches of middlemen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliaments-monsoon-session-likely-to-end-on-september-23-891466.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||NASA's satellite images show early stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana||Images from United States space agency NASA’s Fire Information for Resource Management System (FIRMS) shows a progressive rise in the number of fires in Punjab’s farmlands indicating a rise in burning of crop residue in the state and in nearby Haryana from September 15. The images also show stubble burning in Hisar, Panipat, Karnal districts of Haryana.  “Crop fires in the state of Punjab and Haryana have started appearing in India. This year, we will be supporting satellite air quality data analysis and forecasting, through a community forum, for better understanding of the impact of such fires on local weather and environment,” he told the publication. Stubble burning usually begins in full-swing around October 15, last year fires were detected as early as September 25.  These farm fires are linked to the practice of burning of paddy crop residue in Punjab and Haryana. As an inexpensive and quick manner to turn around farms for winter sowing, farmers set fire to large amounts of crop residue. Burning leftover crop residue, is a crime under the Indian Penal Code and the Air and Pollution Control Act of 1981. Despite this, farmers in Punjab and Haryana continue to burn crop stubbles. The practice spews large amounts of smoke in the atmosphere. When paired with slow moving, cool winds, the smoke settles closer to North Indian cities, blanketing Delhi and surrounding areas in toxic smoke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nasas-satellite-images-show-early-stubble-burning-in-punjab-haryana-891207.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||NIA carries out fresh raids in Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted fresh raids in Srinagar and Baramulla districts of Kashmir on Tuesday in the case of suspended Deputy Superintendent Police (DSP) Davinder Singh and Hizbul Mujahideen militant Naveed Babu. Reports said the NIA sleuths, accompanied by paramilitary CRPF and J&K police, raided the house of Ghulam Rasool Waza at Palhallan, Pattan, Baramulla. According to sources, Waza is a retired government employee of the Health Department. Similarly, the NIA carried out searches at the house of Tariq Ahmad (an ex-Sarpanch) arrested last year by police in a drug peddling case and two other locations, Kanispora at main town and Boniyar area of Uri, all in Baramulla. Reports said that NIA also raided the house of Tafazul Parimo at S A Colony, Nowgam in Srinagar. “Parents of Tafazul told the NIA team that their son was presently living in Peerbagh. The NIA team asked the brother of Tafazul to accompany them to Peerbagh where a raid is underway at present,” reports added. Sources said the NIA is conducting raids in Hizbul commander Naveed Babu-Davinder Singh DSP's case. DSP Singh was arrested on January 11 by the police, while transporting two Hizbul militants, Naveed Babu and Rafi Ahmed, and a lawyer Irfan Ahmed in a vehicle to Jammu. The NIA had booked Singh and four others under Arms Act, Explosive Substance Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and recovered 32 items from them including an AK-47 rifle and US and Chinese made pistols and ammunition. Singh was an officer in the anti-hijacking wing of J&K police at Srinagar International Airport, and was part of the security staff that received a group of foreign ambassadors, including US ambassador, who visited Kashmir in January this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-carries-out-fresh-raids-in-kashmir-891227.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Partly cloudy sky, light rain likely in Delhi||A partly cloudy sky and light rainfall is likely to bring slight relief from the sultry weather in Delhi on Tuesday, the meteorological department said. There has been no precipitation in the city for 13 days on the trot. The last time the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded any rainfall was on September 8 (1.3 mm). The city has witnessed only three rainy days this month. Heat and humidity troubled the residents amid the lack of rains. On Monday, the maximum temperature settled at 36.8 degrees Celsius, two notches more than normal. Light rains on Tuesday and Wednesday may cause the temperatures to drop slightly, the Met department said. The national capital has recorded 80 per cent less rainfall in September so far, according to India Meteorological Department data. The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 102 mm this month so far. Delhi recorded 237 mm rainfall in August, the highest for the month in seven years. Overall, the city has recorded 576.5 mm rainfall against the usual of 624.3 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/partly-cloudy-sky-light-rain-likely-in-delhi-891248.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Security forces gun down terrorist in Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam||An unidentified militant was killed on Tuesday in an overnight encounter with security forces in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The encounter began on Monday evening in the Nawad area of Charar-e-Sharief in central Kashmir's Budgam after the security forces launched a cordon and search operation there following information about the presence of militants, a police official said. He said the security forces maintained a tight cordon of the area throughout the night and the gunfight resumed this morning. In the exchange of fire, a militant was killed, the official said. He said the identity and group affiliation of the slain militant were being ascertained. The operation is going on, the official added. On Monday, when the cordon was being established, a CRPF trooper was injured in firing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-gun-down-terrorist-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-budgam-891254.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court asks CBSE, UGC to coordinate on academic calendar||Meanwhile, Education Minister Ramesh Nishank announced on Twitter the UGC's decision on academic calendar for 2020-21 in which admission process would be completed by October 31 and classes for the first year or semester would begin from November 1. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar asked the UGC to make "some room" and consider the fate of about two lakh students who appeared for compartment examinations of the CBSE, saying this is a peculiar situation. The court said if the CBSE declares results by end of October, then the UGC can wrap up admissions by first week of November. During the hearing, the CBSE advocate said the answer sheets would need to be corrected at 16 regional centres and it would take at least three to four weeks. The UGC counsel submitted the academic calendar can be released anytime soon. On this, the bench said, "Don't release the acadmeic calendar till Thursday. Let the CBSE inform us and then you both coordinate. Two lakh students is not a small number and we have to work out a solution in this exceptional year. You need to work in tandem with CBSE." Senior advocate Vivek Tankha, appearing for some students, said the UGC should accommodate the compartment students in the academic calendar.  The court posted the matter for consideration on September 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-asks-cbse-ugc-to-coordinate-on-academic-calendar-891265.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir government issues 18.52 lakh domicile certificates||The Jammu and Kashmir government has issued over 18.52 lakh domicile certificates (DCs) against more than 21.99 lakh applications received so far, an official spokesman said here. As per the consolidated figures from across 20 districts of the Union territory, 21,99,513 people have applied for domicile certificates, of which 20,87,815 were found complete in all respects, while the rest were rejected for want of prescribed documents. As many as 18,52,355 people have been issued domicile certificates till Monday, and the rest are in process, the spokesman said. Of the total number of domicile certificates issued in the UT, 16,27,461 were under the clause of Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC) holders and their children, while 1,72,565 were under the clause of state subject applicants and non-state subject applicants and their children, the official said. As many as 34,473 domicile certificates were issued to students, including 24,508 state subjects and 9,870 non-state subjects, and 19,479 to registered migrants and their children, he said. The total number of DCs issued to non-state subjects stands at 59,993, including 17,978 to West Pakistani Refugees, 1,825 to the Balmiki community and 755 to Gorkhas, he added. A total of 4,97,238 certificates were issued in Kashmir division and 13,35,643 in Jammu division. The process of issuing domicile certificates in the Union territory was started in the last week of June, the spokesman said. Applications for the certificates can be submitted at tehsildar offices and also online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-government-issues-1852-lakh-domicile-certificates-891267.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Charge sheet claims objective of Delhi riots conspirators was to uproot lawfully-elected govt: Report||The Delhi Police Special Cell in its 2,695-page-long charge sheet stated that the conspirators of Delhi riots aimed at "bringing the government of India to its knees and enforcing the withdrawal of Citizenship (Amendment) Act by timing the execution of their conspiracy with the visit of US President, thereby hitting two birds with a single stone."  The charge sheet has been filed against 15 people for allegedly managing protest sites against the CAA in Delhi and executing the conspiracy hatched for the riots in northeast Delhi in February. Former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan, activist Khalid Saifi, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, Jamia Millia Islamia Alumni Association President Shifa Ur Rehman and Jamia student Meeran Haider have been named in the charge sheet under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). As per the publication’s report, the charge sheet, signed by DCP (Special Cell) P S Kushwah and ACP (Special Cell) Alok Kumar, explains a “terrorist act” as per Section 15 of the UAPA in this context. "In this case, the use of firearms, petrol bombs… causing death of a police personnel and grievous injuries… with intention to overawe the state and force the central government to withdraw CAA, NRC clearly falls in the definition of terrorist activity," the charge sheet states. “Causing death of over 50 persons and causing serious injuries to over 500 public persons apart from massive damage to public and private properties by arson and other means would also clearly fall within the definition of terrorist activity… Disruption of supplies and services essential to life of community squarely falls within the ambit of terrorist act,” it reportedly reads. The report points out that the conspiracy grew in an organic manner from the formation of a group called MSJ (Muslim Students of JNU), “an overtly communal seed that was sown after CAB.” The group, the report filed by the police says, “provided a secular facade and naxal genes of violent resistance to an otherwise radically communal agenda.” The report also mentions that the “conspirators, by their ingenuity and criminality of thoughts, presented an entirely new dimension to the meaning of ‘hate speech’ — theirs was covered in the sugarcoat of nationalism which hit the sour and sordid truth that it was, in fact, a well-thought out attempt at igniting and reinforcing a pan-Islamic identity.” Stating that “select group of digital media houses” created media frenzy, the report concluded that the “end objective of all the conspirators was to uproot a lawfully-elected government by sheer use of engineered, vicious and visceral communal violence”. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/charge-sheet-claims-objective-of-delhi-riots-conspirators-was-to-uproot-lawfully-elected-govt-report-891269.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||High Court stays Delhi government decision to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals||The Delhi High Court Tuesday stayed the AAP government’s order directing 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, holding that the decision appeared to be arbitrary and unreasonable. Justice Navin Chawla said prima facie Delhi government's September 13 order is “arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of fundamental rights of citizens” guaranteed under the Constitution. The court issued notices and sought responses of the Delhi government and the Centre on a plea by 'Association of Healthcare Providers' to quash the order to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. “Prima facie the order appears to be arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of the fundamental rights of citizens guaranteed under the Constitution. The operation of the order shall remain stayed till the next date of the hearing,” the court said. The court listed the matter for further hearing on October 16. The association said the 33 hospitals are its members and the Delhi government’s order shall be quashed as it was passed in an irrational manner. Delhi government however defended its decision saying it is only for 33 hospitals and 20 per cent ICU beds remain for the non-Covid-19 serious patients and it has been done keeping in view the sudden spike in cases of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-court-stays-delhi-government-decision-to-reserve-80-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients-in-33-private-hospitals-891276.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: DMRC incurred huge revenue loss, DTC lost Rs 5.12 lakh, says chargesheet||The DMRC incurred huge "unspecified" revenue loss during the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, while the DTC lost Rs 5.12 lakh, the police has stated in its charge sheet filed in the case related to the larger conspiracy in the riots. "The DMRC had incurred unspecified huge revenue loss due to closure of metro stations and disruption in services. “On February 25, 174 round trips and two down trips were cancelled between Maujpur-Shiv Vihar, 362 partial round trips were cancelled between Maujpur-Welcome station, 23 round trips were cancelled between Shiv Vihar-Welcome sections,” it said. It said that a letter was written to the DTC for seeking information regarding damages and loss to the DTC due to the anti-CAA/NRC protests and the riots between December 5, 2019 to February 28, 2020. “The report showed that during the protests, five DTC buses were damaged, DTC staff was injured, loss of Rs 2,65,112.6 was incurred to DTC due to the damage of the buses. Details of the bus route which got affected incurred a loss of Rs 2,47,883,” it claimed. It said the reports received from the Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Yamuna Vihar and Karawal Nagar have stated that there were 688 cases of damage to uninsured commercial properties, 442 cases of damage to residential properties and a relief of Rs 12.44 crore has been disbursed to affected riot victims in both the areas. The police have charge sheeted 15 persons in the case related to the conspiracy in the riots. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-dmrc-incurred-huge-revenue-loss-dtc-lost-rs-512-lakh-says-chargesheet-891292.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Ladakh's Covid-19 death toll reaches 50; tally at 3,832||The coronavirus death toll has risen to 50 in Ladakh as one more patient succumbed to the disease, while 79 new infections took the caseload to 3,832, officials said on Tuesday. There are 1,047 active coronavirus cases in the Union Territory now, of which 591 are in Leh and 456 in Kargil district, the officials said. A total of 2,735 patients, 71 per cent of the total caseload, have recovered till Monday evening, they said. They said a 55-year-old patient died in Kargil district on Monday, taking the death toll to 50 – 29 in Kargil and 21 in Leh. Out of the 79 new cases detected on Monday, 72 were in Leh and seven in Kargil, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakhs-covid-19-death-toll-reaches-50-tally-at-3832-891337.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Rajya Sabha passes 7 key Bills in three and half hours||43 speeches by 14 MPs and 5 Ministers in 213 minutes -- that is what it took for the government to pass seven Bills, including two contentious ones that the Opposition wanted to be sent to Select Committee, in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday after the Opposition boycotted the House demanding revocation of suspension of eight of its MPs. Altogether 14 MPs made 34 speeches during the debate on these Bills with Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar Reddy of TDP speaking on all the Bills followed by YSR Congress leader Vijayasai Reddy spoke on all Bills barring the one on taxation. JD(U) floor leader RCP Singh spoke on five Bills. Four Ministers made nine speeches, including a short speech by Mansukh L Mandaviya while intervening during the debate on the bill on Forensic Universities. Except for Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishak, none of the Ministers spoke at the beginning of the debate of any Bill. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman topped the list of Ministers for moving three Bills, which were passed. While the House started proceedings at 9 AM with Zero Hour lasting for 25 minutes, another 64 minutes were spent on the issue of suspension of MPs with Leader of House Tawarchand Gehlot, Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and other leaders making their points. It was at 10:29 AM that the legislative business started with a discussion on the bill to declare five newly-established Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) as institutions of national importance. The proceedings ended at 2:02 PM. After passing the Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill was passed at 11:20 AM, the House then took up the contentious Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act aimed at removing cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and removes stockholding limits on them was taken up. This is one of four bills, which the Opposition wanted scrutiny by a Select Committee and one of the three agriculture-related Bills they were opposed to. It was passed at around 12 PM. The fourth Bill the Opposition had problems with was the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill aimed at bringing cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI in a bid to protect the interest of depositors. Around 12:45, this Bill also got the Rajya Sabha nod. Then came the Companies (Amendment) Bill to remove penalties for certain offences, which was passed around 1:15 PM. The National Forensic Sciences University Bill was passed at around 1:35 PM while Rashtriya Raksha University Bill by 1:50. The seventh and last Bill to be passed during the day was Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajya-sabha-passes-7-key-bills-in-three-and-half-hours-891341.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Former Rajasthan minister Zakia Inam dies||Veteran Congress leader and former Rajasthan minister Zakia Inam died at a hospital here. She was 71. She died hours after she was admitted to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Hospital Monday evening as she complained of breathing issues. Inam was a three-time MLA from Tonk and served as the state minister twice. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC president Govind Dotasra, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and other leaders condoled the death of Inam. Gehlot prayed for peace to the departed soul and courage for the bereaved family members. "I deeply condole the demise of Zakia Inam, former minister and former legislator from Tonk. While holding the post of former minister and MLA, she did many important works for the development of the state and region," Pilot, who represents Tonk seat in the assembly, tweeted. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said Inam was active in solving grievances of people throughout her life and contributed significantly towards maintaining communal harmony along with social service. Inam is survived by a daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-rajasthan-minister-zakia-inam-dies-891352.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||BJP govt taking credit for SP’s film city project in Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday alleged the Yogi Adityanath government was trying to take credit for the film city project initiated by his regime. “The BJP government of the state is now ready with the scissors to cut the ribbon for SP’s 'Film City' to take credit for it. But now neither their actor’s acting is working nor any of his dialogues,” Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. In remarks suggesting a BJP defeat in the next state elections, Yadav added in his tweet, “Their flop film is about to be taken off, because there is an advance booking for those who build the ‘real’ picture of the state.” Two Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) were signed in 2015, when the Samajwadi Party was in power, for setting up as many film cities in the state. While one was proposed along the Lucknow-Agra Expressway by Purple Seas group, with technical support provided by the Government of Japan, the other was to be developed in Trans Ganga Hightech City Scheme near Unnao by Bhojpuri film star Ravi Kishan, now a BJP MP. An investment of Rs 650 crore was estimated to be made in the two projects. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on September 18 announced that his government would set up the country's "biggest" and "most beautiful" film city in Noida, bordering Delhi, and asked officials to identify land for it. Officials said Monday that authorities in Gautam Buddh Nagar have sent two proposals to the state government to set up a film city either in Noida or along the Yamuna Expressway near the upcoming Jewar international airport, The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) has earmarked 1,000 acres and the Noida Authority has identified 500 acres. Meanwhile, the CM is also holding a meeting on Tuesday with people from the film industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-govt-taking-credit-for-sp-s-film-city-project-in-uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-yadav-891376.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||ABVP alleges signboard of road named after Swami Vivekananda vandalised in JNU||The JNU unit of the RSS-affiliated ABVP has filed a police complaint alleging that the signboard of a road named after Swami Vivekananda in the campus has been vandalised. Police said they have received a complaint and are looking into the matter. Calling the vandalism "a pre-planned attack on the ideologically diverse nature of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus", the ABVP claimed that a few student union leaders have given an open call for taking down the signboard. "We are witnessing continuous assaults on symbols of national significance inside the JNU campus. In yet another sequence of the recurring defacement of statues and sign boards named on the personalities significant to our national identity and pride, the perpetrators seem to be persevering, without any respect for law and order. "... it is a clear violation of the Defacement of Public Property Act, 2007... We appeal to the police administration to identify the perpetrators and take strict action against them, to ensure peace and decorum in the campus," the complaint by the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) said. JNU Students'' Union (JNUSU) vice-president Saket Moon said the ABVP was trying to divert attention from the real issues faced by the varsity. "JNUSU has been demanding that the administration allow a phased return of students to campus and other issues like online registration for the upcoming semester. The ABVP is trying to divert attention from the real issues and are trying to shield the administration from being answerable on these issues," he said.  Objectionable messages, mostly directed towards right-wing outfits, were found written on the pedestal of a yet to be unveiled statue of Swami Vivekananda on the JNU campus last year in November following which the varsity administration had filed a police complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abvp-alleges-signboard-of-road-named-after-swami-vivekananda-vandalised-in-jnu-891378.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Scribe's daughter burnt alive over land dispute in Uttar Pradesh||A teenage daughter of a scribe was allegedly burnt alive over a land dispute in Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur district, about 150 kilometres from here. According to the sources, three persons poured kerosene on the victim and set her ablaze, when she came out of her house at Majre Enjar village in the district to get water from the nearby hand pump, on Monday. The teen suffered severe burn injuries and was rushed to the district hospital, where she died late in the night, sources said adding that in her 'dying statement' she named the culprits. Sources said that the incident was the result of a land dispute between the victim's father, identified as Pradeep Singh, who was associated with a Hindi daily, and one Kunwar Singh, a resident of the same village. The two sides had clashed over the dispute in June this year during which Kunwar Singh was killed after being hit by a bullet. Pradeep was arrested and is currently lodged in jail.  Although Pradeep had also sustained injuries in the clash and got an FIR lodged in this connection, the cops did not take any action against the rival party, sources said. Sources said that on Monday, the victim was alone in her house as her mother had left to meet Pradeep in jail. Two persons have been taken into custody in this regard, the police officials said in Sultanpur. They said that a hunt was on to nab the other culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scribes-daughter-burnt-alive-over-land-dispute-in-uttar-pradesh-891386.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt announces Rs 4,000 direct cash transfer to farmers||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday announced that his government will transfer Rs 4,000 into the bank accounts of farmers in the state in two equal instalments in a financial year. The benefit would be given to those who are enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. "With a view of overall development of farmers, we have decided that schemes being run in their interest, such as relief under RCB6(4), PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, loan at zero per cent interest and Prime Minister Crop Insurance, we will implement all the schemes as a package," Chouhan said in a series of tweets. In the first phase of this series, the CM Farmers Welfare Scheme is being started in the state, he said. "Under this scheme, all eligible beneficiary farmer families covered under the PM Samman Nidhi will be paid a total of Rs 4,000 in two instalments in a financial year. Welfare of farmers is the goal of my life," Chouhan tweeted. The chief minister said his government will help farmers double their income by 2022. "We re-implemented the loan scheme at zero interest rate. Complete benefits of Kisan Samman Nidhi and Bima Yojana were given. More than Rs 27,000 crore were paid to farmers for food grains purchase. We will leave no stone unturned to double farmers' income by 2022," he said in another tweet. Earlier in the day, Chouhan, in a programme here, transferred loans worth Rs 800 crore to farmers' accounts in the state at zero per cent interest. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, the Centre transfers an amount of Rs 6,000 per year, in three equal instalments, directly into the bank accounts of farmers, subject to certain exclusion criteria relating to higher income status.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-announces-rs-4000-direct-cash-transfer-to-farmers-891404.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Amid Covid-19, schools in Bihar to reopen from September 28||The permission to start classes in the state is, however, is conditional. The schools will operate with only 50 per cent of the teaching and non-teaching staff on its campus. The schools will remain open only for students from Class IX to XII, that too with only 30 per cent of the total strength. This means that no student can attend his/her classes for more than twice a week as the State has to abide by the guidelines issued by the Centre wherein only one-third students can attend their classes at a time. As per the guidelines issued by the Education Department in the State here on Tuesday, the new diktat will be applicable to private as well as Government schools in Bihar. “However, it’s up to the parents to decide whether they want to send their children to schools or not at this juncture,” said a senior official of the Education Department. “Besides, one has to maintain social distance, wear mask and carry sanitizer while coming to schools,” the official said, and added that permission has not been given to hold practical classes. The decision to reopen schools was taken after the Principal Secretary, Education Department, Sanjay Kumar held an official meeting where all the pros and cons were discussed threadbare. Incidentally, Sanjay was Bihar’s Principal Secretary, Health, when Covid-19 wreaked havoc in the State but he was removed unceremoniously. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar drew flak shortly after his removal. However, Sanjay was recently shifted to Education Department. The reopening of schools is being seen as a message by Nitish regime that poll-bound Bihar is limping back to normal after Covid-19 struck six months back. Altogether 1,71,465 persons in the State have tested Covid-19 positive since March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-covid-19-schools-in-bihar-to-reopen-from-september-28-891408.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam used social media for indoctrination of youths for Chakka Jaam||Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam charge-sheeted in the case related to larger conspiracy in northeast Delhi riots in February had decided to use social media “for large scale indoctrination and mobilisation of youths for Chakka Jaam as a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAB)”, police has alleged. Delhi Police in the charge sheet alleged that the protests against CAA and the state were never peaceful since its inception and ultimate object of these protest was large scale pre-planned violence against the state. It also made mention in the charge sheet about Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogender Yadav with whom Khalid and Imam met at Jantar Mantar in December 2019 during an agitation against CAA. The police in the charge sheet alleged that Khalid, Yadav and Imam have decided to use social media “for large scale indoctrination and mobilisation of youths for Chakka Jaam as a protest against CAB.” It further alleged that Imam was the mastermind of Shaheen Bagh blockade, the first protest site. The 17,000-page charge sheet filed on September 16 in a court here gave the sequence of events leading to largescale violence in which former JNU student Khalid and his junior in the university Imam were part of the alleged conspiracy along with their associates to incite communal feelings of a particular community and instigate students of a particular community against the CAA and the state. The police report stated that on December 7,2019, an agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act was called at Jantar Mantar by United Against Hate, citizen's campaign, which was attended by Imam along with members o a WhatsApp group “Muslim Students of JNU”. It said that at Jantar Mantar Imam was introduced to Yogender Yadav by Khalid, his senior and mentor from JNU. "Sharjeel Imam was on an earlier occasion instructed by Umar Khalid to form a group of like minded groups of JNU, Jamia Millia, AMU and DU. Yogender Yadav and Umar Khalid also instructed him to mobilise the students of Jamia Millia, AMU and DU,” the charge sheet stated. "The police have stated that as per the pre-planned conspiracy accused Sharjeel Imam along with other associates started distributing pamphlets which contained such contents meant to incite communal feelings of a particular community and instigate students of a particular community against the CAA and the state.” the charge sheet alleged. “It also reflects during the course of investigation that the protests against CAA and the state were never peaceful since its inception and ultimate object of these protest was large scale preplanned violence against the state. It also reveals their modus operandi of completely blocking the traffic that is 'Chakka Jaam' which is already cursor to inciting large scale violence,” the police alleged. It claimed that “In pursuance and furtherance of the common conspiracy the first protest site that is Shaheen Bagh based on Chakka Jaam model was started on December 15. The WhatsApp chat between Imam and his brother Muzammil established that Imam was the mastermind of Shaheen Bagh blockade.” Police alleged that the creation of Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) was the brain child of Umar Khalid and Nadeem Khan to rope in different student organisation of Jamia university. Asif Iqbal Tanha and Saiful Islam were the key persons behind the constitution of JCC. The charge sheet further alleged that accused Shifa Ur Rehman (Jamia Coordination Committee member and President of Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia) and others collected funds predominantly in cash and also in bank accounts and funded the sustenance of various sit-in protest sites by providing logistics and providing daily wages to lady protestors. “Alumni Association of Jamia Millia Islamia (AAJMI) also provided mike, poster, banners, ropes etc items at gate number 7 of Jamia Millia protest site. AAJMI also paid for the buses hired for the protests. The daily expenditure of AAJMI had ranged between Rs 5000- Rs 10,000 at protest site of Jamia gate number 7 alone,” it alleged. The police have established this with the statements of witnesses and WhatsApp chats, the charge sheet stated. “Meeting of the JCC was conducted regularly in the evening in the JCC office and active and prominent members regularly attended the meeting to formulate strategy, schemes and plans in furtherance of common conspiracy for the sustenance of the protest sites.  “As per the statement of witnesses, after the general meeting a secret meeting was also used to be held at JCC office by Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Saif-Ul Islam, Asif Iqbal Tanha and AAJMI office bearers. In the JCC meetings, Tanha and Saiful Islam used to execute and implement the directions conveyed to them by Umar Khalid and Nadeem Khan,” it alleged. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-umar-khalid-sharjeel-imam-used-social-media-for-indoctrination-of-youths-for-chakka-jaam-891427.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||JeM militant gunned down by security forces in J&K encounter, Army personnel injured||A Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militant was killed and an Army personnel injured on Tuesday in an overnight encounter with security forces in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The encounter began on Monday evening in Nawad area of Charar-e-Sharief in Central Kashmir's Budgam district after security forces launched a cordon and search operation there following information about the presence of militants, a police official said. He said the security forces maintained a tight cordon of the area throughout the night and the gunfight resumed on Tuesday morning. In the exchange of fire, one militant was killed, the official said. He said the militant was identified as Asif Shah, a resident of Samboora area of South Kashmir's Pulwama. Shah was affiliated with JeM, he added. An Army personnel of 53 Rashtriya Rifles received splinter injuries and was shifted to a hospital for treatment, the official said. He said incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were seized from the site of the encounter. All the seized materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe his complicity in other terror crimes, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jem-militant-gunned-down-by-security-forces-in-jk-encounter-army-personnel-injured-891488.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Drone-dropped arms consignment seized near Jammu border||An arms consignment believed to have been dropped by a drone from Pakistan-based terrorists was seized in Akhnoor sector here in the early hours of Tuesday, a senior police officer said.   Senior Superintendent of Police (Jammu) Shridhar Patil said two packets containing two AK assault rifles, three magazines with 90 rounds and a pistol with two magazines and 14 rounds were seized in a joint operation by police and special forces of the Army from Sohal Khad, located at an aerial distance of 13 km from the border. "We have successfully scuttled the attempt to send weapons to the terrorists active in Jammu and Kashmir... Dropping weapons from drones is a new technique being used by terrorist organizations," he told reporters here. He said the investigation is on to identify the terrorist group which is behind the dropping of the weapons. "A case has been registered in connection with the recovery of the weapons and further investigation is on," Patil said. He said security agencies are aware of the threat posed by the use of drones to drop weapons in India from across the border and "we are tackling it by the use of technology and human intelligence. Human intelligence played a key role in today's recovery". The arms and ammunition were packed in blue thermacol with wooden fittings, wrapped by adhesive tape, the officer said, adding that two rolls of parachute thread about 300 metre in length was also seized. The SSP said a joint operation was launched after credible information was received about a planned attempt by anti-national elements to smuggle arms into India. "The search operation was started at various places in Jammu, including Sohal Khad, Shamshan Ghat, Punnu Chowk, Sohal Market in Akhnoor sector. While recovering a packet containing arms, the sound of a drone was heard but it was not visible due to darkness," he said. Patil said continuous search led to the recovery of another packet of arms and ammunition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drone-dropped-arms-consignment-seized-near-jammu-border-891518.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||UP girl gets Rs 10cr in her bankaccount; probe on||A 16-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia district was in for a shock when she came to know that nearly Rs 10 crore was deposited in her bank account. According to a complaint, a person named Neelesh Kumar from Kanpur Dehat district had called Saroj two years ago and asked her to send Aadhaar card and photograph in the name of getting funds under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. She did so. Saroj, who is illiterate, told reporters on Tuesday that she had an account since 2018 in an Allahabad Bank's branch in Bansdih town, over 16 km from the district headquarters. When the teenager had gone to the bank on Monday, she was informed by bank officials that there was Rs 9.99 crore in her account. She then went to the police station and informed the officials. Saroj said she did not know from where did the money came from. She told the police that the number on which Neelesh used to call her up was now switched off. The manager of the bank said Saroj had deposited and withdrawn Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 a number of times. Bansdih police station incharge Rajesh Kumar Singh said the matter was being probed and action would be taken accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-girl-gets-rs-10cr-in-her-bankaccount-probe-on-891521.html
22-09-2020||North and Central||Ex-judges hit out at critics of police probe into Delhi riots||Several former judges have hit out at the civil society members who criticised the police investigation into the Delhi riots, saying "national integration cannot be sacrificed at the altar of wishfully disintegrative romanticism of the misguided elements." The group of 13 former judges, including former chief justices of three high courts, specifically referred to the criticism of Umar Khalid's arrest by a section of activists, asserting that the former JNU student leader was not an exception to the rule of law that must take its own course. The former judges said they were keenly noticing a "partisan agenda-based disruptive narrative" being consistently produced by a handful of persons who have held responsible constitutional positions. Retired judges B C Patel, K R Vyas, Permod Kohli and S M Soni are among those who have signed the statement, strongly condemning the efforts of anyone who tries to "glorify" crime against the State, block the due process of law in dealing with crimes affecting peace and tranquillity of the country's citizens. This creates a wedge in the social fabric of the nation and indirectly strike at the roots of national integration, they claimed. "A new premise is espoused wherein some allegedly disruptive elements are being put on a pedestal," their statement said. This same set of people, "wrongly" claiming themselves as sole representatives of the civil society, are attempting to "scuttle" the normal process of administration of justice in the Umar Khalid case, the former judges said. Khalid has been arrested by the Delhi Police for his alleged involvement in the riots and has been slapped with stringent anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. These people never miss any chance to denigrate the sacred institutions of Indian democracy, such as the Supreme Court, Election Commission and Parliament, according to the statement. They are now throwing spanners in the process of law regarding the Delhi riots, where layers after layers of "anti-national activities" are getting exposed, it said, attacking civil society groups, including former civil servants and even retired judges who have questioned the Delhi Police probe. "They seem to suffer from wishful thinking that all the constitutional institutions, as well as the executive authorities created by the law, must function in accordance with their whims and fancy, which clearly portray their inherent lack of respect for India, and what it stands for," the statement said. In the Umar Khalid case, critics need to understand that, ultimately, it is the judiciary before which allegations will have to be proved, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-judges-hit-out-at-critics-of-police-probe-into-delhi-riots-891550.html
22-09-2020||Oasis||Banish panic!||The ruins of an ancient sanctuary at Banias in northern Israel, are remnants of an age when Pan, an ancient Greek god, was worshipped. Today, Pan is neither revered in his own country nor remembered in a land sacred to three monotheistic religions. He lives on, however, in legend and literature, and in the word that derives from his name. From Pan we get ‘panic’, on account of the terror evoked by his unexpected appearances. Adept at playing the pipe, he also had a streak of mischief. From artistic depictions, we learn that Pan was a startling sight. That deity of shepherds and flocks had the horns and legs of a goat.  Not that it requires a freakish figure to frighten us. Panic is easily triggered, as is borne out by expressions in the English language. All too often, we ‘push the panic button’. Remember when the first lockdown was announced? Convinced that essential items would be in short supply, many of us rushed to hoard groceries. Among other things, we stocked up on soaps and sanitisers to last a lifetime. No wonder such purchasing (more like plundering) is termed ‘panic buying’! When we feel overwhelmed by circumstances, we tend to react in a manner that is superfluous to the situation. A few months ago, I was stuck in a lift. I expected to be out in two minutes, but the 120 seconds seemed endless. I imagined I was claustrophobic and willed myself to keep calm. I reminded myself that what I was experiencing was nothing compared to what people endured when they were trapped beneath rubble after an earthquake or underground when a mine collapsed.  Logical thinking steadied my nerves, as I am sure it helps others to overcome unreasonable anxiety.  Then, there is our fervent hope that a higher power is in control of events we cannot comprehend. ‘Do not be afraid,’ the Bible reassuringly reiterates. We are not promised that nothing alarming will ever befall us, but we are urged to choose faith over fear and to banish panic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/banish-panic-891118.html
22-09-2020||Oasis||Humanity: Give and take||St. Francis of Assisi says, “Start by doing what’s necessary then do what’s possible and suddenly you are doing the impossible.” Sounds easy enough, however, often our lack of perspective and awareness of the bigger picture takes us away from doing what is required and essential. As we moved our home, one of the first things we needed to buy was an immediate and temporary water filter to tide the days of transition. Our manual water filter was easy to use and we had to deploy only one exert from our end, we needed to fill the filter with at least as much water we took from it. You could either fill the filter with a glass of water and then take one from it, or you could take the water first and then replace it so that at all points whoever needed clean drinking water would have access to it. It seemed simple enough, however, initially at-least, almost always the pitcher was found with insufficient amounts of water. Since there was no way of finding out who had not followed the simple rule of giving back what you take, the irksome exercise of reiterating the instruction had to be done repeatedly. There were squabbles, as no one remembered or owned up and one of us invariably had to fill the filter from scratch. Soon, however, each one of us understood that we neededto do our bit. Even if one of us faltered, someone else would have to make the necessary adjustments or do more than required to keep the filter going. A family, relationship and life at large necessitate that each one of us does what is required of us. Our actions and the actions of others are inextricably linked; we matter to each other and if we give back what we take--the balance, the delicate dance of man with the natural law is maintained. It is this balance that makes us aware that we are a part of something larger than ourselves and that we contribute to its well-being. Doing what is essential, whether filling the pitcher with water or restoring to life what we take from it is an exchange of our humanity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/humanity-give-and-take-891588.html
22-09-2020||Opinion||A new call for global climate action||The latest UN report on climate change has sounded another warning about the disaster that the world is relentlessly heading into. The multi-agency report, called United in Science 2020, prepared by UN bodies and science organisations and co-ordinated by the World Meteorological Organisation, presents the latest data and findings about climate change and calls for global policy and action to counter it. It has pointed to the impact of climate change on glaciers, oceans, nature, economies and human living conditions and how this is resulting in water-related hazards like drought or flooding which are becoming more frequent. The report also details the difficulties caused by Covid-19 in monitoring some of the changes through the systems set up to study them. The disruptions caused by the pandemic have introduced gaps in the data series which are important in the assessment of the changes. But that does not detract from the seriousness of the situation.  The report says that global warming, caused by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, is “closing in on a serious milestone’’. The emissions, which saw a temporary decline due to lockdowns, are now fast reaching pre-pandemic levels. The last five years were the warmest in documented history, and in future, every year is likely to be warmer than the previous year. The report notes that the world is not set to meet agreed targets to keep the global temperature from rising by more than 2°C. What it shows is that the agreements reached at the meetings in Paris, Cancun, Copenhagen and other venues are still unimplemented in any sense by any country that makes substantial GHG emissions. The worst polluter of the world, the US, has withdrawn from the Paris agreement. Though most other countries pay lip service to policies that are needed to fight climate change, there is no real plan or action. This is when the world is witnessing increasing instances of climate disasters like the wild fires in the US, Australia and the Amazon and other events like floods, drought, storms, changes in rainfall patterns and the rapid melting of icebergs and glaciers.  UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said that we must “turn the recovery from the pandemic into a real opportunity to build a better future.” This needs to be stressed, especially because the pandemic may have introduced more divisions in the world and made unified actions more difficult than in the past. The report can be considered an update of the situation and the world can ignore its call for effective global action only at its peril.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-new-call-for-global-climate-action-891110.html
22-09-2020||Opinion||Microsoft's Bethesda buy beats TikTok any day||By Tara Lachapelle Ask enough gamers about their favourite console and this is what you’ll generally learn: Those who play Xbox tend to love it and stay loyal to that system, but PlayStation has the best games. Microsoft Corp, Xbox’s parent company, is betting $7.5 billion that it can change that perception. Microsoft agreed on Monday to acquire ZeniMax Media Inc, the owner of popular video-game publisher Bethesda Softworks, for $7.5 billion in cash. The deal has PlayStation fans worried that their favourite franchises — namely The Elder Scrolls, Fallout and Doom — could become Xbox exclusive. But the transaction is happy news for Xbox players, after what marked a somewhat disappointing lineup of titles ahead of the launch of its new devices: the Xbox Series X ($499) and Series S ($299). The new systems are getting released in November in tandem with Sony Corp’s highly anticipated PlayStation 5 console (priced at $500, though it will have a $400 digital edition without a disc drive). While Xbox has the appeal of a cheaper offering, its key launch title, Halo Infinite, had to be delayed to next year. As my Opinion colleague Tae Kim wrote at the time, “The company seems to have forgotten the most important video-game industry lesson: It’s all about the games.” Microsoft’s response appears to be: “You want games? You’ve got games.” Acquiring ZeniMax is a chance for Microsoft to keep growing its cachet with consumers, who still primarily think of the company for its Windows software — the clunkier, less-sleek rival to Apple Inc’s operating system. Making a bigger push in gaming is also a more natural fit for Microsoft than, say, buying a viral social-video platform — remember, Microsoft was part of the motley crew of bidders for TikTok. Microsoft generates almost $1 billion of free cash flow each week, meaning it may take just two months to pay for the ZeniMax purchase, according to Robert Schiffman, senior credit analyst for Bloomberg Intelligence.  Is this deal enough for Xbox to win over PlayStation devotees? Not in my house. But it’s a smart move and certainly puts Microsoft on better footing to compete with Sony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/microsofts-bethesda-buy-beats-tiktok-any-day-891236.html
22-09-2020||Opinion||GST compensation delay put onus on states to mobilise funds from their own sources better. Here’s what they can do||At the end of a recently held Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting, the  finance minister signalled the Union government’s inability to pay compensation to the states, describing the revenue shortfall as an ‘Act of God’ caused by the pandemic. The Union abdicating its responsibility and leaving the states on its own is problematic on many grounds. In the last few weeks many commentators have succinctly explained this. But one question still remains unanswered: Can states do anything on their own to hedge against similar risks in the future?  The Union has provided two options to the states – either borrow from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) or from the open market. But both these measures create liabilities. A question worth considering is whether states can mobilise their own resources without creating liabilities. Own revenue of states Despite the GST taking away the ability of states to individually increase consumption tax rates, states still have a few other tax and non-tax handles which aren’t being leveraged to their fullest potential. Own revenue of states and UTs accounted for just about 56 per cent of their total revenue expenditure in 2017-18. Increasing this share of own revenue is critical for citizens to get better quality access to health, education, policing, and social welfare – all functions where state governments have the lead role in implementation under the Constitution. But before we come to that, let’s first look at how states have been doing on the ‘own resource mobilisation’ front. States’ performance in generating their own revenue can be analysed by comparing the ratio of own revenue generated to the gross state domestic product (GSDP). Higher GSDP implies higher economic activity which in turn means higher potential to collect revenue. Thus, a low own revenue to GSDP ratio reflects untapped potential. This is shown in the graph below.   Comparing the two charts, it can be observed that even many high-income states  such as Haryana, Punjab, Maharashtra and Karnataka have a lot of scope for improvement. For instance, though Gujarat earns 71 per cent of its revenue itself, it ranks third lowest in its own revenue to GSDP ratio. States’ own revenue can further be classified into two categories: One, revenue earned through taxes (including SGST and IGST) and two, revenue earned through user fees and charges for provision of services. Tax revenue collection Different states in India have comparable taxation powers, but the extent of tax mobilisation varies. Sales tax, state GST, state excise, stamps and registration fees are the major tax revenue earners for the states. While Maharashtra raises 70 per cent of its revenue requirement from these taxes, five states in India are not able to raise even 30 per cent of their revenue from taxes.  Governments find it easier to increase tax rates on items already taxed rather than increasing the tax base. Hence, it is likely that many states, in order to make up for the shortfall, will increase taxes on goods that are outside GST such as alcohol excise, stamp and registration duties on properties, and excise duties on petrol and diesel. These moves would be counterproductive. There is a negative correlation between tax rates and tax base i.e. high tax rates disincentivise people from paying taxes and creates a parallel tax-avoidance economy. Hence, state governments need to focus on improving tax compliance. For instance, agricultural income tax comprises just 0.003 per cent of own revenue of all states as taxing agriculture has been a thorny issue. States need to move towards normalising agriculture as another commercial activity giving farmers freedom to sell their produce and land while taxing the sector at low rates but with a lot more consistency. Similarly, focusing on bringing properties under the tax net can reduce the dependence of urban local bodies on grants from states which would in turn translate to lower expenditure burden. Increasing non-tax revenue Apart from taxes, states can also raise revenue by charging for services provided by the government. These services can be economic (crop husbandry, animal husbandry, power, irrigation etc.), social (education-related such as examination fees, book sales and health-related such as receipts from hospitals etc.) or general (traffic fines, administrative service fees etc). For political reasons, state governments have been unable to exploit this opportunity in the past. The latest RBI annual state finances report observes that states’ non-tax revenue has remained volatile, dropping significantly over the last few decades. State governments must follow the Wicksellian dictum: “Wherever possible, charge” for private goods. Appropriately designed and implemented user fees can go a long way in getting states out of financial trouble. Besides, pricing scarce resources such as water for irrigation will also reduce overconsumption. Thus, there exists massive divergence between states when it comes to their present strategies and their capacities to raise their own resources. Even as they seek more devolution and GST revenue from the Union government, they must focus on reducing their dependencies on the Union government. On tax revenue, this is best done by increasing and encouraging more economic activity to happen legally in states and taxing these businesses at reasonable rates. For raising non-tax revenue, user charges need to be collected where due. There are a lot of lessons that states can learn from each others’ experiences here. Employing technology to increase compliance with taxes and user fees would be a worthwhile investment. Kicking the can down the road is no longer an option for the states. (Sarthak Pradhan and Pranay Kotasthane undertake research on public finance at the Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/gst-compensation-delay-put-onus-on-states-to-mobilise-funds-from-their-own-sources-better-here-s-what-they-can-do-891246.html
22-09-2020||Opinion||Why Prashant Kishor could end up damaging Mamata Banerjee||Recently a video was doing rounds on the social media in Bengal that showed a throng of people surrounding members of political consultant Prashant Kishor’s team and forcing them to make a retreat. Curiously, these protestors belonged to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), with whom Kishor’s Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC ), is working in the run up to the next Assembly elections in 2021. These TMC members, assembled at Chandrakona in West Medinipur district, were upset that those who had joined their party in last six to seven years had usurped all the facilities and relief materials for Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan, thereby depriving the areas controlled by the old guard of these resources. Their anger found its target in the newcomers, i.e. Team Kishor, who are seen as the force behind many an unwelcome change in the TMC. All this is possibly a new experience for Kishor, who has worked with a measure of success as an election strategist in many states. The Chandrakona incident is not the only instance where Team Kishor was told in no uncertain terms that it was unwelcome. In many areas of Bengal, Team Kishor is viewed as an obstruction rather than a support by TMC workers. The dislike for I-PAC stemmed primarily from its crusade against corruption. It had, long ago, identified widespread corruption at the lower levels of the TMC as its biggest weakness. In June 2019, at Kishor’s instance, the chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee asked party leaders at the lower level to return the money they might have taken as bribes from beneficiaries of different government schemes. In the following days, at many places, local-level TMC leaders faced the wrath of people, and some were forced to give back what they had amassed through unfair means. The whole thing, as it is obvious, went down rather badly with TMC workers. Now, six months before candidates for the upcoming Assembly elections are to be finalised, Kishor’s team is assessing the popularity of the current TMC MLAs. The single most important criterion in this effort happens to be whether the MLA has a clean image or not. It is believed that Kishor’s recommendation will be taken very seriously by the top leadership of TMC while deciding whether or not the MLA is to be fielded again in the polls. This has accentuated the infighting within the TMC. Intra party rivals of sitting MLAs are taking full advantage of the situation in many places to dislodge the incumbent. There is another factor that has irritated TMC groups in some constituencies. I-PAC is trying to wean away Left leaders in some areas, mostly former MLAs, by offering them a ticket to contest the polls, and even promising to make a few of them ministers if it comes back to power. According to media reports, I-PAC has been in talks with some sitting MLAs of the Left Front as well. The Left has openly named at least six such people who were approached by I-PAC, and the list includes names like Banamali Roy (a former minister), Debesh Das, Lakshmikanta Roy, Subinoy Ghosh, Basudev Mete and Ali Imran Ramz. This has enraged both the sitting MLAs and their rivals within the TMC. There is a widespread sense of disgruntlement that has led many in the TMC leaders to consider the option of joining the new challenger to the TMC, the BJP. As things stand, this situation is mutually beneficial for both the TMC dissenters and the BJP. The BJP is still weak organisationally in some regions of Bengal from where almost one-third of the MLAs are sent to the Assembly. With the help of TMC dissenters it can make up for some of its deficiencies. So, although it might be on the right track in terms of identifying problems with the TMC, that has been in power since 2011, I-PAC’s strategies might backfire on the ruling party. For instance, it has correctly identified widespread corruption at the low-levels as the TMC’s weak spot and is trying to cover up the disconnect between the party and voters by projecting Mamata Banerjee’s image in a big way. Yet it is not clear whether its plans for a ‘Didi-centric’ campaign will bear fruit or if the unhappiness within the TMC towards Team Kishor’s election strategies will derail the effort. With Kishor himself assessing the Bengal duel between the TMC and the BJP to be pegged at 50/50, the state could test him like never before. (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of several books, including the recently published detective novel Mirchi Memsaab’s House of Faith) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-prashant-kishor-could-end-up-damaging-mamata-banerjee-891334.html
22-09-2020||Opinion||US must confront anti-Asian racism in science||Such behavior creates an unpleasant and very uncomfortable work environment that is neither welcoming nor inclusive for Asian researchers like me. To make matters even worse, it turned out that the Instagram account was linked to students who are predominantly from my college. Knowing that there are students in my very own college who promulgate such offensive views is unsettling and has become a realization of my own anxiety that surfaced in the early days of the pandemic. Because the virus originated in Wuhan, I have had to struggle with the growing bigotry towards Asians in addition to avoiding the virus itself. Early on, there would be report after report about how Asians were facing racism-fueled verbal and physical attacks and the disturbingly common usage of terms lime "Chinese virus" and “kung flu.” Therefore, I was told by family and friends to be alert and careful when I was literally anywhere but my home. At the beginning of the pandemic, mask wearing was not required, but it was something I strongly considered doing in lab and around campus given I had some dust masks. I didn’t wear them, though, as I was told that coworkers and colleagues might suspect I was infected with coronavirus and avoid or harass me. I was told not to stay late and avoid sparsely populated areas on campus as it could be physically dangerous. I ended up going home early most days, shortening the time for experiments and work. These were all things I accepted because of the xenophobia towards Asians worldwide, but the heightened awareness became burdensome and made research (as well as non-research and leisure activities) all the more difficult. At the time, I thought that speaking up about these concerns could make me a target for behind-the-scenes jokes among colleagues and result in alienation or loss of collaboration. In the end, my anxiety was not unfounded. As I will soon be physically returning to a building regularly frequented by many engineering students, it is even more concerning now than it was several months ago, knowing potential colleagues I work with or see on a regular basis might hold racist views. Questions and thoughts such as “Do others view me and other Asians as unsanitary and ill?” or “Will some students in my building avoid or make racist remarks about me?” or “How can I do research properly when I’m worried?” or “I should try to finish my experiments as soon as possible to minimize my time on campus” will continue to pervade the back of my mind. These concerns are further magnified because of the microaggressions I faced before the outbreak, like being asked if I was related to someone who shared my last name, or told that engineering should be easy for Asians because they excel in math. Likewise, my Asian peers and I are too commonly presumed to be pursuing careers in science or engineering because we were forced to by our families or assumed and expected to be good at it. Another question I have regularly received is about where I am “originally from,” even though I am from the US. Lastly, Asians are often (inaccurately) viewed as the model minority and thought to not suffer from discrimination, which is clearly false as seen from recent events. I am not alone in this anxiety. A recent Pew Research Center study found that Asian Americans have the highest reported negative experiences (such as noticing people acting uncomfortable around them, receiving slurs/jokes, and feeling fear of threats or physical attacks) compared to those of other surveyed ethnicities since the coronavirus outbreak. About four in 10 Americans reported that it is more common now for people to have racist views towards Asians than before the outbreak. Although this survey was of American adults not specific to any institution(s), these issues most definitely hold true at institutions worldwide where Asian researchers spend their workdays. Thankfully, my institution and college have been proactive in condemning racist behavior. They have contacted Google and Instagram to remove the fake “restaurant,” have expressed their concern and willingness to take action against racism, and are holding journal club discussions and diversity symposiums about race. I deeply appreciate these efforts for productive dialogue and the sincere care taken to create a more inclusive and safe space. More broadly, in addition to mandatory online bias training, institutions should develop spaces like a life issues groups (my department has an ongoing one), journal clubs, or symposiums for discussions to educate the community about prejudice and race. Additionally, faculty—from PIs to deans—should welcome discussions about race issues and be more transparent in addressing them. I also think that social media campaigns by institutions also have the potential to raise awareness and educate others about racism. We have a lot of work ahead of us, but inclusion and positive change within our very own institutions and in science is achievable if we unite against racism. Greater inclusion will lead to the more open sharing of ideas where science can flourish. I would like to thank my friend Annie Zhou, and my advisor, Dr. Zhijie Wang, for their support in the writing of this piece.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/us-must-confront-anti-asian-racism-in-science-891402.html
22-09-2020||Opinion||Demand justice for justice||Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere, said the American civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr, who was no stranger to protests or agitations for a just cause. Within days of a mob riot in East Bengaluru on August 11, allegedly triggered by a blasphemous social media post, that left a trail of destruction of public and private properties, the Karnataka government rushed to the High Court for its nod to institute a Claims Commission [CC] to recover the losses from the rioters. As per the Supreme Court guidelines of 2009, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have appointed such CCs, and Karnataka wants to follow. Karnataka and UP are both under the BJP rule currently. It is pertinent to note that our state would like to follow the UP model, according to which the state authorities are empowered to recover losses caused during riots, demonstrations, political rallies and illegal agitations. The CC would be chaired by a retired district judge or an officer of the rank of an additional commissioner of police who would determine the damages caused and give a report to the state government within three months. The tribunal would be empowered to attach the property of the offender. Authorities were directed to publish their photographs, names and addresses to warn the public not to buy such attached properties. The draconian part of the UP model is that the orders and awards passed by the tribunal are final and not appealable. Accordingly, in the wake of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests, a list of 57 people, including important public figures, accused of damaging public property was published and pasted in prominent places and compensation was demanded from them. But the Allahabad High Court took suo motu notice of the offensive posters and immediately directed the UP government to remove them. A division bench of the High Court, led by Chief Justice Govind Mathur, castigated the Yogi Adityanath government and directed Lucknow’s district magistrate and commissioner of police to take those posters off. The bench observed that the UP government’s action was tantamount to “violation of Article 21 of the Constitution” and “amounts to unwarranted interference in privacy of people”. It added that privacy is an “intrinsic component” of the Constitution and these fundamental rights “cannot be given or taken away by law and laws. All the executive actions must abide by them.” The bench added that [the state’s action] was “alleged to be in conflict with the right of life and liberty...The advocate general [of the state] also failed to satisfy us as to why placement of the banners is necessary for a democratic society for a legitimate aim.” The UP government, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, challenged the Allahabad HC directive in the Supreme Court. On March 11, the apex court, in a big relief to those named and shamed, told the UP government that there was no law to back its action. The basic function of any government is to protect its citizenry and the property, law and order being a primary duty of its executive and administrative machinery. Law and order get broken not only in an anarchic stage, but also when the government becomes repressive and anti-people. The UP government’s model showed a clear mark of vindictiveness rather than just unbiased action to make claims for damaged properties. When you read the text of its law, it feels as though it was written to be misused. With so much unbridled power vested in an authority, it clearly will be. How do we juxtapose this with justifiable democratic agitation against governments? Would authoritarian governments hesitate to use this law to suppress popular dissent and aspiration? Our contemporary political structure is based on personality cults, devoid of all ideology, giving ample scope for this law to be grossly misused against political and social activists. When there is State violence on genuine agitators, how does one fix the compensation? And who is accountable? The major root cause of mob riots is failure of law and order, disproportionate increase in corruption in administration and making the State machinery subservient to the ruling party and more so to the ruling individual, rendering constitutional limits to power irrelevant. Laws alone do not establish peace in society. Proper governance is the key to maintaining peace and harmony. Whenever there is mob violence and rioting, all political parties point fingers at each other. That means they are aware that political elements are in operation. It is common knowledge that such situations generally do not occur without the connivance of corrupt, self-seeking political elements to settle personal scores. Though the primary duty of the government is to protect life and property and ensure public safety, the failure of governance on its part should not be used against justifiable agitations. Agitation is a fundamental right of the people in a democratic society while at the same time it is the duty of the government to protect property and ensure public safety, with a robust law and order machinery in place. But who determines which agitation is illegal or legal? If the administration and, more so the police, are allowed to function as per the law, without sidelining, ignoring and, at times, punishing honest officers, maybe we won’t require special laws to recover damages. But it is everybody’s knowledge that that is not how the system works currently. Some officers are favoured and rewarded by the government even if they are declared guilty by appropriate authorities. In this background, what is the claim of the Claims Commission that the state government is in a rush to set up? The time has come for justice to demand justice. It’s almost 60 years since Martin Luther King Jr wrote these lines from a Birmingham jail, but they are relevant even today: “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly.” (The author is a writer, former principal of Seshadripuram College and vice president of KPCC)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/demand-justice-for-justice-891584.html
22-09-2020||Panorama||The challenges that NEP 2020 presents||More than seven decades after independence, the issue of language finds its place in the centre of debate after the New Education Policy was made public. The New Education Policy has been modest in its recommendation for the mother-tongue to be the medium of instruction up until Grade 5. This is a sweeping change in policy when compared to what was vociferously argued in the report of the Education Commission of 1964-66. The commission had recommended for the medium of instruction to be in the mother-tongue not only at school-level but even in colleges. It viewed language as an instrument to acquire knowledge with clarity, precision, and vigour. The language was seen as a means to establish communication between the elite and masses to facilitate the dissemination of scientific and technical knowledge to the latter. Apart from constraints in making budgetary provisions, even the National Translation Mission was established only in 2008 as part of the Central Institute of Indian Languages to translate resource material in all languages in the 8th schedule of the constitution. The free flow of myriad resource materials in the English language across different subject areas, unabated even in the post-colonial era, relegated the importance of other languages. Students of higher education in different subjects overwhelmingly depend on English language material even when they are pursuing studies in vernacular medium. Certainly, for them, this transition is not cogent from the point of view of knowledge acquisition but also of depleting opportunities. It disempowers not only the global reach but even the reach among states, in the absence of ample opportunities within the region. Hence, the New Education Policy has appropriately recognized the importance of deemphasising the mandatory use of the mother tongue in higher education. The introduction of English as a medium instruction in government schools, partially in Karnataka and all across in Andhra Pradesh, right from primary level is largely guided by private sector schooling. The private sector is able to attract students from the nursery or kindergarten level through English medium teaching. Once admitted there, it would be hard to migrate to the government sector unless continuation is met with hardship. The physical ambiance of private schooling apart from the English medium is attractive for parents and students. In a way, English medium instruction and aspiration are intertwined to create an environment for the multiplication of private schools to cater to the needs of children of varying socioeconomic statuses. M.N. Srinivas, an Indian sociologist had spoken about ‘sanskritisation’ and ‘westernisation’ referring to the transformation of cultural practices of the lower castes imitating the upper castes in the case of former, and the forward castes that of westerners in the latter. However, with the increasing globalisation, the scope of ‘sanskritisation’ is gradually dissipating and ‘westernisation’ is on upswing irrespective of the caste categories. The resistance that English as a language and medium of instruction met with before independence is imperceptibly fading in the absence of a powerful regime to impose it. Rather it is promoted in the light of dwindling opportunities in local languages. Educationalists, cognitive psychologists and linguists' concern for preserving the local languages through teaching from the primary level is met with opposition by those who seek equitable opportunities for all. Governments are forced to innovate to accommodate the interests of conflicting groups. The state of Andhra Pradesh has come out with bilingual textbooks in order to meet the challenge of public demand for English medium, without compromising on vernacular medium. It is a tight rope walk for the teachers to transact through this new approach, which perhaps has never been implemented on such a large scale in India. There are many questions that require thoughtful contemplation. Which two languages will be used as a primary language? Will the challenges posed by the education commission be met in making the future citizens acquire capabilities through the English medium? (The writer is Principal, Regional Institute of Education, NCERT)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-challenges-that-nep-2020-presents-891115.html
22-09-2020||Panorama||The impact of biodiversity loss, climate change on human health||The world is experiencing a pandemic of unprecedented proportions and any assessment on biodiversity, climate change or environment is unlikely to hit the headlines. However, a recent report ‘Living Planet-2020’ by over 125 global experts from World Wildlife Fund (WWF) did receive some attention. The headline was a 68% fall in populations of monitored vertebrate species (mammals, birds, fish, amphibians and reptiles) between 1970 and 2016 an 84% wildlife populations found in freshwater habitat. In 2019, a report by Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) concluded that nearly one million animal and plant species are on the verge of extinction, possibly within a few decades. Natural ecosystems have declined by almost 47%. Seventy-five per cent of the earth’s ice-free land surface has already been significantly altered, oceans are polluted and over 85% area of wetlands has been lost. These global assessments have identified a few key drivers for the decline of our planet’s biodiversity-- overexploitation of natural resources, land-use change, climate change and pollution. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) published a report on ‘The state of the world’s biodiversity for food and agriculture’ in 2019, which showed the declining trend in plant diversity on agricultural land and the growing number of animal breeds under threat. Nearly a third of fish stocks are overfished and a third of freshwater fish species are considered threatened. Thus, there is overwhelming evidence that biodiversity is declining at an unprecedented scale, threatening food production, including meat, dairy and fisheries. Many species that contribute to vital ecosystem services including pollinators, natural enemies of pests, soil organisms and wild food species’ populations are also on the decline. When it comes to biodiversity, we generally associate more with iconic species such as tigers, elephants, pandas and polar bears. However, we do not recognize that millions of insects, bacteria and yet to be discovered species are also under threat. It is well known that biodiversity plays a critical role in providing food, fibre, water, energy, medicines and other genetic materials. It is also known that biodiversity is critical for regulation of climate, water quality, pollination services, flood control and storm surges. We are also increasingly recognising that the loss of biodiversity and habitat destruction are linked to human health. Covid-19 is one in a long list of diseases that originate from wildlife. Other recent outbreaks include SARS, Ebola, avian influenza and swine influenza. As we continue to disturb ecosystems worldwide, we are likely to see more pathogens crossing from wildlife to humans. In fact, 60% of emerging infectious diseases could come from animals and nearly three-quarters of these from wild animals. These diseases can be transferred to humans in multiple ways--sometimes through direct contact with wild animals, and sometimes through intermediary hosts like domestic animals. One study estimates diseases that originate in animals cause 2.5 billion infections and nearly three million deaths annually. Given that many of the diseases originate from wildlife, preventing the next pandemic might depend on how we manage our relationship with nature. According to UNEP, more biodiverse an ecosystem is, the more difficult it is for one pathogen to spread rapidly or dominate; whereas, biodiversity loss provides opportunity for pathogens to pass between animals and humans. Pathogens tend to be 'diluted' in complex, undisturbed, ecosystems. Apart from biodiversity, climate change and associated extreme events (droughts, floods, cyclones, hurricanes, etc.) are impacting species distribution, population sizes, the timing of reproduction and migration. There has also been an increased frequency of pest and disease outbreaks resulting from these changes which may have adverse impacts on agricultural production and human wellbeing. Climate change is increasingly exacerbating the impact of other drivers on nature and human wellbeing. The fourth National Climate Assessment, published in the US in 2018 highlighted how “higher temperatures, severe weather events and rising seas can contribute to heat-related cardiopulmonary illness, infectious diseases and mental health issues. Societal factors such as poverty, discrimination, access to health care and pre-existing health conditions make some populations even more vulnerable”. This is heightened in the Indian conditions, given the high levels of poverty and the pathetic state of public health infrastructure as demonstrated during the current Covid-19 pandemic. Global warming will increase the seasonal window and spatial spread of many vector-borne diseases such as malaria, chikungunya, dengue etc. The decline in biodiversity and climate change will have a compounded effect on human health. The effects of drivers such as climate change, land and sea use change, overexploitation of resources, pollution and invasive alien species are all likely to exacerbate negative impacts on nature. Climate change is also leading to an increase in the frequency and intensity of droughts, floods, cyclones and may impact food production and nutrition. The WWF report concluded that the destruction or alteration of the world’s natural systems threatens to undo the extraordinary gains in human health and well-being achieved over the past century. India will experience an increase in human population to about 1.5 billion in the coming decades, along with economic growth, and the need to lift hundreds of millions out of poverty; this will have serious implications for natural resources. We lack high-quality assessments like the global assessments mentioned above on the combined impact of climate change and biodiversity loss on human health, food production, freshwater availability. Given this absence, appropriate location-specific solutions cannot be developed. Finally, global level solutions and the necessary actions are available from the United Nations Paris Climate Change Agreement, Convention on Biodiversity and UN Sustainable Development Goals. Recently, the UN highlighted that our best vaccine for the future is to protect nature and biodiversity. Unfortunately, in the current pandemic and possibly in the post-pandemic era, climate change, biodiversity loss and environmental degradation will not be priorities and will likely result in severe negative consequences for health, food production and freshwater supply. (The writer is a retired Professor of Indian Institute of Science)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-impact-of-biodiversity-loss-climate-change-on-human-health-891581.html
22-09-2020||Panorama||Virtual mental healthcare||Mental health remains a subject that is hugely stigmatised by society in India, preventing people from coming out and talking about what may be ailing them. While mental health issues such as anxiety and depression have always existed, the recent pandemic has thrown it out there in the open. With restrictions on movement, fear of job loss and what the future holds and numerous other concerns including lack of social interaction, the ripple effect on people with existing mental health problems has been profound. Adding to this is the hesitation to speak out, more so face to face. What people need in such times is a safe space where they can talk about their issues without the fear of stigma, judgement or losing confidentiality. It is in this scenario that technology and virtual consultations can come as a boon. There has been a lot of ongoing research on finding better ways to improve remotely delivered mental health care. Virtual reality (VR) and teleconsultation may pave way for opportunities in this segment. These solutions can not only solve the dilemma for many but also make counselling more accessible to people living remotely. In telepsychiatry, there are options today ranging from tech software to video chat with patients online that are helping psychiatrists and counsellors to reach more people. Accessibility comes as the major advantage here. From patients who are convalescing at home, mobile-challenged, lack adequate transportation, to those without other facilities, availability of an internet connection can solve the issue of access in a major way. Technology also enables self-diagnosis and tracking of mood, sleep and other parameters through the use of wearables. VR can transform psychotherapeutic treatment, for instance, by recreating past events that help in understanding the unconscious parts of the mind. Teleconsultations and VR-based solutions can also help the patients avoid stigma and receive treatment from the confines of their homes. Although there is an increased acceptance of mental health issues, there is still a stigma associated with the condition especially in Tier 2 and 3 cities and rural areas. While online consultations may not solve this, what they can do is to offer patients a better option as far as privacy is concerned. Often, people are hesitant about approaching a specialist for the fear of being judged or the huge stigma. However, with online consultations, they not only stay anonymous but can also voice their concerns without any worry. Technology also helps facilitate the concept of self-care, by putting the onus of care in the hands of people who seek help. All of this can lead to improved outcomes and a sense of well-being. For the huge population that India has, much more needs to be done, especially with a pandemic facing us. Startups providing counselling and therapy remotely are trying to bridge this gap and technology can become the gamechanger. It has been a disruptor in healthcare and can bring about a marked improvement in the mental health landscape as well, provided there are public-private partnerships and adequate governmental allocations. Telepsychiatry and virtual mental healthcare services and solutions are an ever-expanding domain and with the pandemic, we hope to see more changes happening in the years to come. At an individual level, it is time that we normalize discussions around mental health and counselling for those who need it the most. There is a need to create a space where people feel safe to discuss and are able to motivate one another. (The writer is the founder of a start-up)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/virtual-mental-healthcare-891586.html
22-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Initials maketh the man||Manners maketh man, is a popular adage proverb. Today, this has become ‘initials maketh the man!’ In South India, the first name is preceded by two initials-- the first one is the family name and the second the father’s name.  During our school days, we identified our teachers by their initials and often did not find out their first names. We found solace in creating nicknames; SL stood for Sleeping Lady who had drowsy eyes, HLP as Height Less Prasad who was short. It was imperative to have a first, middle, and last name for the passport as well as applications to universities in the US.  I went through change-of-name formalities and rechristened myself as Prasanna Harihar, aka PH when I decided to pursue higher studies in the USA. For my friends from primary school, I am still HSP (my friends call me Happala Sandinge Prasanna due to my unconditional love for these fried items). My father is mercurial in his spirits and energy levels. This fact is well known in within family and friends circle; serendipity if you will that his initials are H and G.  Mercury is an element in the periodic table denoted by Hg derived from its Greek roots – Hydrargyrum.  His personality has always resembled that of an element with a high coefficient of expansion. Mercury is the only metal in liquid form at room temperature, but he is more amorphous --a low ignition point triggers his temper.  The less said about him the better, he would chase me down with this newspaper as his weapon of attack. The octogenarian, even to this day, has stayed true to his initials. A few variants to the initials are in the form of NaMo and RaGa, a remarkably familiar territory. Chant the ‘Namoh’ hymns to invoke the Lord’s blessings to become dearer to him, though given the sky-rocketing price of goods and services. The melody in our classical Indian music paints hues to evoke feelings in the audience, and is better to emphasise the music of our life with the ‘Raaga’ in resonance with the rhythm set forth by the Absolute! The drift at this juncture is a mention of our Sri Lankan cricket players with long initials; sample a couple - WPUJC Vaas for Chaminda Vaas their fast bowler, HMRKB Herath for Rangana Herath their spin master, what if our teachers had these initials? To initiate and set the pace for any discussion with an initial plan is when one feels initiated! So much for initials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/initials-maketh-the-man-891114.html
22-09-2020||Right in the Middle||A coronavirus anthology||There are many blood groups-- A positive, B positive to name a few, but only two types of people now-- coronavirus positive or coronavirus negative. Either you are affected, unfortunately, or not, fortunately. Similarly, BC has also acquired new meanings. It no longer denotes only ‘before Christ but has also come to refer to the times before coronavirus. Move on Christ, please. Times are changing.  Until recently weekends were short, restricted to the usual Saturdays and Sundays. For the retired gentry, it was a long weekend of course. Now, it is a long weekend for most, except for the work-from-home brigade. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday have merged with Saturday and Sunday to form an extended weekend for the employed. All dressed up and nowhere to go! That’s why some people dream that after the self-quarantine period finally comes to an end, they will apply for leave and stay in the office! For many government staffers, staying at home is not that much of a different experience because they are used to not working in the office too!  For many stuck at home Newton’s second law of motion has been redefined-- a body at rest will continue to be at rest until the wife notices and finds some work for him.  “Why are you late?" "Traffic, sir" "But this is an online class!" "Yes sir, network traffic.” You cannot beat the computer-savvy students after all. How they wish to uninstall the virus affected 2020 and reinstall it! No chance.  Those who were finding it difficult to spell quarantine are now struggling with hydroxychloroquine. Learning is continuous. Those who used to dress smartly and venture out are seeking suggestions from Facebook on what to wear at home and still look smart. Want to go out? Put on your mask, get set and go – but only if you must. Talk is no longer silver and silence gold. Now the mask is silver and social distance gold.  Many pets are wondering why everyone is staying at home and disturbing them. For such disturbed pets and others, the advice-- if you can stay positive in a negative situation you win.  Unity is strength? Not any longer. We can stand together only by not standing together. United we fall, divided we stand is the norm in these AC days.  See, how busy I am compiling all these coronavirus quotes? If this continues, I will have to compile a second volume.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-coronavirus-anthology-891589.html
22-09-2020||Second Edit||NLSIU test fiasco was unnecessary||The fiasco around the entrance exams to the law universities could have been avoided, savings thousands of students from needless harassment and uncertainty had there been better coordination between the law schools concerned. The issue arose with the Bengaluru-based National Law School of India University (NLSIU) breaking away from the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), a centralised entrance exam for 22 law universities in the country. NLSIU decided to hold an online test of its own on the grounds that any further delay in conducting the CLAT due to the pandemic would have resulted in a zero year. NLSIU also decided against accepting CLAT scores for admissions, which was challenged before the Supreme Court by its former vice-chancellor R Venkata Rao and the parent of one of the aspirants who accused the university of trying to create an elitist institution which caters only to those who had the facilities to take the online test, ignoring aspirations of the poor. The interim order passed by the Supreme Court on September 11, a day before the NLSIU test, did not appreciate the predicament of the students. While refusing to stay the test, the court restrained the university from announcing the results or admitting students until further orders. This, when the court had not yet considered the legality of NLSIU holding the entrance exam online when such a system is not permitted by CLAT. However, on September 22, the court struck down the NLSIU test, which had by then been held, malpractices detected and even a re-test conducted. The court directed that students be admitted only on the basis of CLAT results. Over 23,000 students who appeared for the test on September 12 based on the court’s earlier order will now have to appear for CLAT all over again. Considering that CLAT was anyway scheduled for September 28, the court could have stayed the NLSIU exams instead of giving the go-ahead. The students, both those that took the test and those who couldn’t, could have been spared the unnecessary hardship and anxiety. While the intention of NLSIUmay be good, it acted in haste and without proper application of mind as it did not even go through the process of consulting the academic council while taking such an important decision. This incident also shows that all is not well within the consortium of law universities, due to which students had to suffer for no fault of theirs. The consortium should put the past behind now and dedicate itself to enhancing the prestige and content of legal education instead of working at cross purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/nlsiu-test-fiasco-was-unnecessary-891579.html
22-09-2020||South||DMK asks PM Modi not to approve Karnataka’s Mekedatu reservoir proposal||As Karnataka aggressively pushes for construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery, Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to give Centre’s nod for the project which it said was against the interests of the state and its farmers. A delegation of DMK MPs consisting of former Union Ministers T R Baalu, Dayanidhi Maran, and Kanimozhi met Modi in New Delhi on Tuesday and handed over a letter written by party president M K Stalin on the Mekedatu issue. Proposed construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu in Ramanagaram district near Bengaluru across River Cauvery assumed centerstage last week after Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa sought permission for the project from Centre during his meetings with Modi and Union Ministers. Stalin’s contentions and PM’s response After the meeting, Baalu told reporters that the Prime Minister assured the DMK delegation that the Centre would not take any decision that would be “detrimental” to Tamil Nadu and its people. While Karnataka says the project is aimed at providing drinking water to Bengaluru and will not change the quantum of Cauvery water to Tamil Nadu, the neighbouring state is opposed to the project on the grounds that a new reservoir would affect the natural flow of River Cauvery. “The proposed reservoir - namely Mekedatu Reservoir is in total violation of the Final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal dated 5.2.2007 as well as the Judgment of the Supreme Court of India dated 16.2.2018 and is completely detrimental to the interest of the farmers and the drinking water needs of the common people,” Stalin said in the letter. He also recalled that the Tamil Nadu Assembly had in the past disapproved the Mekedatu reservoir project and passed unanimous resolutions it. Stalin also noted that the matter is now sub judice since the Tamil Nadu government has moved the Supreme Court against the project. “The Proposed Mekedatu reservoir under the guise of drinking water purpose would irreparably and irreversibly affect the flow of water from river Cauvery to the lower riparian States - particularly Tamil Nadu and also threatens the very existence of many combined water supply schemes catering to the needs of lakhs of people,” Stalin wrote in the letter. The Leader of Opposition in Tamil Nadu Assembly urged Modi to instruct ministries concerned neither to give approval for the detailed project report nor for the construction of Mekedatu Reservoir as proposed by Karnataka. Tamil Nadu’s stand on Mekedatu Tamil Nadu feels construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across River Cauvery by Karnataka will obstruct the natural flow in the intermediate catchment areas before the river makes its way into the state. The state government also contends that construction of a new reservoir across the river is against the final award by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) and the 2018 verdict by the Supreme Court that reduced the state’s quantum of water and increased Karnataka’s share. The state has been opposing the project in the meetings of Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) in February and June this year. “We are clear the project is against the interests of Tamil Nadu. The CWDT and the Supreme Court have quantified the level of water to be released to Tamil Nadu based on the existing reservoirs in Karnataka. Therefore, there is no need for another reservoir across Cauvery,” Tamil Nadu PWD Secretary K Manivasan had told Deccan Herald last week. Tamil Nadu government and farmers feel the new reservoir at Mekedatu in Ramanagaram district of Karnataka before the water enters Tamil Nadu at Biligundulu will have cascading effects on farming in the Cauvery Delta region. Farmers say they cannot believe Karnataka’s claims as the neighbouring state’s behaviour in the past with regard to release of water to Tamil Nadu has not been “very pleasant.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-asks-pm-modi-not-to-approve-karnataka-s-mekedatu-reservoir-proposal-891260.html
22-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Retired govt doctor alleges he was denied loan for not knowing Hindi||A retired government doctor from Ariyalur district in Tamil Nadu has alleged that he was denied loan by a branch manager of a nationalised bank for not knowing Hindi, prompting Opposition parties in the state to term the incident as another example of “blatant imposition of Hindi.” Dr C Balasubramanian, 76, said he approached the manager of the Indian Overseas Branch (IOB) in Gangaikondacholapuram, a historic town associated with the famed Chola Kingdom, seeking a loan to construct a commercial complex in Jayankondam town against properties owned by him in his native village of Yuthapallam. After the incident came to light, Vishal Narayan Kamble, the manager of the branch who hails from Maharashtra, was on Tuesday transferred to IOB’s regional office in Tiruchirapalli. When Dr Balasubramanian approached Kamble for the loan, he flagged jurisdiction issue in the beginning for denying the loan and later asked Dr Balasubramanian whether he knew Hindi. “When I told him, I could only speak Tamil and English, the branch manager asked me why I can’t speak Hindi when he speaks Hindi though hailing from Maharashtra. He refused to give me a loan. I told him he was wrong,” the doctor who retired from government service in 2001, told DH. Dr Balasubramanian has sent a legal notice to the bank manager seeking a compensation of Rs 1 lakh for the mental stress he has undergone due to the behaviour of Kamble. “The manager treated me and my friend very bad and this should not have happened. If the manager does not know Tamil, he should speak to people through an interpreter rather than asking customers whether they know Hindi,” he said. The retired government servant sought to know how the common man will seek loans from banks if the managers insist on speaking a particular language. As his complaint attained political prominence with DMK chief M K Stalin and PMK founder Dr S Ramadoss condemning the incident, Dr Balasubramanian said he sent the notice only to ensure that the branch manager changes his attitude. “I sincerely hope he is not punished. My only intention behind bringing the issue to the public is to ensure that the attitude of the manager towards people changes. If an educated person like me is treated this way, what will happen to people who are less privileged?” he asked. In a statement, Stalin said the frenzy to impose Hindi is being taken to different proportions in Tamil Nadu and questioned the “arrogance” of the bank manager. “Is the BJP government behind this (imposition of Hindi)? Whatever it is, never play with the emotions of Tamils. Even a small fire can turn into a wildfire. Beware,” Stalin said in the statement. Ramadoss said the bank manager should “sent off” to Uttar Pradesh and reiterated the party’s demand to employ Tamil-speaking people in Central Government offices in the state. This is the latest in a series of incidents in Tamil Nadu where “Hindi is being imposed” on the people like DMK MP Kanimozhi being asked at the Chennai Airport whether she was an Indian for not speaking Hindi and a Secretary-level officer asking doctors from the state to leave a virtual conference for not knowing the language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-retired-govt-doctor-alleges-he-was-denied-loan-for-not-knowing-hindi-891379.html
22-09-2020||South||Tunnel to ease Kerala-Karnataka road connectivity through Wayanad||With restrictions in acquiring forest land posing a major hindrance to the development of the popular Thamaraserry ghat road between Kozhikode and Wayanad, a tunnel road through the forest is being developed as an alternative. The alternative road will reduce the distance and travel time along the route, which is a major stretch connecting Kerala and Karnataka. The 6.8 kilometre tunnel will be the third longest tunnel road in the country. The Konkan Railway Corporation Limited has begun the survey and field investigation for the tunnel road began on Tuesday. Kerala government has included it in the recently announced 100 day action plan, and a formal announcement of the project by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is expected next month. The Rs 658 crore project is being financed by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. According to government sources, the tunnel road will reduce the distance between Kozhikode and Wayanad by around 30 kilometres. Moreover, the frequent traffic disruptions in the the Thamaraserry ghat road due to land slide and traffic blocks caused by frequent movement of heavy goods vehicles could be avoided with the alternative path. At times, traffic blocks along the ghat road used to extend for hours. The proposed tunnel will run between Anakkampoyil in Kozhikode and Meppadi in Wayanad. It will be a two-lane road. Approach roads and bridge also form part of the project. At least three to four years might be required for the construction. The Konkan Railway Corporation was roped in for the project considering their expertise in tunnel construction. The corporation had prepared four alignments for the tunnel road, from which the Anakkampoyil - Meppadi route was selected. Difficulties in getting forest land for developing the Thamaraserry ghat road prompted the government to consider the tunnel route and the feasibility study was conducted in 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tunnel-to-ease-kerala-karnataka-road-connectivity-through-wayanad-891381.html
22-09-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan launches e-Challan system||Modernising the traffic department, the Kerala government on Tuesday launched the e-Challan system, by which those violating traffic rules can remit fines instantly, using debit and credit cards. Inaugurating the new system online, Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan said complaints regarding the imposition of traffic penalties will be a thing of the past in the state with the introduction of the e-Challan initiative of the Kerala police. Pointing out that the new system was being introduced as part of the modernisation efforts of the Kerala Police, especially in traffic enforcement. Vijayan said earlier there were complaints galore when a fine was imposed. But now traffic cameras record the offences accurately and the fines are imposed without any direct contact. This will help in avoiding complaints. With the rise in the number of vehicles on the road, it's even more important that traffic rules are enforced effectively, he added. The e-Challan system works in conjunction with the National Motor Vehicle Database at the national level. All the information about the vehicle can be obtained by entering the vehicle number and licence number on the handheld device with the officers. The machines can also be used to pay the penalty with credit or debit cards. The High Court has ruled that virtual courts can be set up to deal with traffic offences. Cases regarding traffic violation will be forwarded to the virtual court through the e-Challan software developed by the National Informatics Centre. Penalties, as determined by the virtual court, can then be paid through the e-Treasury system. The biggest advantage of this system is that there won't be corruption and being a digital system, good transparency can be ensured, he said. This system will be beneficial for the public as well. With the availability of photo and video evidence of the incident, the system will become more acceptable. The system is currently functioning in all the districts with the help of the Department of Motor Vehicles under the Safe Kerala project. "The road transport sector in Kerala will undergo revolutionary changes in the near future. It is hoped that the integrated traffic management system will be completed soon so that all major roads and junctions in the state can be viewed in real-time," Vijayan said. It is equipped with state-of-the-art control room, surveillance systems, ambulance and fire fighting systems. The network of 3,000 cameras, including number plate recognisable cameras, would help patrol vehicles and traffic police vehicles to issue directions quickly, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-launches-e-challan-system-891406.html
22-09-2020||South||Swiggy delivery executives on strike in Hyderabad; company says no disruption in service||A section of delivery partners of Swiggy are on strike in the city, claiming that their base payment has been reduced by the aggregator, for the past few days and held a protest in Madhapur here on Tuesday. The food delivery app firm, however, said a large number of its partners have understood the strong earning potential, as a result of which more 3,700 partners out of about 5,000 have logged on to Swiggy in the last three days. The Swiggy partners, under the banner of Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers, alleged that in recent months the management has made frequent and numerous reductions in earnings structure of delivery executives. The firm reduced minimum order earning from the earlier Rs 35 up to 4 km to Rs15 for 2 km and late night delivery timing has been shifted from previously 11 PM to now midnight, they alleged. The incentive amount has also been reduced, they said adding they have other demands. "We demand the Rs 35 up to 4 km system should be in place. This is our main demand," Shaik Salauddin, National General Secretary told PTI. A Swiggy spokesperson in an email reply said over the last couple of days, Swiggy had a constructive dialogue with its partners to explain the revised pay-outs and assuage their concerns and a large number of executives have understood the strong earning potential, as a result of which more 3,700 partners have logged on to Swiggy in the last three days. "We are disheartened by the many unfortunate incidents where our delivery partners are being intimidated by a smaller set of people, including external parties who are resorting to instigation and coercion. It is coming back to normal in most parts of the city," the spokesperson told PTI. In fact, in a sentiment survey conducted by Swiggy three days ago, 75 per cent from over a 1,000 delivery partners stated that they would like to resume deliveries, the Bengaluru-based firm claimed, adding it was working with the authorities to ensure that those who want to make an honest living with Swiggy were allowed to do so. With the beginning of the cricketing season and the surge in orders in the city, those who delivered with Swiggy over the past three days made an average of over Rs 85 per order and high performing partners made close to Rs 250 per order, the email claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/swiggy-delivery-executives-on-strike-in-hyderabad-company-says-no-disruption-in-service-891418.html
22-09-2020||South||Rs 199.87 crore released to Andhra Pradesh so far by Centre to fight Covid-19||The Centre so far released Rs 199.87 crore to Andhra Pradesh to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply to Rajya Sabha member Parimal Nathwani, the MPs office said in a release here on Tuesday. The Centre was yet to release another Rs 58.41 crore to the state towards coronavirus containment measures, the MP said. The Centre has also provided machines worth Rs 3.10 crore, including one CFX-96 Touch Real-Time PCR Detection System and seven Automated RNA Extraction Machines. Under the "India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package", the state had also received 1,70,722 RNA kits, 1,22,040 VTMs and 2,46,567 RT-PCR kits, all worth over Rs 16 crore, the release said. The Centre also sent 3,960 ventilators, 14.63 lakh N95 masks, 2.79 lakh PPE kits and 31.5 lakh HCQ tablets, the release said, quoting the Union Minister of State for Health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rs-19987-crore-released-to-andhra-pradesh-so-far-by-centre-to-fight-covid-19-891442.html
22-09-2020||South||Will Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy sign Tirumala temple's faith form this time?||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minster Jaganmohan Reddy’s Tirumala tour on Wednesday is keenly waited for in the state to find out if he would put an end to a controversy that rages every-time he visits the revered Hindu shrine. Reddy, a follower of Christianity, has visited the hill-temple at least five times before but has continually refused to abide by a rule – that requires non-Hindus to declare their faith in Lord Venkateshwara before entering the hallowed sanctum. Reddy’s visit this time for the ongoing Brahmotsavams (annual 10-day celestial event) to offer silk garments to the almighty on behalf of the government comes in the backdrop of a spate of incidents like chariot burnings, defacing of idols, and break-ins at various Hindu temples across the state. The opposition TDP and the BJP-JanaSena combine has alleged the YSRCP government’s purposeful disregard towards Hindu temples, symbols, and traditions as instigating such attacks. Jagan's detractors attempt to portray him as anti-Hindu Reddy who was earlier branded “pro-Christian” for his various incentives for the minority community like honorarium for pastors, enhanced financial assistance for a pilgrimage to Jerusalem and other Biblical places, is now being projected as “anti-Hindu” by his detractors. The TDP, BJP have now renewed their demand that Reddy should sign the Tirumala declaration.   Adding fuel in the fiery scenario, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams board chairman YV Subba Reddy’s remarks last week stated that the Tirumala declaration was not needed for the temple entry of the non-Hindus. Ex-Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu and AP BJP chief Somu Veerraju have censured the TTD chief’s statement. Naidu called it an attempt to alter the traditions “to accommodate a non-believer.” With several Hindu organizations also agitated, Subba Reddy retracted and said that he “never suggested or indicated for withdrawal of declaration by non-Hindus seeking Srivari darshan.” “There were several incidents in the past wherein some non-Hindu political personalities visited Tirumala and had darshan without signing the declaration form. And as there are instances showing Jaganmohan Reddy’s immense faith in Lord Venkateshwara, I just said that he need not sign the document", Subba Reddy explained. Even as the TTD chief attempted to douse the conflagration, a YSRCP minister – Kodali Venkateswara Rao - sparked a wider outrage by dubbing the declaration rule archaic and that it should be done away with. The minister known for his acerbic remarks on political opponents also made light of the Hindu temple incidents. To sign or not to… The furor over the faith form has yet again put the TTD officials in a tight spot. “The declaration rule might be there but who would dare ask the CM to sign it,” a TTD official questions.      According to AP’s former Chief Secretary IYR Krishna Rao, one TTD executive officer in the past had to face the state leaders’ wrath for insisting on Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s signature on the declaration.   “When I was the EO in 2010-11, the then chief justice of AP high court Nisar Ahmad Kakru came to visit the temple. When I explained to him about the faith declaration, he said he would consider it and left without darshan. In absence of faith, that is an honorable decision,” Rao, who is now with the BJP, told DH. “To sign or not to sign the form continues to be Jagan’s Hamletian dilemma,” Rao says. What is the Tirumala temple declaration? Rule no 136 of the TTD general regulations state that only Hindus are allowed for Darshan. Non-Hindus who wish to have darshan of Lord Venkateswara have to inform the TTD officials about their religion and declare the same in the faith form as per Rule 137. According to 2014 circular, if anyone is noticed as non-Hindu (based on his or her name like Esaiah, Sardar Singh, Ahmed, or attire, etc.), the TTD authorities can ask them for a declaration. Earlier eminent non-Hindus who signed – Former President of India APJ Abdul Kalam Among those who did not – UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi, late CM Dr. YS Rajasekhara Reddy||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-sign-tirumala-temples-faith-form-this-time-891461.html
22-09-2020||South||IIT-M faculty develop AI models to process Indian languages||Faculty at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) have developed Artificial Intelligence (AI) models and datasets to process texts in 11 Indian languages, the premier institute said on Tuesday. The initiative was taken up jointly with "AI4Bharat," a platform for building AI solutions for problems of relevance to the country, a release from IIT-M said here. The open-source tool, completely free of cost, can be downloaded from https://indicnlp.ai4bharat.org/. "The multilingual AI models and datasets developed through this initiative will provide the essential building blocks to students, faculty, start-ups and industry to work on Indian language tools and push the frontiers of technology," it said. Researchers from IIT Madras and AI4Bharat released AI models and datasets for Tamil, Hindi, Malayalam, Telugu, Kannada, Punjabi, Bengali, Odia, Assamese, Gujarati and Marathi. According to Mitesh M Khapra, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT-M, as the country moves towards a digital economy, it is important that Indian languages find a space online. "This requires a lot of innovation in creating input tools, datasets, and AI models for Indian languages," he said. "For example, imagine a learner who posts a question on an e-learning platform in Tamil or Hindi or any other numerous Indian regional languages. There is a need for tools that can automatically process such questions written in Indian languages and classify them into specific topics," he said. Such tools were already available for English and other foreign languages but not for Indian ones, Khapra added. AI4Bharat is an initiative co-founded by Khapra and Pratyush Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Madras and works to solve India-specific problems in a community-driven, open-sourced manner, the release added. Kumar said the initiative "is one of the few attempts in academia" to develop and publicly release large scale multilingual AI models containing millions of parameters trained on billions of tokens from 11 Indian languages, completely free and open-source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-faculty-develop-ai-models-to-process-indian-languages-891491.html
22-09-2020||South||Mettur dam filling up fast due to water released from Karnataka||Excess water released from reservoirs in Karnataka due to heavy rains in the catchment areas of River Cauvery reached Biligundlu, the entry point of the river in Tamil Nadu, on Tuesday. The inflow in Biligundlu increased to 80,000 cusecs at 4 pm in the evening. At 8 pm on Tuesday, the inflow at the Mettur dam 71,000 cusecs and the outflow was 700 cusecs while the water level stood at 93.430 feet as against the total capacity of 120 feet. The water storage stood at 56.659 tmcft. Karnataka had released excess water from Krishna Raja Sagar and Kabini reservoirs in August due to heavy rains in catchment areas of River Cauvery. As rains hit the region again, both the dams have attained Full Reservoir Level (FRL) and excess water is being released. Fast filling up of Mettur dam would mean uninterrupted water to farmers in the Cauvery Delta region for irrigation. The sluices of the Stanley Reservoir were opened for the first time as scheduled in the month of June after 2011 as the dam had enough water. From 2012 to 2019, the dam was not opened in June due to less storage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mettur-dam-filling-up-fast-due-to-water-released-from-karnataka-891495.html
22-09-2020||South||Three-year-old flyover to be reconstructed in Kerala||A flyover constructed at a cost for Rs. 42 crore and commissioned in October 2016 at Kochi in Kerala will be now reconstructed by spending around Rs. 20 crores owing to the flaws in construction. With the Supreme Court on Tuesday setting aside an order of Kerala High court to conduct a load test of the bridge before going ahead with the proposal for reconstructing it, the state government will soon commence the work, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Palarivattom flyover on NH by-pass in Kochi was constructed with an estimated life of about 100 years. But it had to be closed in May 2019 following safety concerns. Metro man E Sreedharan and experts from IIT Madras inspected the flyover found cracks in 97 out of the 102 girders and 16 of the 18 pier caps. Hence those were proposed to be demolished and reconstructed. The reconstruction cost estimated last year was Rs. 18.5 crore and the estimated time required was ten months. The government would be now bearing the reconstruction cost and legal measures will be initiated to recover the cost from those responsible for the lapses. A vigilance probe is progressing into the irregularities in the construction of the flyover, which took place during the term of the previous Congress-led UDF government. Former public works secretary T O Sooraj was among the arrested and former minister V K Ebrahim Kunju was also facing a probe. The Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala, an agency under the Kerala government, initiated the flyover project. Bengaluru-based Nagesh Consultants designed it and Delhi-based RDS Projects constructed it. Another Kerala government agency KITCO was the technical consultant. Officials of these agencies were arraigned in the Vigilance case. Kerala government had earlier alleged attempts to cover up the serious lapses in the initial construction. With the flyover remaining closed, Kochi city has been experiencing heavy traffic block during peak hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-year-old-flyover-to-be-reconstructed-in-kerala-891497.html
22-09-2020||South||AIADMK to seek explanation from RS MP who opposed Farm Bills||Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK will seek an explanation from its Rajya Sabha member, S R Balasubramaniam, on why he opposed the Farm Bills in the Upper House of Parliament when the party had publicly supported the legislation. Chief Minister and AIADMK joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami said Balasubramaniam, who was nominated to Rajya Sabha by former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa months before her death in December 2016, will be sought an explanation on the issue. “We will ask for an explanation from him. We will be seeking the explanation,” Palaniswami said, reiterating that the AIADMK supported the legislations. He was asked why the AIADMK took different stances in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on the Bills. While the lone member of the party in Lok Sabha supported the Bill, Balasubramanian who spoke in Rajya Sabha on behalf of AIADMK criticised the legislation, which was put to a voice vote on Sunday. Balasubramanian’s opposition came after Palaniswami issued a public statement on Saturday supporting the legislations contending that they would improve the lives of farmers across the country. The Rajya Sabha MP is a former Congressman and a close aide of veteran leader G K Moopanar and his son G K Vasan before quitting the Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) floated by the latter in 2016. He joined the AIADMK in April 2016 and was nominated to the Rajya Sabha next month. Speaking to reporters in Ramanathapuram, Palaniswami also refused to answer a question on the future role of V K Sasikala in the AIADMK after her release from Parapana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru. “There is no need for the question to arise now. This meeting was organized to check the preparedness of the district administration to combat Covid-19 and review development works,” Palaniswami said. His comments come as speculation mounts over the release of Sasikala, whose four-year sentence in the disproportionate assets (DA) case ends in February next year. However, the jail authorities said she will be released on January 27, 2021, provided she pays the fine of Rs 10 crore even as her legal team maintains that she is eligible for remission and might walk out of the prison by the end of September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-to-seek-explanation-from-rs-mp-who-opposed-farm-bills-891504.html
22-09-2020||South||Galwan martyr Havaldar Palani’s wife inducted into Tamil Nadu government service||Vanathi Devi, the wife of Havaldar K Palani, who was killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in the Union Territory of Ladakh in June, was on Tuesday handed over appointment order in the rank of junior assistant by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Palaniswami handed over the appointment order to Devi at the Ramanathapuram district collectorate, where he conducted a review meeting. Immediately after Palani’s death on June 15, Palaniswami had announced Rs 20 lakh as solatium, and that a family member will be given a job based on their educational qualification. She has been appointed in the rank of junior assistant in the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Department. Devi has two children. Palani, who joined the Indian Army at the age of 18 and had been in service for the past 20 years, hailed from Kadukalur village in Tiruvadanai taluk of the backward Ramanathapuram district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/galwan-martyr-havaldar-palani-s-wife-inducted-into-tamil-nadu-government-service-891512.html
22-09-2020||South||Court refuses to withdraw public property damage case against Kerala ministers||The LDF-led Kerala government's attempt to withdraw a public property damage case against six leaders, including two ministers, suffered a setback as a local court rejected the government's plea saying that withdrawal of such cases would send a wrong message to society. Causing embarrassment to the LDF Front government, the chief judicial magistrate court also observed that application to withdraw the case was presumed to be filed without good faith and on external influence. The case pertained to the bedlam in the Kerala Assembly by the Left Front MLAs against the Congress-led UDF's Finance Minister K M Mani from presenting the state's budget on March 13, 2015. Mani was facing allegations of bribery against him. The accused include Industries Minister E P Jayarajan and Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel. The damages to the property in the Assembly were estimated to be Rs 2.2 lakh. The Opposition MLAs had also damaged the speaker's chair in the bedlam. The Vijayan government recently decided to withdraw the case considering the representation of the accused CPM leaders. Subsequently, a withdrawal petition was filed but the Opposition also moved a counter-petition. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified the government's stand stating that such incidents in the Assembly were part of the then political circumstances. He also said that the government would go by the court order in this regard. However, the accused are likely to file an appeal in the Kerala High Court.Other accused in the case are V Sivankutty, C K Sadasivan and K Kunjahmed Master of CPM and K Ajith of CPI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/court-refuses-to-withdraw-public-property-damage-case-against-kerala-ministers-891546.html
22-09-2020||South||Kerala CM blames Oppn parties for dragging Quran into controversy||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said it was not the left front which had sought to drag the Holy Quran into a controversy, but the opposition parties, including the Indian Union Muslim League, an ally of the Congress-led UDF. "It was not the LDF which was responsible for drawing the Quran into a controversy. The left front did not say anything about the religious text. It was the opposition leaders and leaders of the Leaguewho had wrongly spoken about the holy text.The LDF had only brought the facts into the public domain," Vijayan told reporters here. The CPI(M) had earlier described the protests by the opposition -UDF and BJP against minister K T Jaleel as being against the Holy text. The chief minister claimed even the league leaders had come out against the Quran, which their followers will not accept. It was the League which had alleged that gold was smuggled under the pretext of bringing the Holy book,he said. It cannot be said that the religious text was smuggled in. Customs had cleared it and it was brought to the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram after which it was distributed, Vijayan said, adding, it was brought in proper manner. The import of the Holy text was not a "big crime". The Consulate officials had approached Jaleel for distribution of the Quran, and he had obliged, Vijayan said. The investigation in the gold smuggling case was going in the right direction and the heartbeats of some have increased and it would go up further,the chief minister said. The investigators should go after the gold smuggling case and the Quran controversy was an attempt to deflect the case, he claimed. Meanwhile, the UDF today decided to further intensify its agitation against the LDF government demanding Jaleel's resignation. Attacking the chief minister, Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala said if the truth in the gold smuggling case has to come out, Vijayan should be questioned as according to him the minister had no role in the case. The opposition parties have been staging protests against the minister who had been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate and NIA recently. While the minister was questioned by the ED in connection with the alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) in accepting consignments of Holy Quran and about 18,000 kg of dates brought from the UAE through diplomatic channels, his statement was recorded by the National Investigation Agency probing the terror link in the gold smuggling case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-blames-oppn-parties-for-dragging-quran-into-controversy-891563.html
22-09-2020||State||Konkan Railway delivers 2 DEMU train sets to Nepal||Konkan Railway has successfully delivered two state-of-art 1600 HP DEMU train sets with modern amenities to the Department of Railway, Nepal, under the guidance of the Minister of Railways. This is under the Indian Government’s Make in India policy and is a flagship export of India to find great visibility in Nepal, said a press release from L K Verma, Chief Public Relation Officer of Konkan Railway Corporation. Konkan Railway Corporation Limited signed an agreement with the Department of Railway, Nepal, on May 10, 2019, to supply two 1600 HP DEMU train sets. These train sets have been manufactured at Integral Coach Factory, Chennai. Each train set has one diesel power car, one diesel trailer car and three trailer cars, including one with air-conditioning. The train sets have the latest AC-AC controlled propulsion system, he said. Konkan Railway successfully delivered the train sets to Nepal against an order placed by Department of Railways, Nepal, for a value of Rs 52.46 crore. The trains were moved self-propelled from Jaynagar in India to Janakpur in Nepal by the Konkan Railway team. The train sets were well received by the people of Nepal along the route and at Janakpur. They are planned to be used for passenger services between Jaynagar in India and Kurtha in Nepal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/konkan-railway-delivers-2-demu-train-sets-to-nepal-891170.html
22-09-2020||State||Snippets September 23||BJP MLAs fall on Siddaramaiah's feet Two BJP MLAs were seen falling at the feet of the Leader of the Opposition, Siddaramaiah, in the Assembly lounge on Tuesday. Upon seeing Siddaramaiah, Jagaluru BJP MLA SV Ramachandra and Shorapur MLA Rajugouda fell at his feet. They were soon joined by Koppal Congress MLA Raghavendra Hitnal.  Hundred years' blessing Senior Congress leader R V Deshpande has an oxygen saturation level of 98 and he will live for a hundred years, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah quipped, leaving the Assembly in splits. "For Covid patients, one has to ensure that the oxygen level does not drop below 90. It has to be tested every day. Recently, when some of us got tested, all our oxygen levels were between 92 and 94, but Deshpande's was 98," he said.  KPCC or KPSC? A slip of the tongue statement mixing up the Karnataka Public Services Commission (KPSC) with Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), made by Municipalities Minister K C Narayana Gowda brought laughter in the Legislative Council. Answering a question on recruitment in the Municipal Administration department, Gowda said the department had sent a proposal to the KPCC, while he clearly meant to say KPSC. Opposition leaders joked that the minister's statement signaled that he may join KPCC in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/snippets-september-23-891537.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt isn’t suppressing Covid-19 deaths: K Sudhakar||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday told the Legislative Assembly that Karnataka’s Covid-19 mortality was decreasing, even as the Opposition Congress maintained that the BJP government was suppressing the figures. “The mortality rate is 1.36% in Bengaluru and 1.54% in Karnataka,” Sudhakar said, intervening during Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s speech on the Covid-19 situation in the Legislative Assembly. Quoting statistics, Siddaramaiah said 272 people for every one lakh infected with Covid-19 were dying in Karnataka. “Our mortality rate is rising,” he said, adding that the state stood 7th in India on this count. When Sudhakar disagreed, Congress’ Eshwar Khandre said the State Government was suppressing death numbers. Irked, Sudhakar said Karnataka had received appreciation from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on data disclosure. “Nobody is giving wrong numbers. When it comes to testing, deaths and treatment, Karnataka is giving proper data,” Sudhakar said.  Former health minister UT Khader of the Congress said the mortality rate in terms of percentage was misleading. “How does the death rate come down? If there are 1 lakh cases and 100 deaths, the percentage will be less. Earlier, with 10,000 cases, deaths will show a high percentage. That doesn’t mean deaths are low, but it’s just the percentage that’s low,” Khader pointed out. To this, Sudhakar said it was important to note the number of people who have recovered. “Out of 5.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, 4.20 lakh have recovered. If there were no recoveries, how will the death rate come down? Recovery is directly proportional to fatality,” he said. “Why is the death rate high in other states and countries? The global average is 3.6%. In some countries, it is as high as 10%,” he said, adding that Karnataka’s target was to keep the fatality rate below 1%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-isn-t-suppressing-covid-19-deaths-k-sudhakar-891291.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt isn’t suppressing Covid-19 death figures: K Sudhakar||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday told the Legislative Assembly that Karnataka’s Covid-19 mortality was decreasing, even as the Opposition Congress maintained that the BJP government was suppressing the figures.  “The mortality rate is 1.36% in Bengaluru and 1.54% in Karnataka,” Sudhakar said, intervening during Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s speech on the Covid-19 situation.  Quoting statistics, Siddaramaiah said 272 people for every one lakh infected with Covid-19 were dying in Karnataka. “Our mortality rate is rising,” he said, adding that the state stood 7th in India on this count.  When Sudhakar disagreed, Congress’ Eshwar Khandre said the government was suppressing the death numbers. Irked, the minister said Karnataka had received appreciation from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on data disclosure. “Nobody is giving wrong numbers. When it comes to testing, deaths, and treatment, Karnataka is giving proper data,” Sudhakar said.  Former health minister U T Khader of the Congress said the mortality rate in terms of percentage was misleading. “How does the death rate come down? If there are 1 lakh cases and 100 deaths, the percentage will be less. For the earlier figures of 10,000 cases, the number of deaths will show a high percentage. That doesn’t mean deaths are low, but it’s just the percentage that’s low,” Khader pointed out.  To this, Sudhakar said it is important to note the number of people who have recovered. “Out of 5.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, 4.2 lakh have recovered. If there were no recoveries, how will the death rate come down? Recovery is directly proportional to fatalities,” he said. “Why is the death rate high in other states and countries? The global average is 3.6%. In some countries, it is as high as 10%,” he said, adding that Karnataka’s target was to keep the fatality rate below 1%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-isn-t-suppressing-covid-19-death-figures-k-sudhakar-891439.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Finally, Hampi By Night project will see the light of day||The ambitious Hampi By Night project is set to take off after a long wait. Starting October 9, tourists will be able to walk across the City of Ruins and experience the beauty of the monuments, along with the light and sound show, at night. Hampi By Night is a guided tour that would take the tourists through the 17 illuminated monuments listed out by the Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority (HWAMA). The project, conceived by HWAMA and the tourism department a decade back, was languishing for several reasons. The state government had sanctioned Rs 11 crore for the same then. However, the project, which missed several deadlines, the last being in January 2020, will soon become a reality, thanks to the special interest shown by Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul and HWAMA commissioner P N Lokesh. In fact, the district administration and the Hampi authority had planned to launch the project in March on an experimental basis. But the same was deferred due to the nationwide lockdown following the onset of novel coronavirus. The guided tour and the light and sound show aim to showcase the rich heritage of Hampi and explain to the visitors, foreign tourists in particular, the history and the significance of the ruins in an attractive manner. The ruins/monuments to be illuminated under the project are: Bishtappaiah Gopura of Virupaksha Temple, Gejjala Mantap, Narasimha Temple, caves on the banks of Tungabhadra, Chakrathirtha, Hastagiri Ranganath, Acyuth Mantap, Achytharaya Temple, Varaha Temple, Anesaalu Mantap, Kamal Mahal, Virupaksha Bazaar, Vishnu Temple, Sugreeva Caves, old bridge and Raja's Tulabhara. The tourists can take the heritage tour and shop at Hampi's famed Bazaar between 7.30 pm to 9.30 pm. The expedition will start from Virupaksha Temple precinct. The heritage tour is priced at Rs 2,500 per person. Also, preparations are underway to start a laser show depicting the glory of Vijayanagara Empire near Basavanna Mantapa and Kodanadarama Temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/finally-hampi-by-night-project-will-see-the-light-of-day-891449.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt seeks time on ward reservation||The state government on Tuesday submitted before the High Court that a draft reservation notification has been issued for conducting the elections to 198 wards of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Appearing for the state government, Advocate General (AG) Prabhuling K Navadgi informed the bench that notification on the draft reservation was issued on September 14. He sought time to go through more than 900 objections on ward-wise reservation draft notification. The AG submitted that the final notification on the delimitation of wards was issued on June 23. Meanwhile, the State Election Commission filed a memo stating that the Commission has already issued a circular setting out the guidelines for the preparation of the voters' list as per the boundaries of 198 wards. The Commission also stated that the publication of the draft ward-wise electoral rolls would be issued on October 19 and the final voters list on November 20, 2020. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka adjourned the hearing on the PIL filed by the State Election Commission to October 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-seeks-time-on-ward-reservation-891450.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Parliament nods to Bill allowing IIIT Raichur to award diplomas, degrees||Parliament on Tuesday passed a bill to grant statutory status to Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) at Raichur and four such institutions, set up under public-private partnership. Besides Raichur, IIIT has been set up under public-private partnership at Surat, Bhopal, Bhagalpur and Agartala. The Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was passed by Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, grant these institutions statutory rights to award diplomas, degrees and PhDs. The Lok Sabha had passed the Bill on Sunday. These five IIITs along with 15 other IIITs, which are also built on public-private partnership (PPP) mode will now be able to use the nomenclature of Bachelor of Technology (BTech) or Master of Technology (MTech) or PhD degree. The bill amends the Indian Institutes of Information Technology Act, 2014 and the Indian Institutes of Information Technology (Public-Private Partnership) Act, 2017. Currently, these institutes are registered as Societies under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and do not have the power to grant degrees or diplomas. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said that there were 25 IIITs in the country out of which five were purely run by the central government, and 15 operate under public-private partnership (PPP) mode. “We have brought the proposal before this House to bring five new operational institutes which are located and have started operations in Surat (Gujarat), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Bhagalpur (Bihar), Agartala (Tripura) and Raichur (Karnataka) to bring under this act,” Nishank said. It will also enable the institutes to attract enough students required to develop a strong research base in the country in the field of information technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/parliament-nods-to-bill-allowing-iiit-raichur-to-award-diplomas-degrees-891472.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fugitive Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank president still at large: Govt||The state government informed the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday that the police have not been successful in apprehending K Ramakrishna, the president of the fraud-hit Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank. "Ramakrishna and his wife are absconding. That’s why they haven’t been caught yet. A 10-member team has been formed and all efforts are being made to catch them," Law Minister JC Madhuswamy told the Assembly, responding to a calling attention notice by Basavanagudi legislator L A Ravi Subramanya. "Between 2005 and 2020, Ramakrishna was president thrice and the irregularities committed under his tenures have come to the government’s notice," Madhuswamy said. Earlier this year, allegations of financial fraud surfaced that Rs 1,400 crore had been moved to unverified accounts, which included deposits that were diverted. Also, loans were given to fake account holders. The minister said there were 40,661 depositors of the crisis-hit bank. "The total deposits are Rs 2,620 crore of which we have to return Rs 2,310 crore to the depositors. A financial audit has been ordered for the 2014-2019 period," Madhuswamy said. "As per the Reserve Bank of India’s directive, a forensic audit is being done for ten years preceding March 3, 2020," he added. Besides auditing the bank’s books, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) are carrying out a probe into the frauds, Madhuswamy said. "After all this, whatever is recovered will be distributed to the depositors on a pro-rata basis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fugitive-sri-guru-raghavendra-cooperative-bank-president-still-at-large-govt-891498.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers' association to take decision on strike||More than 200 associations of farmers and workers will take a call on the general strike to protest against the anti-farmer and anti-workers' bills passed by the Union and the state governments on Wednesday. While early reports on Tuesday indicated that the strike will be called on September 25, the farmers' associations later decided to conduct a joint meeting with all the concerned organisations before arriving at a decision. Various associations, including those of lorry owners, taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers, have already expressed support to the proposed strike call. Late on Tuesday night, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said that farmers will block all state and national highways across Karnataka on Friday. However, members of the federation of associations said a decision will be taken at the core committee on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-association-to-take-decision-on-strike-891527.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Four Bills passed in Karnataka Assembly, 2 benefit leprosy patients||Four of the 30 plus Bills lined up in the ongoing session were passed by the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. A total of 12 Bills were tabled during the day. Two of the legislations passed benefit leprosy patients. The Karnataka Prohibition of Beggary (Amendment) Bill was based on the directions of the Supreme Court to end discriminatory provisions in the parent Act of 1975, with respect to leprosy patients in the country.  Similarly, the Kannada University and Certain Other Laws (Amendment) Bill was passed. "There was a clause for disqualification in membership that included leprosy. We're removing that since the Supreme Court has ordered that those with leprosy shouldn't be separated from society," Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said.  The Karnataka Legislature Salaries, Pensions and Allowances and Certain Other Law (Amendment) Bill, which reduced 30% salaries of legislators and would save around Rs 16 crore to Rs 18 crore this year, was passed. Also, the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (Amendment) Bill, in which the BBMP commissioner will head the registration authority, was passed.  Though six of the 12 Bills were slated for discussion, including the controversial Land Reforms (Amendment) Bill, it was deferred due to paucity of time. Other Bills that were tabled include the Karnataka State Civil Services (Prohibition of Absorption of the Service of the Employees of Establishments in Public Sector into Public Service) Bill, Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) (Amendment) Bill, and Karnataka Lokayukta Amendment Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-bills-passed-in-karnataka-assembly-2-benefit-leprosy-patients-891536.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||C T Ravi's statement on Covid-19 deaths sparks furore in council||A statement by the Tourism, Kannada, and Culture Minister C T Ravi on 'Covid-19 deaths’ in the state led to a heated argument between the ruling BJP and Opposition Congress in the Legislative Council on Tuesday. Taking part in the debate on the Covid-19 issue, Ravi, while explaining about the number of people infected, recovered and died of Covid-19, said: “Only 7,000 people have died of Covid-19 in Karnataka so far.” Soon, the statement drew flak from the opposition members who termed Ravi’s remark as ‘irresponsible.’ Countering the minister’s statement, Congress MLC M Narayanswamy said, “The minister pointed that only 7,000 people died of Covid-19. Does he mean there is no value for the deaths? A minister shall not make such irresponsible statements.” Joining the chorus, Congress MLC B K Hariprasad said, “The minister must not take deaths so lightly. The government had cremated the bodies in inhuman ways. It had even failed to hand over the bodies of Covid-19 victims with respect.” Putting an end to the argument, Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu said, "All of us have respect towards those who died of Covid-19 and sympathise with their families. I agree that many people have died which also includes doctors, police and other frontline worriers. Some of the victims even died of fear and I pray to the god that they all shall rest in peace.” Defending that the government has been doing its best during the pandemic, Ramulu said, “The pandemic is not in our hands. We are doing the best work and we all have to live with the pandemic till we get a vaccine.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/c-t-ravis-statement-on-covid-19-deaths-sparks-furore-in-council-891540.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Opposition demands inquiry into scrapped aerospace project||Opposition MLCs on Tuesday demanded that the state government conduct an inquiry into the Rs 90 crore Aerospace Common Finishing Facility project that was rolled back in 2019.  JD(S) MLC Marithibbe Gowda sought to know why the state government had failed to implement the project, which was pitched as a platform for SMEs in the aerospace sector to market their products. "The proposed project at an estimated cost of Rs 90 crore, was cleared by the Centre in 2015. Of this, the Centre's share was Rs 42 crore and the state government was supposed to invest the rest. The Cabinet had approved the project and work orders were also given. In spite of this, the project was rolled back in 2019, with the state having to return the partial grant given by the Centre," he said. Even though the state government makes big claims about being prepared to attract investors from China, the ground reality is different, he alleged.    Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said the project was stopped when the coalition government was in power. "There is no point in blaming the current regime. It was only in 2019 that it was officially rolled back with the state government returning the Centre's funds. Companies did not show interest in investing," he said, assuring to inquire into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-opposition-demands-inquiry-into-scrapped-aerospace-project-891542.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly passes bill to cut salaries of legislature members by 30%||The Karnataka assembly on Tuesday passed a bill to reduce salaries and allowances of members of the state legislature by 30 per cent for a year to augment financial resources required to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The state expects to save somewhere between Rs 16 crore to Rs 18 crore by this exercise, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said, while moving the 'Karnataka Legislature Salaries, Pensions and Allowances and Certain Other Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020' to effect the changes. "In the wake of Covid-19, we discussed with leaders of our party and also the opposition that as a gesture, ministers, MLAs and MLCs, heads of authorities, the Speaker and Deputy Speaker should agree to a 30 per cent salary cut," Madhuswamy told the Assembly. Appreciating the move, Arkalgud JD(S) MLA A T Ramaswamy demanded to know how the government approved hike in salaries of judicial officers during the pandemic when the state was facing a financial crunch. "During this coronavirus period, the state is facing financial problems. It is our duty to rush aid for relief work. However, should this law be applicable to all or only to the Karnataka Legislature?" Ramaswamy asked the Law Minister. He alleged that judicial officers in Karnataka had on their own, hiked their salaries and then the government gave its nod. "Is this appropriate? Has the government lost its strength? Without seeking your consent, without the approval of the legislature, if they hike their salaries and you give your nod later, are they above law or the Constitution? You need to clarify on this," Ramaswamy said. To this, Madhuswamy said he was not in a position to immediately give an answer as he did not have the facts. He however, assured Ramaswamy that he would gather the information and provide it to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-bill-to-cut-salaries-of-legislature-members-by-30-891548.html
22-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 6,974 new Covid-19 cases; total infections breach two lakh mark in Bengaluru||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 6,974 new Covid-19 cases and 83 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 5,33,850 and death toll to 8,228, the Health department said. The day also saw the number of recoveries outnumbering new infections, with 9,073 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 6,974 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 3,082 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone, where the total number of infections so far have breached the two lakh mark. As of September 22 evening, cumulatively 5,33,850 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 8,228 deaths and 4,32,450 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 93,153 active cases, 92,331 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 822 are in ICU. As many as 26 out of total 83 deaths reported on Tuesday were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Ballari and Mysuru (9), Uttara Kannada (7), Shivamogga (5), Dakshina Kannada, Hassan and Tumakru (4), Kalaburagi (3), Bagalkote, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag and Vijayapura (2) and Chamarajanagara, Chikkaballapura, Mandya and Raichur (1). Most of the dead were either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 3,082, followed by Mysuru (443), Tumakuru (240), Hassan (235), Shivamogga (234), Dakshina Kannada (211), Davangere (198), Ballari (181), Koppal (180), and Belagavi (179) among others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 2,00,728 infections, followed by Mysuru (30,751) and Ballari (29,460). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 1,58,029, followed by Mysuru (26,051) and Ballari (25,111). A total of 43,38,442 samples were tested so far, out of which 55,707 were tested on Tuesday alone. Among the samples tested today 25,547 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-6974-new-covid-19-cases-total-infections-breach-two-lakh-mark-in-bengaluru-891559.html
22-09-2020||West||Dhangars renew demand for reservation in Maharashtra||At a time when the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government is fighting a tough battle in the Supreme Court to save the quota for Marathas, the Dhangar community in Maharashtra has renewed its demand for reservation. Under the banner of the Maharashtra State Dhangar Welfare Association, various groups and organisations of the community have decided to take the battle forward. The Dhangar (shepard) community is present mainly in the Western Maharashtra and Marathwada regions and account for over 9 per cent of state's population. “It is a long-pending demand and needs to be fulfilled at the earliest,” said Dhangar leader Prakash Shendge. The previous BJP-Shiv Sena alliance government had commissioned a study by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) to prepare a report on the Dhangar quota, however, it is yet to be made public. The report has not negated the demand for the quota to the Dhangar community. As of now, the Dhangar community gets reservation under the Vimukta Jati & Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) category (3.5 per cent) of Maharashtra. Dhangar community groups had been agitating for reservation in the ST category in Maharashtra as the "Dhangad" got reservation in other parts of India in SC category. A topographical error seems to have led to the problem where Dhangar (Dhangad) got reservation in the VJNT category in Maharashtra. Of the total 52 per cent reservation in the state, SCs and STs account for 13 and 7 per cent, respectively, OBCs get 19 per cent, VJNT, Special Backward Class and Nomadic Tribes account for 13 per cent. The Supreme Court had stayed the 12 to 13 per cent reservation to the Marartha community under the newly-created Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC). The previous government had decided to strengthen the Ahilyabai Holkar MahaMandal and expand the scope for skill training and self financing to youth from the Dhangar community. Besides, 10,000 houses were proposed to be constructed for the community. Benefits of pre and post-matriculation scholarship were also listed to be given to the community. But the demand for reservation in the ST category remains unfulfilled. “The Dhangars are fighting for their rights. We are not seeking anything new. We have so far been silent and cooperative,” said Dhangar leader Gopichand Padalkar. Thackeray had assured the community that the government is trying to resolve the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dhangars-renew-demand-for-reservation-in-maharashtra-891212.html
22-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Death toll in Bhiwandi building collapse rises to 17||The death toll in the Bhiwandi building collapse in Maharashtra rose to 17 on Tuesday, with recovery of four more bodies during the night, police said. The dead include eight children. The body of a girl, Afsana Ansari, 15, was found in the debris during the night, police said. The number of those rescued from the debris has gone up to 23 with three more persons, including two women, having been pulled out during the night, police said. The 43-year-old Jilani building collapsed on Monday. Two civic officials have been suspended in connection with the collapse and an offence has been registered against the building owner, an official said. The building in the powerloom town - which is around 10 km from Thane - had 40 flats and around 150 persons lived there, an official said. The building, located at Narpoli's Patel Compound near Dhamankar Naka, collapsed while the residents were asleep. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and personnel of the Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) are still at the spot as the search operation continues, he said. The building was not in the list of dilapidated structures of the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC), he said. Bhiwandi DCP Rajkumar Shinde said offences under sections 337,338,304 (2)of the IPC were registered against the owner of building Sayyed Ahmed Jilani after a complaint by civic officials. Jilani is yet to be arrested, he added. The BNMC suspended two senior officials in connection with the building collapse. An inquiry committee has also been set up and will include the assistant town planner, he said. Meanwhile, a building resident said most residents of the building were tenants and included autorickshaw drivers, vendors and labourers. A civic official said the building was served two notices, one in 2019 and another in February, over alleged irregularities, but the residents did not leave as the rent was very low.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-death-toll-in-bhiwandi-building-collapse-rises-to-17-891214.html
22-09-2020||West||Death toll in Bhiwandi building collapse rises to 22||The death toll in the building crash at Bhiwandi in Thane district near Mumbai climbed to 22 on Tuesday. The deceased include two infants, nine minors, seven men and four women, said an official of Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC). The rescue and relief operations by teams of BNMC and National Disaster Response Force is still underway. According to NDRF Director General Satya Narayan Pradhan, there is a likelihood of more people being trapped in the debris. The three-storey Jilani building in the Patel Compound at Narpoli off the Dhamankar Naka of Muslim community-dominated Bhiwandi area, nearly 60 kms off downtown Mumbai, collapsed like a pack of cards in the wee hours of Monday.   At least 20 to 25 families totalling over 150 persons, occupied the ill-fated building built more than 30 years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/death-toll-in-bhiwandi-building-collapse-rises-to-22-891215.html
22-09-2020||West||Mumbai tea-seller who saved lives during 26/11 terror attack struggles to make ends meet||A chaiwala who had helped several people escape the 26/11 terror attack in Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus is finding it difficult to make ends meet due to Covid-19 and the ensuing onslaught on the economy. Chotu Chaiwala aka Toufiq Shaikh, a tea vendor, says that he does not have any option but to leave the city. “I came to the city of dreams, Mumbai, when I was just a teenager. Here I grew up to be known as Chotu Chaiwala and here I saved several lives during the 26/11. Now, I am sinking in debt, my family is starving and with a heavy heart, I am about to leave the city," says the 39-year-old tea-seller. In a bid to tide over the crisis, he had resorted to crowdfunding and has put up his request on the Ketto platform. “Only few local trains are running  and hence there are no customers. Plus, due to the fear of the disease, no one is willing to buy chai (chai) from me,” he said. His heroic efforts were acknowledged by the government and was even promised a job with Indian Railways - he received 27 awards and Rs 70,000 in cash from various citizens groups. With this money, he opened his first tea stall in 2009. Just a month before the lockdown, Toufiq opened a new stall and spent nearly Rs 1,00,000 to stock up wafers, water bottles, biscuits. Since the stall was placed right next to the tea shop near CSMT, a prime location, the business was picking up before it all went downhill. Toufiq has employed 11 people for this tea stall, of whom he helped eight return to their native towns when the lockdown norms were relaxed. He borrowed money to pay their salaries and to send home during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-tea-seller-who-saved-lives-during-26/11-terror-attack-struggles-to-make-ends-meet-891235.html
22-09-2020||West||They love some people: Sharad Pawar on Income Tax notice on poll affidavits||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, who is one of the senior politicians in India, has received a notice from the Income Tax Department seeking clarification on election affidavits filed for previous elections. “I have also received (a notice)…they love some people,” the 79-year-old Pawar told reporters in Mumbai. His comments came after he was asked about the I-T notice issued to his daughter and Lok Sabha MP from Baramati Supriya Sule, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son and state’s Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray. Talking about the notice to him, Pawar, a four-time former Maharashtra chief minister and two-term Union Agriculture Minister, said: “I received the notice from I-T (department) about my poll affidavits. On the directions of Election Commission, they (I-T) have sent the notice (to me) on poll affidavits for 2009, 2014 and 2020.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/they-love-some-people-sharad-pawar-on-income-tax-notice-on-poll-affidavits-891294.html
22-09-2020||West||Man accused of raping British national escapes from Goa jail||A 32-year-old man accused of raping a British woman escaped from the Central Jail in Goa on Tuesday, police said. Ramchandran Chennadayellappa, a native of Tamil Nadu, was facing trial for allegedly raping the woman at Canacona in South Goa district in December 2018. He escaped from the Central Jail, located around 15 km from here in Colvale, in the early hours of Tuesday, a senior police official said, adding that search was on to nab him. The accused had earlier also escaped from the prison in July 2019 and was rearrested by the police in Tamil Nadu, he said. He is facing trial before South Goa district judge in the rape case and before Judicial Magistrate First Class, Pernem (North Goa) for escaping from judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-accused-of-raping-british-national-escapes-from-goa-jail-891335.html
22-09-2020||West||After collapse, two other buildings in Bhiwandi vacated||Hours after a three-storey building collapsed in Bhiwandi in Maharashtra's Thane district, two buildings located in its vicinity were vacated by the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) on Monday night, an official said on Tuesday. These buildings were declared dangerous to live earlier by the civic body, he said. The ill-fated Jilani building located at Narpoli's Patel Compound near Dhamankar Naka had collapsed in early hours of Monday, killing 20 people. "Two buildings- all ground plus three-storey structures-- housing 13 tenants and around 25-30 people were vacated on Monday night," said Laxman Kokni, office superintendent for a local civic ward. He said power supplyto these two buildings was disconnected earlier. Kokni said a decision on whether to raze these buildings will be taken later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-collapse-two-other-buildings-in-bhiwandi-vacated-891373.html
22-09-2020||West||All Covid-19 beds at GMCH, Ponda hospital full: Goa minister||The Goa government on Tuesday said all beds reserved for Covid-19 patients at state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital and sub-district hospital in Ponda are occupied and arrangements are being made to increase the bed capacity. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant held a meeting with Health Minister Vishwajit Rane and other officials to review the Covid-19 treatment situation. Beds reserved for Covid-19 patients at both the GMCH and the sub-district hospital in Ponda town are full, Rane said. The GMCH currently has 227 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. At least 60 beds will be added after two more wards at the GMCH are converted for treatment of infected patients, the health minister said. The new building of South district hospital at Margao has already been commissioned as Covid-19 treatment facility for patients with mild to moderate symptoms of the infection, he said. The state government is trying its best to increase the bed capacity in the state-run facilities, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-covid-19-beds-at-gmch-ponda-hospital-full-goa-minister-891390.html
22-09-2020||West||HC allows Kangana Ranaut to include Sanjay Raut in her plea against BMC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday permitted actor Kangana Ranaut to include Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and an officer as a party in her plea against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's demolition of illegal constructions and alterations in her office in a bungalow in Pali Hill in Bandra. A division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Justice SJ Kathawala and Justice RI Chagla allowed Raut, the chief spokesperson of Shiv Sena and a Rajya Sabha member and Bhagyavant Late, the Ward Officer of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to be included in her plea. The petition is likely to be heard on Wednesday. Kangana has moved the Bombay High Court seeking directions from the court to declare the demolition of her office as illegal. She had also sought Rs two crore as damages from the BMC. Kangana’s counsel Birendra Saraf submitted a DVD containing a speech in which Raut allegedly made a comment threatening the actress. Justice Kathawalla pointed out that if the actress is going to rely on the DVD, then Raut should be given a chance to respond. "What if he (Raut) says that he has not made these statements or that this DVD is fabricated? You have to give him an opportunity to respond," the bench said. At Saraf’s request, Late was also made a party in the plea as the civic official had issued all communications related to the notice of illegal construction and demolition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-allows-kangana-ranaut-to-include-sanjay-raut-in-her-plea-against-bmc-891394.html
22-09-2020||West||Mumbai Police seize drugs to the tune of Rs 14 lakh||In a major operation, the Mumbai police seized drugs to the tune of around Rs 14 lakh even as the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) continued its independent probe to unearth the Bollywood-drug mafia nexus as part of the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) carried out two raids in which two persons were arrested, including a lyricist. The ANC-Bandra unit accosted a suspicious person near the Shankar Temple bus stop in Powai. He was holding a nylon bag in his hand and a search revealed 21 kg of Ganja worth Rs 4.20 lakh. The accused was identified as Chandali Bashir Ahmed Ansari (45) a resident of Haveli in Pune, who has been arrested, said the official. In another swoop, ANC sleuths intercepted a person standing at a bus stop near the Mithibai College in Vile Parle West. A search resulted in the seizure of 250 grams of Mephedrone worth Rs 1 lakh, concealed in a black handbag the suspect was carrying. He has been identified as Heron Ashok Ray (30), a lyricist in Vile Parle. Meanwhile, the NCB interrogated Jaya Shah, a celebrity talent manager for the second day on Tuesday. She used to be a talent manager of Sushant Singh Rajput. The NCB is now planning to summon actors Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, Rakul Preet Singh and Deepika Padukone and designer Simone Khambatta among others. On the other hand after actor-model Diya Mirza's name figured, she came out with a vehement denial. "I would like to strongly refute and categorically deny this news as being false, baseless and with mala fide intentions. I have never procured or consumed any narcotic or contraband substances of any form in my life. I intend to pursue the full extent of legal remedies available to me as a law abiding citizen of India. Thanks to my supporters for standing by me,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-seize-drugs-to-the-tune-of-rs-14-lakh-891413.html
22-09-2020||West||Building crash survivor joins rescue work on leaving hospital||A day after being pulled out alive from the debris of a crashed building in Bhiwandi town, a man quickly got back on his feet and joined rescuers at the site on Tuesday, driven by zeal to help those in distress. Khalid Abdul Khan (42) was among 25 persons who were rescued from the debris of the building by personnel of the Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF). The 43-year-old 'Jilani' building in Bhiwandi town of Thane district collapsed at 3.40 am on Monday. So far, 25 people have been killed in the crash, police said. The dead include 11 children aged between two to 11 years, an official said. Khan was one of the occupants of the ill-fated three- storey building. He was pulled out alive by a TDRF team after about 18 hours and given first aid at a hospital. After leaving the hospital, on Tuesday, much to surprise of people, he came to the crash site and was seen assisting the TDRF team in rescue and relief operation. Khan joined the TDRF team in clearing the debris and looking for survivors. Talking to the media, Khan said while trapped under the rubble, he heard the voice of a TDRF team member who was looking for survivors and calling out for them. The voice was of rescuer Akshay Patil. Khan said on hearing the voice, he got confidence that he will be saved. "It was as if God had sent him to save me. TDRF members were like 'farishte' (angels) sent by God," Khan said, profusely praising rescuers for their dedication. A force like TDRF is the need of the hour and the Maharashtra government should create many more such units, he said. When TDRF members, who were the first to reach the scene, saved the life of a child, those present at the spot clapped and appreciated their work. The TDRF, which comes under the Thane Municipal Corporation's Disaster Control Cell, was formed to deal with fallout of calamities. The TDRF was formed in 2018 with 12 jawans and the force now has 33 personnel. It was seen in action when the Mahalaxmi Express train had got stranded in floods on outskirts of Mumbai in July 2019. The force has also taken part in several relief and rescue operations during floods and in aftermath of building collapses in Thane district and nearby areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/building-crash-survivor-joins-rescue-work-on-leaving-hospital-891562.html
