23-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||No time line fixed for starting Nagamagala Naturopathy Institute: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan has informed Rajya Sabha that though the Central Government keen on functional of Naturopathy Post Graduate Institute at Nagamangla, Karnataka, no timeline is finalised for completion of the project. In his written reply to BJP Rajya Sabha member K C Ramamurthy, the Minister said the Government is implementing a project to set up one Naturopathy Post GraduateInstitute at Nagamangla, Karnataka. The college will be an institute of the Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (CCRYN), New Delhi, an Autonomous Body under the Ministry of AYUSH. The National Project Construction Corporation (NPCC) is the Project Management Company for this project. The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between CCRYN andNPCC for the 1st phase of construction was initiated on March 31 2009. The 1st phase was completed in the year 2012. The second phase of construction was initiated on 30 August 2016. The expected date of completion of the 2nd phase was June 2019. A total sum of Rs.59.67 crore was allocated for this project and Rs. 56.35 crore has been released so far. The 2nd phase of construction has been completed. The delay in construction work happened due to non-availability of funds under Capital Heads with CCRYN in Financial Year 2019-20 and the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. "However, it is a priority of this Ministry is to make the institute functional as early as possible. No timelines have been finalised for the completion of the project and commencement of admissions," Harsh Vardhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-time-line-fixed-for-starting-nagamagala-naturopathy-institute-harsh-vardhan-891833.html
23-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||This Belagavi village is set for colourful makeover||Yarmal village on the outskirts of Belagavi is all set to go colourful. Perhaps it will be the first village in the country with painted roofs, almost uniform, with messages and graffiti on the walls. The village is located in Belagavi South Assembly Constituency represented by MLA Abhay Patil. During his stint as the MLA of erstwhile Bagewadi Assembly Constituency from 2004 to 2008, Patil had made two villages on the northern end and southern end of the constituency as model villages wherein all houses wore same exterior colour, had wide roads. The local residents too had joined hands with the government in beautifying the villages. After delimitation of Assembly constituencies, Patil shifted to Belagavi South Assembly constituency and was elected to the Assembly in the 2008 and 2018 elections. Patil held a meeting with the residents of Yarmal recently and obtained their consent to give a modern look to the village. He explained to them about the new look of the village and works to be completed in six months. Yarmal village already has 100% open drain. Concrete roads are being laid at a cost of Rs 1.50 crore from the MLA funds. The work on laying water supply pipes and rainwater harvesting system is in progress. The MLA said that every house in the village will have a RWH facility. Financial assistance of Rs 10,000 is being provided to the farmers who offer to level their lands, Patil added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-belagavi-village-is-set-for-colourful-makeover-891964.html
23-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||ASHA workers call off strike after government assures July wages; to meet CM on Friday||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) called off their strike on Wednesday after the government promised to release the wages for the month of July soon and assured a meeting of ASHA representatives with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday. More than 500 ASHAs protested at Freedom Park today. The ASHA Workers' Union shared videos from various districts where the police bundled them in busses to prevent them from coming to Bengaluru from other districts. It has been nine months since ASHA workers demanded Rs. 12,000 as monthly honorarium. They suspended their services to go on a 20-day strike across the state from July 10 to the July 29. K Somashekar Yadgiri, President of the ASHA Union, said, "Today the state government have inflicted their force upon ASHA workers in more than 10 districts of the State in a heinous attempt to try and stop them from participating in the protest. Some ASHA workers were even sent back by force. Is this the way a government behaves?" D Nagalaskhmi, State Secretary of the ASHA Union said, "Shockingly, the government has resorted force by restricting ASHAs from coming here, which is utterly condemnable." Dr Rajkumar, State Deputy Director, Maternal Health, and Dr Omprakash Patil, Director, Health Department, arrived at the protest spot and ensured that the pending wages including the incentives for Covid-19 will be deposited within 15 days. The ASHA Workers' Union President and Secretary met Health Minister B Sriramulu in the evening who assured them of arranging a meeting with the CM this Friday for further decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/asha-workers-call-off-strike-after-government-assures-july-wages-to-meet-cm-on-friday-891994.html
23-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Officials appointed for Dasara sub-committees||Deputy Commissioner, also Special Officer for Mysuru Dasara, has appointed Deputy Special Officers, working president and secretaries for six Dasara Sub-committees, constituted to make arrangements for the celebration. Dasara will commence on October 17 and will conclude on October 27. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the state government has decided for a simple Dasara. It will be inaugurated by Covid warriors. Deputy Commissioner B Sharat has nominated officers for six sub-committees. Additional Deputy Commissioner B S Manjunathaswamy is deputy special officer for ‘Welcome and Invite’ Sub-committee, Additional Commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) N M Shashi Kumar is working president and MCC Zone 8 Assistant Commissioner Kuberappa is secretary of the committee. For Illumination sub-committee, Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation Managing Director Manohar Bevinamarada is deputy special officer and Cesc Superintendent Engineer Munigopala Raju and Executive Engineer B K Yogesh are working president and secretary. For Procession sub-committee, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta is deputy special officer, Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda is working president and Assistant Commissioner of Police M N Shashidar is secretary. For Cultural Dasara, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer D Bharati is deputy special officer, Rangayana Joint Director Mallikarjunaswamy is working president and Kannada and Culture Assistant Director Chennappa and Mysuru Palace Board Deputy Director T S Subramanya are secretaries. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde is deputy special officer for ‘Clean and Arrangement’ sub-committee. MCC Health officers Dr Jayanth and Dr D G Nagaraju are working president and secretary, respectively. For Tableaux sub-committee, ZP Chief Planning Officer Pandey is deputy special officer, Joint Director for Industries and Commerce D K Lingaraju is working president and in-charge Deputy Director, Khadi and Village Industries Department, L Meghala is secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/officials-appointed-for-dasara-sub-committees-892036.html
23-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||89-year-old flutist beats Covid-19||A 89-year-old man, also a flutist, has successfully recovered from Covid-19. C S Nagaraj of Chilkunda, Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district, was suffering from fever in the first week of September and thus, he was admitted to Hunsur Hospital, where he tested positive. The doctors shifted him to Covid Hospital in Mysuru city on September 10. District Surgeon Dr Rajeshwari said, “It is a proud moment for medical professionals as it is not easy to take care of the elderly person, who was in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Nagaraj was discharged on September 22.” Even though Nagaraj was suffering from Parkinson’s disease, a disorder of the central nervous system that affects movement, often including tremors, the team successfully treated him. Dr Rajeshwari also appreciated Nagaraj’s son Venkatesh Murthy for being with his father in the hospital. In many cases, family members decline to be with the patient. But, Murthy took care of his father well. A 66-year-old doctor, also a Covid warrior, died of Covid infection in a private hospital in Mysuru on Tuesday. Dr Venkatesh of Bokkalli in Nanjangud taluk, was working on contract basis at the urban healthcare center in Nanjangud town.  He tested positive for Covid-19, a few days back and was isolated at a private hospital in Mysuru city. Dr Venkatesh, along with his two sons and wife, was residing at Pragathi Layout in Nanjangud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/89-year-old-flutist-beats-covid-19-892038.html
23-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmers turn tech-savvy; online training receives good response||Online training classes, conducted by the District Agriculture Training Centre (DATC) at Naganahalli in Mysuru district, has evoked good response, with more than 2,200 members (1,250 farmers and 950 officers) participating, so far. Farmers of Mysuru district are turning tech-savvy and online training has become a new norm. After using Meghdoot Mobile application to access weather forecast, now they use mobile technology for attending online training classes. Online training, that was experimented by DATC, was an instant hit, right since it was introduced in May. G H Yogesh, Deputy Director of Agriculture, DATC, said that they experimented online training as it was difficult to hold regular training due to the difficulties in following social distancing and other norms during Covid times. “The training is being held not only for farmers, but also for extension officers. The classes are held separately for farmers and officers. So far, 38 online training classes have been held. Over 1,250 farmers and 950 extension officers have participated. The classes are held on Tuesdays and Fridays for farmers and Mondays and Thursdays for officers,” he added. More than 29 topics have been covered. Different techniques of soil and water conservation, safe rainwater disposal, rainwater harvesting structures and drainage line treatment like boulder-rubble check, soil fertility improvement technologies like green manuring were the major topics covered in online training, Yogesh said. The training classes was organised with an expenditure of Rs 15,000 towards purchase of necessary computer accessories such as web camera, head phone, networking and others. Farmers and officers of 19 districts were able to participate from all over Karnataka. The outreach range was 25 to 250 members. This also resulted in a significant reduction in cost of training, Yogesh explained. The interaction is held on Google Meet, which is an easy and comfortable platform for farmers. Sometimes the whole family listen to the training. At times, when there are technical problems in Android phones, the younger generation pitch in to help. Though it was a great relief for farmers during Covid times and the lockdown, the classes are still held. The farmers get tips and advise in the comforts of their homes. Speaking to DH, Anand Odeyar, a participant of the online training, said that the training conducted by DATC helped the farming community in a lot of ways. Anand cultivates paddy and vegetables in their farm in Gandhigrama, Nanjangud taluk. “The officials guided me in selecting quality seeds, about new types of pests attacking paddy, and the ways to protect. Earlier, we had leased our land. Overuse of urea and pesticides had affected soil fertility. Now, we are into organic farming. The online training is of great help as we get timely inputs and advise from experts,” he added. M R Hamsaveni, Deputy Director of Agriculture department, Honnali sub-division, Davangere district, who underwent online training, said, “The training was of great help for extension officers, to update with technical details. This helps in implementing the technology and increases competency level.” “I recommend this to other officials and almost 85% of them are undergoing training. The online training helped me in saving time on journey to Mysuru. At the same time, I could concentrate on office work,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-turn-tech-savvy-online-training-receives-good-response-892039.html
23-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri expunges ‘unparliamentary’ Kannada word||Pandemonium prevailed in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday after senior Congress leader KR Ramesh Kumar hurled a Kannada word that Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri expunged for being “unparliamentary”. Kumar, a former Speaker, uttered the word when he grew impatient during Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar’s reply on the Covid-19 debate. Sudhakar was explaining the process that was involved in the procurement of PPE kits during the pandemic amid allegations that the government paid more than necessary for them. “He is justifying the variation in prices at which (PPE kits) were procured. He is saying they were first procured for about Rs 300 after which the cost went up and there were various committees. These committees had great people. Just because great people did xxxxx work, is that great work?” Kumar said, enraging Sudhakar and other BJP members. Objecting to the word, RDPR Minister KS Eshwarappa asked Kumar to apologize. “Is it okay if I say Ramesh Kumar is xxxxx?” he said. “That’s a word used by rowdy elements. We beat our kids if they use that word at home.” Amid the din, Speaker Kageri directed his staff to check the rule book on whether the word used by Kumar was parliamentary or unparliamentary. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said the word used by Kumar was wrong. “There are parliamentary words that can cause hurt. But as a senior member, you shouldn’t have used that word. Can we say, what you did when you were the Speaker was xxxxx?” Savadi said. Kumar asked Savadi to give him a better Kannada word as “my vocabulary isn’t that great.” Kumar said that it was up to Kageri to decide if the word he used was unparliamentary. “I will apologize if it was unparliamentary. I’m not justifying it. I said that emotionally,” he said. “What I was saying was that Sudhakar is going on justifying the price variation. All we want to know is, did the government pay more during procurement? Instead, our patience is being put to test,” he said, urging the BJP members to give him a more suitable word that he can use. Finally, Kageri ruled that the word was ‘unparliamentary’. “We have a book of words, but I’m unable to immediately find this word in it. Earlier, the term ‘halkat nan maga’ was used here that was expunged. The word used now will henceforth be unparliamentary and will be expunged,” Kageri said, after which Kumar apologized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-speaker-vishweshwar-hegde-kageri-expunges-unparliamentary-kannada-word-891916.html
23-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Nehru statue in Vidhana Soudha to be relocated soon: BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday informed the Legislative Council that former PM Jawaharlal Nehru’s statue will be installed in a suitable spot in front of Vidhana Soudha. The statue was relocated to the North-West corner of Vidhana Soudha owing to metro rail construction work. The statue was earlier located in the lawn near the South-East entrance of Vidhana Soudha, where at present, the metro rail entrance is situated. The CM's assurance followed a ruckus in the Council over the Nehru statue, with opposition leaders demanding its reinstallation before November 14, which is Nehru’s birthday. "Since the metro work is completed now and the lawn cultivated again, the government will find a suitable spot here and reinstall the statue," Yediyurappa said in a written response. The debate began with Congress MLC K Govindaraj raising the question. "The statue was removed from the premises five years ago because of metro rail works. However, even after the work is completed, the statue has not been relocated. A letter was written to the then Chief Minister in this regard in 2017 itself. But until now, no action has been taken. It is the government's duty to give the respect due for our national leaders," he said. Govindaraj was joined by other MLCs who demanded an immediate response from the government on when the statue would be reinstalled. The ruckus began when ruling party leader Kota Sreenivasa Poojary said the government would "look into the matter". Taking objection to this, the legislators said the ruling party leader's response was just a way of stalling the matter and demanded an immediate response from the government on whether or not it was interested in the installation of the Nehru statue. The ruling party members later assured that they had “the utmost respect” for Nehru and his contributions to building the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/nehru-statue-in-vidhana-soudha-to-be-relocated-soon-bs-yediyurappa-891949.html
23-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||BS Yediyurappa to continue as Karnataka CM : Somanna||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister for the entire term, said Housing Minister V Somanna on Wednesday. "Yediyurappa is giving good administration in the state. The BJP central leaders are also happy with his works. There is no question of changing him," Somanna told reporters here. Somanna was in Delhi to meet Rural Development Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to seek more houses under the central scheme to rural beneficiaries. To a question on several state leaders' unhappiness over the CM's style of functioning, Somanna said that whatever the differences in the party, the top leaders would resolve this. On corruption charges against family members of Yediyurappa, he stated, "there is no truth in it. Earlier also there were several allegations against children of Chief Ministers. Nothing has come out from it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bs-yediyurappa-to-continue-as-karnataka-cm-somanna-891960.html
23-09-2020||National||Odisha reports 4,189 new Covid-19 cases, 11 fresh fatalities||Odisha's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,88,311 on Tuesday as 4,189 more people tested positive for the infection, while 11 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 721, a health official said. He said that 3,834 patients also recovered from the disease, taking the number of cured people so far to 1,53,213 which is 81.36 per cent of the caseload. As many as 2,453 new cases were reported in quarantine centres, while 1,736 people tested positive for the infection during contact tracing, he said. Khurda district, under which Bhubaneswar falls, reported the highest number of new cases at 712, followed by Cuttack (586), Puri (265) and Sundergarh (201), the official said. Of the fresh fatalities, two each were reported from Balasore, Bolangir, Ganjam and Malkangiri districts and one each in Bhadrak, Khurda and Puri, he said. Ganjam district has so far reported the highest number of coronavirus deaths at 218, followed by Khurda (106) and Cuttack (59), the official said. Fifty-three Covid-19 patients have died due to other ailments so far, he said. Odisha now has 34,324 active cases. The state has so far tested over 28.60 lakh samples for Covid-19, including 45,676 on Monday. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik congratulated nonagenarians Satchidananda Mohanty and Dhirendranath Das on winning the battle against Covid-19. "Their win shall enthuse Covid Warriors and boost morale of Covid-19 patients to stay strong to defeat Coronavirus," Patnaik said in a statement. The chief minister also expressed happiness that Ganjam saw a turnaround from a high caseload district to a model one with robust healthcare, door-to-door surveillance and decentralised Covid-19 management. "Intensive testing, tracking and treatment helped bend the curve downward," he said. The state government asked all the Covid-19 facilities, both government and private, to set up round the clock help desks to provide health reports of coronavirus patients undergoing treatment to their relatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-reports-4189-new-covid-19-cases-11-fresh-fatalities-891607.html
23-09-2020||National||Vaishno Devi devotees to have live 'darshan' through mobile app||Devotees of the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Trikuta hills of Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district will soon have live 'darshan' of the cave shrine through its mobile app, officials said. The app, set to be launched on October 17, the first day of Navratri, would also have a feature to conduct live 'hawan', they said. "Although the coronavirus outbreak briefly halted the large gathering at religious places, the board is devising new methods so that devotees unable to take nearly 12 km trek to the cave and can still have darshan and blessings while sitting at home," a senior official of the board said.  He said that this would be in continuance to the formal launch of home delivery of Mata Vaishno Devi pooja prasad launched by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday. Pertinently, devotees can book the pooja prasad through the board's website, which is then dispatched by the board to the devotees across the country through speed post for which the board has entered into an agreement with the postal department. This has been done on the directions of the Lt governor for optimum use of technological interventions to expand the reach. The Chief Executive Officer of the Board, Ramesh Kumar, said, currently, 'aarti' (daily ritual of worship) is being live-streamed on a religious TV channel. "However, the mobile app would provide an opportunity to the worshippers across the globe to have individual experience of godliness and bliss. Mobile App also provide flexibility so devotees will not miss the 'Amrit Vela' even if they are on the move," Kumar said, adding that the new app for live 'darshan' and 'hawan' will work on both 'Android' and 'iOS' operating systems. Since the inception of the Shrine Board in 1986, there has been a steadfast increase in the pilgrims visit (yatra) to the holy shrine, however, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it witnessed a significant decline this year.  The yatra was resumed on August 16 initially with a ceiling of 5,000 pilgrims per day with the safety procedures. Personal protective equipment kits have been provided to the Shrine Board employees and standard operating procedures have been put in place to keep the infection under check.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaishno-devi-devotees-to-have-live-darshan-through-mobile-app-891626.html
23-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 23||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 56 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  56,99,802 as of September 23 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  90,964  No. of people discharged: 4,587,613 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-23-891632.html
23-09-2020||National||Farmers give Mahindra (and maybe Modi) a sliver of hope||By Anurag Kotoky and Carol Massar Indian conglomerate Mahindra Group said sales of farm equipment are much better than expected as the country’s vast hinterland bounces back from lockdown, despite the coronavirus running rampant. Tractor sales jumped 69% in August from a year earlier, Mahindra’s head of finance, Anish Shah, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. India’s farm equipment sales have been improving since a barren April, when all sorts of manufacturers across the country were forced to halt production and the top carmakers didn’t report any vehicle sales. “Things have come back actually very well -- much better than what we expected,” said Shah, who is set to become the conglomerate’s chief executive officer next year. India is reporting tens of thousands of new Covid-19 infections a day and cases now total about 5.5 million, making it one of the hardest hit places in the world. That’s having a major impact on South Asia’s biggest economy, which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects to contract by almost 15% this year. Others have similarly bleak forecasts as the pandemic restricts business activity and consumption. Gross domestic product plunged a record 23.9% in April-June. Rural boost Mahindra’s farm equipment sales at least point to some sign of life in rural India, where 70% of the population live, and could be an encouraging sign for Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he prises the economy open again. Agriculture is a critical industry and was largely exempt from the nationwide lockdown, while decent rainfall this year has also helped farmers and their crops. In addition to farm equipment, Shah said Mahindra’s information technology unit has performed well, with its order book reaching a three-year high. Even the group’s vacation business, which operates Club Mahindra Holidays, is seeing “huge demand.” Returning to normal The outlook for the automobile business isn’t too bright, though. Mahindra is in talks with an investor to sell a stake in Ssangyong Motor Co., as the group reevaluates how it allocates money, Shah said. Mahindra owns about 75% of the South Korean car company. HAAH Automotive has likely submitted a plan to acquire a substantial interest in Ssangyong for $258 million, the Economic Times reported last week, citing a person familiar with the matter. Shah didn’t identify the potential investor. India was already going through its worst-ever slump in auto sales before the pandemic. While many companies, including Mahindra, reported improvements in recent months, the growth was from a weak base last year, when half a million workers lost jobs in the industry. “It will take about three to six months to get anywhere close to normal, and getting back to normal may actually take even longer than that,” Shah said, adding that smaller companies are more at risk across sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-give-mahindra-and-maybe-modi-a-sliver-of-hope-891679.html
23-09-2020||National||Rajya Sabha passes Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill||Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed a bill that bars transfer of foreign funds from one NGO to another, prohibits public servants from taking donations from abroad and mandating Aadhaar for registration, amid concerns raised by the civil society and some parties. With this, the changes made in the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act will go to the President for his assent. The Lok Sabha had passed the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill on Monday while the Rajya Sabha cleared it in the absence of Opposition MPs who have boycotted the session from Monday demanding revocation of suspension of eight MPs. Replying to the 50-minute debate, Minister of State for Home Nityananda Rai said the amendments were not aimed at any NGO but an effort to maintain transparency. The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020 is a law for national and internal security and the main motive is to ensure that foreign funds do not dominate the political and social discourse in the country. "Experience says that many organisations attempted to hide their identity and were successful in doing that. The reason behind this is that they had no fear because their identity was not established completely. So Aadhaar has been brought in to establish their identity," he said. Participating in the debate, BJP's Arun Singh said NGOs receiving foreign funds were indulging in misdoings and there was a need to curb it. He alleged that some NGOs were misusing foreign funds for "buying chocolates, big vehicles and renting big houses" instead of using it for the upliftment of the poor while emphasising that the new amendments provided for verifying the utilisation of the funds. "Some NGOs are using such funds for forced conversions, like some NGOs in Kerala," he alleged. AIADMK MP S Balasubramoniyam said the Bill has "good and bad" provisions and the government should not use the bill to target political opponents or religious minorities. "The government should assure us this will not happen that political opponents won't be targeted. There may be some bad NGOs, but there are hundreds of genuine NGOs doing good work. Stop bulldozing NGOs who are doing good work," he said. He also raised concerns about the lowering the ceiling on administrative expenses to 20% of the foreign funds, saying it could have an impact on the working of NGOs involved in Covid-19 related work. Nominated MP Swapandas Gupta demanded a White Paper on the working of NGOs saying it would make it clear who is doing genuine work and help the government counter charges raised at international level that it is victimising the NGOs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passes-foreign-contribution-regulation-amendment-bill-891693.html
23-09-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India crosses 56-lakh mark with 83,347 new infections||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 56 lakh with 83,347 infections being reported in a day, while over 45 lakh people have recovered from the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The national recovery rate stands at 81.25 per cent. The coronavirus caseload surged to 56,46,010, while the death toll climbed to 90,020 with 1,085 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries surged to 45,87,613 in the country so far.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has dropped to 1.59 per cent. There are 9,68,377 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 17.15 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 6,62,79,462 samples have been tested up to September 22 with 9,53,683 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-crosses-56-lakh-mark-with-83347-new-infections-891698.html
23-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 56-lakh mark with 83,347 new cases; death toll tops 90,000||India's Covid-19 caseload went past 56 lakh with 83,347 infections being reported in a day, while over 45 lakh people have recuperated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The national recovery rate stands at 81.25 per cent. The coronavirus caseload surged to 56,46,010, while the death toll climbed to 90,020 with 1,085 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries have surged to 45,87,613 in the country so far.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has dropped to 1.59 per cent. There are 9,68,377 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 17.15  per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and and it went past  50 lakh on September 16. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 6,62,79,462 samples have been tested up to September 22 with 9,53,683 samples being tested on Tuesday.  The 1,085 new deaths include 392 from Maharashtra, 83 from Karnataka, 77 from Uttar Pradesh, 76 from Tamil Nadu, 66 from Punjab,  62 from West Bengal, 51 from Andhra Pradesh and 37 from Delhi. A total of 90,020 deaths have been reported so far in the country includes 33,407 from Maharashtra followed by 8,947 from Tamil Nadu, 8,228 from Karnataka, 5,461 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,212 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,051 from Delhi, 4,483 from West Bengal, 3,352 from Gujarat, 2,926 from Punjab and 2,035 from Madhya Pradesh.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its  website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-56-lakh-mark-with-83347-new-cases-death-toll-tops-90000-891705.html
23-09-2020||National||Rajya Sabha bids farewell to 11 retiring members||Rajya Sabha on Wednesday bid farewell to 11 of its members who will retire in November this year. When the House met, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu mentioned that 11 MPs from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will be retiring in November. They include Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav, BSP's Veer Singh and Raj Babbar of Congress. Others who will retire are: Javed Ali Khan (SP), P L Punia (Congress), Rajaram (BSP), Neeraj Shekhar (BJP), Arun Singh (BJP), Ravi Prakash Verma (SP) and Chandrapal Singh Yadav (SP). Naidu said some of the members will return to the House after re-election. The session that started on September 14 was to continue till October 1. Naidu asked retiring members if they wanted to speak. None of the SP, BSP and Congress members were present in the House because of the opposition boycott of the proceedings against the suspension of eight MPs. Neeraj Shekhar, who last year switched over from SP to BJP, said he has been fortunate to have been first elected to Lok Sabha and then to Rajya Sabha. "As a kid, I used to come to Parliament House with my father (former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar) and we used to play in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha... There wasn't much security in those days. Since then, I aspired to become an MP," he said. Stating that bringing legislations that will change the future of children should be a priority, he said he prays for a clean, educated, and strong country. "We will be missing you and other members retiring in November," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-bids-farewell-to-11-retiring-members-891719.html
23-09-2020||National||Parliament passes Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill||Parliament on Wednesday passed a Bill that seeks to provide a legal framework for bilateral netting of qualified financial contracts. Lok Sabha had passed the bill on Sunday. The legislation allows for the enforcement of netting for qualified financial contracts. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman termed the Bill as critical for financial stability in the country and said it brings in a firm legal basis for bilateral netting for two counterparties. Sitharaman said, "It is just the bilateral contracts which do not have any firm legal basis. Value of bilateral derivative contracts is estimated by Clearing Corporation of India to be Rs. 56,33,257 crore as of March 2018." Bilateral contracts constitute 40 per cent of total financial contracts while multilateral contracts constitute 60 per cent, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bilateral-netting-of-qualified-financial-contracts-bill-891731.html
23-09-2020||National||SSR death case: I am innocent, being subjected to witch-hunt, Rhea Chakraborty says in bail plea||Actress Rhea Chakraborty, arrested in a drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, has said in her bail plea filed in the Bombay High Court that she is innocent and NCB is "deliberately" trying to invoke stringent charges against her and her family. She also said that she has been subjected to a "witch-hunt". In her bail application filed in the HC on Tuesday, Chakraborty said she is just 28 years of age, and besides the probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), she has been subjected to three more investigations by police and central agencies, and a "simultaneous media trial". These probes refer to the ones conducted into Rajput's death by the Mumbai Police, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Chakraborty said all of this has taken a "severe toll on her mental health and well being". Any further custody will worsen her mental health, she said in her plea filed through her counsel Satish Maneshinde. Her bail plea was scheduled to be heard by a single bench presided over by Justice Sarang Kotwal on Wednesday. However, since the High Court suspended the day's hearings owing to heavy rains in the city, the plea is likely to be heard on Thursday. Chakraborty further said in her plea that Rajput had been in the habit of consuming drugs, particularly, "ganja" since even before she got into a relationship with him. While she would sometimes procure drugs for him in "small quantities", and would also "occasionally pay for them herself," she was in no way a part of any drug syndicate. She also said Rajput was the only one who was consuming the said drugs. "The applicant (Chakraborty) is innocent and has not committed any crime whatsoever," the plea said. She also said in her plea that she has been subjected to a "witch-hunt," and after the CBI and the ED failed to gather any evidence against her, the NCB was "brought in to somehow implicate her and her family". Chakraborty has been booked by the NCB on several charges, including financing illicit trafficking of drugs under Section 27-A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act. Section-27 A brings along a bar on the grant of bail to an accused. The actor said she has been wrongly booked under the NDPS Act Section 27-A. Besides, since no drugs were seized from her possession and since the NCB has managed to seize only 59 grams of drugs from all accused persons, the bar on grant of bail cannot be applied to her, she said in the plea. The actress said a bar on grant of bail can come into play only if the drugs seized are in commercial quantities. Last week, a similar argument was made by lawyers of Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant, co-accused in the case, before a bench of Justice Kotwal. Justice Kotwal had then pointed out that a plain reading of the NDPS Act showed Section 27-A could be imposed irrespective of the quantum of drugs recovered by the NCB. He had, however, directed Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who represent the NCB in the high court, to clarify the same on September 29, the next date of hearing on the bail pleas of Miranda and others. Chakraborty said some others accused in the case had faced identical allegations, but they had not been booked under the stringent Section 27-A. She also said that at best, she can be accused of having procured drugs in small amounts for her boyfriend. However, she was trying her best to wean Rajput off his habit of consuming drugs, the actress said. Besides, if Rajput was alive today, he would have been charged merely for consumption of drugs and would have invited a maximum sentence of just one year, while she has been charged under sections imposing a maximum sentence of up to 20 years, Chakraborty said in the plea. On a similar argument last week on the other pleas, Justice Kotwal pointed out that the NDPS Act adopts an "empathetic approach" towards the drug addict with view towards his rehabilitation. However, it aims at ending all illicit trafficking of drugs and therefore, carries stringent punishment for those involved in procurement, financing and production of drugs. Earlier this month,a special NDPS court in the city rejected the bail pleas of the actress and her brother Showik Chakraborty, saying if let out on bail, they might tamper with the evidence. The actress is currently lodged in the Byculla women's prison in the city. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his home in suburban Bandra on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssr-death-case-i-am-innocent-being-subjected-to-witch-hunt-rhea-chakraborty-says-in-bail-plea-891754.html
23-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tributes to Hindi poet Ramdhari Dinkar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tributes to legendary Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar on his birth anniversary, saying his timeless poems will continue to inspire all citizens.  "Humble tributes to 'rashtra kavi' Ramdhari Singh Dinkar ji on his birth anniversary. His timeless poems will continue to inspire not only literature-lovers but all countrymen," Modi tweeted in Hindi.  Born at Simariya in Bihar in 1908, Dinkar's nationalistic poetry was considered inspirational during the freedom struggle, and his work remained a source of motivation for politicians and others, including during the movement against Emergency.  Modi has often cited Dinkar's poetry.  The three-time Rajya Sabha member died in 1974.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tributes-to-hindi-poet-ramdhari-dinkar-891790.html
23-09-2020||National||Fake news, rumours used to label 2008 Batla House encounter staged: Ex-IPS officer Karnal Singh||Fake news and "street rumours" were picked up by a section of politicians, activists and media to paint the 2008 Batla House encounter of IM terrorists as staged, retired IPS officer and the then chief of the Delhi Police special cell Karnal Singh has said. The 1984-batch officer of the Union Territories cadre has come out with a book -- Batla House: An Encounter that Shook the Nation -- on the police operation on September 19, 2008, at house number L-18 in the Batla House locality of Jamia Nagar in south Delhi. The book has been published by Rupa Publications. The officer was spearheading a probe into the 2008 Delhi blasts as the head or joint commissioner of police of the elite special cell that was raised specifically to undertake counterterrorism operations. Leads from the blast probe led the special cell to Batla House where Indian Mujahideen terrorists were holed-up. A gunbattle broke between the policemen, who went for reconnaissance, and the terrorists in which special cell Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma lost his life, while two terrorists were eliminated. Singh, who retired in 2018 as the Director of the Enforcement Directorate, spoke to PTI on the operation, seen as one of the most politicised police encounters of the country. "There was a perception built around the Batla House encounter by disseminating fake news,” Singh said. “Many politicians, activists and media houses picked up street rumours without any fact-checking." "For example, some alleged that Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma died due to three bullets fired at his back by his teammates and they also alleged that the terrorist did not fire at all. The post-mortem report clearly stated that Mohan had got two bullet injuries from front and not back," he said. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences conducted the post-mortem of the two terrorists also and collected their hand wash and sent it to the forensic science laboratory for dermal nitrate test to conclude if they had fired or not, Singh said. "The test for the terrorists came out to be positive indicating clearly that both the terrorists had fired on the police team," he said. "Fake news circulation did create an obstacle but only for a short while. All the facts, evidences and investigations proved the authenticity of the encounter." "This case has been through multiple scrutiny from diverse and independent agencies and the truth has stood strong through the test of time, patience and adverse perceptions. Our turning point was when a few people who had earlier believed in fake news were open to factual accounts," the officer said, replying to a question on the upheavals they faced after the encounter. Singh, who also headed the Financial Intelligence Unit of the country for a brief period, said media reportage of sensitive investigations is a very responsible job. "The communication between the investigating agencies and the media about the ongoing investigation is a very delicate issue...transparent communication has to be followed with responsibility and accountability towards the nation and its citizens," he said. Asked about the motivation of the IM terrorists to perpetrate multiple blasts in the country, Singh said their probe found the terrorists were inspired by Osama bin Laden and that they would talk about religion at length. "Through the evidence we found on their electronic devices, we know that they were inspired by Osama Bin Laden's speeches. We found presentations, motivational songs and videos calling out to more people to join their mission." "There were photographs of bombs placed in the shape of IM. We learnt that most of them were introduced to IM through their friends or acquaintances," he said. They (the IM terrorists) would discuss religion at length. Over time, they were radicalised and recruited through the belief that they had to avenge the alleged atrocities on Muslims by the rest of the world, Singh said. He added that "a few IM terrorists escaped to Pakistan and Dubai after the Batla House encounter." "There is no information about them if they are alive or dead.” “Terror-related investigations are difficult and intricate as pieces of evidence are not easily available and connecting each dot takes a tremendous amount of work by the entire team." "The toughest thing to do is to find that one definitive lead that unravels the tracks which are meticulously covered by the terrorists. We could find that lead due to relentless investigative work done by my team, cooperation and knowledge sharing with Gujarat Police, Mumbai Police, Intelligence Bureau and testimonies of two eyewitnesses of the bomb blasts," he said. He said the family members of the policemen, especially those who work in units like special cell, make huge personal sacrifices and contribution so that they are able to "bring their best" to work every day. The officer said there should be a political consensus in the country to deal with internal security and terrorism, and guidelines should be framed for conduct of every person during such a situation. "There should be guidelines for security and investigative agencies, citizens, politicians and media persons that highlight the roles and responsibilities which need to be adhered to during an active investigation and after it is concluded. The book details as to why the police team that raided Batla House did not wear bullet proof jackets and also mentions how the then prime minister Manmohan Singh praised Singh and his team for doing a good job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-news-rumours-used-to-label-2008-batla-house-encounter-staged-ex-ips-officer-karnal-singh-891800.html
23-09-2020||National||SC notice to Delhi Assembly's Secy on plea against summons to Facebook VP Ajit Mohan||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Delhi Assembly Secretary on a plea by Facebook India against summons issued to its Vice President Ajit Mohan for alleged complicity of the social media giant into Delhi riots in February this year. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for Delhi Assembly's Peace and Harmony Committee, submitted before a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul that no coercive action would be taken till the court decides the matter. He told the bench, also comprising Justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, that the notice was issued to the Facebook official as a witness and not as an accused. Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Harish Salve said that there was a serious threat for breach of privilege. He said the right of petitioner under Article 19 and 21 of the Constitution would be violated if he is forced to speak. The fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression included the right not to speak, he said. He also pointed out that the public order and police were two subjects beyond the power and authority of Delhi Assembly. After noting the stand taken by Singhvi, the court asked him to clarify the position by filing an affidavit within a week on the petition jointly filed by Facebook Inc and Mohan. It posted the matter for consideration on October 15. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, also appearing for the petitioner, submitted that in a press conference on August 31, (by Committee chairman Raghav Chadha), it was alleged that incriminating materials were not taken down by the Facebook. If some materials were posted in violation of law, the matter could have been taken to court, he said. The Facebook official has been issued summons on September 18 by the panel for appearance on Wednesday. He was warned of breach of privilege, in case he failed to present himself before the committee. He was earlier issued summons on September 10. The action apparently came after the Wall Street Journal on August 14 published an article titled as “Facebook’s hate-speech rules collide with Indian Politics”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-delhi-assemblys-secy-on-plea-against-summons-to-facebook-vp-ajit-mohan-891806.html
23-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Daily recoveries exceed daily cases for 5th day||Daily Covid-19 recoveries have exceeded the new cases for the fifth consecutive day, the Union Health Ministry said Wednesday, as the total recoveries surged to 45,87,613 pushing the national recovery rate to 81.25 per cent. A total of 89,746 recoveries have been registered against 83,347 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, according to the Health Ministry data. With its focussed strategies and coordinated and proactive measures, India is reporting a steep increase in recoveries, the ministry said. "New recoveries in India have exceeded the new cases for the fifth consecutive day," it said, adding, "India has the highest recovered cases in the world. It contributes 19.5 per cent to the global recoveries." Seventeen states and UTs have more new recoveries than new cases. Seventy-five percent of the new recovered cases are being reported from 10 states and UTs - Maharashtra, Karnataka , Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Haryana. Maharashtra continues to lead with more than 20,000 new recovered patients and Andhra Pradesh contributed over 10,000 to the single-day recoveries, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 caseload has reached 56,46,010, and the death toll has climbed to 90,020 with 1,085 people succumbing to the disease in the past 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am Wednesday showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-daily-recoveries-exceed-daily-cases-for-5th-day-891815.html
23-09-2020||National||Notice issued to Sudarshan TV for violation of programme code: Centre tells SC||The Union government has issued notice to Sudarshan TV channel for violating the programme code over the telecast of a series showing alleged infiltration of Muslims into the UPSC, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday. A bench, presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud, deferred the hearing on a writ petition filed by advocate Firoz Iqbal Khan for granting a permanent injunction against the channel to October 5. Mehta submitted that a response has been sought from the channel by September 28. He asked the court to defer the hearing until then. On this, the bench pointed out that had it not intervened into the matter, all 10 episodes of the programme would have been run by now.  The top court had on September 15 restrained the TV channel, which had aired four out of the 10 episodes of the programme, saying that it made an insidious attempt to vilify Muslims as it propagated that they were "infiltrating" the civil services.  The news channel, for its part, had said that it had exercised investigative journalism for telecasting the programme “UPSC Jihad” being aired on one of their most important shows -- 'Bindas Bol'. It claimed to have prepared 10 episodes after collecting different material, including foreign fundings records to Zakat Foundation which supported Muslim candidates for civil services. The channel also claimed that it was very popular among the public. The court, subsequently, said that a pre-publication ban order is "extreme recourse" and is like a "nuclear weapon" and can "take it down to slippery slope". It, however, asked the channel to assuage apprehension on use of "stereotypes", "rants", "rhetorics" and "hurtful" denigration of an entire community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/notice-issued-to-sudarshan-tv-for-violation-of-programme-code-centre-tells-sc-891859.html
23-09-2020||National||SC asks Centre to clarify on modalities of refund to passengers, agents of air tickets booked during Covid-19 lockdown||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to clarify by Friday the modalities of refund of air tickets to be made to the passengers and travel agents in view of cancellation of flights during the coronavirus lockdown.    A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said that it is only concerned with the refund and non-refund of money for tickets booked during the lockdown period.    Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for NGO ‘Pravasi Legal Cell', said that the Director General Civil Aviation (DGCA) should also cover people for refund, who have booked flights on these carriers to come back to India like in the Gulf countries.    Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the DGCA, said that the government has taken a decision of refund keeping in mind the welfare of all and an appropriate solution has been worked out.  Mehta said that a holistic view has been taken keeping in mind the interests of passengers and the airlines and agreed to file a fresh affidavit in the matter. The court posted the case for hearing on September 25. The Centre has earlier told the court that people who have booked air tickets during the lockdown are entitled to immediate refunds. In case of tickets booked prior to the lockdown up to May 24, the refund would be governed by the credit shell and incentive scheme, the DGCA said. The Centre had earlier introduced an incentive scheme by which 0.5 per cent interest will accrue on the original fare lying in the credit shell from the date of cancellation of the flight till June 30, 2020. Beyond this period, the passenger can avail 0.75 per cent interest every month till March 31, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-clarify-on-modalities-of-refund-to-passengers-agents-of-air-tickets-booked-during-covid-19-lockdown-891866.html
23-09-2020||National||Indian expat to travel home after two decades; gets $204,195 waiver in overstay fines||An Indian expat in the UAE will finally be able to return home after two decades after he was granted a waiver of nearly Dh 750,000 ($204,195) in overstary fines, according to a media report. Thanavel Mathiazhaagan, 56, arrived in the UAE in 2000 through a recruitment agent on the promise of a job. The agent, who also took Mathiazhaagan's passport, later went missing and he had to illegally stay in the UAE to provide for his family in India by doing part-time jobs, the Gulf News reported. Mathiazhaagan, who hails from Tamil Nadu, sought help from two social workers in the UAE to return home during the Covid-19 pandemic. The only documents he possessed was his employment visa entry permit and a copy of the last page of his passport, the report said. A K Mahadevan and Chandra Prakash, who helped Mathiazhaagan get an emergency certificate through the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi, said he had failed to get identity clearance from India during the pandemic as there was a mismatch in his father's name in documents back home and that shown in his passport. Emergency certificate is a one-way travel document issued to Indians without a valid passport, to facilitate their return home, it said. The duo said they approached the Indian embassy and the local departments in Mathiazhaagan’s village to rectify the mistake and process his documents, it said. “Indian Ambassador to the UAE Pavan Kapoor took special interest in solving this case after the issue was taken up with him,” Prakash was quoted as saying by the Gulf News.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-expat-to-travel-home-after-two-decades-gets-204195-waiver-in-overstay-fines-891869.html
23-09-2020||National||14 states, UTs have higher tests per million, lower positivity than national average: Centre||India's total tests for detection of Covid-19 has reached over 6.6 crore and tests per million have risen to 48,028 as on date with the national cumulative positivity rate being recorded at 8.52 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The country's testing capacity has surged to more than 12 lakh tests daily. Up to September 22, a total of 6,62,79,462 samples have been tested with 9,53,683 samples being tested on Tuesday. Fourteen states and Union Territories, including Gujarat, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Assam, Haryana and Tripura, have demonstrated better Covid-19 response with higher tests per million and commensurate lower positivity rate than the national average, the ministry highlighted. "A high level of testing leads to early identification of positive cases. As evidence has revealed, eventually the positivity rate will fall. The national cumulative positivity rate is 8.52 per cent and tests per million stand at 48,028 today," it said. A total of 83,347 new infections have been reported in 24 hours, the ministry said, underscoring that 74 per cent of the new cases are concentrated in 10 states and Union Territories -- Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra alone has contributed more than 18,000 cases followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka with over 7,000 and 6,000 cases respectively, it said. Also, 1,085 deaths due to Covid-19 have been registered in a day with 10 states and UTs --Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Chhattisgarh -- accounting for 83 per cent of the new fatalities. Maharashtra reported 392 deaths followed by Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh with 83 and 77 deaths respectively. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 56,46,010 with 83,347 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 90,020 with 1,085 people succumbing to the disease in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am on Wednesday showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-states-uts-have-higher-tests-per-million-lower-positivity-than-national-average-centre-891872.html
23-09-2020||National||Sadhguru to talk about karma in new book||Spiritual teacher Sadhguru will come out with a book early next year in which he will seek to demystify karma and its many aspects. Titled "Karma: A Yogi's Guide to Creating Your Own Destiny", it will be published under Penguin Random House's literary imprint on mind, body and spirit, Penguin Ananda. This book is a deep dive into understanding karma and its consequences, albeit in a new perspective, which will give people the opportunity and awareness to navigate the course of their own destiny, the publishers said. Commenting on his upcoming book, Sadhguru says, "When I looked at the variety of misconceptions surrounding the word 'karma', I saw that it is one of the most misunderstood aspects of life. People need to see that karma is not just bondage, it can also become a process of liberation. This book has been conceived as a manual of this process." According to Vaishali Mathur, publisher (Indian language publishing) at Penguin Random House India, karma is a subject which needs a deeper level of understanding and accounts for much of the existential debate these days and who better than Sadhguru can provide that insight. Milee Ashwarya, Publisher (Ebury Publishing and Vintage Publishing) at Penguin Random House India, says Sadhguru has the ability to explain the most complex concepts simply and lucidly, and that is what makes his reach global and his impact long lasting. The book will be simultaneously launched in the US and India in early 2021. Sadhguru, a speaker and an opinion-maker, is also the founder of Isha Foundation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sadhguru-to-talk-about-karma-in-new-book-891892.html
23-09-2020||National||Historian Rana Safvi gets Yamin Hazarika award||Historian Rana Safvi has been conferred an award instituted in memory of Yamin Hazarika, the first woman from the Northeast to join the central police service. Safvi, who has published several books on culture, history, and monuments of India, was chosen for her "contribution to the syncretic culture of India". Hailing from Assam, Hazarika was selected for the NCT of Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli Police service (DANIPS) in 1977. She held the post of assistant commissioner of Police in Chanakyapuri (Delhi) and went on to become deputy commissioner of police (Crime against Women Cell) in the national capital. In the crucial period after the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, Hazarika was in-charge of three key police stations. In 1998, she was posted in Bosnia as part of the UN peacekeeping force. But her life was tragically cut short by destiny as she succumbed to cancer at the age of 43 in 1999. The ceremony was held online though Hazarika's daughter Huma presented the silver salver to Safvi in Delhi. Assam DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta was the guest of honour. He recalled the contribution of Hazarika and also spoke about her grit and determination. The award is given every year by a collective of women professionals since 2015. Previous winners are author Indrani Raimedhi, athlete Tayabun Nisha, actor Moloya Goswami, environmental activist Purnima Devi Barman and social activist Hasina Kharbhih.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/historian-rana-safvi-gets-yamin-hazarika-award-891896.html
23-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Parliament passes 3 key labour reform Bills; Eiffel tower evacuated after bomb threat||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Parliament approved three key labour reform Bills that will remove impediments for winding up of companies and allow firing of staff without government permission in firms with up to 300 workers; Police evacuated the Eiffel Tower in Paris after a bomb threat; Supreme Court directs a Delhi Legislative Assembly panel not to take coercive action against Facebook India VP and MD Ajit Mohan till October 15 in connection with a summon asking him to depose before it with regard to north east Delhi riots.  Here are the top news of today, Wednesday: September 23, 2020: Police evacuated the Eiffel Tower in Paris after a bomb threat on Wednesday. The armed police cordoned off the area after an anonymous phone call was made claiming explosives had been left at the landmark in the French capital, according to a report in the Daily Mail. Roads leading to the Eiffel Tower have been closed, said the report, adding that bomb disposal teams were searching the site while citing French media. Parliament approved three key labour reform Bills that will remove impediments for winding up of companies and allow firing of staff without government permission in firms with up to 300 workers. Amid boycott by Opposition parties, including Congress and Left, over the suspension of eight MPs, Rajya Sabha passed by voice vote the three remaining labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety. Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has acquired the rights for distribution of a single dose intranasal vaccine for Covid-19, presently being put to test. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited announced a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis for the novel chimp-adenovirus. As per the deal, Bharat Biotech owns the rights to distribute the vaccine in all markets except the USA, Japan, and Europe. The Supreme Court directed a Delhi Legislative Assembly panel not to take coercive action against Facebook India VP and MD Ajit Mohan till October 15 in connection with a summon asking him to depose before it with regard to northeast Delhi riots. The panel is probing the social media firm's role in spread of alleged hate speech. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-parliament-passes-3-key-labour-reform-bills-eiffel-tower-evacuated-after-bomb-threat-891897.html
23-09-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB summons Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, Rakul Preet Singh in drug probe||Taking the investigation further, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has issued summons to Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh. However, it is not yet clear when they have been asked to appear at the NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate in Nariman Point, where the federal anti-narcotics agency’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) is carrying out investigations into the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput case and larger Bollywood-drug mafia nexus. NCB’s Deputy Director (Operations) KPS Malhotra confirmed that the four actors have been issued summons. The names of the four actors figured during the series of  interrogation of various people including Sushant’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik Chakraborty, the dozen-odd drug peddlers, Jaya Saha among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-summons-deepika-padukone-sara-ali-khan-shraddha-kapoor-rakul-preet-singh-in-drug-probe-891898.html
23-09-2020||National||Justice for Gupteshwar Pandey, not Sushant Singh Rajput: Rhea’s lawyer||Hours after Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey took VRS and is set to join electoral politics, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi has reacted sharply saying that the police officer was pursuing an agenda to defame Maharashtra. Pandey had lashed out at the Uddhav Thackeray-government and Maharashtra police in his media interactions over the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The lawyer of actor-model Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, who are now under arrest of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for sourcing and purchasing drugs for the 34-year-old actor, too had hit out at the former IPS officer. “The request for VRS by (Bihar DGP) Guptehwar Pandey and granting VRS by Bihar government and Union government in 24 hours is as fast as the Bihar government’s transfer of FIR against Rhea Chakraborty to CBI and acceptance of it by Union Government. This is not justice for SSR but Justice for Gupteshwar Pandey ... Satymev Jayate,” Rhea’s counsel Satish Maneshinde said in a brief statement. Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut too hit out at Pandey. “The comments he (Gupteshwar Pandey) made on Mumbai police during the SSR investigation seems like a political agenda. Political parties were using him (to defame Maharashtra government),” he said. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson and General Secretary Sachin Sawant said: “Big dirty conspiracy of BJP to defame Maharashtra to reduce its national importance! Bihar DGP who was used in this being blatantly rewarded. His VRS says it all BJP had no sympathy for SSR but saw political opportunity to use his death for Bihar elections and now for new Film city.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-for-gupteshwar-pandey-not-sushant-singh-rajput-rhea-s-lawyer-891900.html
23-09-2020||National||Parliament passes Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020||A Bill for the inclusion of Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi in the list of official languages in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in addition to the existing Urdu and English got the nod of Parliament with the Rajya Sabha passing it on Wednesday. The Lok Sabha had cleared the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020 on Tuesday. Replying to the debate in the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the government was honouring a long-standing demand of the people of Jammu and Kashmir of wanting the language they speak to be included in the list of official languages. Reddy said 74% of the people in the state spoke Kashmiri and Dogri while the 2011 Census showed that only 0.16% spoke Urdu and 2.3% spoke Hindi. Referring to Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral and PDP’s Mir Mohammed Fayaz, the minister also said the government would take steps to promote other languages like Punjabi, Gurjari and Pahari in the region. Gujral said it was "unfortunate" that Punjabi was not included in the Bill and urged the government to reconsider it. "It hurts the feeling of those who are settled there. I would urge the government to reconsider because language is the basis of the cultural heritage of the community," he said adding the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution had included Punjabi and the first Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir was a Punjabi. Alleging that the government's motto of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas” was lacking in the state, Fayaz demanded the inclusion of Gurjari, Punjabi and Pahari in the Bill. Shamsher Singh Manhas of the BJP spoke in Dogri during the debate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-jammu-and-kashmir-official-languages-bill-2020-891909.html
23-09-2020||National||Congress did what it said: Rahul Gandhi on Madhya Pradesh loan waiver||The Congress did what it said, while the BJP makes only false promises, Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday, taking a dig at the MP government's reported statement in the assembly that farmers in 51 districts benefited from the farm loan waiver scheme of the Kamal Nath dispensation. In a tweet, Gandhi also shared a media report on the Madhya Pradesh government stating in assembly in reply to a question that farm loans were waived in 51 districts under the previous Kamal Nath dispensation. "Congress -- Did what it said. BJP -- Only false promises," the Congress leader said. Nath on Tuesday said the Madhya Pradesh government's "confession" in the Legislative Assembly was that 26.95 lakh farmers in 51 districts were benefited from the previous Congress-led dispensation's farm loan waiver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-did-what-it-said-rahul-gandhi-on-madhya-pradesh-loan-waiver-891937.html
23-09-2020||National||Pixxel partners with Momentus for 2nd satellite launch in 2021||Space tech startup Pixxel on Wednesday said it has signed an agreement with in-space satellite transportation and infrastructure company Momentus Inc for launching its second satellite in 2021. Under the agreement with California-based Momentus, Pixxel's second satellite launch will be done in Sun-synchronous orbit using a SpaceX Falcon-9 rocket and it will have the option to fly again in 2022. "We are excited to partner with Momentus to get our satellites up in orbit as soon as we can and get the data in the hands of our customers. Momentus' launch and in-space transfer services provide us with the flexibility to get to the orbit we want, even on a rideshare mission," Pixxel founder and CEO Awais Ahmed said in a statement. Pixxel is planning to make and launch a constellation of 30 satellites between December 2022 to June 2023. The Indian space technology firm secured Rs 37 crore in seed round funding led by Blume, growX and Lightspeed. The company plans to use the fund to develop its first satellite, which is expected to be launched later this year, and accelerate development of the second satellite. "Pixxel is doing something innovative that hasn’t been done in India or the West. With a shared belief in humanity's expansion in space via in-situ resources, we wish this mission the ultimate success," Momentus CEO Mikhail Kokorich said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pixxel-partners-with-momentus-for-2nd-satellite-launch-in-2021-891943.html
23-09-2020||National||PIL in Delhi High Court for action against Twitter over anti-India tweets||A PIL has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking action against social media platform Twitter for being allegedly involved in conspiracy to promote anti-India propaganda such as Khalistan movement. The matter was listed for hearing before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan which on Wednesday recused from hearing it and directed that the petition be listed before another division bench on September 30. The plea has contended that some "promoted handles" on Twitter's platform were being allegedly used for promoting an agenda for a separate Khalistan. According to the petition by Sangeeta Sharma, promoted handles are those from which Twitter generates revenue. In her plea, filed through advocates Desh Ratan Nigam and Awanish Sinha, she has sought lodging a case against Twitter and its representatives in India under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the provisions of IPC dealing with sedition and waging war against the country and under the Information Technology Act. The petition also seeks an enquiry by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the matter as the persons allegedly promoting the messages in relation to Khalistan are from outside the country. It has also sought that the revenue generated by Twitter from India should be taxed here.  The petition also seeks a direction to Twitter to share its source code with the Indian government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-delhi-high-court-for-action-against-twitter-over-anti-india-tweets-891951.html
23-09-2020||National||India launches programme to strengthen clinical trial research capacity of vaccines in neighbouring countries||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, India has kick-started a "science diplomacy" initiative by launching a programme to strengthen the capacity of clinical trial research of vaccines in neighbouring countries, the Department of Biotechnology said on Wednesday. The first online orientation to this training programme was conducted on September 22 and it was attended by representatives from Nepal, Maldives, Bangladesh, Mauritius, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Afghanistan. "Keeping with the principles outlined by our science diplomacy initiatives, the DBT has initiated the first phase of the training program to strengthen clinical trial research capacity for neighbouring countries' in partnership with the Ministry of External Affairs," a statement by the department said. The training programme which will extend for about six to eight weeks will see participation of investigators, epidemiologists, clinicians and representatives from different departments from Nepal, Maldives, Bangladesh, Mauritius, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Afghanistan. The Department of Biotechnology, through the India Centric Epidemic Preparedness (Ind-CEPI) mission for rapid vaccine development and supporting Indian vaccine development which is aligned with the Global Initiative of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), aims to strengthen the development of vaccines and associated competencies/technologies for the diseases of epidemic potential in India, the statement said. The objective of these trainings would be to support researchers and investigator teams for enhancing and strengthening their clinical trial capabilities for conducting clinical trials in compliance with International Conference on Harmonisation - Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP). "Through this training programme and knowledge sharing efforts, India is fulfilling its commitment of building various technical capacities in its neighbouring countries. Efforts to network with South Asia, ASEAN and African regions for this purpose would be aided through Ind-CEPI," the statement said. Speaking on the occasion, Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT said building clinical trial capacity in neighbouring countries and all low and middle income countries (LMICs) is a priority for the department. This initiative is a step in the right direction under the Ind-CEPI mission, Swarup said. One of the key focus areas of the mission is to support capacity building and regional networking with LMICs, the statement said. "This will help our participating countries to build capacities for vaccine trials and for conducting Phase-3 trials for Covid-19 vaccines," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-launches-programme-to-strengthen-clinical-trial-research-capacity-of-vaccines-in-neighbouring-countries-891959.html
23-09-2020||National||PM reviews Covid-19 situation with CMs, representatives of 7 states with high case load||The Centre on Wednesday permitted the State governments to spend up to 50% of the State Disaster Relief Fund to fight Covid-19 as the epidemic gallops through the country infecting nearly a lakh and killing more than 1,000 individuals daily. This was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a high-level review of the Covid-19 situation with the Chief Ministers of seven states including Karnataka that account for 77% of India’s Covid-19 deaths and 65% of cases.  Other states that participated in the review are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab. On the lockdown, the Prime Minister said that while the initial closure was useful, the states should now introspect on how a short term lockdown of one-two days is impacting the states’ economy and finance. “The current focus should be on micro containment zones and resumption of normal life,” he said.  Ahead of the festival seasons, Modi suggested that the administration must stress on wearing face masks as infections were increasing. “Masks are very important and we have to make it (wearing a mask) a habit. It would be essential in our daily lives,” he said.  A day before, Vinod Paul, Member (Health) NITI Ayog too underscored the importance of masks particularly during the upcoming festivals when public gatherings would happen. “Wearing masks would have to be made universal. This social vaccine would prevent us until a vaccine against Covid-19 is available,” he said.  As 60 districts in seven states emerge as the Covid-19 hotbeds, Modi suggested that the Chief Ministers should talk to the district administration on improving the response at the district level. He also assured the states on the availability of oxygen and noted that the inter-state movement of oxygen and medical supplies must continue.   The review takes place on a day when India’s Covid-19 toll crossed the 90,000-mark. The toll stood at 90020, out of which 1085 were added in the last 24 hours. More than 83,000 new cases were added in the same period as the number of active cases stands at 9.68 lakhs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-reviews-covid-19-situation-with-cms-representatives-of-7-states-with-high-case-load-891963.html
23-09-2020||National||Water quality of Ganga, four other major rivers deteriorated during lockdown: CPCB report||The water quality of five major rivers in the country, including the Ganga, deteriorated during the coronavirus-induced lockdown due to factors like release of sewage and no fresh water discharge from the upstream, the Central Pollution Control Board said on Wednesday. The water quality of Ganga, Beas, Chambal, Sutlej and Swarnarekha did not comply with the primary water quality criteria for outdoor bathing, the pollution watchdog said in a report released on the occasion of its 46th Founders' Day. According to the report, Assessment of Impact of Lockdown on Water Quality of Major Rivers, the quality of water in seven of the 19 rivers monitored by State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) improved during the lockdown period. The CPCB said it had asked the SPCBs to assess the water quality of Ganga, Yamuna, Godavari, Krishna, Narmada, Beas, Brahmaputra, Baitarani, Brahmani, Cauvery, Chambal, Ghaggar, Mahanadi, Mahi, Pennar, Sabarmati, Sutlej, Swarnarekha and Tapi. Twenty SPCBs participated in the assessment. Water samples collected from the 19 rivers were analysed for parameters like pH, Dissolved Oxygen (DO), Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), Fecal Coliform (FC). The results were then compared with the Primary Water Quality Criteria for Outdoor Bathing notified under the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986. "Water quality has not improved during the lockdown period in case of five rivers which are Beas (reduced from 100 to 95.45 per cent), Chambal (reduced compliance to the criteria limits from 75 to 46.15 per cent), Ganga (reduced compliance to the criteria limits from 64.6 per cent to 46.2 per cent), Sutlej (reduction in compliance from 87.1 to 78.3 per cent) and Swarnarekha (reduction in compliance from 80 to 53.33 per cent)," the report said. This may be attributed to discharge of untreated or partially treated sewage, high pollutant concentrations due to negligible dry season flow and no freshwater discharges from the upstream, it said. According to the report, river water samples from 387 monitoring locations were collected during the pre-lockdown period and 77.26 per cent of them complied with the primary water quality criteria for outdoor bathing. During the lockdown, 365 samples were collected and 75.89 per cent of them complied with the criteria, "which implies that there is no significant improvement in water quality of major rivers monitored in the country, during the lockdown period". Four rivers -- Baitarani, Mahanadi, Narmada and Pennar showed 100 per cent compliance with the Primary Water Quality Criteria for Outdoor Bathing during the pre-lockdown and lockdown period. The water quality of river Ghaggar did not comply with the criteria. The water quality of the Sabarmati and Mahi rivers remained unchanged at 55.6 per cent and 92.9 per cent, respectively. Improvement was seen in the water quality of Brahmani, Brahmaputra, Cauvery, Godavari, Krishna, Tapi and Yamuna. Brahmani's compliance with the bathing criteria increased from 85 to 100 per cent), Brahmaputra's from 87.5 to 100 per cent, Cauvery from 90.5 to 96.97, Godavari from 65.8 to 78.4 per cent, Krishna from 84.6 to 94.4 per cent, Tapi from 77.8 to 87.5 per cent and the Yamuna from 42.8 to 66.67 per cent, the report stated. The report attributed this improvement in the water quality of rivers to minimal industrial effluent discharges in view of the closure of almost all industries, no human activities involving the disposal of puja materials and garbage during the lockdown period. No anthropogenic activities such as outdoor bathing, washing of clothes, vehicle washing and cattle washing, no pilgrimage activities, and considerably reduced cattle movement also played a role in reducing contamination of water bodies, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/water-quality-of-ganga-four-other-major-rivers-deteriorated-during-lockdown-cpcb-report-891973.html
23-09-2020||National||Kerala govt to move Press Council over secretariat fire reports||Kerala government has decided to move the Press Council of India against a section of media alleging that baseless news with regard to a fire that broke out in the state secretariat on August 25 was published. The government will also seek a legal opinion of initiating legal action under CrPC 199(2) for defamation against the media. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a section of media gave baseless reports that the fire at Secretariat was planned by the chief minister and the state chief secretary to destroy evidence pertaining to the gold smuggling case. Such reports were aimed at defaming the government and hence the Press Council would be approached. He also said a decision on moving legally against political party leaders, who raised such allegations, would be taken after seeking legal opinion. Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress alleged that the government was trying to curb the freedom of the press. Meanwhile, the chief minister was quite provoked over questions by reporters at a press conference on Wednesday over the alleged irregularities pertaining to the LIFE Mission housing scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-govt-to-move-press-council-over-secretariat-fire-reports-891992.html
23-09-2020||National||CAG says 11% of toilets claimed to be constructed by PSUs not found||The CAG on Wednesday said its audit of toilets constructed by central PSUs in schools found 11 per cent of them either non-existing or partially built and another 30 per cent not in use due to operational reasons. The report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on 'Construction of Toilets in Schools by Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs)' was presented in Parliament on Wednesday. To achieve the objective of separate toilets for boys and girls within a year, the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) on September 1, 2014, launched Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan (SVA) and sought the cooperation of other ministries to impress upon CPSEs under their administrative control to participate in the project for the construction of toilets in government schools. As many as 53 CPSEs participated in this project and constructed 1,40,997 toilets as per MHRD. CAG said seven CPSEs under the Ministry of Power (MoP) , Ministry of Coal (MoC) and Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoPNG) constructed more than 5,000 toilets each and 1,30,703 toilets in total, at a cost of Rs 2,162.60 crore. The audit examined the records pertaining to the construction of toilets by NTPC, PGCIL, NHPC, PFC, REC, ONGC, and Coal India and also conducted a physical survey of a sample of 2,695 toilets across 2,048 schools in 15 states. CAG said out of 2,695 toilets in the audit sample, the CPSEs did not construct 83 toilets though these toilets were identified by them for construction. In respect of the remaining 2,612 toilets which were reported by CPSEs to have been constructed, 200 toilets were not found constructed in the respective schools, and 86 toilets were found to be only partially constructed. "The non-existing and partially constructed toilets constituted 11 per cent of toilets surveyed," it said. Out of 1,967 co-educational schools surveyed by audit, 99 schools had no functional toilets while 436 schools had only one functional toilet. "The objective of providing separate toilets for boys and girls was not fulfilled in these 535 schools (27 per cent of 1,967 schools)," it said. Out of 2,326 constructed toilets surveyed, 691 (30 per cent) were found not in use mainly due to lack of running water, lack of cleaning arrangements, damages to the toilets, and other reasons like use of toilets for other purposes, toilets locked up, etc, it said. As per the Handbook on SVA, the toilets were required to have running water, hand washing facilities, and proper/ regular maintenance so as to effectively change the behaviour of beneficiaries. "During the survey, 1,679 (72 per cent) out of 2,326 constructed toilets were found without running water facility inside toilets. Further, a hand washing facility was not available in 1,279 (55 per cent) out of 2,326 constructed toilets," it said. The audit also noticed cases of defective construction of toilets, non-provision of foundation/ramp/staircase, and damaged/overflowed leach pit, which led to ineffective use of toilets, CAG said. Though the administrative ministries directed the CPSEs to maintain the toilets constructed by them for three to five years and book the annual expenses to their CSR budget, the audit found proper maintenance/ sanitation was not available in 1,812 out of 2,326 toilets. As many as "715 out of 1,812 toilets were not being cleaned. 1,097 toilets were being cleaned twice in a week to once in a month whereas, the norm was for daily cleaning at least once. Thus, 75 per cent of selected toilets were not maintained hygienically," CAG said. Cases of non-provision of soap, bucket, cleaning agents, and disinfectants in toilets and inadequate cleanliness of pathway were also noticed, it said. CAG said the CPSEs were required to conduct the survey in identified schools before starting construction of toilets but PFC and CIL's subsidiary-SECL did not conduct the survey while other CPSEs which conducted the survey did not cover all the schools identified by them. As a result, CPSEs were not able to construct the required number of toilets and resources were not optimally utilised,  it said. "MoP/ MoC/ ONGC declared construction of 1,30,703 toilets by the selected seven CPSEs on time (i.e. 15 August 2015). However, as per MHRD data and the Swachhta Status Report (2016) of the National Sample Survey Office, under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, the CPSEs constructed all the approved toilets as of 1 March 2016 and the number of toilets completed by these seven CPSEs was 1,19,530. "Comparison of the two reported figures indicated that the figures for the number of toilets completed were overstated to the extent 11,173 toilets by MoP/MoC," CAG said. CAG asked the ministries to look into the issue of non-existing/ incomplete toilets, which were claimed as constructed. Also, the misreporting regarding timely completion of toilets and discrepancies in figures of completed toilets may also be examined to ensure the availability of required toilets. They should also address the absence of basic amenities in the toilets like running water, hand wash facility, urinals, and drainage of wastewater, CAG said adding the issue of regular maintenance of toilets should be sorted to ensure their sustained usability. "During the execution of such projects, monitoring may be done through Geo-tagged photos," CAG said. "Since the Audit survey covered 2 per cent of total toilets, the CPSEs are advised to review/survey the remaining 98 per cent toilets and take appropriate action for rectification of deficiencies."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cag-says-11-of-toilets-claimed-to-be-constructed-by-psus-not-found-892000.html
23-09-2020||National||Cop accused of shooting Ishrat and Sadiq in encounters passes away||One of the key accused in the Ishrat Jahan and Sadiq Jamal encounter cases retired Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySP) J G Parmar passed away at his home in Mehsana district due to a prolonged illness, his lawyer informed the special CBI court on Wednesday. Parmar, in his mid-70s, was suffering from age-related illness. He was among seven accused policemen arrested by the CBI in 2013 for gunning down 19-years-old Mumbai college girl Ishrat Jahan, her friend Javed Sheikh alias Pranesh Pillai and two alleged Pakistani nationals Amjadali Rana and Zeeshan Johar in June 2004. Parmar was part of the Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) squad who participated in the firing. The CBI charge sheet stated that he had fired four rounds from his service revolver. Parmar was the complainant in the case registered by DCB in 2004 claiming that Ishrat and three others were Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives who had come to Ahmedabad to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi and other saffron leaders to avenge the killing of Muslims in the 2002 post-Godhra riots. CBI had charge-sheeted seven Gujarat policemen including IPS officer P P Pandey, D G Vanzara, both retired, G L Singhal retired Superintendent of Police N K Amin, retired Deputy Superintendent of Police Tarun Barot and sub-inspector Anaju Chaudhary. The special CBI court has discharged Pandey, Vanzara, and Amin from the trial on various grounds including want of government sanction for prosecuting them. His role in Sadiq Jamal Mehtar, a resident of Bhavnagar, encounter in 2003 was almost identical. In this case, he had fired several shots at Sadiq and later became a complainant in the FIR which stated that Sadiq was a "terrorist" who wanted to kill Modi and other BJP leaders. In this case, he was among the eight accused booked by CBI.  During the online hearing on Wednesday, Parmar's lawyer Brijrajsinh Jhala informed the court that Parmar passed away on September 21. He said that once the rituals are over, death certificates will be produced before the court. Once the lawyer will submit the death certificate along with a note (pursis), Parmar will be abated from the charges. Sources close to Parmar said that the last rite was performed at his ancestral village Kansa in Visnagar taluka of Mehsana district. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cop-accused-of-shooting-ishrat-and-sadiq-in-encounters-passes-away-892004.html
23-09-2020||National||Monsoon Session ends on bitter note||The 10-day Monsoon Session of Parliament ended on a bitter note on Wednesday amid a boycott by the opposition over suspension of its eight members for unruly behaviour in the Rajya Sabha. The session, which was held under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, saw growing distrust between the government and the opposition, which moved a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh. Another first, perhaps, was the overnight protests on Parliament lawns by eight Rajya Sabha members who were suspended for unruly behaviour when the House had taken up two bills ushering in farm sector reforms, which were passed amid din on Sunday. In a rare standoff, the eight opposition members refused to withdraw from the Rajya Sabha chambers after the House, on Monday, adopted a motion for their suspension, despite repeated directive by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. The situation led to repeated adjournments, forcing the Chairman to call off the business for the day. As the Rajya Sabha adjourned the proceedings, members had stayed in the chamber for a couple of hours before moving their protests against the Deputy Chairman to the Parliament lawns. Earlier, an angry opposition submitted a notice for moving a no-confidence motion against the Deputy Chairman, which was rejected by Chairman Naidu. Deputy Chairman Harivansh made a peace gesture to the agitating Rajya Sabha members on Tuesday by bringing them tea and snacks, only to be rebuffed. He later announced a day-long fast with a hope to invoke a feeling of “self-purification” in the protesting members, which was seen by the opposition as a political ploy with an eye on the upcoming Bihar elections. Chairman Naidu slammed the suspended opposition members for justifying their unruly conduct instead of expressing regret. During the 10-day session, the Lok Sabha passed 25 bills of which five, including three related to labour reforms, were approved amid a boycott by opposition members. The Rajya Sabha also passed 25 bills, including 15 on the last two days, when the opposition members had boycotted the proceedings. The Lok Sabha was scheduled to meet for 36 hours, but had sittings late into the night and worked for 60 hours. “The Lok Sabha has recorded a productivity of 167 per cent,” Speaker Om Birla said. Rajya Sabha recorded a productivity of 100.47% as it recorded the second shortest Monsoon Session of the House and third shortest of all sessions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-session-ends-on-bitter-note-892007.html
23-09-2020||National||Gujarat govt banishes activist ahead of PM's seaplane inauguration||Ahead of the likely visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to launch the seaplane service between Ahmedabad and Statue of Unity (SoU) on October 31, the state government has banished activist Lakhan Musafir known for leading the protests of local tribals affected by the Sardar Sarovar Dam and SoU and related upcoming projects. Musafir has been banished for six months from Narmada (the seat of SoU) and its neighbouring districts including Vadodara, Bharuch, Tapi and Chhota Udepur. The locals have alleged that the decision comes in view of PM Modi's visit on October 31 when he is expected to inaugurate the seaplane service. "Everyone who has been participating in agitations is under the police's watch. We fear that in a few days, we all will be detained," said an activist from Narmada district who has been organising the agitations against the impending ouster of local tribals who live in villages in and around SoU. The order of externment dated September 14 has been passed by a sub-divisional magistrate of Rajpipla, KG Bhagat. The order is based on allegations that Musafir has been "inciting people, involved in violent activities, trading in arms and liquor, among others. Locals said that Musafir had refuted all the allegations and filed a reply in July. The notice had come in March.  The activists have alleged that charges against Musafir are a "blatant lie" and he was not given time to respond with evidence and witnesses. Meanwhile, tribals in the region are agitating for relief as their crops were damaged due to Narmada water released by the authority resulting in a flood-like situation. "The officers are saying that our crops were destroyed due to natural calamity but our predicament is a man-made calamity. The construction of the dam is the reason that keeps destroying our crops," a resident of Kevadia, where the SoU and the Sardar Sarovar Dam is located, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-banishes-activist-ahead-of-pms-seaplane-inauguration-892014.html
23-09-2020||National||Illegal cattle trading: CBI conducts raids at several places in West Bengal||CBI conducted raids in several parts of West Bengal on Wednesday in a bid to crackdown on the illegal cattle trading nexus functioning in areas near the India-Bangladesh border. According to CBI sources, raids were conducted in several places in Kolkata and Murshidabad district. They also said that the Central agency was also conducting raids in 15 places across the country such as Raipur in Chattisgarh, Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, and Amritsar and in Punjab. “The raids are of part of our investigation regarding cattle smuggling at India-Bangladesh border near West Bengal. The probe has been going on for almost a year,” said a senior CBI official. Cattle smuggling at the India-Bangladesh Border has been a cause of concern for BSF and often armed smugglers have attacked BSF personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-cattle-trading-cbi-conducts-raids-at-several-places-in-west-bengal-892022.html
23-09-2020||National||Long due labour reforms to ensure well-being of workers, give boost to economic growth: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday hailed the passage of key labour reform bills by Parliament, saying it will ensure well-being of workers and give a boost to economic growth. The new labour code universalises minimum wages, timely payment of wages and gives priority to occupational safety of workers, he tweeted, asserting that these reforms will contribute to a better working environment which will accelerate the pace of economic growth. Parliament on Wednesday approved three key labour reform bills that will remove impediments to winding up of companies and allow firing of staff without government permission in firms with up to 300 workers from the existing 100, a move aimed at attracting more investments and job creation. The first code on wages was approved by Parliament last year. With passage of these three bills, 29 central labour laws have been codified into four broad codes as contemplated by the government under labour reforms to improve ease of doing business and providing universal social security to workers as well. "Long due and much awaited Labour reforms have been passed by Parliament. The reforms will ensure well-being of our industrious workers and give a boost to economic growth," the prime minister said. He said the three bills are also shining examples of "Minimum Government, Maximum Governance". "The Labour reforms will ensure 'Ease of Doing Business'. These are futuristic legislations to empower enterprises by reducing compliance, red-tapism and 'Inspector Raj'. The reforms also seek to harness the power of technology for the betterment of the workers and industry both," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/long-due-labour-reforms-to-ensure-well-being-of-workers-give-boost-to-economic-growth-pm-narendra-modi-892026.html
23-09-2020||National||India slams Turkey, braces for war of words with Pakistan over J&K in UN||India has advised Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan to “learn to respect the sovereignty of other nations” after he referred to Jammu and Kashmir during a speech at the United Nations General Assembly. The United Nations is also likely to witness a more intense war of words between New Delhi and Islamabad over Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) later this week. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan is scheduled to address the 75th session of the General Assembly on Friday and he is likely to make the most of it to criticize India, particularly the August 5, 2019 decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to strip J&K of its special status and reorganise the state into two Union Territories, just as he did last year. Modi, himself, is also likely to address the UNGA on Saturday, but he is unlikely to respond to the critical remarks by Khan. New Delhi is likely to deploy young diplomats at the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations in New York to exercise “Right to Reply” and respond to the Prime Minister of Pakistan. Like other leaders, both Modi and Khan will address the General Assembly virtually, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Kashmir conflict, which is also key to the stability and peace of South Asia, is still a burning issue,” Erdoğan said during his virtual speech at the UNGA. “Steps taken following the abolition of the special status of Jammu-Kashmir further complicated the problem,” said the Turkish President, adding, “We are in favour of solving this issue through dialogue, within the framework of the United Nations resolutions and especially in line with the expectations of the people of Kashmir.” T S Tirumurti, New Delhi’s envoy to the UN, took to Twitter to lodge a strong protest. “We have seen remarks by (the) President of Turkey on Indian UT (Union Territory) of Jammu & (and) Kashmir. They constitute gross interference in India’s internal affairs and are completely unacceptable,” he tweeted. “Turkey should learn to respect the sovereignty of other nations and reflect on its own policies more deeply."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-turkey-braces-for-war-of-words-with-pakistan-over-jk-in-un-892028.html
23-09-2020||National||NCB should probe if Kangana had said she took drugs: BJP leader Pravin Darekar||Maharashtra BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Wednesday said that actor Kangana Ranaut is not above law and NCB should conduct probe if she had said that she was a "drug-addict". "If Kangana has said she was a drug addict then the NCB (Narcotics Control Bureau) should probe. Law is equal for all in our country," the Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Council told reporters here. The NCB is probing the alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus and had arrested actress Rhea Chakraborty, who was booked by the Bihar police for allegedly abetting suicide of her actor boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput. The CBI is probing that case. In Mumbai, the NCB has summoned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh among others for questioning. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB summons Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, Rakul Preet Singh in drug case The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government had earlier this month ordered a probe by Mumbai police into allegations by actor Shekhar Suman's son Adhyayan Suman that Ranaut took drugs. Darekar said no one will support if new and budding actors in film industry are falling prey to drugs. "Should'nt we take precautions if actors in one of the biggest film industries in the world are getting addicted (to drugs)?" he questioned. Darekar said there should not be any problem if NCB summons any person who is consuming drugs for investigation. The BJP leader also slammed the Shiv Sena-led Mumbai civic body for water-logging on Wednesday due to heavy rains. "They had time of seven to eight months to fix the chronic water-logging spots. There is no dearth of funds; required machinery is also available...But despite all these things, if Mumbai is going under water, what have you done by being in the power in the BMC for the last 40 years?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-should-probe-if-kangana-had-said-she-took-drugs-bjp-leader-pravin-darekar-892033.html
23-09-2020||National||Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi calls Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla 'hero' of Zero Hour||"You have become the hero of the Zero Hour", Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi told Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla while appreciating him for conducting proceedings of the House during the challenging time of Covid-19 pandemic. Recalling his earlier days as a parliamentarian, Joshi said a new MP would consider herself fortunate to get an opportunity to raise a matter during the Zero Hour. Getting even one chance to speak during the Zero Hour was a "big thing", he said. "...you have become hero of the Zero Hour. You give opportunity to everyone. Everyone is happy," Joshi said. During the Zero Hour, members raise issues of public importance in the House. He praised the speaker along with Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu for making special arrangements to conduct business during difficult times. The speaker said he gives time to everybody to speak. The minister also said MPs followed the protocol established by the chair for members. Joshi said about 3,000-4,000 people remain present in the Parliament during sessions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-affairs-minister-pralhad-joshi-calls-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-hero-of-zero-hour-892034.html
23-09-2020||National||Rafale makers yet to fulfil offset obligations: CAG||Two French armament majors Dassault Aviation and MBDA didn’t discharge 30% of their offset obligation as mandated in the Rs 59,000-crore Rafale contract four years after inking an agreement with India to supply 36 fully armed Rafale combat jets, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) informed Parliament on Wednesday. A press statement issued by the CAG, however, is silent on the more controversial part of the deal — the selection of Indian offset partner. The Opposition had alleged that Anil Ambani’s Reliance Defence was given undue advantage as the offset partner by the Narendra Modi government. "In the offset contract relating to 36 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA), the vendors Dassault Aviation and MBDA initially proposed (September 2015) to discharge 30% of their offset obligation by offering high technology to the Defence Research and Development Organisation. The DRDO wanted to obtain technical assistance for the indigenous development of engine (Kaveri) for the Light Combat Aircraft. Till date the vendor has not confirmed the transfer of this technology,” the CAG said in the report. The audit watchdog cited the Rafale case to demonstrate how some of the foreign vendors made various offset commitments to qualify for the main supply contract, but later were not earnest about fulfilling these commitments. The Rafale deal, along with three other agreements (two on weapons and the third on offset), was signed on September 23, 2016. The offset obligations were to commence from October 2019. The deal triggered a huge political controversy in the run-up to Parliamentary elections in 2019 with the Opposition parties pressing corruption charges against the Modi government, notwithstanding the favourable verdict it received from the Supreme Court. The government had earlier denied having any role in selecting the Indian offset partner. “As per the guidelines, the vendor is to provide the details of offset partners either at the time of seeking offset credit or one year prior to the discharge of offset obligation, which in this case will be due from 2020,” the Defence Ministry had stated in a statement in September 2018. The ministry response came in the wake of former French President Francois Hollande’s sensational claim that the French side had barely any choice in deciding the Indian offset partner as the Modi government pushed for the Anil Ambani-led company. Since the second half of 2017, the CAG decided not to release its defence-related reports online on security groups. Each of the CAG reports is, however, placed either in Parliament or in state assemblies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafale-makers-yet-to-fulfil-offset-obligations-cag-892044.html
23-09-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath to dedicate 43 bridges in seven states and UTs to nation on September 24||As many as 43 bridges built in border areas of Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir will be dedicated to the nation by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday, officials said. Most of the 43 bridges, including seven in Ladakh, are in strategically important areas and they will help the armed forces in ensuring quick movement of troops and weapons, they said. "The defence minister will inaugurate the bridges in seven states and union territories at an online event on Wednesday," said an official. The inauguration of the bridges built by the Border Roads Organisation comes at a time when India is engaged in a bitter row with China in eastern Ladakh. Out of the bridges, 10 are in Jammu and Kashmir, two in Himachal Pradesh, eight each in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh and four each in Sikkim and Punjab. The officials said Singh will also lay the foundation stone of the Nechiphu tunnel on a key road to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh. Amid the border row with China, India is expediting work on several key projects including on a strategic road linking Darcha in Himachal Pradesh with Ladakh that will criss-cross a number of high-altitude snow-bound passes. The nearly 290-km-long road will be crucial for the movement of troops and heavy weaponry into the frontier bases of the Ladakh region and will provide a crucial link to the Kargil region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-to-dedicate-43-bridges-in-seven-states-and-uts-to-nation-on-september-24-892051.html
23-09-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan accuses Bar body of trying to gag lawyers||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan, convicted recently in a contempt case, Wednesday accused the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) of trying to “gag” lawyers from speaking critically about the judiciary. Bhushan's reaction came in response to a notice sent to him by BCD to appear before it on October 23 in connection with the case. BCD asked him why proceedings should not be initiated to revoke his enrolment as a lawyer in view of the conviction and punishment by the apex court for his contemptuous tweets against judiciary. “So Bar Council now wants to gag lawyers from speaking critically about the Judiciary,” Bhushan wrote on Twitter. The BCD sent the notice in pursuance of the resolution of September 6 of the apex bar body, the Bar Council of India (BCI), asking its Delhi chapter to take a legally-mandated decision in this matter keeping in mind the conviction of Bhushan.  Bhushan, who has been asked to appear either personally or through video conferencing on October 23, has to respond to the BCD within 15-days of receiving the notice. A Bar Council of a state grants license to a person to practice as a lawyer and has wide powers such as suspending or taking away the right of its members in certain situations to practice under the Advocates Act. Bhushan acknowledged receiving the notice on Twitter this morning. The BCD has said that in case Bhushan do not choose to appear before the Council on the date fixed, the proceedings shall be taken “ex-parte.”  A bench headed by Justice Aruna Mishra (since retired) had convicted Bhushan for his two tweets against the judiciary and imposed a fine of Re 1 on him. As a punishment he was directed to deposit the fine with the Supreme Court registry by September 15, failing which he would have to undergo three-month jail term and debarment from law practice for three years. Bhushan on September 14 paid the fine imposed upon him, and later filed his review petition against the conviction. The apex bar body had said it deliberated upon the the apex court judgment in its general council meeting held on September 3 and held that the tweets and statements made by Bhushan and the SC judgment need thorough study and examination “in the light of the statutory duties, powers and functions conferred on it under the Advocates' Act and the rules framed thereunder.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-accuses-bar-body-of-trying-to-gag-lawyers-892069.html
23-09-2020||National||PM Modi lauds Andhra CM Jagan on videoconference||The videoconference on Covid-19 control measures on Wednesday had an interesting interlude between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister flew directly to Tirupati from New Delhi after some change in his schedules in the national capital and took part in the videoconference from the Annamayya Bhavan on Tirumala Hills. "It's commendable that you are taking part in this VC, having come to Tirumala to take part in the Lords annual Brahmotsavam," the Prime Minister reportedly told the Chief Minister. "I feel delighted that I had a darshan of Lord Venkateswara through this videoconference today," the Prime Minister remarked as he glanced at a portrait of the 'Kaliyuga Daivam' behind Jagan, who attended the event from Tirumala Hills. Modi was also said to have appreciated the village and ward secretariat system being implemented in Andhra Pradesh and hoped other states would emulate it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-andhra-cm-jagan-on-videoconference-892070.html
23-09-2020||National||India, Australia have greater opportunities to collaborate in space: Experts||With India opening up its space industry for private players, Australia feels the move would present greater opportunities for both countries to collaborate in the crucial space sector. Panelists from India and Australia at an exclusive webinar on the Australia Space ecosystem on Wednesday saw the move as another way that both countries can work for the betterment of its people. Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell said that his country has many unique advantages, from its geographical position in the southern hemisphere to its wide-open spaces and relatively low light pollution, to its expertise in satellite data applications. He also spoke in detail about the partnership between India and Australia in different sectors and virtual meetings that leaders of the two countries held during the Covid-19 lockdown. The High Commissioner said that India and Australia are “ideal partners” in space management activities and welcomed the Indian Government’s move to privatise the space sector. “People-to-people ties and vital economic integration comes at a time the strategic relationship between the two countries is at an all-time high. It was built on the momentum created by Australian Trade Minister (Senator Simon Birmingham) in February and the virtual summit of our Prime Minister in June,” he said. Anthony Murfett from the Australian Space Agency said that the two countries will have great opportunities to collaborate in the space sector and congratulated India on its first human space flight programmee. “Gaganyaan human space flight program is an inspiration to all people, and Australia is looking into how we can support this important mission,” he added. The panelists also said that Australia and India are looking to update an MoU they signed in 2012 to include more agencies and encourage the private sector, to work together for the benefit of both countries. G Narayanan, Chairman, and Managing Director, NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), said that active discussions are on in the Indian government on the modalities for private players to enter the space industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-have-greater-opportunities-to-collaborate-in-space-experts-892074.html
23-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha passes bill to provide greater autonomy to 12 major ports||Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed a bill that seeks to provide greater autonomy in decision-making to 12 major ports in the country and professionalise their governance by setting up boards. The Major Port Authorities Bill, 2020, seeks to repeal the Major Port Trusts Act of 1963. The bill aims to provide for regulation, operation and planning of major ports in India and to vest the administration, control and management of such ports upon the boards of major port authorities and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, be taken into consideration. "This would enable our ports to become world class and enable board to take decision on their own," Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said while relying to debate on the bill. In terms of volume, 70 per cent of cargo movement is through ports while 90 per cent in value terms. Replying to concerns raised by opposition, the minister said interest of all employees and pensioners would be safeguarded. With a view to promoting expansion of port infrastructure and facilitate trade and commerce, the measure aims at decentralising decision-making and aims to infusing professionalism in the governance of ports. It would also help impart faster and transparent decision-making, benefiting the stakeholders and better project execution capability. India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Marmugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V O Chidambarnar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia). These together had handled 699.04 million tonnes (MT) of cargo during 2018-19. The bill is aimed at reorienting the governance model in central ports to landlord port model in line with the successful global practice, it said and added, this will also help in bringing transparency in operations of major ports. The minister further said that the proposed bill has been prepared after extensive consultation with all the stakeholders and Ministries/Departments after taking into account the recommendations of a parliamentary standing committee. He said the bill is more compact in comparison to the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 as the number of sections has been reduced to 76 from 134 by eliminating overlapping and obsolete Sections. The role of Tariff Authority for Major Ports (TAMP) has been redefined as Port Authority has now been given powers to fix tariff, which will act as a reference tariff for purposes of bidding for PPP (public private partnership) projects. The Board of the Port Authority has been delegated the power to fix the scale of rates for other port services and assets including land, he said. The Boards of the Port Authority have been delegated full powers to enter into contracts, planning and development, he said. Earlier, the bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in 2016 and thereafter referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC). The PSC, after taking evidence and wide-spread consultations, submitted its report in July 2017. Based on this, the Ministry of Shipping introduced the official amendment to the Bill in the Lok Sabha in 2018. However, the Bill got lapsed after the dissolution of previous Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-provide-greater-autonomy-to-12-major-ports-892075.html
23-09-2020||National||India, Australia conduct naval exercise in Indian Ocean||The Indian and Australian navies on Wednesday began a two-day mega exercise in the Indian Ocean region that featured a range of complex naval manoeuvres, anti-aircraft drills and helicopter operations, officials said. It is the first major military exercise by India and Australia after they elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support in June. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) allows militaries of the two countries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies besides facilitating scaling up of overall defence cooperation. India has signed similar agreements with the US, France, Singapore and Japan. The naval exercise comes at a time India is expanding deployment of its warships in the Indian Ocean region in the wake of its tense border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical for India's strategic interests. It is the fourth major bilateral military drill by the Indian Navy since June. It has already carried out similar exercises with the navies of the US, Japan and Russia. HMAS Hobart, the lead ship of the Hobart-class air warfare destroyers, is among the assets deployed in the exercise by the Royal Australian Navy, officials said. The Indian Navy deployed its stealth frigate INS Sahyadri and missile corvette INS Karmuk. "The exercise is aimed at enhancing interoperability, improving understanding and imbibing best practices from each other," an Indian Navy spokesperson said on Tuesday. A wide-spectrum of drills including surface and anti-aircraft drills, helicopter operations, maneuvers and cross deck flying is being carried out as part of the exercise. Earlier this month, navies of India and Russia carried out an exercise in the Bay of Bengal. In July, the Indian Navy carried out a military exercise with a US Navy carrier strike group led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz off the coast of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The USS Nimitz is the world's largest warship. In the exercise with the US Navy, four frontline warships of the Indian Navy participated. The US carrier strike group was transiting through the Indian Ocean Region on its way from the South China Sea. The US Navy carrier strike group comprises USS Nimitz, Ticonderoga-class guided-missile cruiser USS Princeton and Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyers USS Sterett and USS Ralph Johnson. The Indian Navy carried out a similar exercise with the Japanese navy in June. India has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean region with a plethora of warships and submarines following the border row to send across a message to Beijing. The maritime space around the Malacca Strait is very critical for China's supply chain through sea routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-conduct-naval-exercise-in-indian-ocean-892087.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||FCRA Bill among 4 listed for passage in Rajya Sabha; 3 Labour Codes also likely to be tabled||Four bills have been listed for passage in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday when Parliament is expected to conclude it's Monsoon Session eight days ahead of schedule even as the government is also expected to bring three labour reform measures for clearance in the Upper House.  The government has listed the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill and two Appropriation Bills (No 3 and 4). The three labour reform measures -- The Industrial Relation Code, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code and Code on Social Security -- are likely to be listed in the supplementary list of business.  Though Lok Sabha passed the three Codes on Tuesday, it could not be listed as the Bill has not been transmitted to Rajya Sabha. Sources said once the procedure is completed, the supplementary list of business would be issued.  The indication of the Bill coming in Rajya Sabha surfaced after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla announced that the Lower House will start it's proceedings only at 6 PM instead of 3 PM, when the House used to start functioning during the Monsoon Session amid the Covid-19 pandemic.  This comes as Rajya Sabha would be required to sit well beyond its scheduled closing at 1 PM. The time for Lok Sabha was set at 6 PM keeping in mind the time needed for passing six Bills and the margin for conducting sanitisation of the Chambers and visitors gallery of both the Houses.  With the Opposition on Tuesday announcing the boycott of the Session demanding revocation of suspension of eight MPs, the discussion of Bills are unlikely to take more time and government floor managers hope that they could wind up the proceedings of the Upper House by 4 PM.  The first Bill to be taken up after Zero Hour would be the one to amend the FCRA Act, allowing government to seek Aadhaar and other details from NGOs seeking foreign funds. It also seeks to prevent NGOs from transferring foreign funds to another organisation, which has permission to collect such donations.  In Lok Sabha, the Opposition has raised concerns the Bill could end up harassing NGOs and used to target them on the basis of religion.  Once this is passed, Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill and two Appropriation Bills will be taken up.  Industrial Relations Code, which may come up in the House, is aimed at allowing companies ease in hiring and firing as well as redefining the scope of trade unions, restrict workers' right to strike and increase the treshhold relating to layoffs in industrial establishments.  The Social Security Code is aimed at creating a social security network for all workers, including migrant workers and gig workers. The Occupational Safety Code seeks to set standards on health and other parameters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fcra-bill-among-4-listed-for-passage-in-rajya-sabha-3-labour-codes-also-likely-to-be-tabled-891630.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Monsoon Session: 'Playing in a bio-bubble, oblivious to the outside world'||Opposition voice was missing as the Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed three Labour Code Bills that replace 25 laws governing the sector, a move that could cheer the industry. Opposition parties were raring to raise their concerns on the Industrial Relation Code Bill, the Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code and the Code On Social Security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-monsoon-session-playing-in-a-bio-bubble-oblivious-to-the-outside-world-891636.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Modi govt destroyed web of relationships with countries: Rahul Gandhi||Living in a neighbourhood with no friends is dangerous, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday and alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had destroyed the "web of relationships" that the Congress had built with countries over decades. Attacking the government on Twitter, Gandhi also tagged a report titled 'As Bangladesh’s relations with India weaken, ties with China strengthen'. "Mr Modi has destroyed the web of relationships that the Congress built and nurtured over several decades," Gandhi alleged. "Living in a neighbourhood with no friends is dangerous," the former Congress chief added. The Congress has been critical of the Modi government's foreign policy, alleging that ties with neighbours have been weakened. The government has denied the charge and said India's ties have deepened with several countries and its position has strengthened globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-destroyed-web-of-relationships-with-countries-rahul-gandhi-891736.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Don't sign farm reform Bills: Opposition tells President||Eighteen opposition parties on Wednesday petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind on the “unconstitutional” manner in which the two agri-reform Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha, urging him to return the Bills. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad met the President on behalf of the 18 parties and presented a memorandum demanding a re-look at the two farm sector Bills that allow farmers to sell their produce outside APMC limits and enter into contract farming. Opposition members boycotted the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha on the final day of the truncated monsoon session and carried out protest marches within Parliament premises. “We have requested the President to return the two Bills to allow for proper consultation and consideration by Parliament,” Azad told reporters here. Flanked by leaders of the SP, RJD, CPI(M), AAP, NCP among others, Azad said the two Bills were passed unconstitutionally, without considering the resolutions moved by the opposition leaders and break down in the audio link that deprived members seated in the Lok Sabha chamber from participating in the proceedings. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 were passed by the Rajya Sabha on Sunday by a voice vote and amid the unprecedented ruckus. As the Rajya Sabha discussed Bills ushering in labour reforms, opposition members carried placards with slogans such as 'Save Farmers, Save Workers, Save Democracy' and marched from the statue of Mahatma Gandhi to the statue of Babasaheb Ambedkar. It was the turn of Lok Sabha members of the opposition parties to march on within the Parliament premises as the Lower House met on Wednesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-sign-farm-reform-bills-opposition-tells-president-891737.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Parliament passes three key labour reform Bills; trade unions feel slavery imposed on workers||Paving the way for the enactment of Labour Codes, the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed three Bills that remove stringent conditions on winding up of companies and easing restrictions on firing from 100 to 300 employees by firms without government sanction, moves the government believes will attract more investment and job creation. The passage of the Bill immediately attracted criticism from RSS-affiliated BMS, which said, the Codes were "tilted too much in favour of the employers and bureaucrat" and that none of their suggestions were accepted. CPI(M)-backed CITU said it was a recipe for imposing "virtual slavery on the working people". The government had last year passed the Code on Wages and with the passage of three Codes, 29 central labour laws have been codified into four broad Codes. The passage of the three Codes came amid a boycott by the Opposition over the suspension of eight MPs on charges of "unruly behaviour". Ten Opposition leaders, including Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and Trinamool Congress' Derek O'Brien, also wrote to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urging him not to pass these Bills in the absence of Opposition. These Bills "affect the livelihood of crores of workers...It will be a great blot on democracy to have these Bills unilaterally today," they said in a joint letter but Naidu rejected it saying there were precedents of Bills being passed when parties have either boycotted or walked out of the House. While it took just 103 minutes to get the three Bills passed in Rajya Sabha, an analysis by PRS Legislative showed the time spent on debating Code on Wages last year was 7:30 hours. However, the total time spent on passing the three Codes in both the Houses comes to just 4:45 hours. These three Codes have 411 clauses, 13 schedules and run into around 350 pages. When the Code on Wages was passed in Lok Sabha last year, the debate took 4:01 hours, it said. Replying to the debate, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said these would provide a transparent system to suit the changing business environment. He defended the provision in the Industrial Relations Code allowing the increase in the threshold for retrenchment, closure or lay off for a firm without government permission from 100 workers to 300, saying labour falls in the concurrent list of the Constitution and 16 states have already increased the threshold. He also referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee report that recommended the same. Gangwar said several firms so far were not increasing the strength of its workers to circumvent the existing laws and it was resulting in a rise in informal employment. He also said that the Codes would provide universal social security by expanding the ambit of Employees' Provident Fund Organisation and Employees' State Corporation of India. A social security fund would also be set up to cover around 40 crore unorganised sector workers. Those who participated in the debate on the Bills supported it, as no Opposition MPs were present. In a statement, CITU said the taking of the three Codes together for passage reflects the government's "abnormal haste to satisfy their corporate capitalist masters through imposing conditions of virtual slavery on the working people, who actually create GDP for the nation". "These Codes, now passed, will throw more than 74% of the industrial workers and 70% of industrial establishments in 'hire and fire regime' at the will of the employers. Even the formation of a trade union will be extremely difficult and it is imposing a virtual ban on workers’ right to strike and even collectively agitate on their grievances and demands to mention a few," CITU General Secretary Tapan Sen said. BMS General Secretary Virjesh Upadhyay said the BMS and other trade unions have given detailed objections to the previous draft of the Industrial Relations Code but none of the objections raised by them as well as that of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour in favour of workers were considered. "It is tilted too much in favour of the employers and bureaucrats and the last minute mutilations will adversely affect industrial peace in the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-passes-three-key-labour-reform-bills-trade-unions-feel-slavery-imposed-on-workers-891767.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Mizoram MP urges Centre to give compensation to people affected by earthquakes||Rajya Sabha MP from Mizoram K Vanlalvena has urged the Centre to give compensations to people affected by earthquakes in Mizoram and to send a team to investigate the cause of frequent earthquakes in the state, an official said on Wednesday. The MP has asked the Earth Science Ministry and Ministry of Home Affairs Disaster Management Division to immediately send an investigation team to Mizoram, to provide compensation to the earthquake victims, and to provide adequate facilities related to earthquake management to Mizoram, the official said. The Rajya Sabha MP also raised the issue in the Upper House of Parliament on Tuesday and said that earthquakes have rocked Mizoram's Champhai district and some parts of Serchhip district near Myanmar border on more than 100 occasions during this year damaging many dwelling houses and affecting people. Vanlalvena said that he has met officials of Union Earth Science Ministry and urged them to send an investigation team to Mizoram to assess the ground reality and causes of frequent earthquakes in the state. A series of earthquakes hit several parts of Mizoram, including Champhai district, Saitual, Siaha and Serchhip district since June 18. Champhai was the hardest hit district. The last earthquake was reported on September 20. Officials of the Mizoram Disaster Management and Rehabilitation department said that tremors were felt on a number of occasions since June. They said that more than 280 houses were damaged in Champhai district causing monetary loss to the tune of over Rs 316.35 lakh. Officials also said that the government was taking massive efforts to deal with earthquakes by sending geology experts to the affected areas, doctors to assess the health condition of the affected people and providing assistance to the victims. Champhai district deputy commissioner Maria CT Zuali said that the affected families have been given financial and material assistance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mizoram-mp-urges-centre-to-give-compensation-to-people-affected-by-earthquakes-891769.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition parties conduct silent protest march in Parliament over Farm Bills||Various opposition parties Wednesday took out a silent protest march in the Parliament complex against the contentious Farm Bills passed recently. The protesting MPs carried placards with messages such as "Save Farmers, Save Workers, Save Democracy" during their march from the Mahatma Gandhi statue to the Ambedkar statue on the premises. They also stood before Gandhi's statue in a line. Members of the Congress, Trinamool Congress, CPI, CPI-M, DMK, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party and the NCP participated in the protest. "All MPs of the Congress and like-minded parties are marching from Gandhi statue to Ambedkar statue in Parliament protesting the anti-Farmers, anti-Workers Bills that have been rubberstamped in Parliament in the most undemocratic manner by the Modi government," Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh said in a tweet. Opposition members earlier held a meeting in the chamber of Ghulam Nabi Azad, the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, to formulate their further strategy against the Farm Bills. Various Opposition parties have protested the passage of the Farm Bills in Parliament and have boycotted the proceedings of both Houses. They have also written to President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him not to sign the contentious Bills because, they have said, the proposed legislations were passed in the din without division of votes. Azad would be meeting President Kovind at 5 PM to put forth their demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-conduct-silent-protest-march-in-parliament-over-farm-bills-891773.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Quick disposal of development projects discussed during zero hour of Rajya Sabha||A demand for a special legislation to ensure time-bound disposal of litigations relating to development projects was made in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday to ensure such projects are not kept hanging for long. Raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, D P Vats of the BJP said development projects particularly rail and road projects get delayed due to court cases. A matter concerning a road project has been pending in court for 45 years, he said. "I urge the government to bring special legislation for time-bound disposal of litigations related to developmental projects," he said. Mamta Mohanta of the BJD raised the demand of including the Kudmi-Mahato caste in the ST list. She said Kudmi was classified as a notified tribe by the British Raj but they were subsequently excluded from the ST list. Their economic condition is similar to STs and are a dominant caste in Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal, she said, adding the Kudmi-Mahato caste has been fighting for ST status for decades and the government should accord them their rightful status. Nazir Ahmed Laway (J&K-PDP) sought regularisation of contract and daily wagers in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Subhash Chandra Singh (BJD) demanded a hike in the remuneration paid to Anganwadi and Asha centre workers. The remuneration paid to Anganwadi workers should be raised from Rs 4,500 to Rs 15,000 and that those of Asha workers to Rs 10,000 from Rs 2,500 a month. Also, a package on lines of the one announced by the Odisha government of giving Rs 7,500 per month pension to dependents of any Anganwadi worker dying due to Covid-19, should be given by the central government, he said. K C Ramamurthy of the BJP sought special financial assistance for Karnataka for carrying out flood relief work. He said floods in the state have caused enormous damage to crops and infrastructure and very heavy loss of lives and properties. He said the state has suffered an estimated loss of Rs 9,440 crore in this season itself. In special mentions, Sonal Mansingh (Nominated) demanded assistance to freelance artists suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. Satish Chandra Dubey of the BJP sought relaxation in age and concession in fee for economically backward sections in the general category. Kailash Soni (BJP) said the conditions laid down under Prime Minister Awaas Yojana (PMAY) should be relaxed to help people affected by floods. Anil Desai (Shiv Sena) demanded that the name of Bombay High Court should be changed to Mumbai High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/quick-disposal-of-development-projects-discussed-during-zero-hour-of-rajya-sabha-891775.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||SFI demands more time, free internet for Calcutta University students writing UG final semester exams||The SFI, the students' wing of the CPI(M), has demanded additional time and free internet facility for all the Calcutta University students who will write their undergraduate final semester examinations from home. The Students' Federation of India (SFI) has threatened to hit the streets if their demands are not met. The students' body, in a statement issued on Tuesday, said two hours to write the examinations and 30 minutes to submit the answer sheets online is inadequate. "Earlier, the students were allotted four hours to write their honours papers. We demand that students be given appropriate time to write their papers and at least one hour to submit their answer sheets," the SFI, which has a presence in almost all the CU-affiliated colleges, said. Calcutta University had on Monday said undergraduate students will be given two hours to write their final semester exams, scheduled to be held from October 1 to 8, from their homes. Vice Chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee, after a meeting with principals of affiliated colleges, had said the students will be sent the question papers via email and WhatsApp just before the start of the examinations. "We are giving another 30 minutes for uploading the answer sheets but not more than that. If any student faces a network problem, he/she will have to take it up with his/her college," she had said. The decision was taken after the University Grants Commission (UGC) advised the university to limit the time for writing the papers from home to two-three hours. Colleges will send the papers after evaluation by October 18 and the results are expected to be declared by October 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sfi-demands-more-time-free-internet-for-calcutta-university-students-writing-ug-final-semester-exams-891788.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Honestly use PM Cares Fund for public good, online education of students: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said that the government should "honestly" turn the PM Cares Fund into a "public cares fund" and make arrangements for online education of students. "Does the present government, which has spent billions on publicity by installing millions of LED TVs for election rallies, not have funds to make arrangements for online education of students and teachers. The BJP government should honestly make PM Cares Fund a public cares fund and worry about the future of the country," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. He also posted photographs of free laptop computer distribution to students during his dispensation. In another tweet Tuesday night, Yadav objected to the suggestion of opening schools during the coronavirus pandemic, saying it's not a safe option. "Opening schools is not a safe option for education in the corona pandemic period.  The government should provide electricity, one smart phone, network to every student from poor families. Also, give free hardware to teachers for digital education at home. BJP government should consult their family members," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/honestly-use-pm-cares-fund-for-public-good-online-education-of-students-akhilesh-yadav-891791.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha records 100.47% productivity; second shortest Monsoon Session adjourned sine die||Rajya Sabha recorded a productivity of 100.47% as it adjourned sine die on Wednesday, the second shortest Monsoon Session of the House and third shortest of all sessions, eight days ahead of schedule. The Session witnessed suspension of eight MPs for "unruly behaviour" during the passage of two contentious agriculture Bills and subsequent boycott of the proceedings by the Opposition and passage of 25 bills, including 15 on the last two days in 346 minutes, as well as the introduction of six Bills. Since 1952 when Rajya Sabha was established, this (252nd) was the second shortest Monsoon Session of the House when only ten sittings were held, as the government chose to curtail the sittings from 18 days owing to rising Covid-19 cases. When it comes to the shortest Monsoon Sessions, the 110th session held in July 1979 and the 187th session in October 1999 share the record with just six sittings.     The 111th session with sitting on just one day on 20 August 1979 is the shortest among all sessions, as the then Prime Minister Charan Singh resigned the same day. The 89th session of the House, also a Monsoon Session, held during July-September, 1974 holds the record of being the longest among all sessions with 40 sittings of Rajya Sabha. According to ‘Rajya Sabha Statistical Information 1952-2018’ and subsequent official records, 16 Monsoon sessions were held for 11 to 20 sittings each, 40 sessions had 21 to 30 sessions each and nine had 31 to 39 sittings each and one session had 40 sittings. In his valedictory address, Naidu said the high productivity of the last four sessions was "praiseworthy". He said 58% of the total time spent by Rajya Sabha was on Bills and it justified the purpose of the Session during which Question Hour was dispensed with. The House was scheduled to sit for 38:30 hours but it functioned 38:41 hours. Due to disruptions, 3:15 minutes were lost but the House sat 3:26 hours beyond its schedule in some days to bridge the gap. The last four sessions had total productivity of 96.13%. Naidu was critical of the incidents last Sunday when Opposition created ruckus over denying voting during the agriculture Bills and a notice of no-confidence motion submitted against the Deputy Chairman. "It is the collective responsibility to avert such unpleasant turn of event," he said. The Chairman also said not taking up Bills during the Opposition boycott would have "legitimised" it as an effective instrument of blocking legislation. Of all the 69 monsoon sessions, 34 were held during the months of July-August while 16 were held during August-September, six during July-September and five sessions during August-October. Only the 187th session, the monsoon session with six sittings was held fully in October, which was the first session after Atal Bihari Vajpayee became the Prime Minister for the third time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-records-10047-productivity-second-shortest-monsoon-session-adjourned-sine-die-891793.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Mayawati slams both Opposition, government over Monsoon Session chaos||BSP supremo Mayawati Wednesday hit out at the government as well as the Opposition for the ruckus and chaos during the ongoing Monsoon Session, saying their conduct has harmed the dignity of Parliament and the Constitution. In a tweet in Hindi, she said "Although Parliament is called the temple of democracy, its dignity has been shredded many times. Even during the ongoing Parliament session, the functioning of the government and the behaviour of Opposition in the House are embarrassing for the dignity of Parliament, Constitution and democracy. Very sad!” Mayawati’s reaction came in the wake of eight Rajya Sabha Opposition members being suspended from the House on Monday for the ruckus during the passage of two key farm Bills a day earlier. The government had brought a motion for their suspension which was passed by the House by voice vote. The Opposition has been alleging the government did not follow proper procedures during passage of the Bills and didn’t allow division of votes as it lacked numbers. The suspended MPs sat on an overnight dharna on the Parliament complex which they ended after the Opposition decided to boycott Lok Sabha proceedings in solidarity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-slams-both-opposition-government-over-monsoon-session-chaos-891798.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha returns two Appropriation Bills||Rajya Sabha on Wednesday returned the Appropriation (No 3) Bill, 2020 and the Appropriation (No 4) Bill, 2020, authorising payment of certain sums from the Consolidated Fund of India for the current financial year. The bills, which were passed by Lok Sabha on September 19, were cleared in the Upper House with a voice vote and without any discussion. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved the Bills for consideration and passing. The Appropriation (No 4) Bill, 2020 authorises payment and appropriation of certain further sums out of the Consolidated Fund of India for services of the financial year 2020-2021, while the Appropriation (No 3) Bill, 2020 provides for authorisation of appropriation of money out of the Consolidated Fund of India to meet the amounts spent on certain services during the financial year ended on March 31, 2017, in excess of the amounts granted for those services and for that year. An Appropriation Bill is a money bill that allows the government to withdraw funds from the Consolidated Fund of India to meet its expenses during the course of a financial year. As per Article 114 of the Constitution, the government can withdraw money from it only after receiving approval from Parliament. While the Finance Bill contains provisions on financing the expenditure of the government, an Appropriation Bill specifies the quantum and purpose for withdrawing money. The Appropriation Bill is first passed by Lok Sabha and then sent to Rajya Sabha. Rajya Sabha has the power to recommend any amendments in this Bill. However, it is the prerogative of Lok Sabha to either accept or reject these recommendations. The government had introduced the Appropriation Bill in the lower house of Parliament after discussions on Budget proposals and Voting on Demand for Grants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-returns-two-appropriation-bills-891825.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Resettle displaced Brus in all Tripura districts, says Joint Movement Committee to state government||The Joint Movement Committee (JMC), a conglomeration of local organisations, on Wednesday threatened to intensify its movement if the state government resettles all displaced Brus from neighbouring Mizoram only in Kanchanpur sub-division of North Tripura district. JMC Convener Sushanta Bikash Barua said the JMC wants that the Brus be settled in all the eight districts of Tripura instead of only Kanchanpur sub-division of North Tripura district. "Government has taken initiative to resettle 4,600 Bru families only in Kanchanpur sub-division and adjoining areas, but we think it would exert tremendous pressure on local non- Bru communities, like Bengalis, Mizos and local tribals living there. We want that the Brus can be settled equally in all the eight districts of Tripura, not only in Kanchanpur sub-division", Barua told reporters. He said the JMC would launch a strike in the sub-division or would block the national highway-8 which connects Tripura to the rest of the country if the government resettles all the Brus in Kanchanpur sub-division. The JMC had called for a dawn-to-dusk bandh in the sub-division on Tuesday in support of its demand. "People have supported our strike spontaneously. If the government goes ahead with its programme of resettling the Brus only in our sub-division, we would launch continuous strike in the sub-division or we would block the national highway for an indefinite period. It would be decided soon," Barua said. He said the joint movement committee was formed with representatives from Nagorik Suraksha Mancha, a Bengali organisation and Mizo Convention of the Jampui hills in the sub-division and local tribal communities. The JMC submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister, Biplab Kumar Deb through Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM), Chandni Chandran on Wednesday and served a seven-day deadline to the government to reconsider its formula, failing which it would intensify its movement. Bru people from Mizoram started migrating to Kanchanpur sub-division since 1997 following ethnic conflict with the Mizos over land dispute and were sheltered in six relief camps at Kanchanpur for the last 23 years. When several attempts to repatriate the displaced Brus to their own land in Mizoram failed, the Centre signed an agreement with state governments in Tripura and Mizoram and Bru migrants to resettle them permanently in Tripura instead of providing relief funds and ration for years. The Centre also announced Rs 600 crore package for the resettlement. Mizoram Bru Displaced Peoples Forum (MBDPF) has claimed that their rehabilitation plan is running into rough weather due to frequent and repetitive agitations by the Joint Movement Committee, even as the government is willing to resettle the Brus. "We proposed 15 locations for resettlement but rejected 5 so far due to impracticality and future social, cultural and security concerns. The agitations held by the Joint Movement Committee came on the way of implementation of the rehabilitation process. "We also appeal to the state government to take a firm stand to complete the rehabilitation process", MBDPF general secretary Bruno Msha said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/resettle-displaced-brus-in-all-tripura-districts-says-joint-movement-committee-to-state-government-891853.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||Twitter, Facebook arbitrarily censuring 'nationalistic' content: BJP MP||BJP member Tejasvi Surya on Wednesday raised the issue of social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook allegedly arbitrarily censuring content posted by users, especially those with a "nationalistic approach" and sought government intervention for protection of such content. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha, Surya said for a long time there have been many "credible" allegations made against Twitter, Facebook and their affiliates of "arbitrary and unilateral regulation and censuring" of content posted by third party users, especially those with a "nationalistic approach". "This poses a significant constitutional challenge not only on the grounds of unreasonable restriction of free speech but also amounts to illegal interference during elections," he said. The MP said Facebook, Twitter and similar platforms claim themselves to be intermediaries within the meaning of the term under the IT Act, 2000. He said the key element of this definition is that the role of the said intermediaries is limited to processing, storing and transmitting data of third party users and does not include intervention on content of the users. Therefore, Section 79 of the Act provides these intermediaries exemption from liability. An intermediary receives protection that a regular publisher does not receive, he said. Surya said while this is the explicit spirit of the statute, the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, while laying down what sort of third party content must be prohibited by the privacy policy and terms and conditions of the intermediary, goes far beyond the remit of Article 19(2) of the Constitution read with Section 79 and 69 of the IT Act. Article 19(2) of the Constitution authorises the government to impose, by law, reasonable restrictions upon the freedom of speech and expression “in the interests of… public order”, whereas section 69 of the IT Act allows the government to intercept any information and ask for information decryption. Surya said the guidelines essentially empower private party intermediaries to remove on the basis of user complaints or suo moto any content deemed to be in violation of its guidelines. He said these guidelines are not only ultra vires the parent statute but also unconstitutional as the grounds they provide are too wide and will fail the standards of constitutionality set out by the Supreme Court in the Shreya Singhal case while striking down Sec 66A of the IT Act (which provided police the power to arrest a person for posting "offensive" content online). The guidelines are problematic because they empower private enterprises performing essentially a public function to act as censors of free speech without government oversight, thus effectively and severely impacting safeguards of the fundamental right to free speech, he said. "I, therefore, urge the government to repeal such unconstitutional guidelines and issue new ones to govern social media platforms, thereby protecting the fundamental right to free speech of our citizens and protect our democracy from foreign interference," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/twitter-facebook-arbitrarily-censuring-nationalistic-content-bjp-mp-892025.html
23-09-2020||National Politics||BJP MP demands law to check population growth||BJP Lok Sabha MP Uday Pratap Singh on Wednesday asked the Modi government to bring in a law to control population growth and said it would be the most significant legislation of the century. Raising the issue during the Zero Hour in the Lower House, he said unemployment and law and order problems are due to the increasing population of the country. He said the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi had removed Article 370, cleared the way for construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya, and brought a law against the practice of triple talaq. "I request the government to come up with the most significant law of the century...and make a law to control population (growth)," Singh said. On Tuesday, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey had made a similar demand in Lok Sabha. He had said the government should bring in bills for Uniform Civil Code and population control to "save the country". He had said these two bills are required to check minority appeasement. He had also said that members belonging to Scheduled Tribes who convert should not be extended reservation benefits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mp-demands-law-to-check-population-growth-892053.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Bihar DGP in limelight over SSR case takes VRS, may contest Assembly poll as NDA nominee||Bihar Director General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey, who was in the news recently due to his comments in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, on Tuesday late evening took voluntary retirement after 33 years in service. He is likely to contest the ensuing Bihar Assembly election from Buxar constituency as an NDA candidate. The Home Department issued a notification on Tuesday late night granting Pandey voluntary retirement. It apparently waived off the condition of applying for VRS three months in advance. The Home Department also issued another notification giving the additional charge of Bihar DGP to SK Singhal, who is presently DG, Home-guards and Fire Services. Speculations were rife that Pandey, the 1987-batch IPS officer, may soon give up ‘khakhi’ (uniform) and don ‘khadi’ as his inclination towards politics was quite apparent. Ahead of 2009 Lok Sabha election too, he had applied for VRS and was speculated to contest the parliamentary poll as a BJP nominee from Buxar. But soon, he took back his VRS application for reasons unknown. Recently, he hogged the limelight when he gave statements in favour of Patna-born actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his family, while deriding the deceased’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty. His infamous comment challenging the model-actor Chakraborty's 'aukaat' in questioning the Bihar CM created an uproar. Sushant’s cousin Neeraj is a BJP legislator in Bihar and the saffron party has made several attempts to make Sushant’s death an emotive issue for the ensuing Bihar poll. Pandey’s statements as Bihar DGP too were seen in this context, with the Maharashtra Government, Mumbai Police and the Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut charging the top cop with speaking the language of politics. Born at Buxar in 1961, Pandey was made Bihar DGP in January 2019 and was scheduled to retire in February 2021. “But he decided to hang his boots five months in advance,” a senior IPS officer told Deccan Herald on Wednesday, adding that Pandey’s batchmate Sunil Kumar, another DG-rank IPS officer, too took retirement last month to join the JD (U). Sunil is speculated to contest as the JD (U) candidate from Bhore in Gopalganj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-dgp-in-limelight-over-ssr-case-takes-vrs-may-contest-assembly-poll-as-nda-nominee-891671.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Season's last rainfall in Delhi may occur today||Delhi is likely to receive light rainfall on Wednesday, which could be the last precipitation of this monsoon season, the MeT department said. There has been no rainfall in Delhi for two weeks. The last time Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded any rainfall (1.3 mm) was on September 8. The capital has recorded only three rainy days this month, the lowest since 2016. "Light rains are possible in parts of Delhi on Wednesday. Thereafter, there are very fewer chances of any rainfall till the withdrawal of the monsoon," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. The monsoon is likely to start withdrawing from Rajasthan on September 26. Thereafter, it will recede from Delhi, Haryana, west Uttar Pradesh simultaneously by September last week, he said. Heat and humidity continue to trouble the residents. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature settled at 37.1 degrees Celsius, three notches more than the normal. Delhi has recorded 80 per cent less rainfall in September so far, according to India Meteorological Department data. The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 104.2 mm this month so far. Delhi recorded 237 mm rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years.  Overall, the city has recorded 576.5 mm rainfall against the usual 624.3 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seasons-last-rainfall-in-delhi-may-occur-today-891739.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Bar Council asks Bhushan to appear before it over SC conviction in contempt case||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) has issued notice to advocate Prashant Bhushan to explain why disciplinary proceedings should not be initiated against him for his tweets and conviction by the Supreme Court for contempt of court. In a letter issued on September 21, the BCD's honorary secretary Ajayinder Sangwan sought Bhushan's presence either through person or a counsel in the office on October 24. Reacting to the development, Bhushan said, "So, Bar Council now wants to gag lawyers from speaking critically about the Judiciary!" Earlier this month, the Bar Council of India, the apex regulatory body for the lawyers, has sought examination of Bhushan's case following his conviction and sentence of Re one for contempt of court by the Supreme Court. It has directed the Bar Council of Delhi, where Bhushan is enrolled as an advocate, to examine the matter and proceed as per law and rules to decide the same as expeditiously as possible. It has said the tweets and statements made by Bhushan, advocate and the judgment of the Supreme Court needs thorough study and examination by the Bar Council in the light of the statutory duties, powers and functions conferred on it. The Council relied upon Sections 24A and 35 of the Advocates’ Act, 1961 and the rules framed thereunder, allowing disciplinary proceedings against a lawyer held guilty of moral turpitude or professional or other misconduct. Bhushan, held guilty of Suo Motu criminal contempt on August 14, refused to tender apology or express regret for tweets, leading to a fine of Re one or three months jail and debar from practice for three years. He maintained his tweets posted on June 27 and 29 were bona fide beliefs and were meant to express his anguish with the Supreme Court for "a deviation from its sterling past record".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bar-council-asks-bhushan-to-appear-before-it-over-sc-conviction-in-contempt-case-891748.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltaja approaches Supreme Court again for mother's release||Iltaja Mufti, daughter of incarcerated former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP president has approached the Supreme Court against the government's move to charge her under the Public Safety Act (PSA) and extensions of the PSAs thereof. In her application before the Apex Court Iltija has asked for permission to amend the writ petition seeking inter alia a writ of habeas corpus (bring the person). Habeas corpus is a writ seeking production of a person, who has allegedly been in illegal detention, before a court. The petition, represented by senior advocate Aakarsh Kamra, was filed before the Supreme Court on September 18, but it is yet to be listed. “The administration’s conduct in the treatment of the detenu (Mehbooba) betrays total non-application of mind and callous disregard for her fundamental rights. The  detenu is confined without a trial and without an offence,” it reads. In the petition, Iltija has also pleaded that her mother is being denied access to even landline phones and is not being allowed to meet her relatives, including her sister. Earlier in February, Iltija had filed a habeas corpus petition in the apex court challenging the government’s order issued on February 5 for invoking the PSA provision against Mehbooba to keep her in detention. The Supreme Court had sought response from the J&K administration on a plea challenging Mehbooba’s detention under the PSA. “A key opposition leader has been jailed for over a year without recourse to trial. I have moved to the SC to bring in its notice that despite its order in February, J&K administration is yet to even file a reply which shows the respect they (J&K admin) has for courts and SC,” Iltija told DH. She said she wants to bring into notice of the court the treatment Mehbooba has received as she has been deliberately kept out of bounds from the party people and “not allowed to attend to her duties as PDP president.” Mehbooba was among dozens of high profile politicians, including two other former CMs – Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar - who were arrested hours ahead of the Centre revoking special status of the Jammu and Kashmir under Article and breaking the erstwhile state into two union territories on August 5 last year. While most of the politicians including Abdullahs have been released since then, Mehboob remains the only one who is still under detention. On July 31, J&K administration extended her detention by three more months under the PSA. She remains detained at her official residence at Fairview Bungalow, here, which has been declared a subsidiary jail. On Tuesday a leader of PDP said it may take to streets to secure Mehbooba’s release if all other means do not yield results. "We have approached the Supreme Court. If it doesn’t work, we will raise our voice democratically. And if need arises, we will be forced to hit streets to seek her release," Youth PDP president Waheed ur Rehman Parra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-s-daughter-iltaja-approaches-supreme-court-again-for-mothers-release-891786.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Singapore-based firm offers nearly Rs 73 crore for academy in UP Film City||A Singapore-based media company has offered an initial investment of USD 10 million (approximately Rs 73.51 crore) for setting up a film academy in the proposed film city in Uttar Pradesh. The offer came during an interaction of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath with a bevy of filmmakers and artistes on Tuesday over the new film city project that would come up in a 1,000-acre area along Yamuna Expressway near Noida, an official statement said. "The prompt action by the state government immediately received a positive response (from film fraternity) as ace Art director Nitin Desai offered to set up an entire Film City on the lines of what has been set up in Mumbai. He was of the opinion that about 80 per cent of technicians and workforce in Mumbai film industry are from UP and after the industry in UP itself, the availability of manpower will never be a problem,” the statement from the Chief Minister's Office said. "In another offer, Sandeep Singh of Vistas Media, a Singapore-based company, has offered to set up a Film Academy with an initial investment of USD 10 million (approximately Rs 73.51 crore),” it said. Some film fraternity members had reached Lucknow for the meeting with Adityanath, while veteran actors like Anupam Kher and Paresh Rawal had joined the interaction over a video conference. Chairman of Film Producer Association Ashok Pandit welcomed the decision by the state government and said one should look beyond Hindi films and even multilingual films can be made in UP. "After all, the Bhojpuri films are already made here,'' he pointed out. Kher said the proposed film city “should have and will have a global recognition". He emphasized on the training part and asked to evolve some training logistics. Filmmaker and actor Satish Kaushik, who recently shot his film Kagaz in UP, said the state has offered a great alternative to film professionals and aspirants. "The vantage location of the proposed film city caters to large geography and demography of the northern region,” he said. Lyricist Manoj Muntashir welcomed the state government's move for taking Hindi film industry to the Hindi-speaking belt. "The local ethos and mosaic culture will get a further boost if film institute and music academy are also built in UP,” he said. Tamil filmmaker Saundarya said the animation, digital technology and other facilities are the need of the hour and noted that they are already proposed in the film city of Uttar Pradesh. Singers Udit Narayan, Kailash Kher and Anup Jalota too hailed the development, according to the statement. Among others present during the meeting were UP's Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner (IIDC) Alok Tandon, Additional Chief Secretary, Information and Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary to the chief minister S P Goyal, Director of Information Shishir, it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/singapore-based-firm-offers-nearly-rs-73-crore-for-academy-in-up-film-city-891794.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||'If you won't come back, we will die': Pregnant wife appeals to militant husband to return home in Kashmir||The family of a man from Budgam in central Kashmir, who joined militancy recently, appealed to him on Wednesday to return home for the sake of his pregnant wife and four-year-old son. Tariq Ahmed Bhat of Hanjigund, Chadoora in Budgam joined militancy recently, forcing his family to make an appeal for his return. In the video, the family can be seen requesting the militants to send their son, an auto driver by profession, back. His family members said that they approached the police station in Chadoora on September 20 and lodged a missing report about their son. “We are shocked because we never believed that Tariq was inclined towards militancy. But we request him to come back home for his 4-year-old son, pregnant wife and old parents,” the family members told reporters. His wife appealed to him to come back home from wherever he was. “Do not leave your son. I have a baby in my womb. Who will take care of him? If you won't come back, we will die,” she said in an emotional appeal. According to the family, Tariq went missing on Friday and they searched for him everywhere but failed. “On Sunday evening, we heard audio in which our son announced that he has joined militant ranks," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-you-wont-come-back-we-will-die-pregnant-wife-appeals-to-militant-husband-to-return-home-in-kashmir-891814.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Parliament passes Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts Bill||Parliament on Wednesday passed a Bill that seeks to provide a legal framework for bilateral netting of qualified financial contracts, with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserting that the bill is critical for financial stability in the country. Lok Sabha had passed the bill on Sunday. The legislation allows for the enforcement of netting for qualified financial contracts. Sitharaman said the bill brings in a firm legal basis for bilateral netting for two counter parties. "It is just the bilateral contracts which do not have any firm legal basis. Value of bilateral derivative contracts is estimated by the Clearing Corporation of India to be Rs. 56,33,257 crore as of March 2018," she said. Bilateral contracts constitute 40 per cent of total financial contracts, while multilateral contracts constitute 60 per cent, she added. "The Bill is critical for financial stability in the country. ..This bill actually brings in a firm legal basis for bilateral netting between two counter parties...Multilateral netting has already been taken care of," she said. The minister said the bill has been brought in to address the lessons learnt from the 2008 global financial crisis and added that if the legislation was available in 2017, banks would have had Rs 42,192 crore for onward lending, but they had to keep it locked up. "If it was available in 2018, Rs 45,956 crore would have been available while Rs 67,792 crore would have been available in 2019 and this figure would have been Rs 58,308 crore in March 2020," Sitharaman said. She said these figures have been arrived at on the basis on actual data collected from 31 banks. "This particular legislation is so necessary for the stability of the financial market. Money locked up in banks is not available while the economy is starved for funds. This will enhance liquidity and economy will get lubrication," the minister said. She added that the legislation once passed will enable banks to increase credit limits for counter parties and clients and "corporate bond market will get energised" with "buoyant bond market." Earlier while participating in the debate, a number of parties supported the bill and said this was needed. Sujeet Kumar (BJD) said the bill will facilitate financial reforms and will prove a milestone in bringing in the much-needed liquidity. Suresh Prabhu (BJP) said the bill will ensure that there is more liquidity in the financial market. He said the over the counter transactions can lead to a crisis if not regulated. "There is a need to have a prudential oversight regulator over financial markets. The regulation brings into its ambit all regulators in the financial sector," he said. "Over the counter, transactions are a necessary thing and need to be under vigilance so that they do not lead to problems," he noted. He said the Finance Minister should clarify which transactions would qualify as "qualified financial contract". He said the country cannot grow faster unless there are long term instruments for investment in infrastructure. He stressed the need for a vibrant bond market in the country. "This is a good step that will lead to a vibrant, dynamic bond market in the country, which is the need of the hour in the country," he said, adding that we should try to move towards a dynamic financial services market in India that will also help create jobs. A Vijayakumar of the AIADMK supported the bill, while Sujeet Kumar of the BJD said this is a welcome and major financial reform step. He called it a milestone that will improve the financial health of the nation, by bringing in the much-needed liquidity, reducing transactional cost and boosting investor morale. He said close to Rs 2,000 crore is locked up because of non-availability of such financial instruments. K Ravindra Kumar (TDP) congratulated the finance minister for bringing this instrument in the financial market. Mahesh Poddar (BJP) said it is a futuristic bill for financial markets. The bill allows for freeing up capital in the market, which will be useful, he said. "It is a significant step towards ensuring a financial system to expand in India," he said, noting that a strong bond market is needed in the country and the bill will pave way for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parliament-passes-bilateral-netting-of-qualified-financial-contracts-bill-891822.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Traders in Madhya Pradesh agri markets to go on strike from September 24||Agriculture traders in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday announced an indefinite strike in about 270 markets beginning Thursday for a reduction in the mandi fee on the purchase of agricultural commodities. A top office-bearer of a traders' body said they are not opposing the farm Bills passed recently by Parliament, but wanted the state government to protect their "business interest" by slashing the mandi duty. "The state government should immediately reduce the mandi fee that is charged from traders on the purchase of agriculture produce to 0.5 per cent from the current 1.5 per cent," said Gopaldas Agrawal, president, Madhya Pradesh Sakal Anaj Dalhan Tilhan Mahasangh Samiti. He said trading of commodities in about 270 small and big mandis in the state will remain shut until the government accepts the demands of the Samiti. The announcement of shutdown comes at a time when Oilseed crop of Kharif season is expected to reach mandis in the state, which is the largest producer of soybean in the country. However, heavy rains have affected the production of soybean.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/traders-in-madhya-pradesh-agri-markets-to-go-on-strike-from-september-24-891826.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Laxmi Vilas Palace case: Rajasthan HC stays arrest warrant against Arun Shourie||The Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday stayed the arrest warrant against former Union Minister Arun Shourie in a case involving the sale of an Udaipur hotel at an alleged loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. The court told Shourie to appear before it and furnish a personal bond and surety on October 15, the next date of hearing in the case. The case pertains to the sale of public sector Indian Tourism Development Corporation’s Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel to a private firm around two decades ago. The property was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd for Rs 7.52 crore when Shourie was the minister in charge of divestment in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre. During a preliminary investigation by the CBI, the property was valued at Rs 252 crore, suggesting a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. On Tuesday, the High Court court had stayed the arrest of former disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal and two others--MD of Lazard India Limited Ashish Guha and MD of Bharat Hotels Limited Jyotsana Suri. The fifth accused in the case is Kantilal Karamsey, whose firm was involved in the valuation of the hotel. Arguing for Shourie, senior counsel Pradeep Shah with Prashant Bhushan through video conferencing said there was neither the condition nor the urgency to summon the accused by arrest warrant and the CBI court erred in passing this order. Admitting the arguments, Justice Dinesh Mehta converted the arrest warrant of Shourie into a bailable warrant and directed him to furnish a personal bond and surety by appearing in the court on October 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/laxmi-vilas-palace-case-rajasthan-hc-stays-arrest-warrant-against-arun-shourie-891838.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Naxal camp busted in Bijapur district; jawan injured||A jawan from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) was injured while defusing an IED recovered at a Maoist camp busted by the security forces in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district on Wednesday, police said. A joint patrolling team of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and DRG busted a naxal camp in a forest of Mariwada-Gongla villages under Gangaloor police station area, inspector general of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. On sensing the presence of the patrolling team, ultras managed to escape into the dense forest abandoning their camp, he said. Maoist uniforms, an improvised explosive device (IED), IED switches, torch, iron pellets, Maoist literature, tents, bags, medicines and materials of daily use were recovered from the camp, the official said. A DRG jawan sustained minor stone pellets injury, when the IED recovered from the camp exploded while being defused, the IG said, adding that his condition is stable. The search operation was still underway in the area, he said. Meanwhile, there were reports that four villagers had been killed by naxals in Gangloor area and the patrolling team had launched the operation to confirm the information, said a police officer on condition of anonymity. In the last one month, 10 people, including three policemen, a forest official and six civilians, were killed in separate naxal-related incidents in Bijapur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-naxal-camp-busted-in-bijapur-district-jawan-injured-891847.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir L-G Manoj Sinha approves regularisation, promotion of over 550 police officers||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha approved regularisation and promotion of over 550 officers at the level of SP and DySP on Wednesday, putting to rest the decades-old seniority disputes and resultant litigations in Jammu and Kashmir. Sinha said it is "our collective responsibility" to address the issue of career progression of police personnel and well-being of their families. The exercise, started by former Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu, has finally paved the way for smooth career progression of the gazetted cadre of J&K police, officials said. "The government has regularised and promoted more than 550 officers at the level of SP and DySP, and granted and predated selection grade of Dy SP in favour of more than 300 officers, including serving officers," an official spokesperson said. While officers were promoted to the rank of SPs and DySPs, they were only getting benefits as inspectors in absence of regularisation of their promotions. Sinha said J&K police officials have been at the forefront of the battle against terrorism, displaying exemplary courage and ensuring a secure environment. But the police department had been besotted with seniority disputes for a long time, he added. Congratulating the officers, Sinha lauded the effort of the Home Department and said efficiency and good governance is the key to execute reforms on vital fronts. "We are proud of our police force. They have always shown the highest professionalism and the greatest perseverance in handling cross-border terrorism and making a concerted effort in maintaining peace in Jammu and Kashmir. I strongly feel that it's our collective responsibility to address the issue of career progression, well-being of police, and welfare of their families," the lt governor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-manoj-sinha-approves-regularisation-promotion-of-over-550-police-officers-891850.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||EC says no direction to CBDT to issue notice to Sharad Pawar on poll affidavits||The Election Commission on Wednesday said it has not given any direction to the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to issue a notice to NCP chief Sharad Pawar over his poll affidavits. The EC's statement came a day after Pawar said that the Income Tax department has served him a notice in connection with his poll affidavits submitted to the poll panel. Talking to reporters in Mumbai on Tuesday, Pawar said the Income Tax department has sought his "clarification and explanation" on some poll affidavits furnished by him. "I got the notice yesterday...We are happy that they (the Centre) love us from among all the members...The notice was served by Income Tax after the Election Commission asked (it) to...We will reply to the notice," he said. The poll panel, referring to media reports, in a statement said, "...It is stated that the Election Commission of India has not issued any such direction to CBDT to issue a notice to Shri Pawar."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ec-says-no-direction-to-cbdt-to-issue-notice-to-sharad-pawar-on-poll-affidavits-891854.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi hospitals have enough oxygen for 6-7 days: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said there is no shortage of oxygen in Delhi hospitals and that enough stock is available for the next six to seven days. The minister also the Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital has plateaued out a bit and a downward trend is expected in a week or two. "There is no shortage of oxygen in Delhi hospitals. I took stock of the situation. There is a slight issue, but there is enough oxygen for 7 days in Delhi government-run hospitals," he said. Delhi gets oxygen from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Some suppliers in those states have been told to first supply oxygen there. These issues are being sorted, Jain told reporters here. He said Delhi reported a positivity rate of 6.47 per cent on Tuesday. The average positivity rate for the last 7 days stood at 7 per cent. It was 8.5-9 per cent in the recent past. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the cumulative positivity rate has come down from 12 per cent to 9 per cent. "The positivity rate has plateaued out a bit and a downward trend will there in a week or two," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hospitals-have-enough-oxygen-for-6-7-days-satyendar-jain-891867.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 positive woman ends life in Shimla hospital; magisterial probe ordered||A 54-year-old woman who had tested positive for coronavirus last week allegedly killed herself at a government hospital in Himachal Pradesh's capital Shimla early Wednesday, police said. Meanwhile, her family members alleged that neglectful attitude of the hospital’s medical staff drove her to suicide. Deputy Commissioner Amit Kashyap has ordered a magisterial inquiry by Additional District Magistrate (Law and Order) into the incident. A report in the matter will be submitted within 10 days, he said. Superintendent of Police Mohit Chawla told PTI that Kamal, a resident of Chopal, was admitted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital after she tested positive for the infection on September 18. She hanged herself to death from an iron grill outside the Covid care ward at 12.10 am on Wednesday, the officer said. The SP said a report from the hospital has been sought and inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC have been initiated. The post-mortem report is awaited, he said. No immediate reaction was available from the hospital regarding the incident. Talking to media, the victim’s brother-in-law alleged that negligent behaviour of the medical staff towards coronavirus patients forced his sister-in-law to take the extreme step. He said he talked to her daily over phone and she told him that she was not being taken care of and not even provided with water. “We gave a water bottle to the hospital staff at 11 am for Kamal, but it reached her at 8 pm. I last talked to her at 10:30 pm on Tuesday. She was upset and disconnected the call,” the relative said. The family alleged that the victim was also not given medicines on time by the staff. Deputy Commissioner Amit Kashyap said it was the responsibility of the medical superintendent of DDU hospital for making proper arrangements for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-woman-ends-life-in-shimla-hospital-magisterial-probe-ordered-891882.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Inside J&K’s Special Operations Group's headquarters: From tracking social media for terror activity to planning ops||Dubbed Cargo, the headquarters of Jammu and Kashmir’s elite Special Operations Group buzzes with activity as various teams work 24X7 to track terrorist activity, suss out the ground situation in the Valley and plan operations.   With each team working on a dedicated task, the SOG is moving full steam ahead with its efforts to hit out at terrorists trying to make Srinagar their base, said senior officials anxious to recast the image of the force. The idea, said Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh, is to ensure that Cargo becomes a centre of excellence rather than a place that evokes fear. "I wanted to ensure that Cargo, a name which sent chills down people’s spines earlier, becomes a centre for excellence and I guess that dream has been realised now," Singh said on Tuesday after congratulating SOG personnel for successfully completing an operation. The building -- which once housed Indian Airlines cargo, hence the name, and is usually out of bounds for journalists – carries the tagline of the SOG, also known as Special Task Force (STF). The sign outside says ‘CARGO: In pursuit of excellence’. "Hum awam ke dost hain (We are people friendly),"  Singh said with Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar by his side as the successful SOG squad saluted him. The SOG commandos, dressed in black and wearing masks in view of the Covid-19 crisis, have adapted the slogan "How's the Josh" from the Bollywood film "Uri: The Surgical Strike". This year, the SOG conducted seven special operations within Srinagar city limits and eliminated 16 terrorists of various outfits, significantly higher than previous years.         Singh brushes off questions about controversies, including the alleged intimidation of journalists, saying it is not possible in this day and age with so many CCTVs present.         "Every one summoned here is shown charges and after hearing their side of the story they are escorted out with full respect. We are doing our job and that's all. I think the SOG is doing a good job," Singh told PTI.          A Cargo unit, headed by Superintendent of Police Tahir Ashraf, is using scientific methods during interrogation and has deployed dedicated teams for specified anti-terror activities, officials said.         Among the recent additions is a "command vehicle”, providing a 360-degree view of the area where an operation is taking place so it can provide complete backup to its men on the ground.           "The vehicle has been designed by the SOG taking into consideration the need of its men involved in the operations. Today, every person involved in an operation carries a body camera so we can monitor his activity and pass necessary instructions on a special wireless headset," said Ashraf.           A tour of the SOG headquarters gives a sense of how the force works. In one part of the building, designated teams are working on the terror group ‘assigned’ to them.         "If a youth disappears from any locality in Kashmir Valley, we immediately start monitoring his previous activity and his associations so we can pinpoint his possible recruiter. We have gained success in many cases… many boys have been returned safely to their family members," Ashraf said without divulging details on grounds of security.         Another section closely monitors social media platforms, which have been used by terror recruiters to identify vulnerable youths.         "This section has been doing exemplary work. Here, too, we have had many successes …  when a young boy is continuously visiting any site propagating radicalisation and it comes to our notice, we inform the parents. The boy is also counselled," Ashraf said. Sometimes, their efforts fail. The DGP cited the example of an encounter in the last week of August in which the SOG lost Assistant Sub-Inspector Babu Ram. “My boys traced the parents of the holed up militant to make an appeal to him to surrender despite the fact that he had killed one of their own. We brought the parents from Pampore in south Kashmir to the encounter site on the outskirts of Srinagar city to appeal to their son to surrender.  “However it failed and we had to go for a final assault,” he said.   The 'Cargo' building was taken over by Jammu and Kashmir Police in the initial days of militancy in 1994. Subsequently, it became the headquarters of the STF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inside-jk-s-special-operations-groups-headquarters-from-tracking-social-media-for-terror-activity-to-planning-ops-891884.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Police use water cannon in Panipat to stop Haryana Youth Congress 'tractor rally' to Delhi||The Haryana police on Wednesday used water cannon in Panipat to stop a Haryana Youth Congress-led rally from proceeding to Delhi to protest against Centre's farm reform bills. Indian Youth Congress president Srinivas B V also participated in the “tractor rally” which was stopped by the police at a barricade in Panipat district. However, when some workers tried to cross the barricade, police used water cannon to disperse them. Many youth workers were later taken into preventive custody, police said. The rally, in which, youth Congress leaders claimed, many farmers were also participating, was to proceed from Panipat to Delhi, where they were to gherao the Parliament, to register their protest against the farm bills, which they dubbed as anti-farmer. The rally also disrupted normal traffic on the national highway for some time. Earlier on Sunday, the Haryana police had used a water cannon to stop Punjab Youth Congress workers from entering the Ambala district and travelling ahead to Delhi as part of their tractor rally against the farm bills. Srinivas B V and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar had also taken part in that tractor rally. The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by both Houses of Parliament, amid protests by opposition parties, including the Congress, TMC, DMK and the Left, besides some farmers' groups. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-use-water-cannon-in-panipat-to-stop-haryana-youth-congress-tractor-rally-to-delhi-891885.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia hospitalised due to Covid-19||Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia was hospitalised on Wednesday due to coronavirus, sources said. The 48-year-old Aam Aadmi Party leader has been admitted to the state-run LNJP Hospital here, they added. He had tested positive for the infection on September 14 and was in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-hospitalised-due-to-covid-19-891905.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Congress creates ruckus in Uttarakhand Assembly, seeks debate on coronavirus||The Congress on Wednesday created a ruckus in the Uttarakhand Assembly, demanding a discussion on the coronavirus situation in the state. Some members even flung agenda papers towards the chair, resulting in the adjournment of the proceedings for half an hour. However, disruptions continued even after the House reassembled and several Bills were introduced amid the din. Earlier, soon after the Assembly offered tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee and two ex-MLAs, Congress MLAs led by Kazi Nizamuddin and Pritam Singh rose from their seats and began demanding an immediate debate on coronavirus. Deputy Speaker Raghunath Singh, who chaired the proceedings in the absence of Speaker Premchand Aggarwal, requested the Opposition members to resume their seats, saying they could speak on the issue later. However, ignoring the Deputy Speaker's request, the Congress MLAs gathered in front of his chair insisting on their demand. Kazi Nizamuddin said no subject is more important at present than the Covid crisis and criticised the state government for reducing the duration of the session to just one day. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Madan Kaushik said the duration was reduced due to the pandemic and the meeting of the Assembly's Business Advisory Committee, where the decision was taken, was attended by Deputy Leader of Opposition Karan Mahra and Congress MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal. This further agitated the Opposition MLAs, who began shouting at the top of their voice. Some members flung pages of the House's agenda for the day towards the chair. When repeated requests from the chair to resume their seats were ignored, the House was adjourned for half an hour. When the House reassembled the disruptions began once again. However, several bills were tabled amid the prevailing din before the assembly was adjourned for lunch. Earlier in the day, the session began amid strict compliance of Covid guidelines. The session, originally scheduled to be held from September 23 to 25, was curtailed to one day because of rising cases of coronavirus in the state. As decided earlier, only MLAs who had tested negative for Covid-19 were allowed to enter the House after thermal screening. Speaker Premchand Aggarwal and Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh were absent as they are undergoing treatment for the infection. Those who attended the pre-lunch session included Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, his cabinet colleagues Madan Kaushik, Satpal Maharaj, Arvind Pandey, Subodh Uniyal and minister of state Rekha Arya. The Question Hour was done away with due to paucity of time and only written replies to questions were given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-creates-ruckus-in-uttarakhand-assembly-seeks-debate-on-coronavirus-891907.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Train driver brakes in time to save 2-year-old kid pushed on track by brother while playing||An alert driver of a goods train managed to bring the train to a halt just in time to save a two-year-old kid who was allegedly pushed on the railway track by his elder brother while the two were playing. Though the incident happened near the Ballabhgarh railway station near Agra on the Delhi-Agra section of the Northern Railway two days ago, it came to light on Wednesday, when a video showing the kid trapped beneath the engine of the goods train went viral on social media. The video also shows the kid's 10-year-old brother near the tracks along with their mother. According to the reports, the kid and his brother were playing near the tracks, when suddenly the elder brother pushed the former on the tracks. A goods train was approaching on the same track. As the driver of the goods train, identified as Divan Singh, saw the kid being pushed on the track, he applied the emergency brakes to bring the train to halt. The goods train was moving at a slow speed making it easier for the driver to stop it. When Singh and his assistant got down from their cabin, they found the kid trapped beneath the engine. The child's mother, who was nearby, also reached the spot and the kid was handed over to her. The driver of the train submitted a written report to his superiors at the Agra Cantonment railway station, reports said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/train-driver-brakes-in-time-to-save-2-year-old-kid-pushed-on-track-by-brother-while-playing-891914.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Navjot Sidhu stages protest against Farm Bills||Punjab MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday demonstrated a protest against the farm bills which, he said, will "ruin" the farming community. The cricketer-turned-politician, who was accompanied by his supporters, sat on a tractor here and held placards that read, "We are united in fight for farmers", in English and Punjabi. This is Sidhu's first public appearance after he resigned from the state cabinet last year. Sidhu, who represents Amritsar seat in the assembly, told reporters that the new bills would dismantle the minimum support price and the marketing system. “These new bills will ruin farmers,” he said. Lashing out at the BJP-led government at the Centre for bringing the bills, Sidhu said he will not let them be implemented. No district-level Congress leader was present in the protest and the party's flags were also missing. Asked about the absence of his party colleague, Sidhu said he was here to protest against the farm bills and extend his full support to the farming community. "We all are united to fight these black laws. Our fight is for farmers and it will be taken to a logical conclusion. We will not sit quiet till these bills are revoked,” he said. "I am not alone on this issue. All MLAs irrespective of political parties to which they belong are speaking for the farming community,” he said. Sidhu's supporters were also carrying black flags and placards. The MLA and many of his supporters were seen without face masks. On Tuesday, Sidhu said all political parties, farmers' outfits and every Punjabi should join hands to strongly oppose the farm bills. He had also voiced his support to farmers a few days ago via a Twitter post in which he said, “Punjab, Punjabiyat and every Punjabi are with peasants". Sidhu, who had been at loggerheads with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, was stripped off key portfolios in the cabinet reshuffle in June last year. Parliament on Sunday gave its nod to the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navjot-sidhu-stages-protest-against-farm-bills-891917.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Woman raped by 2 men in her house in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur||Two unidentified men allegedly barged into a woman's house and raped her in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place late on Tuesday night in Bidhnu area here, said SHO Pushpraj Singh. The 45-year-old woman, who is married, told police that she was sleeping in her room when the two masked men barged into her house and raped her. The men fled when the woman’s son woke up hearing the noise, the station house officer said. A case has been registered and efforts are being made to establish the identities of the culprits, the SHO said, adding that some people have been detained in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-raped-by-2-men-in-her-house-in-uttar-pradeshs-kanpur-891955.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Humour mills go on overdrive after late-night Srinagar boom||It’s a sonic boom! It’s a pressure cooker bursting! It’s a quake! And yes, the late-night boom that reverberated across the city and several parts of south Kashmir on Tuesday was indeed a quake, seismologists later confirmed. But before that, social media humour and rumour mills were already on overdrive with messages facetious, flippant and sometimes funny. The National Centre for Seismology (NCS) confirmed that a 3.6 magnitude earthquake was recorded around 9.40 pm at a shallow depth of 5 km. No one was quite sure till then what caused the loud noise and sudden shaking of houses in Srinagar – this was followed by another after 10 minutes. Twitterati was unstoppable by then, using references from popular culture and current events for a series of posts. One post blamed 'Rashi', a character from the 2,184-episode Hindi TV soap “Saath Nibhana Saathiya” which ran on Star Plus for seven years. She put an empty pressure cooker on the gas stove and it eventually burst, it said, provoking mirth all around. Amid continued tensions along the Sino-India border, another said it was "a missed call by China" and attached a string of smileys. "Friends, we in #Kashmir are now in the era of municipality-limited earthquakes. 2-second tremor in 15 wards, with epicentre under galli no. 420," said a tweet amid confusion over whether it was an earthquake or an aircraft breaking the sonic boom barrier. The first post that appeared said in Kashmiri that there was an earthquake type feeling but the same is not confirmed by the officials. "It wasn't an earthquake but earthquake-like, it wasn't a blast but blast-like, aur humari zindagi essi confusion mein rahi ki us nay iiqrar kiya k inkaar (And our life continues in this confusion as there was no confirmation nor a denial)," said another. One Twitter user posted a picture of "Jadoo", the blue ET-style alien from Hrithik Roshan starrer “Koi Mil Gaya” and attributed the boom to his presence near "Ghantaghar" at the city centre Lal Chowk. A notification in August issued by the Indian Air Force about night exercises also started doing the rounds of WhatsApp and people said it could be a war exercise. Even a tweet from Deputy Commissioner Shahid Choudhury failed to put a lid on humour. Some netizens, tongue firmly in cheek, said the Jammu and Kashmir administration was testing the restoration of 4G internet service, resulting in shocking the entire Union Territory. The union territory, except for Ganderbal in Kashmir and Udhampur in Jammu, has been operating on 2G internet services since the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year. There were no reports of any casualties or damage to property from the tremors on Tuesday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/humour-mills-go-on-overdrive-after-late-night-srinagar-boom-891982.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Extreme air pollution in Delhi during winter likely to aggravate Covid-19 situation: Docs||Doctors and environment experts believe that extreme levels of air pollution in the national capital during winter is likely to aggravate the Covid-19 situation in the city and pose a serious challenge to the government. Every winter, Delhi's air quality dips to a dangerous low due to many reasons, including the city's geographic location, unfavourable weather, stubble burning and local sources of pollution. A Supreme Court-mandated pollution control body had in November last year declared a public health emergency and ordered the closure of schools, construction activities and diesel generators in Delhi-NCR after a toxic haze shrouded the region. Dr Akshay Budhraja, Consultant in Department of Pulmonology, Aakash Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital, said air pollution poses a serious threat to people suffering from chronic bronchitis and inflammation of lungs and such patients are more prone to Covid-19. The severity is more if they contract the viral disease, he said. "Air pollution makes asthma worse. It will be a challenging time for us too, as it takes 10-12 hours to conduct a radiological examination and an RT-PCR test to determine whether it's a case of asthma flare-up or coronavirus," he said. Dr Laxmikant Kaotekwar, Consultant, Pulmonology, Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune, said, "If there is a previous history of dust allergies, it points towards asthma flare-up." "Asthma patients are more prone to Covid-19. Such people should get evaluated beforehand so they can keep their asthma under control." Santosh Harish, a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, said pollution levels will be relatively lower this year due to subdued economic activity. "However, air pollution exposure is likely to increase vulnerability to Covid-19 and the severity of the infection." "It is a matter of serious concern. We are going to witness very high levels of pollution soon and this is going to coincide with the time the Covid-19 cases will peak," he said. High air pollution-level will aggravate the situation as it seriously compromises the respiratory system and the immune system. There will be serious complications among Covid-19 patients, said Sunil Dahia, an analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. "Stubble burning is not the only cause behind dangerous levels of air pollution in Delhi. Among other measures, the government should order closure of coal-fired power plants during winter to arrest the dip in air quality," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/extreme-air-pollution-in-delhi-during-winter-likely-to-aggravate-covid-19-situation-docs-891989.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out in Noida firm’s office||A fire broke out on Wednesday evening in the office of a private firm in Noida. The fire was reported around 6.15 pm from the firm located in the industrial Sector 59, said fire officials, adding that fire tenders have been pressed into service to douse the flame. “Fire tenders have been pressed into service and local police are also at the site where relief operations are underway,” a police official said at 7 pm. There was no immediate report of any person getting harmed in the blaze, the police said. Further details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-noida-firm-s-office-891993.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||BDC chairman shot dead by militants in Kashmir's Budgam||On a day when Jammu and Kashmir administration decided to hold polls for vacant panchayat seats in the Union Territory (UT), militants shot dead a Block Development Council (BDC) chairman in Khag area of Central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Wednesday evening. The incident took place at around 7.45 pm when militants opened fire at Bhupinder Singh just outside his residence. He was taken to a hospital where he was declared as brought dead, a police official said. Preliminary reports said Singh was assigned two personal security officers (PSOs) from District Police Line (DPL) Budgam. “He dropped off the PSOs at the Khag police station on Wednesday and headed towards his residence in Srinagar's Aloochibagh. However, Singh instead changed his route and started heading towards his ancestral home in Khag without informing the police. This is when militants opened fire at him,” sources said. Earlier, in the day, J&K Administrative Council which met under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor, Manoj  Sinha decided to conduct elections to vacant sarpanch/panch constituencies. When the elections for panchayats were held in November-December 2018, close to 60% of the total seats in Kashmir had remained vacant due to lack of participation by the regional parties - National Conference (NC) and PDP - in the electoral process. The election was largely boycotted in Kashmir and over 12,600 panchayat seats are still lying vacant. The latest attack comes in the wake of multiple such cases reported from the valley this year. On August 6, BJP sarpanch Sajad Khanday was shot dead at Vessu, Qazigund in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. Before that militants killed BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari along with his father and brother in northern Bandipora district. Last month amid rising attacks by militants against panchayat members and the BJP workers, LG Sinha had said they will ensure better security arrangements for those facing threats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bdc-chairman-shot-dead-by-militants-in-kashmirs-budgam-892031.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab cabinet approves revision in nursing course fee||The Punjab cabinet gave its nod on Wednesday for revision of the fee structure in various nursing courses with effect from the 2020-21 academic session. The decision was taken at the cabinet meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, to strengthen the medical education and infrastructural facilities at the government and private medical colleges, according to a statement. The increase in the fee, however, will be applicable prospectively only to new students joining in the 2020-21 session. All the existing enrolled students will continue to pay at old rates for the full course, it said. A spokesperson of the Chief Minister's Office said the revision had been proposed with regard to auxiliary nursing and midwifery (ANM) course in the government and private nursing colleges, BSc nursing (basic) and BSc nursing (post basic) in private colleges of the state. This is in accordance with the recommendations of a committee constituted under the Medical Education Department principal secretary in compliance of the 2017 orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, as per the statement. The spokesperson said the committee, after detailed deliberations and keeping in view the fee structure in other states, as well as increase in overall expenses, unanimously recommended that the fee for the government institutions be fixed lower than private institutions. The ANM course fee is proposed to be increased from Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000 per year in government institutions and from Rs 14,375 to Rs 18,000 per year in private institutions. There would be no increase in the fee of BSc Nursing (Basic) and BSc Nursing (Post Basic) course, which is Rs 40,000 per year in government institutions. However, in private institutions, it is proposed to be increased from Rs 40,250 to Rs 50,000 per year. The committee had proposed no increase in the MSc (Nursing) course fee in government institutions, which is Rs 1 lakh per year, and in private institutions where it stands at Rs 1.75 lakh. As per the committee's recommendations, the cabinet has also approved an annual increase of five per cent in the fee for both government and private institutions for five years for subsequent batches, with a review after five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cabinet-approves-revision-in-nursing-course-fee-892035.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Jaipur Metro resumes operations, Ashok Gehlot inaugurates service on extended track||After six months of its closure due to the Covid lockdown, Jaipur metro resumed operations on Wednesday when chief minister Ashok Gehlot also inaugurated a small underground stretch of the existing line to a new destination in the walled city area. Chief Minister Gehlot digitally inaugurated the extended underground stretch of the existing Mansarovar- Chandpole metro line, taking the services to Chandpole in Jaipur’s old city areas. The Jaipur Metro laid down its underground 2.12-km track and built the sole underground station at Chandpole under its phase 1-B plans. The new line would now cater to the people also in the old city area enabling them to reach Mansarovar 12 km away in around 26 minutes, a release said. “The metro project saw a lot of challenges like saving of archaeological structures and environment and not hurting religious sentiments of people,” the release said. “People of the city supported us and this project is a result of support, dedication and zeal to develop Jaipur as a smart city,” Gehlot, according to the release, said while inaugurating the service digitally. The chief minister also congratulated the team of engineers and officers of Jaipur Metro and talked to an operator Shaifali too through video conference. The Jaipur metro was conceptualised a decade ago during the previous tenure of the Ashok Gehlot government. The route from Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar was decided as phase 1 which was divided in phase 1-A from Mansarovar to Chandpole on elevated tracks and underground between Chandpole and Badi Chaupar under Phase 1-B. The foundation stone for phase 1-A (Mansarover to Chandpole) was laid in February 2011 and trial runs were started in 2013 and the train started commercial services in 2015. For phase 1-B (Chandpole to Badi Chaupar), the foundation stone was laid in September 2013 and the project was scheduled to be completed in two and a half years but this phase took longer in the completion. In the phase 1-B, the major key challenges were about keeping heritage structures falling in its vicinity unharmed and developing the project in the most populated area of the city, an official said. The Jaipur Metro services were closed after the lockdown was announced in March this year because of coronavirus spread. Now the metro will function normally, the official of Jaipur metro rail corporation said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-metro-resumes-operations-ashok-gehlot-inaugurates-service-on-extended-track-892042.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt allows trial of Covaxin in Lucknow, Gorakhpur||The Uttar Pradesh Government on Wednesday allowed the phase-3 trial of anti-Covid-19 vaccine ''Covaxin'' in Lucknow and Gorakhpur. The vaccine is currently being tested by Bharat Biotech Ltd in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad conveyed the government’s permission to test the anti-Covid-19 vaccine in the two cities through a letter to Bharat Biotech International Limited’s director V Krishna Mohan. "Kindly refer to your letter dated September 19, 2020 for permission and facilitation to initiate the COVAXIN Phase 3 Efficacy and Safety clinical trials in Uttar Pradesh. It has been decided to allow Bharat Biotech to conduct Phase-3 trial in Lucknow and Gorakhpur," Prasad said in his letter. "All permission will have to be obtained by you and all safety and other protocols will have to be followed as per the guidelines of the Government of India for conducting clinical trials," he added in the letter. For Lucknow, Dr R K Dhiman, the director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences has been made the nodal person, while for Gorakhpur, Dr Ganesh Kumar, the Principal of BRD Medical College has been made the nodal officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-allows-trial-of-covaxin-in-lucknow-gorakhpur-892061.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Shaheen Bagh protester Bilkis on TIME's list of 100 most influential people of 2020||Eighty-two-year-old Bilkis, who shot into the limelight last year during the months-long anti-citizenship law protest at Shaheen Bagh here, has been recognised by the TIME magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020. During the protest, which began in December, the octogenarian sat under a tent with hundreds of women and children, braving icy winds. She emerged as the face of the protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens. The protest at Shaheen Bagh ended in March this year in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and a subsequent lockdown announced by the government to contain the spread of the disease. Also on the TIME magazine's list from India are Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shaheen-bagh-protester-bilkis-on-times-list-of-100-most-influential-people-of-2020-892064.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab cabinet gives nod for PACL disinvestment||The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod for disinvestment of Punjab Alkalies & Chemicals Limited (PACL). Accepting the report of the Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) of PACL as well as the recommendations of the Empowered Group of Ministers set up on September 17, the cabinet has given the go-ahead for disinvestment of 33.49 per cent equity shareholding of PACL, held by state-owned Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC), an official spokesperson said. The EGM, after considering the detailed report of the fresh core group of officers on disinvestment during its meeting on September 22, unanimously decided that the state government should go ahead with the disinvestment of shares of PACL in the manner as recommended by the core group. Finance Minister Manpreet Badal informed the meeting that the state will get Rs 42 crore from the disinvestment, the spokesperson said. The meeting was chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cabinet-gives-nod-for-pacl-disinvestment-892065.html
23-09-2020||North and Central||I never wear a face mask: Madhya Pradesh Home Minister||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, state home minister and BJP leader Narottam Mishra on Wednesday caused a flutter saying he doesn't wear a face mask in any programme. However, as the Congress attacked him, the minister later tempered his remarks, saying he cannot continue to wear a face mask for a long time due to a medical condition. "I don't wear a mask in any programmes. 'Isme kya hota hai?' (so what)," the home minister told reporters when they asked him why he was not wearing a mask at a function here. Mishra was in Indore to participate in a programme for distribution of assistance under the state government's Sambal Yojana, which provides social security cover to the poor and the SC and ST communities. However, Mishra's cabinet colleagues Tulsiram Silawat and other BJP leaders, who also attended the event, were wearing masks. The Congress launched a pointed attack, asking are Covid-19 norms meant only for the common people. "Is there anyone who has the courage to take action against him (Mishra). Are rules only for common people?" Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja tweeted. As his remarks drew fire, the home minister told reporters in Bhopal, "I normally wear a mask but I can't sport it for a long time, as I am suffering from Polypus and if I wear a mask it leads to suffocation". Indore is among the worst-hit districts in Madhya Pradesh which has reported 20,834 Covid-19 cases and 516 fatalities so far. An Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) official said the civic body penalises people without masks with Rs 200 fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-never-wear-a-face-mask-madhya-pradesh-home-minister-892067.html
23-09-2020||South||Telangana records 2,296 new Covid-19 cases, 10 more deaths||Telangana recorded 2,296 fresh coronavirus cases, pushing the aggregate to 1.77 lakh, while the toll rose to 1,062 in the state with 10 fatalities. Out of the 2,296 cases, 321 were reported in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Rangareddy 217, Medchal Malkajgiri 173, Nalgonda 155, Karimngar 136 and other districts, a state government bulletin said on Wednesday, providing data as of 8 PM on September 22. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.46 lakh, while 29,873 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 82.52 per cent, while it was 81.23 per cent in the country, it said. The bulletin said 55,892 samples were tested on September 22. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 26.28 lakh. The samples tested per million population was 70,809, it added. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.59 per cent, while it was 1.59 per cent at the national level, it said. The recovery rate in the state, which was 80.71 per cent, as on September 15 night, has been increasing steadily. The state has been witnessing about 2,000 recoveries every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-records-2296-new-covid-19-cases-10-more-deaths-891726.html
23-09-2020||South||5.38 lakh ineligible farmers claimed money under PM Kisan scheme in Tamil Nadu: Centre||Over 5.38 lakh “ineligible” farmers have claimed money under the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme in Tamil Nadu and 52 persons, including government officials, have been arrested for their alleged involvement in the scam, the Centre said on Wednesday. The scam came into light in August after government officials found ineligible farmers have claimed money under the scheme aimed at providing subsidy to farmers across the country. The Tamil Nadu government transferred the case to the CB-CID wing which formed a special team to investigate the case. In a reply to questions raised by DMK Rajya Sabha MP P Wilson, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar admitted that reports of ineligible persons being registered under PM-KISAN scheme were received from the Government of Tamil Nadu. “Since the entire responsibility of identifying the eligible landholder farmer families is of the State/UT Governments, the State Government conducted detailed investigations in the matter. It was found that some unscrupulous elements had misused the login-id and password credentials of district officials under the scheme for bulk booking of ineligible persons,” the minister said.   He said out of 5.95 lakh beneficiaries accounts verified till September 15, 2020, 5.38 lakh beneficiaries were found ineligible. On the action taken against officials, Tomar said while the services of 96 contractual staff were terminated, departmental Action was initiated against 34 officers responsible for enrollment of ineligible beneficiaries. “Three Block level officers and 5 Assistant Agricultural Officers, who were found responsible for misuse of passwords, were suspended. FIR filed in 13 districts. 52 persons including contractual staff were arrested,” he added. The minister said so far, an amount of Rs 61 crore has been recovered from the ineligible beneficiaries. Tamil Nadu Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi had earlier this month said initial investigations have found Rs 110 crore has been transferred to ineligible farmers and that the district administrations have been asked to ensure that the money is transferred back to the government. Tomar added that the Tamil Nadu Government has taken action to strengthen the system by preparing a Standard Operating Procedure in consultation with the Centre to avoid such incidents in future. Eligible farmers get an assistance of Rs 6,000 per year in three instalments under the scheme and the scam came to light in the second week of August when district collectors noticed unusually large numbers of beneficiaries being added to the scheme. Some officials of the government departments colluded with computer centres and tech-savvy individuals to lure ineligible farmers and got their Aadhar cards to get them registered for the scheme, as the district administrations were busy in Covid-19 containment efforts. They also hacked the passwords to manipulate the system. By getting ineligible farmers registered, these individuals made money by collecting half of the Rs 2,000 that the “fake beneficiaries” received in their bank accounts. While Kallakurichi and Villupuram is the “epicentre” of the scam, thousands of fake accounts have been found in districts such as Kanchipuram, Ranipet, Villupuram, Krishnagiri, Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai, Salem, and Dharmapuri. “The Covid-19 period was used to register the fake beneficiaries by individuals and some officials using passwords. The scheme also allows farmers to register themselves and some individuals used this opportunity to make money. We have found 5 to 5.5 lakh fake accounts and have so far recovered Rs 32 crore,” Bedi had said on September 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/538-lakh-ineligible-farmers-claimed-money-under-pm-kisan-scheme-in-tamil-nadu-centre-891802.html
23-09-2020||South||Four-member gang abducts Tamil Nadu minister's PA at knife-point||The personal assistant (PA) of a Tamil Nadu Minister was kidnapped at knife-point by a four-member gang in Udumalpet in nearby Tirupur district on Wednesday, police said. Karnan, the personal assistant of Animal Husbandry Minister Udumalai Radhakrishnan, was sitting in the latter's office when the gang barged in, bundled the PA into a waiting car and sped away, the police said. Senior police officials, including Tirupur DSP Disha Mittal and DSP Ravikumar, carried out an inquiry, they said. While police are monitoring the CCTV footage in the office and nearby areas, vehicle-checks have been intensified on the Tirupur-Pollachi road. The motive behind the abduction was not known, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-member-gang-abducts-tamil-nadu-ministers-pa-at-knife-point-891839.html
23-09-2020||South||Kerala man under Covid-19 grip for over seven months; yet to see newborn twins||A person in Kerala has been suffering from Covid-19 over the last seven months after being infected by the virus twice. He had the infection while in Kerala and was also, previously, treated for similar symptoms while working abroad.  The 38-year old, hailing from Thrissur district, is yet to see his newborn twins owing to the Covid-19 scare. Savio Joseph, a native of Ponnukkara, about 15 kilometres from Thrissur city, is having an endless fight with Covid-19. Health authorities said that such an instance was being reported for the first time in Kerala. Savio, who was working in Muscat over the last few years, suffered breathing difficulties and fever in March. He was admitted to a super-specialty clinic in Muscat on March 17. He was treated for pneumonia and discharged. Though the discharge summary stated that SARS COV-2 PCR negative, the doctors and nurses who treated him as well as many of his colleagues later suffered Covid-18, Savio told DH. Savio returned to Thrissur on June 28 and his antigen test at the airport was negative. While remaining under mandatory home quarantine, he contacted the local government hospital as he continued to have breathing difficulties. Hence he was subjected to Covid test and the result came out positive. He was admitted to the Government Medical College in Thrissur on July 18. He was discharged on August 1 after the antigen test result came out negative and was advised to remain on an eight-day quarantine.  Savio continued to have breathing difficulties and pain in the lungs. Hence he  approached the local doctors again. Doctors suspected pulmonary fibrosis (damage to lung tissues) and the viral load in him to be quite high. On September 3, he tested Covid positive again and was admitted to Thrissur Medical College. On September 11, his antigen test was found negative and hence discharged. Savio said that though he was still suffering from chest discomfort, he could not undergo further detailed investigations owing to the Covid suspicion. Owing to the fear of Coronavirus persisting in him, Savio has kept himself away from meeting his seven-month-old twin girls. He is yet to see them for the first time. Though his aged mother has been staying with Savio, she had not got infected so far, said Savio. Thrissur District Medical Officer Dr KJ Reena said that it was the first such case of repeated Covid infection being reported in the district and probably in the state too. She said it seems that the virus remained in the dormant stage and became active again. Executive Director of Kerala Social Security Mission and Kerala COVID taskforce member Dr Mohammed Asheel said no instance of reinfection of Covid was reported in Kerala so far. But there are chances of Covid test becoming negative when the viral load is low and later becoming positive. Hence it need not be considered as reinfection. Detailed studies are required on the chances of Covid reinfection. So far only a couple of cases of reinfection are confirmed in the world, which is very insignificant considering the number of Covid cases reported so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-man-under-covid-19-grip-for-over-seven-months-yet-to-see-newborn-twins-891840.html
23-09-2020||South||Kerala Agriculture Minister Sunil Kumar contracts coronavirus||Kerala Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar has tested positive for Covid-19, becoming the third member of the Pinarayi Vijayan cabinet to be infected by the deadly virus. His office said Kumar, who returned to Thiruvananthapuram two days ago, had complained about the breathing problem. "He underwent a medical check-up. His samples were collected for lab examination and its result came today. The Minister will be admitted to Government Medical College Hospital here," an official said. He said the minister's personal staff and those who came in direct contact with him will undergo quarantine. Earlier, Finance Minister Thomas Isaac and Industries Minister E P Jayarajan had also contracted the disease. Both Isaac and Jayarajan recovered from the disease after undergoing treatments at Medical College hospitals in Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur districts respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-agriculture-minister-sunil-kumar-contracts-coronavirus-891842.html
23-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu minister’s PA kidnapped from office; released within hours||The personal assistant (PA) of Tamil Nadu Animal Husbandry Minister ‘Udumalai’ K Radhakrishnan was on Wednesday kidnapped by four unidentified men and bundled into a car at knifepoint, in a shocking incident that has been caught on CCTV cameras. Hours after the incident, Karnan, the PA, was “released” by his kidnappers in Dhali town panchayat limits, 15 km from Udumalpet where the minister’s office is located. “He (Karnan) has been secured. He is safe and fine. We have launched a detailed investigation into the incident. The district police has intensified efforts to nab the kidnappers,” Tiruppur District Superintendent of Police (SP) Disha Mittal told Deccan Herald. The exact reason for kidnapping the minister’s PA will be known only after the investigations, Mittal added. Officials said Karnan and his colleague at the minister’s office are also being questioned on the incident. Karnan was at the minister’s office in Udumalpet, 510 km from here and 65 km from district headquarters Tiruppur when four men barged into the premises and took him away forcibly at around 11.30 am. A video recording, which has been accessed by Deccan Herald, shows a white Maruti Swift car waiting outside the Minister’s office for over a minute and four men dragging Karnan and pushing him into the vehicle before driving fast.   While one person covering his head with a cloth was standing outside the office, three people were seen dragging Karnan out of the office at knife-point, the video shows. Radhakrishnan is an influential leader in Tiruppur district and was appointed as the Chairman of the state-owned Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation (TACTV) by former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. After winning the 2016 elections, Jayalalithaa inducted Radhakrishnan into her cabinet and allotted him the Urban Development portfolio. In 2019, he was again appointed as the Chairman of TACTV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-minister-s-pa-kidnapped-from-office-released-within-hours-891852.html
23-09-2020||South||101 cops test Covid-19 positive, Kerala CM accuses Opposition for stirs||As many as 101 police personnel in Kerala deployed to deal with the violent stirs by opposition parties against the government have tested Covid-19 positive. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan highlighted this to flay the mounting protests against the government over various issues associated with the gold smuggling row. Social distancing norms were being blatantly violated by the opposition parties through gatherings in stirs and violent protests. The key factor in curbing Covid-19 is to maintain social distancing. The political parties should show more responsibility by avoiding gatherings, he urged. While 101 police personnel were tested Covid-19 positive, 171 others had to remain under observation owing to contact with them. An assistant commissioner of police in Thiruvananthapuram city who dealt with protests by two Congress MLAs was also tested positive for coronavirus. Over the last several weeks Kerala has been witnessing violent stirs by opposition parties including Congress and BJP. Kerala Chief Minister and Health Minister KK Shailaja has been raising serious concerns over this. Even then the opposition parties went ahead with violent protests, which now prompted the government to highlight the Covid-19 infection caused to police personnel. The Opposition alleged that the government was trying to create an impression that the opposition parties were responsible for Covid-19 surge in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/101-cops-test-covid-19-positive-kerala-cm-accuses-opposition-for-stirs-891988.html
23-09-2020||South||DMK's Stalin hits back at Palaniswami, says farmers are demanding MSP||A day after Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami's poser on what's wrong with farm bills passed by Parliament, DMK chief M K Stalin on Wednesday said ryots were protesting as there was no mention of minimum support price (MSP) in the legislations and asked him to spell out the reasons for supporting the Centre's move. Taking a swipe at Palaniswami who said he was doing farming even today and was proud to call himself a farmer, the DMK top man said "a person who calls himself a farmer will not support the bills that are totally against them." Stalin, the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, asked the chief minister to respond to the charges of the farmers of various states protesting against the "anti- farmers" bills. The farmers in several states are protesting against the three bills, which the Centre claims will open up the tightly-controlled agriculture sector to free-market forces. Hitting out at the DMK, Palaniswami had said "If Stalin can explain what is wrong in these provisions it will be good. Farmers will not be affected, these benefit them and that is why we have supported." In a release here, Stalin said: "Everywhere the farmers are demanding Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce. After backing the BJP in both the houses of Parliament on the bills which have no mention of the MSP, the chief minister speaks in support of the anti-farmer bills. "Is he really a farmer (as he claims) or feigns to be a farmer," he said, referring to Palainiswami's remarks that he was a farmer and he took pride in calling himself so. Wondering what made Palaniswami to ask his AIADMK to support the Centre on the issue, Stalin asked the chief minister to find out if words like MSP figure in the bills. "If he cant, then will he apologise to the farmers with folded hands?" he asked. On Palaniswami saying he (Stalin) did not know anything about agriculture, the DMK leader said there was no need for one to be a farmer to review the bills and comment. "Basic knowledge on agriculture and concern for the farmers' welfare will suffice to express the views," he said. Palaniswami has "no moral right" to claim to be a farmer as there had been corruption everywhere, including in the PM Kisan scheme, he alleged. The AIADMK has supported the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, The Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 and Palaniswami has said these would benefit farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmks-stalin-hits-back-at-palaniswami-says-farmers-are-demanding-msp-891990.html
23-09-2020||South||Vigilance probe into Kerala housing scheme raises eyebrows||A decision of the Kerala government to go for a vigilance probe into the alleged irregularities and kickbacks in a housing scheme raised many eyebrows as both the investigation agency and the agency to come under probe are headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Opposition Congress and BJP alleged that the vigilance probe would be just an eyewash. Congress demanded a CBI probe into the allegations citing that a foreign agency was involved in the issue. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau was directed to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations against LIFE Mission. While the Vigilance portfolio is held by the Chief Minister, the LIFE Mission is chaired by the Chief Minister. LIFE Mission, which has been a flagship initiative of the Pinarayi Vijayan government, is caught up in a row over a housing project for the homeless with support of UAE's Emirates Red Crescent. Gold smuggling case accused and former employee of UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram Swapna Suresh reportedly told customs and other investigation agencies about the huge commissions involved in the deal. Opposition Congress later alleged that Rs. 9 crore of the Rs. 20 crore deal was allegedly paid as commission to many in the government. Meanwhile, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that he would quit his position as a special invitee in the LIFE Mission task force as he was not given a copy of the memorandum of understanding of the housing scheme with the UAE agency even a month after he made a request. Despite the mounting allegations against the deal, the government had not made public the memorandum-of-understanding regarding the controversial project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vigilance-probe-into-kerala-housing-scheme-raises-eyebrows-891997.html
23-09-2020||South||Bajrang Dal activists stage protest at YSR Congress office in Hyderabad||Bajrang Dal activists on Wednesday staged a protest at the office of the YSR Congress here against the alleged "anti-Hindu policies" of the party government in Andhra Pradesh. Bajrang Dal activists, who arrived at the YSR Congress office at Lotus Pond in Banjara Hills here, were taken into preventive custody and released later, police said. A Bajrang Dal leader claimed that the protest, led by Bajrang Dal and VHP, was against certain allegedly objectionable comments of a minister in AP and incidents that "hurt the sentiments of Hindus, including a chariot allegedly getting burnt at a temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bajrang-dal-activists-stage-protest-at-ysr-congress-office-in-hyderabad-892003.html
23-09-2020||South||Reconstitute panel on Indian culture to include members from Tamil Nadu: CM Palaniswami to PM Modi||Taking objection to non-representation from South India, especially Tamil Nadu, in a committee constituted to study the origin and evolution of Indian Culture, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconstitute the panel to include scholars from the Southern state. In a letter to Modi, Palaniswami said any chronicle of Indian history and culture would be grossly incomplete without giving its “rightful place to Tamil culture and language” and referred to the Prime Minister’s visit to Mamallapuram in 2019 where he hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping for an informal summit.  The Chief Minister’s letter comes a week after DMK MP Kanimozhi questioned why none from any minority community has been appointed to the committee that will study the Indian culture. DMK chief M K Stalin, Tamil Nadu CPI-M secretary K Balakrishnan and Madurai MP and writer Su. Venkatesan have also drawn Modi’s attention to the fact that there was no representation from the state which has a rich cultural heritage. The 16- member committee constituted by the Union Culture Ministry has come under criticism from various quarters with people pointing out that majority of the members belong to upper castes and those from North East, minority, Dalit, and other communities have been left out. “While it is a welcome move to deepen our understanding of our country’s rich and varied cultural roots, the composition of the committee in itself is a matter of deep concern. The said committee has no representative from any of the Southern States, especially from Tamil Nadu, which has a glorious past and is home to one of the oldest civilizations, viz. Dravidian civilization - a living and thriving culture in the South of India,” Palaniswami said in the letter. He referred to the recent archaeological excavations in Keezhadi and other parts of Tamil Nadu that revealed that the world-reputed Sangam era can now be dated back to as early as 6th century BCE. Palaniswami also referred to Modi’s speech in Mamallapuram about the awe-inspiring timeless monuments and glorious legacy of Tamil heritage. “You will, therefore, agree with me that any chronicle of Indian history and culture would be grossly incomplete without giving its rightful place to Tamil culture and language. Given this background, it is surprising that the Ministry of Culture has chosen to ignore experts from Tamil Nadu while setting up the said committee,” the Chief Minister said. He also asked the Prime Minister to personally intervene and direct the Ministry of Culture to reconstitute the expert committee by inducting eminent scholars from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/reconstitute-panel-on-indian-culture-to-include-members-from-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-to-pm-modi-892012.html
23-09-2020||South||Kerala government may move Supreme Court against Farm Bills||Kerala government is planning to move the Supreme Court against the Farm Bills passed by the Parliament. The state cabinet on Wednesday looked into the issue and maintained that since agriculture is a state subject, the state shall move legally against the Bills.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a proposal to move SC against the Farm Bills came up before the Cabinet. But legal scrutiny is required before taking a final decision on the matter.   The Left Front government is also of the view that the new legislation is an infringement into the powers of the state. According to the state government, the Centre did not consider the opinion of states and farmers before finalising the Bills and they violate the fundamental principles and it would cause hardships to farmers. CPM leaders from the state, including Elamaram Kareem and K K Ragesh, were among the MPs suspended for the unruly scenes in the Assembly in connection with bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-may-move-supreme-court-against-farm-bills-892023.html
23-09-2020||South||Farm bills: Stalin always opposes BJP schemes, says L Murugan||DMK president M K Stalin always has the habit of opposing schemes of the BJP government and his announcement of protesting against the Centre's farm bills on September 28 is no exception, Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan said here on Wednesday. Being a farmer himself, he knew about the benefits that the legislations would accrue to the farming community, he said and asserted that the bills would address the woes of the farmers. "Being a farmer, I know the difficulties of ryots. Farmers have always been insisting upon a remunerative price for their produce. The farm bills seek to address their livelihood concerns," Murugan told reporters here. Asked about the DMK and its allies' state-wide protest on September 28 to demand the Centre to withdraw the farm bills and to condemn the AIADMK government for supporting the legislation, he said, "Stalin always has the habit of opposing the schemes of the BJP government." "...and his (September 28) protest against the agri- related bills is no exception." he added. Asked whether the likely release of V K Sasikala, aide of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa and convicted in the disproportionate assets case, from a Bengaluru jail next January will impact Tamil Nadu politics, Murugan replied, "let her come out first. We will see (then)." On his meeting with Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit earlier in the day, he said it was a mere "courtesy call" to enquire about his health and there was nothing political about it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farm-bills-stalin-always-opposes-bjp-schemes-says-l-murugan-892050.html
23-09-2020||South||Panneerselvam dials Dhinakaran in bid to contain Palaniswami in AIADMK||It is an all-out war in the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu. The tussle for the AIADMK leadership has attained different proportions now though it is an open secret that there is no love lost between Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam.  While Palaniswami is concentrating on strengthening his hold within the government and people amidst speculation that he wants to snap the ties with the BJP ahead of the 2021 assembly polls, his deputy Panneerselvam has reached out to rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran, who is the nephew of V K Sasikala, for a patch-up. Panneerselvam, the “loyal soldier” who was handpicked by J Jayalalithaa to stand for her twice when she had to quit from Chief Minister’s post due to court cases, has touched base with Dhinakaran, more than once in the past couple of months, in an apparent bid to stop Palaniswami’s further ascension in the AIADMK.  Highly-placed sources told Deccan Herald that Panneerselvam has reached out to Dhinakaran, who runs the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) after being expelled from the AIADMK, through a third person. “OPS feels sidelined in the AIADMK under Palaniswami and wants a rapprochement with the Dhinakaran camp,” a source in the know-how of the developments said.    Panneerselvam’s efforts to patch-up with Sasikala family should be viewed from the prism of the BJP making the first step towards exploring the merger of AMMK with AIADMK. Dhinakaran, who flew to New Delhi on September 20 by a chartered flight, is believed to have met an influential BJP leader considered close to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and initiated the talks from Sasikala’s side, the sources said. Though the BJP is said to be keen on the merger of the AMMK and AIADMK, there will be opposition to the move, especially from EPS’ side as the Chief Minister seems to be of the opinion that he should be allowed to continue till the remainder of his term without any trouble. Speculation has been mounting in the state for the past few weeks that Palaniswami wants the AIADMK to contest alone in the assembly polls.  Panneerselvam, the 69-year-old politician from the dominant Thevar community establishing communication with Dhinakaran, in effect Sasikala, is significant as it was, OPS who rebelled against the now-jailed leader in February 2017 leading to a split in the party. Sasikala also belongs to the community, which has always stood by the AIADMK.  OPS, the no.2 in AIADMK when Jayalalithaa headed the AIADMK, had made sacking of Dhinakaran from the party as a pre-condition for merging his faction with the parent party in 2017, but the realization that he has been side-lined in the party by Palaniswami has apparently led him to patch-up with the Sasikala family. The recent developments indicate a drastic change of equations within the AIADMK. EPS was elected as the leader of the AIADMK legislature party by Sasikala before she left for Bengaluru to surrender before the Parapana Agrahara prison authorities. However, Palaniswami patched up with Panneerselvam and the duo sacked Sasikala as “interim general secretary” and removed Dhinakaran from the post of deputy general secretary. If the rapprochement between OPS and Sasikala camp materializes, it will be back to the square for one for Panneerselvam as he got an AIADMK ticket to contest the 2001 assembly elections apparently on the recommendation of Dhinakaran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panneerselvam-dials-dhinakaran-in-bid-to-contain-palaniswami-in-aiadmk-892054.html
23-09-2020||South||Row over Jagan's participation in Tirumala Brahmotsavams without wife||Even as Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy presented silk robes on state’s behalf to Tirumala Venkateswara following the annual Brahmotsavam custom, a fresh row ensued over his participation in the divine event without his wife by his side. Reddy’s sixth known visit to the temple on Wednesday took place amidst a huge controversy over the YSRCP chief’s continuing refusal to submit his faith declaration in Lord Venkateswara as required by non-Hindus to enter the revered sanctum. Reddy and his family are followers of Christianity. With the TDP and the BJP insisting that the chief minister should sign the form, several leaders were put under house arrest by the police in the Chittoor district anticipating obstructions to his convoy to the Tirumala hill. In a marked shift from last September when he had first offered the silk robes, Reddy on Wednesday evening donned the Tirunaamam (a Vyshnavite symbol) on his forehead, while carrying the garments on his head into the temple. The gesture appeared to have pacified many, visibly on social media. Nevertheless, the TDP and the BJP are pointing out a Hindu tradition to paint Reddy as insincere in his devotion. According to purists, a married man should be accompanied by his wife in Hindu rituals. “It would bring evil upon the state’s people when husband alone participates in the temple puja when his wife is alive,” former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu said on Wednesday, while accusing Reddy of willfully hurting the Hindu devout sentiments. BJP leaders also expressed similar opinions. Rubbishing such statements, Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao questioned if Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath attended the Ram Janmabhoomi temple event (in August) with their wives. The YSRCP minister had in the past few days triggered outrage by stating the Tirumala declaration rule as archaic and that it should be scrapped. A prominent priest of a famous temple in Hyderabad opined that “the joint participation of a married couple in Hindu customs is very much desirable.” “But Reddy’s case need not be seen as contemptuous as he was participating in the Brahmotsavams as head of the government, representing the people,” the Vedic scholar told DH,  adding that there were past instances where chief ministers' wives could not accompany. Former AP chief secretary IYR Krishna Rao said there is no rule that only the chief minister should offer the silk garments to the Lord. “If faith is lacking, then the endowments minister could do it,” Rao, who had earlier served as the TTD executive officer, says. Reddy also participated in the Garuda Seva, the most prominent event of the 10-day celestial Brahmotsavams. The special day, usually attracting lakhs of devotees, was without public participation because of the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-jagans-participation-in-tirumala-brahmotsavams-without-wife-892062.html
23-09-2020||State||Four elephants in Malnad region to get radio collars||In an effort to check the elephant menace in the Malnad region of Hassan district, the Forest Department has got permission to fix radio collars on the wild elephants. In the first phase, radio collars would be affixed on four elephants of different herds. The department sought permission to fix radio collars on four more elephants and the government has responded positively. The works would be started after the rain subsides in the region. The radio collars help department personnel to track the movements of elephants. A special App has been created for this. This would help to track the movements of elephant herds, and in case they are near the populated area, the App would help the department personnel to drive them away into the forest. According to sources in the Forest department, the number of elephants in Malnad region has crossed 55 to 60. Some jumbos stray into the coffee plantations, paddy fields destroying the crops. Sometimes, they even camp in coffee plantations for a few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-elephants-in-malnad-region-to-get-radio-collars-891785.html
23-09-2020||State||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi dies of Covid-19||Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi died of Covid-19 at All India Medical Institute of India (AIIMS), Delhi on Wednesday. The BJP MP, initially asymptomatic, was admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 facility at the AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he passed away. However, AIIMS did not release an official statement until the time this article got published. The BJP MP initially asymptomatic was admitted to the dedicated Covid-19 facility at the AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he passed away. Angadi's wife Mangala and other members were also in hospital when he died. It is yet to be decided where the cremation will be held. Since he died of Covid-19, the cremation will be held as per protocol. The government officials and family members will take a decision, said a member in the family. If the body is not allowed to take Belagavi, the cremation will be held at Lodhi Road Crematorium, he said. Karnataka Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, the relative of Angadi, rushed to Delhi and were holding discussion with family members on cremation. However, Shankar Patil, Karnataka Special Representative to Delhi said that he had asked Karnataka Bhavan employees to meet the family members and AIIMS officials to co-ordinate the further procedure. He said that if permitted, officals would make arrangement to take the body to Belagavi. Soon after news of his death spread at 8.30 pm, Karnataka MPs, who are here to attend Parliament Session, rushed to the hospital. Later in the night BJP National President J P Nadda, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, and MPs and senior officials Ministry of Railways, visited his official residence on South Avenue Lane and expressed their condolences to Angadi family members. A pall of gloom descends over Angadi's residence as shocked leaders rushed to express their condolences. As a mark of respect, the national flag will be flown half mast in all Government offices in Delhi on Thursday said the Ministry of Home Affairs in a statement. Angadi is the first member of the Union Cabinet to succumb to coronavirus. He is also the second member of Parliament from Karnataka to die of Covid-19 after BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti passed away last week. President Ram Nath Kovind condoled the death of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi. "An amiable leader Suresh Angadi worked tirelessly for the people of his constituency, Belagavi, and Karnataka,"  President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted. Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu also expressed shock to the demise of Angadi. "Shri Suresh Angadi was an exceptional Karyakarta, who worked hard to make the Party strong in Karnataka. He was a dedicated MP and effective Minister, admired across the spectrum. His demise is saddening. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted sharing a photo with Suresh Angadi. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP national president J P Nadda and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal also condoled Angadi's death. Angadi was an active minister of state for railways and he was given a lot of responsibilities in the Ministry. Since Railways Cabinet Minister Piyush Goyal has Commerce and Industries portfolio, Goyal had given a number of responsibilities to Angadi. He used to travel several states to review the works of the ministry also. Angadi was also instrumental in allocating more funds and projects in Railway Budget for Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-of-state-for-railways-suresh-angadi-dies-of-covid-19-892009.html
23-09-2020||State||Activists, farmers, oppose amendments; BJP defends||While farmer leaders and social activists oppose the amendments to the Land Reforms and Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, the BJP leaders defend it and claim that the BJP governments -- in the state as well as Centre -- are committed for the betterment of the agriculture sector. In order to oppose the amendments, members of farmer associations and other like-minded organisations have decided to block national highways, passing through Mysuru district on September 28. Social activist Pa Mallesh blamed the state and the Union governments, demanding the government to withdraw the amendments to the APMC Act. He alleged that the governments are conspiring to finish off the farming community, with amendments to the Act. The amendments are a threat to the farmers and it favors industrialists and capitalists. The farmers across the district should join hands for a day’s protest on September 25, he said. Hoskote Basavaraju of Rajya Raitha Sangha said that the government is implementing anti-people and anti-farmer Acts with urgency. It has failed to create awareness about the amendments and they were not debated. The protest in Bengaluru was largely successful. The organisation will call for a Karnataka bandh on September 28, he said.  BJP Mysuru district president, also Zilla Panchayat member, Mangala Somashekar defended the amendments to the APMC Act and said, the Union government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is committed to improve the life of farmers. In a press conference here, Mangala said, “The amendments are in the interest of the farming community and there will be a revolution in the agriculture sector. A section of farmers are opposing the amendments, but 70% of farmers have accepted it.” Despite Covid-19 pandemic, Modi government introduced pro-farmers programmes. The opposition parties’ intention is to oppose the government and thus, they are protesting, she said. BJP state vice president M Rajendra and leaders Suresh Babu, Ramesh and Mahesh were present on the occassion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/activists-farmers-oppose-amendments-bjp-defends-892040.html
23-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka buses to Mumbai from September 24||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will run buses from Mangaluru to Mumbai from Thursday. The multi-axle buses and non-air-conditioned (AC) bus services will be run to Pune and Mumbai from here, a press release from the KSRTC said. The passengers would be provided facility as per the Covid-19 standard operation procedure (SOP) framed by the government for their safety and comfort, the release said. The non-AC sleeper bus would leave the city at 12 pm and reach Mumbai at 7.30 am the next day. The bus would begin its return journey from Mumbai at 11 am and reach the city at 7.30 am. The fare has been fixed at Rs 1,600. The multi-axle bus service starts from here at 1 pm and reaches Mumbai at 7 am. The bus begins its return journey from Mumbai at 1 pm and reaches here at 7 am, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-buses-to-mumbai-from-september-24-891829.html
23-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka likely to shut down on Monday as farmers call strike||An hour after the state government moved to amend the APMC Act, a joint forum of farmers' organisations called for a strike on Monday drawing huge support from several sectors, including goods transporters, drivers of auto rickshaws and taxi across the state. The strike will be preceded by the closure of state and national highways on Friday. Farmer leaders Kuruburu Shanthakumar and Kodihalli Chandrashekhar told media persons in a separate communication that all the groups of farmer associations have put aside differences and have come together to give the strike call. The earlier plan for a strike on Friday was postponed in anticipation that the government would heed the request of the protesters. However, the tabling of the Bill in the Assembly led to angry scenes at Freedom Park, where farmers have been protesting for days. "Farmers and those depending on agriculture have been suffering from the last few months due to the Covid-19 crisis. The government's Bill comes across as nothing less than a death sentence for the farming community," Shanthakumar said. Services to be affected Trucks, auto-rickshaws and taxi operations across the state will be seriously affected as the respective associations have said that a call for strike by the farmers' collective will have their full support. G R Shanmugappa of the Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners' and Agents Association (FKSLOAA) said as many as 5 lakh trucks and lorries will come to a standstill when the farmers go on a strike. "This is not a political fight. Farmers are on the street because they are fighting for their rights. Our association will provide complete support by stopping all movement of goods," he said, adding that about 4 lakh trucks from Karnataka and another 70,000 to 80,000 vehicles from other states will come to a halt on the day of the strike. Leaders of the Auto Rickshaw Drivers Union (DRDU) and Adarsh Auto Union, two major unions of the auto-rickshaw drivers, said they have already sent out a message to their community, asking them to support the cause of farmers. "The auto drivers are actually the children of farmers who have come to the city for a living. The farm sector is in a crisis and we will stand with them," Rudramurty of the ARDU said.Adarsh Auto Union's Sampath C said a meeting was held with other leaders in the union and it was decided that over 14,000 members of the union should show support by shutting down the services. Ola and Uber taxis to be hit Taxi drivers working with app-based cab aggregators are split into several associations and unions. However, many of them are expected to stay off the road as a decision was taken to support the strike at a  joint meeting of some of the associations. In two separate videos, Chandru Kumar of Jai Bharat Taxi Drivers Association and Tanveer Pasha of Ola, Taxi For Sure and Uber Drivers and Owners Association said supporting the farmers is crucial as most of the driver community hail from families which depend on agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-likely-to-shut-down-on-monday-as-farmers-call-strike-891911.html
23-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress MLA with Covid-19 infection critical: Hospital||Congress MLA B Narayan Rao, who was admitted to a private hospital after contracting Covid-19, is in a critical state, the hospital said on Wednesday. Rao was admitted to the Manipal Hospital on September 1 with a diagnosis of severe Covid-19 infection, hospital director Dr Manish Rai said. "Currently, he is in a very critical state with multi-organ failure, on multiple supports including a ventilator, and dialysis," Dr Rai said. He added that a multi-disciplinary team of expert doctors are involved in his treatment and monitoring the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-mla-with-covid-19-infection-critical-hospital-891962.html
23-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'No corruption': Karnataka govt says it spent Rs 4,200 crore in Covid-19 fight||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar told the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday that the state government had spent Rs 4,200 crore till date in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, asserting that there was no corruption during the pandemic. Sudhakar was replying to a debate on the Covid-19 situation, even as the Opposition Congress staged a walkout as it was “unhappy” with the government’s answers.  “So far, 15 departments have incurred expenditure related to Covid-19. Till date, they have spent Rs 4,200 crore. Of this, the health department has spent Rs 1,442 crore,” Sudhakar said in his 2-hour-long reply.  The Congress maintained that it wanted a judicial probe into alleged corruption in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment. “These allegations are baseless, false and far from the truth. Either deliberately or otherwise, the government hasn’t allowed corruption,” Sudhakar said.  “We’re at war. There’s uncertainty over vaccination and we’re still trying to understand the behaviour pattern of this virus,” Sudhakar said. “It was an emergency situation. Can we stick to procedure when lives had to be saved,” he asked on allegations that the government procured equipment at higher rates.  The minister said the cost of each PPE kit in April was Rs 1,444, which came down to Rs 575 in July. “Similarly, one N-95 mask cost Rs 147 in March and Rs 44 in July,” he said. “There are 3-4 committees that are involved in the process, including one for price fixation.”  On several occasions, Congress members interrupted Sudhakar to refute the government’s claims. For instance, when Sudhakar said the government arranged "free transport" for migrant workers, he faced pushback.  “Before Covid-19, there were about 7,000 oxygen beds. Today, we have 28,140 beds and it’ll be 31,000 by October,” Sudhakar said, adding that there was no shortage of oxygen. “Little was done to improve the healthcare sector in the last 73 years.”  On the procurement of ventilators, Sudhakar said the ones Tamil Nadu got for Rs 4 lakh were those used in ambulances. “A ventilator has 56 specifications. We have procured those that can be used in ICUs,” he said.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah asked how the Centre procured ventilators at Rs 4 lakh. “So, did the Centre procure low-quality ventilators? Also, isn’t it a fact that your own doctors protested against poor PPE kits procured by a Maharashtra company called Plastisurge? Prima facie, it’s a clear case of corruption,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-corruption-karnataka-govt-says-it-spent-rs-4200-crore-in-covid-19-fight-892019.html
23-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ivan D Souza appointed KPCC spokesperson||Former MLC Ivan DSouza has been appointed spokesperson of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee. The appointment was made Wednesday by KPCC president D K Shivakumar, a release here said. This is the fourth time he is being chosen for the post. Former state Minister Vinay Kumar Sorake from Udupi was appointed as another KPCC spokesperson on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ivan-d-souza-appointed-kpcc-spokesperson-892043.html
23-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Loss to the nation': Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa condoles Suresh Angadi's death||Expressing shock over his demise, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said that Angadi was a popular leader who was affable. "His demise is a loss to the entire nation, not just the state," the CM said. Former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo HD Devegowda tweeted that Angadi was like a younger brother to him. "I am shocked and deeply saddened by the demise of Union Minister of State for Railways and four-term MP from Belagavi Shri. Suresh Angadi. He was like a younger brother to me. I feel terrible losing him. This is an unbearable loss to our nation. May his soul rest in peace. May God give his family and well-wishers the strength to bear this pain," Gowda said in a tweet. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah noted that Angadi was always concerned about the development of Karnataka, adding that he was saddened by the unfortunate demise. JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy in his condolence message, noted that Angadi had vision for development of railway services in Karnataka. "The state has lost a voice for its development," he said in a tweet. Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Visveshwar Hegde Kageri, recalling his association with the Union Minister, said that the nation has lost a politician with foresight. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that Angadi was a major force behind strengthening the state BJP unit. "I am saddened by the demise of my guide," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/loss-to-the-nation-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-condoles-suresh-angadis-death-892046.html
23-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||6,997 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 38 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 6,997 new Covid-19 cases and 38 fatalities, taking the infection tally to 5,40,847 and the toll to 8,266, the health department said. The day also saw 5,460 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 6,997 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, 3,547 were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of September 23 evening, cumulatively 5,40,847 Covid- 19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 8,266 deaths and 4,37,910 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of 94,652 active cases, 93,836 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 816 are in Intensive Care Units. Twenty three out of 38 deaths reported were from Bengaluru urban, followed by Shivamogga (7), Bengaluru Rural (6) and Vijayapura (2). Most of the deceased either had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 3,547, Mysuru 341, Hassan 315, Chikkamagaluru 252, Mandya 203, Ballari 192, Belagavi 191, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district topped the list of cases with a total of 2,04,275 infections, followed by Mysuru 31,092 and Ballari 29,652. Among discharges too, Bengaluru urban was on top with total 1,61,565 discharges, followed by Mysuru 26,051 and Ballari 25,111. A total of 43,94,840 samples were tested so far, out of which 56,398 were on Wednesday alone. Among the samples tested today 21,394 were Rapid Antigen Tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/6997-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-38-deaths-892056.html
23-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Union Minister Suresh Angadi an unbeatable MP from Belagavi for four terms||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, who died due to Covid-19 at the AIIMS on Wednesday, was a four-time Member of Parliament from Belagavi consecutively since 2004. The 65-year-old, survived by his wife and two daughters, was associated with the RSS from a young age. Born on June 1, 1955, in a Lingayat family to Somawwa and Channabasappa Angadi in village Koppa in Belagavi, Angadi did his graduation from SSS Samiti College of Commerce in the same district. He did his law graduation from Raja Lakhamgouda Law College in Belagavi. A businessman by profession, Angadi got a major break in his political career when he was appointed as the vice-president of the Belagavi unit of the BJP and remained in that position till he was nominated as a party candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency in 2004. He remained unbeatable since then and got elected in 2009, 2014, and 2019 as well. He was also an educationist and headed the Belagavi-based Suresh Angadi Education Foundation, which runs various colleges. He had big plans for Bengaluru and Karnataka. The minister was instrumental in making the suburban railway project in Bengaluru a reality, which was a long pending demand of the people of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-minister-suresh-angadi-an-unbeatable-mp-from-belagavi-for-four-terms-892076.html
23-09-2020||West||Heavy rain lashes Mumbai, suburbs; transport in city affected||Heavy overnight rains were reported in the Mumbai metropolitan region affecting road and rail traffic on Wednesday morning. However, there was no impact on arrivals and departures at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport. Intermittent rains are expected to continue in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) throughout Wednesday and Thursday. In the last 24 hours ending 0830 hrs, Mumbai and its suburbs recorded 150 to 250 mm rainfall, according to information received from the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Regional Meteorological Centre of IMD. People were seen wading through knee-deep and waist-deep waters in parts of Mumbai like Dadar, King’s Circle, Sion, Worli, Matunga, Nana Chowk, Grant Road, JJ Junction, Kala Chowkie, Hindmata, Bhendi Bazaar, Andheri subway, Goregaon and Dahisar. The services of the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) were badly affected. CR services from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus  to Thane and Vashi stands suspended. WR services between Churchgate and Andheri stands suspended. “Since last evening there have been heavy rains. The rains are likely to continue for the day. We are advising people to step out only if it is absolutely necessary,” BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said. The people who were travelling in train and buses – particularly those in essential services were stranded because of waterlogging. “There were very intense spells of rains throughout the night. Radar images indicates Mumbai Thane, Palghar, Raigad intense clouds, rainfall likely to continue in Mumbai and its suburban areas,” said IMD’s Deputy Director General of Meteorology KS Hosalikar. Heavy water-logging was reported from areas like Sion,  Matunga, Kurla, Chunabhatti, Byculla, Masjid Bunder, Goregaon and Dahisar. Mumbai's civic transporter BEST has diverted several services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-lashes-mumbai-suburbs-transport-in-city-affected-891631.html
23-09-2020||West||Death toll from Bhiwandi building collapse mounts to 33||The death toll in the building collapse at Bhiwandi in Thane district near Mumbai climbed to 33 on Wednesday. Officials of Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) confirmed 33 deaths. The rescue and relief operations by teams of BNMC and National Disaster Response Force are still underway. According to NDRF, there is a likelihood of more people being trapped in the debris. The three-storey Jilani building in the Patel Compound at Narpoli, off the Dhamankar Naka of Muslim-dominated Bhiwandi area, nearly 60 kms off downtown Mumbai, collapsed in the wee hours of Monday. At least 20 to 25 families - over 150 persons - occupied the ill-fated building that was built more than 30 years ago. The BNMC late on Monday had suspended two civic officials Sudhram Jadhav and Dudhnath Yadav. The Narpoli police station has registered an offence against builder Syed Ahmed Jilani and others. So far, over 50 persons have been rescued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/death-toll-from-bhiwandi-building-collapse-mounts-to-33-891644.html
23-09-2020||West||Conservation of nine historical gates in Maharashtra's Aurangabad begins||The conservation of nine historical gates in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city has been undertaken by a local development body at a cost of Rs 3.20 crore, officials said. The structures, built around 17th century as entry gates of the old city, are a major tourist attraction. These gates suffered damages over a period of time due to rain and other weather conditions and are in need of repair and conservation, the officials said. The conservation project had to be stopped earlier due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions, but it has now resumed, Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation (ASCDCL) Deputy Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Pushkal Shivam told reporters on Tuesday. The corporation will spend Rs 3.20 crore for the conservation of Katkat Gate, Naubat Darwaza, Kala Darwaza, Jafar Gate, Barapulla Gate, Roshan Gate, Paithan Gate, Khizri Gate and Mehmood Darwaza, he said. The work will be taken up on war footing and will be completed by April next year, Aurangabad Municipal Commissioner and ASCDCL CEO Astik Kumar Pandey said. The project includes strengthening the structures by waterproofing and stopping seepages, supporting the roof, removing trees over the structures, replacing masonry and decayed material wherever required and beautification of surrounding areas, another official said. "Work has already begun on Naubat, Katkat and Jafar gates. Tendering process is underway for Kala Darwaza and Mehmood Darwaza," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/conservation-of-nine-historical-gates-in-maharashtras-aurangabad-begins-891712.html
23-09-2020||West||Thane Covid-19 tally rises to 1,61,659 with 1,406 new cases||The Covid-19 tally in Thane has gone up to 1,61,659 with the addition 1,406 new cases in the Maharashtra district, an official said on Wednesday. The death toll in the district reached 4,205 as 33 more patients succumbed to the disease on Tuesday, he said. As of now, there area 18,101 active Covid-19 cases in the district while 1,39,353 patients have recovered. Kalyan town in the district has the maximum number of 4,859 active cases, followed by Thane city-3,658 and Navi Mumbai-3,518. Kalyan also accounts for the maximum of Covid-19 cases (39,468) so far in the district, followed by Navi Mumbai (33,755) and Thane city (33,525), the official said. So far, the maximum of 942 deaths have been reported from Thane city, while Kalyan and Navi Mumbai account for 780 and 710 fatalities, respectively, he said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district is 86.20 per cent and the death rate is 2.60 per cent, he added. An official from neighbouring Palghar said the district has so far reported 32,668 Covid-19 cases and 623 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-covid-19-tally-rises-to-161659-with-1406-new-cases-891745.html
23-09-2020||West||Death toll in Bhiwandi building collapse rises to 40||The death toll in Bhiwandi building collapse mounted to 40, making it one of the biggest such disasters in the Mumbai metropolitan region in a quarter of a century. The three-storey Jilani building in the Patel Compound at Narpoli off the Dhamankar Naka of Muslim community-dominated Bhiwandi area, nearly 60 kms off downtown Mumbai, collapsed like a pack of cards in the wee hours of Monday. At least 20 to 25 families, over 150 persons, occupied the ill-fated building that was built more than 30 years ago. The BNMC late on Monday suspended two civic officials Sudhram Jadhav and Dudhnath Yadav. The Narpoli police station has registered an offence against builder Syed Ahmed Jilani and others. Heavy intermittent rains are creating troubles for the rescue of relief operations, that entered the third day. A few persons are still feared trapped. MAJOR BUILDING COLLAPSES IN MUMBAI METROPOLITAN REGION 8 March 1996: Navare Apartments near Sion station collapses, 29 dead 17 September 1997: Part of Poonam Chambers at Worli collapses, five dead 3 August 1998: Govind Tower at Bandra East collapses, nearly 30 killed 25 June 2005: Pushpanjali Building at Khar collapses, six killed 25 August 2005: Sadaf Manzil at Nagpada collapses, 11 killed 29 August 2005: Rassiwalla Building at Metro Cinema collapses, six killed 22 June 2007: Laxmi Chhaya Towers at Borivli collapse, nearly 30 people killed 17 August 2010: Sonibai Apartments in Kalwa collapse, 10 killed 4 April 2013: Building at Lucky Compound in Mumbra collapses, 78 dead, 60 injured 10 June 2013: Aftab Mansion in Mahim collapses, 10 dead, 7 injured 21 June 2013: Smriti Complex at Mumbra collapses, 10 killed, 21 injured 14 March 2013: Aaram building at Santacruz collapses, 7 killed 27 September 2013: Building in Mazgaon-Dockyard Road collapses, 61 dead 4 August 2015: Krishna Niwas at Naupada in Thane collapses, 12 killed 31 July 2016: Kabir Shaikh-ki-Building collapses at Bhiwandi, 8 killed, 24 injured 25 July 2017: A four-storey building collapsed killing 17 persons in Ghatkopar 31 August 2017: Five-storey Husaini Building caves in at Bhendi Bazaar killing 33 persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/death-toll-in-bhiwandi-building-collapse-rises-to-40-891753.html
23-09-2020||West||KEM Hospital starts trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine candidate in Mumbai||The civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital in Mumbai on Wednesday began phase II and III trials of the Oxford Covishield vaccine for Covid-19, an official said. The hospital, located in Parel area, on Tuesday got the approval of the Maharashtra ethics committee for conducting the vaccine trials. KEM Hospital Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh told PTI that the hospital has started screening volunteers for the trials. The medical facility will be conducting the trials on 100 volunteers, he said. The city-based B Y L Nair Hospital, another facility run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, has also received approval for conducting trials of the vaccine. Both the KEM and Nair hospitals will be conducting the trials collectively on over 200 volunteers, sources said. As part of the trials, volunteers who are found negative for coronavirus in both RT-PCR and antigen tests will be given the vaccine, they said. Trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate are being conducted in Pune also. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, being developed by the University of Oxford, UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kem-hospital-starts-trials-of-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-in-mumbai-891756.html
23-09-2020||West||Work from my office: BVA MLA lets people work, study from his party office for free||In a first of its kind initiative, Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) MLA Kshitij Thakur has launched a campaign ‘Work From My Office’ which aims at providing a tailor-made office experience and at the same time maintaining the homely feeling of a house. The campaign will help the Vasai-Virar belt residents operate from office-like workspace wherein they can avail Wi-Fi facilities along with a personal computer, if required. The Vasai-Virar township is located in Palghar district off Mumbai. This service will be provided without any charges. The initiative will kick off from both VIVA College campuses in Virar and at the BVA Bhavan in Nallasopara. This ‘office’ will remain open for everyone during the regular work hours and people can come in according to their work timings. “This would be for the first time when a party office would be converted into an office workspace. Around 30,000 office goers can be accommodated in various work spaces across the Palghar district,” Kshitij Thakur, the MLA from Nalasopara. In order to avail of the campaign services, people need to register on a link. Besides internet connection, people will be provided with constant electricity supply, tables and chairs, water dispenser and personal computer (if required). “For the last few months, people have been working from their respective homes. Neither does a home remain a home nor can it completely be an office. Working from an office space has its own feel. As a result, we have launched this campaign to bring back those proper productive office days as well as the homely feeling,” he said. All the Covid-19 preventive measures will be followed while operating the office. Amenities such as mandatory wearing masks, regular temperature-oxygen level checks, sanitiser supply and social distancing measures will also be taken to ensure complete safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/work-from-my-office-bva-mla-lets-people-work-study-from-his-party-office-for-free-891777.html
23-09-2020||West||Bombay High Court suspends hearings due to heavy rains||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday suspended its hearings scheduled for the day, including all virtual hearings, in view of the heavy rainfall in the city and suburbs. The bail pleas filed by actress Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, both arrested in a drugs case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, were to be heard on Wednesday by a single bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal through video-conferencing. Besides, a division bench led by Justice S J Kathawalla was scheduled to hear actress Kangana Ranaut's plea against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation over the demolition of a part of her bungalow in Pali Hill area here. As per the communication issued by the high court registrar, these cases and other matters scheduled during the day will be taken up by the benches concerned on Thursday. Heavy showers overnight and early Wednesday morning caused water-logging at many places in Mumbai, disrupting rail and road traffic, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-suspends-hearings-due-to-heavy-rains-891778.html
23-09-2020||West||Tigress on prowl successfully captured in Pandharkawada||A tigress on the prowl in the forests of Pandharkawada in Yavatmal district has been successfully captured by the Maharashtra Forest Department (MFD) on Wednesday. This comes as a sigh of relief to the local populace, who were reeling under threat for the past few days. The two-year-old sub-adult tigress named T2C1 was captured near the Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary. Recently the tigress has killed a 60-year-old woman in the agricultural field near Andharwadi and Pattanbori villages, which are located adjacent to Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary. The tigress was being routinely spotted through camera trap images along Andharwadi, Koparmandvi, Vasari and Kobai villages in Pandharkawada Forest Reserve. She had also attacked another person, but he escaped with injuries. The tigress had also attacked cattle. On Wednesday morning, she was darted and captured successfully, following the protocols of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The tigress is likely to be shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre or another transit treatment centre in Nagpur. As soon as the news of the capture of tigress reached Mumbai, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray congratulated the MFD for the successful operation. Under the provisions of Wildlife Protection Act, Maharashtra’s Principal Chief Conservator of Forest Nitin Kakodkar ordered the capture of the tigress. “As many as 29 cameras were also installed in the area. On September 4, Subhash Kayatwar was chased and attacked at Mauje Vasari, injuring him severely. Then on September 19, Lakshmibai Dadaje from Andharwadi was attacked and killed. The tigress had also attacked cattle. Finally, she had been captured successfully,” said Thackeray, a wildlife enthusiast and professional photographer. The capture of the tigress, that too in Pandharkawada is very significant. It may be recalled, on 3 November 2018, a tigress T1 aka Avni, which was described as a man-eater and responsible for 13 deaths in the Pandharkawada area, was shot dead, resulting in a major political issue. The tigress was shot dead by Ashgar Ali, the son of Hyderabad-based sharpshooter Nawab Shafath Ali Khan. The then BJP-Shiv Sena government led by Devendra Fadnavis and then Forest Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar had come under criticism for the killing of the tigress. Even Thackeray, who was then part of the government, had come down heavily for the killing of the tigress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tigress-on-prowl-successfully-captured-in-pandharkawada-891801.html
23-09-2020||West||Mumbai rains: Five teams of NDRF on standby, says minister||Five teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are on standby in view of heavy rains that have lashed Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts and caused water-logging in many areas, Maharashtra Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Wednesday. Mumbai and neighbouring areas received intense spells of rain since Tuesday night, leaving many parts of the metropolis in waist-deep water and disrupting rail and road traffic. Wadettiwar said in a statement that heavy rains caused flood-like situation in many places, adding that Disaster Management department is keeping a close watch on the situation. He appealed to people to stay indoors in view of flooding in many areas in Mumbai and other places. "Since last night, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts have been witnessing very heavy rains, due to which there is flood-like situation in many places. Five teams of NDRF are on stand by to assist local administration," the minister said. Mumbai received one of the highest showers in the last 24 hours of this monsoon season and more rainfall is likely in the city and suburbs on Wednesday, as per India Meteorology Department (IMD).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-rains-five-teams-of-ndrf-on-standby-says-minister-891818.html
23-09-2020||West||Mumbai girl aces Korea-India Friendship Quiz Contest, wins a trip to Korea||A Mumbai girl, Anashruta Ganguly, has won the second Korea-India Friendship Quiz Contest and has won a trip to Korea. The second Korea-India Friendship Quiz Contest-Mumbai 2020, that was held on Tuesday, received a tremendous response from students and schools with 10,093 students from 20 schools in and around Mumbai participating in the contest. Despite the Covid-19 gloom, students were enthusiastic and well prepared for the contest, the last leg of which was held online. The exciting prizes to be won at the end of the quiz only added more excitement. The first prize was an all-paid trip for 6 days and 5 nights to Korea, which was bagged by Anashruta Ganguly, an 8th class student of the Pawar Public School, Chandivali. A visibly excited Anashruta said: “Before this quiz, I had absolutely no idea of how rich and diverse Korean culture was. For me, Korea had been synonymous with BTS and kimchi, and it was only after this quiz that I understood that Korea was indeed the Lamp of the East.” "I cannot express how delighted I am that I would experience this wonderful country first-hand and see all those wonders enumerated in our study material. I hope that Korea and India continue this partnership and this quiz and that the generations of Indians yet to come get to know and understand about the beauty and complexity of The Land of Morning Calm,” she added. Organised by the Korean Cultural Centre, India, this was one of the largest quiz contests ever held for school students on an international topic in the Mumbai region. The idea behind the quiz was to ensure that Indian students learn more about the culture, history and other aspects related to Korea. Kim Dong Young, the Consul General of the Republic of  Korea in Mumbai, was present at the event, he not only addressed the contestants but also encouraged them, boosting the excitement of the contest. Apart from the first prize, 14 other winners were given cash prizes worth a total of Rs 39,000. Taarini Padia, student of Jasudben ML School, Khar West, who bagged the second spot and won a cash prize of Rs 10,000, elaborating her experience of participating in the quiz she said, “It was a wonderful experience taking part in the Korean quiz.  I learnt a lot through the book "Facts About Korea''. I realized that Korea has done such wonders through the years and has strengthened its relations with India. It was because of this particular quiz that I happened to take up the Korean language as a hobby.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-girl-aces-korea-india-friendship-quiz-contest-wins-a-trip-to-korea-891823.html
23-09-2020||West||Drugs probe: Film producer Madhu Mantena reaches NCB office||Film producer Madhu Mantena reached the NCB guest house here on Wednesday to record his statement in connection with the agency's probe into the alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus, an official said. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had summoned Mantena for questioning in connection with the probe, he said. He reached the NCB guest house in south Mumbai around 11.30 am, the official said. Mantena was the co-producer of 2016 Bollywood film 'Udta Punjab' which dealt with the issue of drug menace. His name allegedly cropped up during the questioning of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's talent manager Jaya Saha, who was quizzed by the probe agency for last two days, the official said. Saha has been called again by the NCB on Wednesday. During the NCB's probe into the drugs angle in Rajput's death case, a wider drugs nexus in Bollywood came to light. The NCB on Tuesday summoned actress Deepika Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash and KWAN talent management agency's CEO Dhurv Chitgopekar, but the former could not appear before the agency due to ill-health. NCB officials on Tuesday said they might summon Padukone if needed. Some WhatsApp conversations purportedly discussing drugs are on the radar of the agency, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-probe-film-producer-madhu-mantena-reaches-ncb-office-891835.html
23-09-2020||West||DRDO successfully test fires laser-guided anti-tank guided missile||An indigenously developed laser-guided anti-tank guided missile has been successfully test-fired by the DRDO at a firing range in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar, officials said on Wednesday. The weapon, having a range of up to four km, was test-fired from an MBT Arjun Tank at KK Ranges in Armoured Corps Centre and School (ACC&S) in Ahmednagar on Tuesday, they said. The laser-guided anti-tank guided missile (ATGM) is likely to significantly enhance the firepower capability of the Indian Army particularly along the frontiers with Pakistan and China, the officials said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on successful test firing of the ATGM. "Congratulations to @DRDO_India for successfully conducting a test firing of Laser-Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile from MBT Arjun at KK Ranges (ACC&S) in Ahmednagar. India is proud of Team DRDO which is assiduously working towards reducing import dependency in the near future," he tweeted. The officials said the ATGM hit the targets with total accuracy and precision. "The missile employs a tandem heat warhead to defeat explosive reactive armour protected armoured vehicles. It has been developed with multiple-platform launch capability and is currently undergoing technical evaluation trials from gun of MBT Arjun," said an official. The Arjun is a third-generation main battle tank developed by the DRDO. Pune-based Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE) developed the ATGM in association with High Energy Materials Research Laboratory and Instruments Research and Development Establishment (IRDE).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drdo-successfully-test-fires-laser-guided-anti-tank-guided-missile-891841.html
23-09-2020||West||Maharashtra withdraws Remdesivir batch due to inferior quality||A batch of Remdesivir for treatment of Covid-19 patients has been withdrawn in view of "sub-standard quality" of the medicine, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He told reporters that the move caused a short-term shortage of the drug in the state. "A batch of Remdesivir medicine was found to be (of) substandard (quality) and has been withdrawn, resulting into a short term shortage in its supply," he said. Seeking to allay concerns over shortage of Remdesivir, the minister said the government held talks with pharma companies and ensured sufficient supply of the medicine for Covid-19 patients. "I spoke to collectors of various districts in the state and asked them to place orders of the medicine (Remdesivir) as per their respective requirement. Its supply will soon increase and patients will get their routine dosages," the minister said. Tope further said NCP chief Sharad Pawar has stepped in and assured to arrange 1,000 injections of Remdesivir in his personal capacity for the treatment of people. Maharashtra had 2,72,410 active cases as on September 22 while the total caseload stood at 12,42,770.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-withdraws-remdesivir-batch-due-to-inferior-quality-891874.html
23-09-2020||West||36-year-old Surat resident breathes freely after 8 years post rare surgery||A 36-year-old Surat resident’s eight-year-long struggle to breathe freely came to an end following a curative surgical procedure that was carried out for a rare medical condition instead of a heart-lung transplant as suggested by experts earlier. The surgery was recently performed by a team of doctors at the Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital. Bhaveshbhai Sabhadia, who works in a diamond factory, had been struggling to breathe properly and lead a normal life since 2012. Of late, his struggles had increased and he needed oxygen support for the last two years. He was unable to walk a few steps or sleep at night and had to be admitted to the hospital frequently for water accumulation in the abdomen region. He was told that a heart and lung transplant was the only treatment option. Sabhadia approached the advanced cardiac surgery department of Sir HN RFH headed by Dr Anvay Mulay for a heart-lung transplant when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. Doctors at the hospital evaluated his health condition and diagnosed him with chronic thrombus pulmonary embolism (CTPEH), a condition wherein the patient has high blood pressure in the lungs’ arteries. They also found that the right side of his heart was severely damaged and the blood pressure in the lung vessels was four times more than the normal. CTPEH is a rare and severe form of pulmonary hypertension (PH) that goes undiagnosed in most cases. In Sabhadia's case too, it was diagnosed late leading to severe damage to his heart. Dr Anvay Mulay and his team of doctors at Sir HN RFH decided to go for a pulmonary endarterectomy surgery instead of the heart-lung transplant.  Though it was a high-risk and challenging surgery, doctors managed to remove the old blood clots from the pulmonary arteries in Sabhadia's lungs and reduce the blood pressure inside the pulmonary arteries. Post the surgery, doctors were happy to see the right side heart responding well and showing remarkable improvement. “In Bhavesh's case, it was a level 3-4 CTPEH making it technically a difficult surgery. It was heartening to see a terminally ill patient, who was waiting for a heart-lung transplant, walk home with his own organs,” said Dr Anvay Mulay, Director, Cardiac Surgery and Heart Transplant, Sir HN RFH. The presence of state-of-the-art technology like suspended animation, intraoperative transesophageal echocardiogram, inhaled nitric oxide, cerebral oximetry etc helped the doctors make the surgery a success. The biggest backing we had was mechanical circulatory support and the ability to perform a heart-lung transplant in case the operation does not deliver the desired result, said the doctor. Sabhadia thanked the entire Sir HNRFH team and is looking forward to playing with his daughter as a normal father without respiratory distress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/36-year-old-surat-resident-breathes-freely-after-8-years-post-rare-surgery-891899.html
23-09-2020||West||Ex-serviceman 'attacked' by BJP MP gets threat calls: Anil Deshmukh||An ex-serviceman from Jalgaon district of Maharashtra, who was allegedly beaten up by BJP MP Unmesh Patil and his supporters, has been receiving threat calls, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday and asked the police to investigate the matter. Deshmukh took to Twitter to deplore the threat calls and said he has directed the Jalgaon Police to launch an investigation. Deshmukh had earlier said that Patil, then an MLA, and his supporters allegedly carried out a "life-threatening attack" on the ex-serviceman, Sonu Mahajan, in 2016. Mahajan had approached the police then, but they did not act as the BJP was in power in the state (2014-2019), alleged Deshmukh, an NCP leader. Later, Mahajan had approached the Bombay High Court, which ordered that an FIR be registered in connection with the alleged incident, the minister had said. The then BJP government could not give justice to ex-serviceman Sonu Mahajan. He has been receiving threat calls after a probe was ordered into the (2016) incident. This is deplorable. I have instructed the Jalgaon Police to probe the matter, Deshmukh tweeted. Last week, Deshmukh had said the state government will ensure justice to the ex-serviceman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-serviceman-attacked-by-bjp-mp-gets-threat-calls-anil-deshmukh-891938.html
23-09-2020||West||Mumbai rains: Two security guards drown in flooded elevator||In a shocking incident, two security guards of a building in Agripada got trapped in a flooded lift and drowned while struggling to open the lift door as heavy rains inundated parts of Mumbai on Wednesday.  Around 0800 hrs, the two security guards of the Nathani Residency building in Agripada had gone to the waterlogged basement to start the society’s water supply. However, as the water levels started increasing, they entered the lift, closed the doors, and tried to go to the upper floors, said Agripada Police Station Senior Police Inspector Savlaram Agavane. “The flooded lift did not start nor did the doors open. They pressed the alarm buttons and some residents rushed down to save them, but could not go there due to flooding,” he said. The Mumbai Fire Brigade was informed, however, it was late. Their bodies were fished out. The deceased were identified as Jamir Ahmed Sohanan and Shehzad Memon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-rains-two-security-guards-drown-in-flooded-elevator-891965.html
23-09-2020||West||Suburban train services in Mumbai resume partially||Suburban services of the Western Railway (WR) in Mumbai resumed fully as water on the tracks receded, it said on Wednesday evening as the city grappled with heavy overnight rains. However, the Central Railway's (CR) suburban services had not resumed till late in the evening, railway authorities said. With waterlogged tracks, suburban services of both Central Railway and Western Railway were suspended early Wednesday morning. Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR, said its suburban special services were fully restored between Churchgate and Bandra around 5pm. The first slow corridor train from Churchgate to Virar departed at 4 pm, while the first slow train from Bandra to Churchgate started at 4.55 pm, he said. "Now WR's special suburban services arerunning on all four lines," Thakur said. Earlier in the day, the WR had resumed suburban services on the fast corridor, but slow corridor services between Churchgate-Bandra remained suspended due to inundated tracks. Central Railway's suburban services were still suspended between CSMT-Dadar and CSMT-Vashi due to waterlogging between Curry Road and Parel stations on main line and Wadala and Chunabhatti stations on the Harbour line, respectively, it said. Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of CR, said suburban services between Dadar-Thane were resumed after water on the tracks in Dadar-Kurla section receded around 6 pm. "Suburban tracks of the main line and harbour are still submerged above the danger level at certain locations and due to continued rain coupled with high tide in the evening, the water from the tracks hasn't receded to safe levels," he said. At some locations, there was about 11 to 29 inches of water above the track level, the CR spokesperson said. Presently CR and WR are operating over 850 special suburban services only for essential services employees in view of the coronavirus threat. Common people are dependent on the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses, but the rains crippled the civic bus service too on Wednesday. The BEST spokesperson said the buses on 100 routes were diverted via alternative routes at 32 locations. Thirty buses were stuck in waterlogged streets and 23 of them were attended by its mechanics by 3 pm. Mechanics could not reach the other seven buses, he said. In all, BEST operated 2,375 buses on Wednesday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suburban-train-services-in-mumbai-resume-partially-892005.html
23-09-2020||West||Gujarat House passes 'Gunda' bill with stricter provisions||The Gujarat Legislative Assembly on Wednesday passed a bill to deal strictly with anti-social elements and hardened criminals, prescribing jail terms ranging from seven to 10 years. The Gunda and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Bill also empowers the police to seek 30-day remand instead of 15 days, while a chargesheet can be filed within 90 days instead of the present provision of 60 days. The bill cleared the passage on the back of majority the ruling BJP enjoys in the 182-member House amidst objections raised by the Congress. It replaced the ordinance issued by the state government earlier this month. While introducing the bill, Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja said the proposed law was needed to deal strictly with hardened criminals and repeat offenders involved in a wide range of illegal activities. Besides providing for special courts to fast track cases and appointment of special public prosecutors, the proposed law also empowers the government to attach properties of the accused and pay compensation to victims, said Jadeja. The proposed legislation also covers "exploitation of girls through love jihad". Referring to the violent protests against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Ahmedabad, Jadeja said the proposed law covers acts of rioting and damaging public property. "Under the proposed law, those involved in anti-social activities or disturbing peace will attract jail terms ranging from seven to 10 years, and a fine of Rs 50,000," he said. Moreover, government officials found abetting such criminal elements will face prison terms of not less than three years which may go up to 10 years. The new law defines "gunda" as a person who threatens and bullies people in a personal capacity or in groups. It further defines gundas as those engaged in disturbing public order or involved in anti-social activities. "This Act covers offences related to narcotic substances, liquor and drugs-related crimes, grabbing property, creating bogus property documents, women trafficking, offences related to POCSO Act, extortion and kidnapping for ransom," said Jadeja. Other crimes for which the accused can be tried under this law include spreading terror among people, engaging in violence for recovering money, illegal transportation of animals, violation of Arms Act, engaging in production, sale and transportation of arms and ammunitions. The opposition Congress protested against the passage of the bill, saying it would "override" Indian Penal Code and Criminal Procedure Code. "Laws are already there to deal with criminals. But, this government has failed to implement the existing laws, and to cover up your failures, you are bringing new laws," said Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani. He said many provisions of the proposed law violate principles of justice. "Using this Act, the police can now keep an innocent citizen in their custody for 30 days," he said. The bill was passed by voice vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-house-passes-gunda-bill-with-stricter-provisions-892017.html
23-09-2020||West||Bombay High spillage responsible for Goa's tar ball menace||Spillage of oil at the mid-sea oil field at Bombay High is responsible for carcinogenic tar balls which wash ashore on Goa's beaches during and after the monsoons, claimed Goa's Environment Minister Nilesh Cabral. Speaking to reporters after a meeting of the state cabinet, Cabral also said that the Goa government had written to the Union Ministry for Environment and Forests with findings of a study conducted by his Ministry, which points the finger for the tar ball menace towards Bombay High. "We have tracked down on the source of these tar balls after studying the phenomenon. We have written to the MoEF about the matter. The central Ministry will now study our findings before taking measures to address the issue which we have raised," Cabral said. Tar balls are formed due to a reaction of oil spills or from oily ballast dumped by sea going-vessels, which then reacts with the saline water, creating the formation of tar balls, which then wash ashore. Tar balls regularly wash ashore along the Western coastline causing pollution of beaches and the coastal environment. A decade back, studies conducted by the National Institute of Oceanography had identified dumping of heavy oil and ballast by ships off Goa, as the key reason for the formation of tar balls off the coast of Goa and North Karnataka. Goa’s most popular beaches like Anjuna, Vagator, Calangute, Candolim, Benaulim suffer from the tar-ball menace, along with beaches in North Karnataka like Panambur, Sasihitlu, Mukka, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-spillage-responsible-for-goas-tar-ball-menace-892018.html
23-09-2020||West||Quota row: Maratha outfit to stage protests in Pune||Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM), an outfit heading the quota agitation for the Maratha community, will stage protests outside the offices of all key political parties in Pune on September 27, an official said on Wednesday. There is a marked difference in the measures announced by the Maharashtra government and the ground reality, which will be brought to the fore through these protests, an office-bearer of the MKM said. The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced several measures to give relief to agitating Marathas, including giving community members benefits meant for the Economic Weaker Section (EWS), in the light of the Supreme Court staying the implementation of quota in jobs and education for the community. "Even if the measures announced by the state government look 'welcoming' superficially, some of the announcements are old and are applicable for other open categories," claimed Rajendra Kondhre, one of the convenors of MKM. Protests will be staged outside the offices of all key political parties, including the NCP, Congress, Shiv Sena and BJP, Kondhre said. He further alleged that phones of key leaders of Maratha outfits are being tapped and MKM plans to write to the state's home minister about the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/quota-row-maratha-outfit-to-stage-protests-in-pune-892021.html
23-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: 21,029 new coronavirus cases, 479 deaths||Maharashtra's coronavirus case tally rose to 12,63,799 on Wednesday with addition of 21,029 cases, the state health department said. With 479 Covid-19 patients dying during the day, the death toll reached 33,886, it said. On the other hand, 19,476 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries in the state to 9,56,030, it said, adding that there are now 2,73,477 active cases in Maharashtra. Mumbai city reported 2,360 new infections on Wednesday, which pushed its case count to 1,90,264, while the death toll rose to 8,604 with 49 coronavirus patients dying in the state capital. Pune city added 1,797 Covid-19 cases, raising its tally to 1,46,062, while 26 deaths took the toll to 3,329. The state has so far conducted 61,06,787 tests. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 12,63,799, new cases: 21,029, death toll: 33,886, discharged: 9,56,030, active cases: 2,73,477, people tested so far: 61,06,787.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-21029-new-coronavirus-cases-479-deaths-892032.html
