24-09-2020||Comment||Labour reform Bills: Will it kickstart the economy?||The Lok Sabha has just passed three bills dealing with codifying the plethora of labour laws in the country. Though this was long overdue and the debate over labour reforms has been raging for decades now, one needs to see if the view that it will stimulate India’s declining economy is grounded in reality. Labour being on the Concurrent List and with a confusing array of 300+ laws dealing with it, reforms were overdue. Labour laws, like laws in several other areas, are essentially a colonial legacy. Some of our laws and operational directives that flow from it were made in a particular context and are fundamentally driven by a ‘trust deficit’ and a ‘policing mindset’. They were designed with a view that the law is not being made to facilitate compliance but to prevent non-compliance. People lose out the essence that regulation is about encouraging compliance and not about demanding a penalty for non-compliance. Instead of supportive supervision from the State/system, what we have is a ‘police raj’ waiting to catch people violating the law. The notion of protecting jobs also vests a lot of power in the hands of the regulator with very little accountability demanded from them. The enforcement mechanisms are clouded with opacity and open the door to corruption. India is a State with weak governance mechanisms and poor accountability frameworks for the executive. It is alleged that corruption in the labour department disheartens industrialists and disincentivises investment, so as a solution the laws themselves need to be done away with. While this could be one way of viewing the situation, what needs to be done is to ensure greater transparency in the framing and implementation of the law, decriminalising offences, encouraging compliance and linking any State support to MSMEs through stimulus packages and tax incentives to conditional protection of the labour deployed in the enterprise. The narrative of the last few years and especially of the past few months portrays labour as ‘the problem statement’ and the subsequent amendments by states, beginning with Uttar Pradesh, draw their inspiration from this thinking. Labour should be seen as stakeholders and part of the ‘solution framework’ and not treated as expendable entities or equated to consumable resources.  Existing labour laws are primarily about protecting jobs and not about protecting people. And this neither benefits the industry nor the labour force. Kickstarting the economy cannot be reduced to the unidimensional and simplistic approach of diluting the labour law standards and assuming that it will make enterprises competitive.  The 2014 World Bank Enterprise Survey of India showed that less than 5% of firms identified labour regulation as a primary obstacle to their operations.  Niti Aayog’s own report mentions that among many Indian states, labour regulation does not feature as the biggest primary obstacle for firms. In fact, it is corruption which is the number one barrier for the private sector to thrive. Other myths that are doing the rounds to justify the reforms contemplated are that investments will go up with the easing of the labour laws;  Chinese companies will translocate to India; and high labour costs and complex labour laws are a barrier faced by Indian enterprises. The research reports of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) clearly indicate that there is no basis to the belief that capital chases lower labour regulation standards. In fact, research reports mention that core labour standard of the ILO produce better human capital, greater efficiency through the labour cost-productivity nexus, and more social and political stability via freedom of association and collective bargaining.  These standards are the ones that attract FDI and are correlated with a productive and healthy economy. Labour costs are steadily falling, and the Annual Survey of Industries data shows that this share was 28.5 in 1980–81, 21.4 in 1990–91, 15.5 in 2000–01, 10.3 in 2010–11 and 12.3 in 2015–16. One also needs to keep in mind that the hourly minimum wage in China is three times more than in India ($1.73 compared to $0.61). The underlying point is that labour is already very cheap in India and other factors that reduce India’s competitiveness have to be first addressed if investments are to be attracted. Stimulating the Indian economy needs an ecosystem approach. A healthy economy needs the foundation of an engaged citizenry, good governance, visionary leadership, political stability, a practical way forward driven by evidence rather than mere emotion. One can no longer promote mediocrity, inefficiency and lack of accountability amongst labour in the enterprise or amongst the regulators. What is needed is to see labour as co-creators of wealth and move towards compassionate capitalism. What our lawmakers have to ensure is that the health, working conditions and a fair compensation is assured to the labour class while not restricting firms from choosing, retaining or firing talent. Reforms that address unemployment during contingencies and social entitlements like pensions will also help in bringing more people into the formal sector and benefit both labour and industry. The Covid-19 crisis presents us with the opportunity to pause and try to appreciate what the future of work could look like a few years from now. Our policymakers could have taken on a futuristic mindset and framed the laws to facilitate economic growth then, instead of responding with band-aid solutions for today alone.   (The writer is the Chairman of GRAAM, a public policy think tank and a visiting professor at Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/labour-reform-bills-will-it-kickstart-the-economy-892095.html
24-09-2020||Comment||Is asking questions taboo?||The contempt of court case against the Tamil actor Suriya -- which was fortunately and wisely dropped by the Madras High Court -- and the case of contempt against Prashant Bhushan raise serious concerns. One wonders if merely raising questions is now being seen as an offence. Going by the investigation in the Delhi riots, there should be little doubt that the days of citizens’ protesting against a government policy are a thing of the past. The CAA-related protests emerged due to the selective nature of the Act, which sought to provide citizenship to ‘persecuted minorities’ from the neighbouring countries. The relief was not provided to all neighbouring countries; it was not provided to all minorities either. Nearly a dozen tribal communities in Bangladesh – such as the Bru and the Chakma—are much smaller in numbers than the religious communities that received relief by the amended act. It was the selective nature of the CAA that was being questioned by the protesting groups. The Delhi riots were an entirely different issue. But in the investigation by the Delhi police, the two were put together and many young protesters were picked up under the charge of a ‘conspiracy.’ On the other hand, the leaders from the ruling dispensation who made inflammatory speeches were not even mentioned in the charge-sheets submitted to the court. It appears that the police department is working towards proving its theory of a large-scale conspiracy. The trend is worrisome for citizens who believe that the Constitution gives them the freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of expression of their views. What is even more worrisome is that the use of UAPA has become far too frequent. The latest disclosure by the National Investigation Agency states that the UAPA cases over the last few years were 922 (2016), 901 (2017) and 1,182 (2018). These numbers are large for the kind of provisions that the UAPA contains. The UAPA, which stands for the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, earlier had good intentions and good international conduct. The United Nations, in response to the 9/11 (2001) attack by al-Qaeda, sensing the need to have legislative backing for the anti-terrorism drive initiated by the Member States had requested the community of nations in November 2001 to form suitable laws. After several related UN resolutions and particularly the UN Security Council Resolution 1822 of 2008, India amended its UAPA (in 2008). A further amendment to it in 2019, passed through the Parliament in August, altered Section 35 of the UAPA and made it applicable to ‘individuals’ who could be categorised as terrorists, while in the past it was applied to ‘organisations’ alone. The results of this ‘re-interpretation’ are before us. In April, Masrat Zahra, a 26-year-old photojournalist from J&K was booked under it. In Delhi, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar, students from the Jamia Milia Islamia University, and Umar Khalid from JNU have been held using the provisions of UAPA. In Assam, the well-known RTI activist and human rights defender Akhil Gogoi has been in prison since December 2019. Several prominent intellectuals have been booked using the provisions of the draconian law by claiming that they had incited violence during a meeting held in Pune last year. Among them have been Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde. Some weeks ago, Delhi University Professor Hany Babu Tharayil was arrested under the same provisions of the UAPA. The All India Students’ Association’s (AISA) Delhi president Kanwalpreet Kaur too has been brought under the scanner. This is not the complete list of the individuals who are arrested. The use of UAPA against individuals who raise uncomfortable questions has now become a deadly instrument for suppressing thoughts and ideas. ‘Terrorist activities’ and ‘sedition’ are terms that immediately place even a completely innocent individual under a heavy cloud of public suspicion, once charged so by the State. However, in the process, the State is turning free-thinking, holding divergent views, dissent and disagreement on important public issues into a crime. Interpretation of an act as a ‘crime’ needs minimum discernment. Some time ago, Jeyaraj and Benicks, father and son, were allegedly beaten up, tortured and killed by two police sub-inspectors posted at the Sathankulam police station in Thoothukudi. The Tamil Nadu CID arrested the cops, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court ordered a probe and the CBI was asked to take over the case. The victims tortured and killed had been late by half-an-hour in downing the shutters of their small shop. As it happened in the colonial past with communities (now called the Denotified Tribes) that were perfectly innocent but were brought under the specter of suspicion as being ‘potentially criminal’, at present, dissent is being brought under labels like ‘sedition’ and ‘terrorism’. Regimes, by the very nature of how they are constituted, will always find it convenient to use the law with a semantic twist. However, the Constitution, and the fundamental rights guaranteed by it, are bound to get seriously corroded in the process. Governments are creatures of the Constitution. When they wilfully ignore the need to deepen the spirit of the Constitution, they display an insufficient understanding of the relationship between the people, the Constitution and their joint creature, the government. Allowing the democratic space for dissent ultimately is at the heart of democracy. (The writer is a literary scholar and a cultural activist. He is Chairman of the People’s Linguistic Survey and leads the Dakshinayan movement of writers)( Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/is-asking-questions-taboo-892608.html
24-09-2020||First Edit||Karnataka: VIP mentality in full display||Politicians have always been a privileged lot and consider themselves more equal than others, but in making some outrageous demands, the legislators of Karnataka are set to take the VIP mentality to another level. One of the recommendations made by the privileges committee is that special arrangements should be made for MLAs and MLCs for darshan and accommodation at Tirupati and other temples outside Karnataka. Millions of pilgrims wait for several agonising hours for a hurried darshan at Tirupati. Their trauma will only increase if the demands of our legislators are accepted. While the legislators already receive special treatment at temples within the state, the logistics involved in taking care of their protocol demands while visiting shrines in far-flung regions of the country can easily be imagined. How such privileges will help our legislators contribute to their core job – making laws and ensuring the development of their constituencies -- is beyond one’s comprehension. Another long-pending demand that beneficiaries of various government schemes should be identified by legislators, not officers, may hold some merit as elected representatives should have a say in the affairs of their constituency. But there have been several complaints of MLAs extending benefits to their relatives, party workers and supporters, while discriminating against the truly deserving. If subjectivity is eliminated by adhering to certain transparent criteria in deciding beneficiaries, then the question of who heads such committees, legislator or bureaucrat, becomes irrelevant. The committee has also suggested that each legislator should be allowed to recommend two students to residential schools run by the Minorities Welfare department. Considering that there are about 300 MLAs and MLCs in the state, over 600 seats will be cornered by them to be allotted among their favourites. This should not be allowed as it will go against the very concept of social justice for which these institutions are established. On the other hand, the suggestion that legislators should be provided with two FASTAG access cards, instead of one as at present, to facilitate free movement at toll plazas is understandable. Similarly, the legislators have some valid grouses, such as that many officers do not take them into confidence while implementing schemes in their constituencies. The committee has suggested that officers be trained on protocol applicable to legislators to overcome this. While the legislature may accept recommendations that will help MLAs and MLCs effectively discharge their duties, those suggestions that are aimed at pandering to their egos should be rejected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-vip-mentality-in-full-display-892093.html
24-09-2020||First Edit||A law aimed at crippling NGOs||The bill to amend the Foreign Contributions (Regulation) Act, passed by Parliament this week, will put more pressure on non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and make their functioning more difficult. The stated aim of the amendment is to bring about transparency in the working of non-profit bodies, to ensure that there is better compliance with the laws. But in actual practice, the provisions of the bill will only impose more restrictions on the working of NGOs. These include putting a limit on administrative expenses at 20% of the foreign donations received, a ban of transfer of funds received under the FCRA to any other outfit, the mandate that they should open an account with a State Bank of India (SBI) branch in New Delhi, and sweeping powers for the Ministry of Home Affairs to cancel the FCRA certificate of an NGO. The government has been hostile to NGOs from the beginning. It has introduced many policies to hurt them. The FCRA has been an important weapon to hurt them with because many NGOs are dependent on foreign donations. This very government amended the FCRA to enable political parties to receive funds from abroad secretly and to keep such donations from being probed, but the most unnecessary questions are asked when even the best NGOs receive foreign funds. The government has over the years made the FCRA provisions increasingly stringent in their application to NGOs. The latest restrictions go to unreasonable levels. Capping the use of foreign funds for administrative expenses at 20% does not make sense without consideration of the nature of work done by different NGOs. The restriction on fund transfer ignores the fact that many NGOs fund others and also seek their help in their operations. The compulsion to open an account with SBI, that too at a Delhi branch, is clearly aimed at surveillance. The inference is that the latest amendments are more a means of harassment than an attempt to make NGOs more transparent and accountable. There are lakhs of NGOs in the country and about 20,000 are registered under FCRA. They function in various fields like healthcare, education, environment, gender issues, child welfare and human rights. Most of them do excellent work in areas where the government’s efforts do not reach. Many of them have been active even through the Covid-19 pandemic, stepping in where governments have failed. Some NGOs may have violated laws or otherwise erred, but it is wrong to use the power of law-making to constrain and punish all of them. Citizens and civil society must ask, are NGOs receiving foreign funds dangerous or are political parties receiving foreign funds secretly more dangerous for the country?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-law-aimed-at-crippling-ngos-892607.html
24-09-2020||In Perspective||Vladimir Putin thinks he can get away with anything||It is now an established fact, confirmed by laboratories in Germany, France and Sweden, that Alexei Navalny was poisoned with Novichok, a nerve agent developed by the Soviet Union. The powerful poison, which has been used in at least one previous assassination attempt against foes of the Russian regime, was this time employed against a domestic opposition leader who operated openly to expose corruption and challenge the Kremlin. It requires a serious response. In the face of Kremlin stonewalling, many questions remain unanswered and are likely to remain so. Chief among them is whether President Vladimir Putin ordered or approved the attempted assassination. Then there is the fact that once again, the victim survived the attack, and the nerve agent was identified. Navalny had been flying home from Siberia to Moscow when he was stricken. Did his poisoners want him to perish on the way, as the timetable of the attack suggests, and want to cover up the reason? Or was it their intention to convey a brutal warning of what happens to those who challenge the Kremlin? Navalny may have survived largely because of the pilot’s alacrity in landing and getting him to a hospital. The government later allowed him to be taken to Germany for further treatment. Once they heard of his collapse, Navalny’s colleagues quickly collected what they could from his last hotel in Siberia and got the evidence to Germany, where traces of Novichok were found on a water bottle. Whatever the full story, the Russian government’s contemptible posturing as an aggrieved victim of unfair suspicions only intensify the need to demand a reckoning from the Kremlin. Putin knows what happened, or he can find out, and if he continues to hide behind glaringly phony denials and ridiculous accusations, he only strengthens the suspicion that this was a deliberate, state-sanctioned hit. He had the greatest motive, means and opportunity. Even if it was an operation ordered at some lower level, the attack on Navalny breaks new ground. Ranking assassinations according to degrees of infamy may seem frivolous, and attacking two former Russian double agents residing in England, Sergei Skripal and Alexander Litvinenko, by nerve gas or radiation, is hard to exceed in brazenness. But Navalny was not a former spy. He was by far the best known and most visible of Putin’s political opponents. His exposés of official corruption — most famously of the extravagant properties owned by the former president Dmitri Medvedev — were widely circulated, detailed and credible. Those who tried to kill him had to know, and not care, that the attack could be seen only as an attempt to silence a strong and effective political voice. Even more appalling was their deployment of a banned chemical weapon on Russian soil against a Russian politician. The perpetrators knew that Novichok had been identified in the attack against Skripal and that its use was a violation of international law. Russia is a signatory to the Chemical Weapons Convention, and after Germany established that Navalny had been poisoned, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons issued a statement that under the convention, “any poisoning of an individual through the use of a nerve agent is considered a use of chemical weapons.” At the very least, that obligates Russia to establish how a known nerve agent came to be used in the center of Russia. Putin must believe that there is not much the West can do that it hasn’t already done by way of sanctions. President Trump, for reasons that remain one of the top mysteries of his administration, has largely closed his eyes to Putin’s serial transgressions, whether it’s meddling in American elections, annexing Crimea or stonewalling on the poisoning of dissidents. The surest sign of European anger would be cancellation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, a gas conduit from Russia to Germany under the Baltic Sea. But the project is nearly completed, and Angela Merkel, the chancellor of Germany, is reluctant to take a step that would be costly for Europe and that would look like bowing to threats from the Trump administration, which has demanded cancellation of the pipeline. Yet, as Putin looks intent on spending the rest of his life at Russia’s helm and displays ever less concern for human rights or the rule of law, it is incumbent on the West to hold him accountable for murdering or trying to murder anyone he finds troublesome. A state prepared to use banned chemical weapons against its own citizens is a danger and threat to the rest of the world as well, and that must be made clear and unambiguous also to Putin and his co-conspirators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/vladimir-putin-thinks-he-can-get-away-with-anything-892094.html
24-09-2020||In Perspective||Shaping mobility: Activism is helping, we need more of it||Bengaluru has a history of constructive citizen engagement leading to superior policy outcomes and improved quality of life. Activists have generated breakthrough ideas and local groups have shown the way, for example, by adopting and restoring our lakes. Now, after the Covid-induced lockdown, the government must take forward ideas proposed by citizens to create a greener, inclusive and efficient public transportation system. The Bengaluru Mobility Summit provided a platform for activists to brainstorm with policymakers. One suggestion was about greening stormwater drains and fitting them up as walking and cycling paths. Persistence has borne fruit. On Independence Day, the Chief Minister announced that 400 km of primary canals within the city will be greened and refitted. Similarly, we are seeing progress on Suburban Rail, another long-pending solution. Changing mindsets is crucial. Upgrading from a bicycle to a two-wheeler to a car has traditionally been framed as an aspirational goal. Instead, we need to help people understand that different modes of transport are appropriate for different purposes. Use cars or scooters only when more sustainable options are not accessible or efficient. To make Bengaluru more pedestrian and cycle-friendly, we need continuous, obstruction-free footpaths and protected cycle lanes. A cycle lane is coming up on the Outer Ring Road parallel to the bus priority lane. If the government creates a convenient and safe infrastructure, citizens will adopt greener transportation options. Vehicles contribute 43% of carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions in Bengaluru. Imagine the impact on our air quality if we embrace sustainable mobility options. It will help build a low carbon economy and mitigate climate change. After the lockdown, we need to rethink public transport. Instead of focusing on profitability, we need to see it as a utility that makes our ‘Right to Mobility’, our access to livelihoods and a fuller life come alive. Neither buses nor Namma Metro can work at full capacity for a while anyway. But buses demonstrated their resilience and kept essential workers moving during the lockdown and BMTC admirably adopted protocols to ensure safety. We also need to enhance accessibility to public transport for persons with disabilities. As people regain confidence in public transport, to make it a preferred choice, we need to make buses faster, predictable, safe and affordable. Dedicated priority bus lanes will be key. The pilot lane between Silk Board and Tin Factory on Outer Ring Road has been successful. We must now implement priority bus lanes on other key arterial roads. Arterials have already seen another civil society-generated idea successfully implemented. That is the hub-and-spoke model, where, because of the frequency of arterial buses, commuters find it an attractive option even if they have to change buses to reach interior locations. Bengaluru has made buses attractive even to people with higher incomes who pay more for the Volvo buses that provide a different level of service. Multi-modal and last-mile connectivity is crucial to making public transportation more attractive. Integrating electric vehicles would make the system more sustainable. Private mobility service providers, including shuttle services and even app-based bike taxis, can transform last-mile connectivity. So can bicycle sharing with parking at bus stops and Namma Metro stations. Public transport is a lifeline for disadvantaged and vulnerable groups, including migrant workers. We should aim to make public transport practically free and raise revenues to cover the costs through rationalising property taxes, advertisements, etc. As India’s start-up capital, Bengaluru has the talent to come up with innovative tech-based solutions to making mobility a breeze. Imagine a single app for commuters to plan end-to-end trips using all available transportation assets, with integrated ticketing and payment. Imagine a control centre at BMTC that enables real-time data analysis for traffic management and a Unified Metropolitan Transportation Authority to synergise mobility options. Imagine smart bus stands, integrated with apps, that tell passengers when the next bus will come and the estimated time to destination. The more cost-effective and convenient the public transportation system becomes, the more consumers will prefer it over private alternatives and the stress they involve. How we build our city matters. Residences, their density and distance from where we work, study, entertain ourselves, play, heal, relax and shop, all need to be reimagined. The Paris Mayor’s concept of a 15-minute city, where all these services are available within a 15-minute walk, is worth emulating. Today, too many of our residents have to travel long distances to access these services because of how we have laid out our city, while persons with disabilities are often altogether excluded. Urban development also needs us to embrace our natural landscapes and revive water bodies and their linking canals. It is paradoxical that we regularly endure floods in a city perched on a high plateau that is drained by four major valleys. In the longer run, we must transform how Bengaluru grows by reforming planning processes. We need collaboration across urban agencies to draw up plans that take care of a multitude of services like mobility, health, education, electricity, water, and waste management. Currently, there is no provision for public consultations during the planning stage or to integrate ward committees in implementation. New legislation is needed with a mandate for public and expert involvement during the preparation and implementation of the regional master plan. If the government stays receptive to the public’s ideas, Bengaluru will once again become a Garden City anchored by inclusive and sustainable public transport. (The writer is a former Member of Parliament and is involved with multiple initiatives to transform Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/shaping-mobility-activism-is-helping-we-need-more-of-it-892609.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Focus on giving protection to women and children: DC||There is a need to focus on the protection of women and children, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. Chairing a progress review meeting of the Department of Women and Child Welfare at DC’s office in Madikeri on Wednesday, she said that the children, who are working as daily wage labourers, should be rescued. “Legal awareness should be created against the atrocities on women and children. If someone sees children working as daily wage labourers, they should inform the same to the child helpline by dialing 1098. Similarly, the atrocities on women can be brought to the notice of the officials by dialing the women’s helpline number 181. The officials should immediately respond to the complaints,” the DC said. She asked the officials to carry out speedy action in Pocso cases, to conduct surprise visits to the organisations coming under the purview of District Child Protection Unit and submit a report on the same. “There is a need to take the schemes of women and child welfare department to the needy. The department concerned should take up necessary measures towards preventing malnutrition and anemia among women and children,” the Deputy Commissioner added. Women and Child Welfare department In-charge Deputy Director Arundhathi said that a total of  61 cases, including 35 Pocso cases, 7 child atrocity cases, 2 kidnapping, 6 women sexual atrocity cases, one case of atrocity on women, four cases of domestic violence and six other cases, had been registered in ‘Sakhi’, a one-stop centre, in the district. Special Public Prosecutor K R Vidyadhara said Pocso cases should be filed in the court in the initial stage. By the time some cases are registered in the court, the victim would have become 18, he added. Zilla Panchayat CEO Bhanwar Singh Meena, Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra, DDPI P S Machado and Child Welfare Committee Chairman Suraj, Children’s Rights Commission member Parashuram, Child Protection Committee member Latif, Childline counselors Navin, were present during the meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/focus-on-giving-protection-to-women-and-children-dc-892121.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Renaming St Aloysius College road undemocratic decision'||The government's decision to rename the road from Hampankatta through Light House till Ambedkar Circle after Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty has hurt the sentiments of thousands of admirers of St Aloysius College and educational institutions, the new Rector of St Aloysius Institutions Fr Melwyn Joseph Pinto said. “It is indeed undemocratic and a unilateral decision on the part of the government to revoke the order which was rightfully contested by us, without taking us into confidence, which amounts to noncompliance of the directive of the High Court,” he told reporters in St Aloysius College premises on Wednesday. In its judgement on April 11, 2019, the High Court had directed the civic authorities to convene both the opposing groups and reach an amicable settlement. St Aloysius College in its memorandum on February 19, 2020, had also made an appeal to involve the college in future deliberations on the issue. The municipality had named the stretch of road after St Aloysius College as early as 1976. The rector said the institution that has been serving the cause of education for 140 years cannot be overlooked in preference of one individual. Vijaya Bank Workers' Organisation, which has been pursuing the renaming process, may not enjoy any locus standi as the bank is already merged with the Bank of Baroda, he said. “We feel that influential people, who claim to believe in equality of rights, are behind the renaming act. The overnight preparation for the inauguration of the road has pained us. It is also a conspiracy to divert public attention from real issues posed by the pandemic,” said the rector. He urged the government and civic authorities to take a serious note of the incident that has questioned the fundamental understanding of the justice, democratic values and reconsider the decision and ensure that due justice is meted out to our cause. N G Mohan of Old students Association of the college recollected that Vijaya Bank began operating from a building at Mallikatte. "Thus, it would have been appropriate to name the road from Bunts Hostel Circle to Mallikatte after Mulki Sunder Ram Shetty. It was a conspiracy against St Aloysius College," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/renaming-st-aloysius-college-road-undemocratic-decision-892162.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Housing structures unaffected in Hebri landslide||Kundapura tahsildar and revenue inspectors visited the site where landslides had occurred at Koterayana Betta near Madamakki in Hebri taluk. There were no houses along the three kilometre stretch where the landslide had occurred. As it is a reserve forest, no farming activities were carried out. The landslide had not affected the place of human habitation, according to the report submitted by the officials, said Kundapura Assistant Commissioner K Raju. The officials had visited Mannadi village situated on the foothills of the hilly range and documented the suggestions of residents. Wildlife division officials too had visited the spot. Geologists have been asked to visit the site and submit a report. Meanwhile, rain receded in the district on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/housing-structures-unaffected-in-hebri-landslide-892228.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||2.6 kg marijuana seized in Nagamangala||Acting on a tip-off that marijuana was being sold at a farm on Mysuru Road, Nagamangala town police raided the spot and seized cannabis weighing 2.6 kg and arrested three persons. The accused are Imraz Khan, Syed Azhar and Mohammed Juhaid, residents of Rehmath Nagar, in Nagamangala town, Mandya district. Acting on the guidance of Superintendent of Police, K Parashuram, Dy SP Vishwanath, CPI Rajendra and officials raided the place and seized 2.6 kg marijuana, three mobile phones, and Rs 1,900 cash. Town police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/26-kg-marijuana-seized-in-nagamangala-892238.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Illegal transaction from China to Bylakuppe suspected||It is suspected that six persons of Tibetan settlement in Bylakuppe of Periyapatna taluk in the district are involved in illegal money transfer from China. According to sources, Enforcement Directorate (ED) staff visited the settlement and inquired six persons. They said Charlie Peng of China has deposited lakhs of rupees to the bank accounts of 10 people. Out of 10 persons, six are from Bylakuppe, they added.  However, SP C B Ryshyanth said that he is not aware of the matter as the issue is related to the ED.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/illegal-transaction-from-china-to-bylakuppe-suspected-892554.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Palace golden throne kept for public viewing||Now, visitors to the Mysuru Palace can see the Simhasana or the golden throne, which is assembled for conducting the Khasa Durbar. The golden throne is kept for public viewing at the Palace untill the end of Dasara. The throne was assembled on September 18 for ‘Khasa Durbar’ to be performed by Yaduveer Krishnadutta Chamaraja Wadiyar during Navaratri, which will commence on October 17 and concludes on 25. It is kept for public viewing at the Durbar Hall, where private durbar is held. This time, the throne was assembled a month prior to Dasara, owing to Adhika Ashwija Masa. According to Palace authorities, the throne will be kept for public viewing until it will be dismantled following Dasara celebration. The visitors will be charged an additional Rs 50 for seeing the throne.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-palace-golden-throne-kept-for-public-viewing-892557.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tests to be intensified to tackle spread of Covid-19||With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the district administration has decided to intensify real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and antigen tests. The people are asked to extend support, by undergoing tests voluntarily. In a press conference here, Deputy Commissioner B Sharat said that the district is reporting the highest number of cases. “Thus, the number of tests per day will be increased. Death rate is also on the rise as patients fail to consult the doctors on time. As Covid cases are on a rise in both city and in rural Mysuru, measures have been taken to tackle its spread. The process to identify infected persons and to isolate them is going on,” he said. Until now, the officials have tested more than 1,80,000 samples and 31,256 have tested positive. Primary and secondary contacts of the infected are being identified. Officials of the District Health Office are conducting a survey of the health condition of the people suffering from diabetes, hypertension and other diseases, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said, “A total of 4,675 persons were booked for not wearing masks. While Rs 200 will be collected under Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) limits, Rs 100 is being collected in rural areas. The authorities have collected a total fine of Rs 7,84,900.” The DC said, “Private hospitals did not allot beds for Covid patients as per guidelines, earlier. The authorities conducted a meeting with private hospitals and hence, 50% of the beds are reserved. Out of 3,610 total beds, 1,130 beds are allotted for Covid.” City Police Commissioner Chandragupta and Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyant warned the people of initiating legal action, if they are moving around without masks and also warned of stern action if Covid warriors are obstructed from delivering their duty. Expressing displeasure over owners of commercial complexes and shops he said that all commercial establishments are open, but, many are not following the guidelines. The police will impose a fine against the owners of the shops and business establishments if the guidelines are not maintained, he warned. SP C B Ryshyanth said that wrong messages about undergoing Covid tests are doing the rounds on social media. He called upon the people not to worry about fake messages and urged them to undergo tests. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer D Bharati and MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tests-to-be-intensified-to-tackle-spread-of-covid-19-892559.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hospitality sector yet to pick up; only 10% occupancy in hotels||With only a few days remaining for Mysuru Dasara, the hospitality sector in Mysuru city is yet to pick up business. Hoteliers are worried about their future, as the occupancy rate is less compared to previous years. All these years, hotel rooms used to be booked one month prior to Dasara. But, this time, due to the Covid-19 crisis, hardly a few rooms are booked. Dasara will commence on October 17 and will conclude on October 26. The state government has announced simple Dasara. With the outbreak of Covid, the hospitality sector is severely affected. Hoteliers were hopeful of improving business during the Dasara season. But now, hoteliers are worried as the tourism industry has failed to pick up.   A manager of a star hotel on Hunsur Road said, “Out of 85 rooms, only five rooms are booked for Darasa season. A majority of our customers are foreigners. This time, no foreigner has booked a room. Despite offers, no tourists, either foreign or domestic, are booking the rooms.” Even after months, since the government relaxed the lockdown guidelines, hardly a few tourists are staying in Mysuru city. According to sources of Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association, a majority of the establishments remain closed as there are no customers, even though the government has permitted lodges and restaurants to operate. Out of 405 lodges, only 50% have opened after the lockdown was relaxed. Hardly a few tourists are coming to Mysuru city and many hotels and accommodation facilities are yet to open. Several hotels have closed permanently. A few owners are diverting from the hotel business. It has become difficult to run hotels and restaurants. “We have to hire employees and spend on maintenance. We had great hopes of doing good business during Dasara season. But, no rooms are booked to date,” said manager of a reputed hotel. Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association president C Narayana Gowda said, “There is 10% booking. A majority of the customers are not tourists, but either businessmen or officials. Tourists’ inflow is very less. As part of Tourism Day, the association has decided to organise special programmes to attract tourists.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hospitality-sector-yet-to-pick-up-only-10-occupancy-in-hotels-892561.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Cash, valuables worth Rs 1 cr stolen from bank||Thieves broke into Pragathi Grameen Bank branch at Bevur in Yalaburga taluk of the district and made away with cash and valuables worth Rs 1 crore on Wednesday night.  It is learned that the thieves cut the bank door with a gas cutter and took away more than Rs 21 lakh in cash and 300 gram gold jewels.  The incident came to light when the bank personnel came for work. The value of the stolen jewels is being ascertained. The residents express surprise about the incident as the bank is in a thickly populated area and has security staffers on duty.  CPI Nagireddy said the iron rods of the bank has been cut. A case has been registered at Bevur police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cash-valuables-worth-rs-1-cr-stolen-from-bank-892572.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||No hurdle to announce dates for GP elections: HC||The High Court on Thursday observed that there is no impediment in announcing the schedule of elections to 5,800 gram panchayats in the state. The State Election Commission has sought time to take instructions on the issue of announcing the dates for the elections. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the PIL filed by Congress MLC K C Kondaiah and others. The petition had challenged the constitutional validity of the May 28, 2020, notification issued by the State Election Commission, temporarily postponing the elections to gram panchayats. The report filed by the Election Commission stated that the final voters’ list and the reservation notifications have been published in the month of August. "Prima facie there is no impediment in announcing the schedule of elections which is already overdue," the bench said. Meanwhile, the issue of release of funds required to conduct the election came up during the hearing. The election commission stated that though, initially, it had asked for Rs 250 crore, it subsequently said it required approximately Rs 210 crore for the election. The government submitted that the Finance department had agreed to fund only to the extent of Rs 125 crore. The bench said normally state governments comply with the funds required for holding the elections since the State Election Commission is an authority created under the Constitution to conduct elections. The bench asked the government to sort out the issue immediately and ensure that the funds required for the elections are sanctioned and released. The matter has been posted to October 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-hurdle-to-announce-dates-for-gp-elections-hc-892574.html
24-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Senior MLCs demand better toilet facilities||Inadequate toilet facilities and unavailability of medication was inconveniencing senior citizens and diabetes patients in the Legislative Council, members said on Thursday.  Demanding that Legislative Council chairman Prathapchandra Shetty ensure better infrastructure, Congress member Veerabhadrappa said the lack of toilet facilities was posing a problem to many diabetes patients in the House. He demanded adequate number of separate toilets for the members. Congress' R Dharmasena lamented the poor state of affairs in the pharmacy within the House. "Even basic medication for cough or cold is not available here," he said. Leader of the House Kota Sreenivasa Pujary promised to look into the issue at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/senior-mlcs-demand-better-toilet-facilities-892580.html
24-09-2020||Mysuru||Debt ridden farmer in Mysuru dies by suicide||A 60-year-old debt-ridden farmer Ningaraju died by suicide after hanging himself at his farm land at Maraluru village in Nanjangud taluk, Mysuru district. The farmer had three acres of land and he borrowed from several sources including a money lender, cooperative society and also pledged his gold ornaments. Due to shortage of rainfall, crops were damaged and the farmer incurred huge losses. Ningaraju was under depression, according to Nanjangud Rural Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/debt-ridden-farmer-in-mysuru-dies-by-suicide-892287.html
24-09-2020||National||G4 countries demand urgency in reform of the UN Security Council||The G4 grouping comprising India, Japan, Germany and Brazil on Wednesday expressed their concern over lack of any "meaningful" forward movement on long-pending reform of the UN Security Council (UNSC) and demanded "urgency" on the issue. The foreign ministers of the G4 countries held a virtual meeting coinciding with the 75th session of the UN General Assembly during which they held extensive discussion on the need for urgent reform of the UNSC. A joint press statement said the ministers highlighted the urgency of reforming the UN and updating its main decision-making bodies, in order to better reflect contemporary realities. "G4 Ministers expressed disappointment at attempts to derail this process and committed to addressing the issue in a meaningful way and with increased urgency at this 75th anniversary of the UN," the statement released by the external affairs ministry said. The meeting was attended by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Brazilian Foreign Minister Ernesto Araújo, Japan's Motegi Toshimitsu and Minister of State at German Foreign Office Niels Annen. "G4 Ministers expressed their concern at the lack of any meaningful movement forward in the Intergovernmental Negotiations (IGN) on Security Council reform and expressed their concern that - after two sessions in February and March - the IGN was adjourned due to Covid-19 and no further meetings were held thereafter," according to the statement. It said virtual meetings or a written process could have taken place to allow for progress to be made in the previous session. The G4 countries reiterated their support for each other’s candidatures as aspiring new permanent members in a reformed UNSC. "There is a clear need for an enhanced role of developing countries and of major contributors to the United Nations to make the Council more legitimate, effective and representative," the G4 said in the statement. "Africa needs to be represented in both the permanent and non-permanent categories of membership of a reformed and expanded Security Council to correct the historical injustice against this continent with regard to its under-representation," it added. In a tweet, Jaishankar said there was a unanimous call for text-based negotiations within a fixed time frame for the UNSC reform. "Participated in #G4 Foreign Ministers Meeting that called for a decisive push for UNSC reforms during #UN75. Unanimous call for text-based negotiations in a fixed time frame. Reformed Multilateralism guides India's approach to the United Nations," he said. At present, the UNSC comprises five permanent members and 10 non-permanent member countries which are elected for a two-year term by the General Assembly of the UN. The five permanent members are Russia, the UK, China, France and the United States and these countries can veto any substantive resolution. There has been growing demand to increase the number of permanent members to reflect the contemporary global reality. "What is needed is a representative UN Security Council to help us restore confidence in international cooperation and global governance - urgent more than ever in these testing times," the G4 said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/g4-countries-demand-urgency-in-reform-of-the-un-security-council-892100.html
24-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Only 44% Indians wear mask despite high awareness||Despite high awareness of its efficacy in arresting the spread of Covid-19, the mask is worn only by 44% of Indians, reveals a nationwide survey covering 18 cities. Less than half of the respondents wear it correctly and in all relevant situations.  The ongoing unlock process has triggered a degree of laxity in wearing masks, a critical shield against the virus along with social-distancing and hand hygiene. Conducted as part of the ‘ApnaMask’ initiative by EkDesh, a not-for-profit platform, the survey identified breathing issues and inconvenience as key reasons for people not wearing masks.  The study report says: “Breathing problems emerged (50%) as a key reason, followed by discomfort and inconvenience at 44%.” A high 45% of respondents had the assumption that as long as social-distancing was maintained, a mask was not required.  Young respondents in the age group of 26-35 years believed that social-distancing sufficed as a preventive measure. They were indifferent to being infected, not convinced by the mask’s ability to keep the virus away.   Compliance was highest among those in the age group of 36-55 years. "Only 28% of respondents were bound to be masked up while taking delivery of groceries or home deliveries. Around 30% put on the mask only when someone is in close vicinity," the report notes.  Of the regular mask users, over 73% would ensure it covers both mouth and nose when they step out. Besides, women respondents were found to be more conscious of using masks properly than men.  The clear preference was towards N95 masks, cloth masks, and surgical masks. Only 21% of the respondents would use a face shield in addition to a mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-only-44-indians-wear-mask-despite-high-awareness-892112.html
24-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 24||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 57 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases.  Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 58,19,240 as of September 24 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 92,216 76,438  No. of people discharged: 47,36,364 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-24-892133.html
24-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Deft moves, walkouts: Parliament's Monsoon Session comes to an end||The 10-day Monsoon Session of Parliament ended on a bitter note on Wednesday amid a boycott by the opposition over suspension of its eight members for unruly behaviour in the Rajya Sabha. China, Rajnath Singh said in Parliament, made “provocative military manoeuvres” on August 29/30 in an attempt to change the status quo in the south bank area of Pangong Lake at a time when the two sides were engaged in military and diplomatic talks to de-escalate tensions. The defence minister said there was a mismatch between what China says and does. “Unki kathani aur karni alag hai (their actions are at variance with their words),” he said, reflecting the mistrust that the Indian armed forces have with the PLA at the moment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-deft-moves-walkouts-parliaments-monsoon-session-comes-to-an-end-892143.html
24-09-2020||National||Suresh Angadi's last rites to be held at New Delhi's Lodhi road crematorium||Last rites of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi who passed away at All India Medical Institute of India (AIIMS), Delhi on Wednesday will be held at Lingayat Rudrabhumi at Dwarka Sector 24 in the national capital on Thursday at 4 pm. Angadi who had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 11, died during treatment at AIIMS, New Delhi. Family members and relatives wanted to conduct his last rites at Belagavi, but a post-mortem Covid-19 test was positive. Hence, it was decided to conduct the last rites in the national capital, Rajya Sabha Member Iranna Kadadi told DH over phone from New Delhi. Decision to conduct last rites in New Delhi was taken at about 3 am on Thursday and it would be held at 4 pm, he informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suresh-angadis-last-rites-to-be-held-at-new-delhis-lodhi-road-crematorium-892144.html
24-09-2020||National||Punjab farmers call on 3-day 'rail-roko' agitation over Farm Bills||Punjab farmers' body announced a three-day 'rail-roko' agitation starting today against the Centre's Farm Bills that were passed in the monsoon session Parliament this week. A total of 31 farmers' bodies in Punjab joined hands to make the September 25 “bandh” against the agriculture-related Bills introduced in Parliament by the Centre a success. "We have decided to hold a rail roko agitation from September 24 to 26 against the three agriculture ordinances," Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee General Secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher had said, as per multiple media reports. The three legislations -- Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill -- were passed by the Parliament recently and are set to become laws after the President's nod. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the three Bills will pave a way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-farmers-call-on-3-day-rail-roko-agitation-over-farm-bills-892170.html
24-09-2020||National||Defence Ministry postpones inauguration of 43 BRO bridges in 7 states||Defence Ministry has postponed inauguration of 43 BRO bridges in seven states because of the State Mourning following the death of Suresh Angadi, the Minister of State for the Railways. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh was to inaugurate as many as 43 bridges built in border areas of Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir today. Most of the 43 bridges, including seven in Ladakh, are in strategically important areas and they will help the armed forces in ensuring quick movement of troops and weapons. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-postpones-inauguration-of-43-bro-bridges-in-7-states-892178.html
24-09-2020||National||PM Modi looks forward to jointly review bilateral ties with Sri Lanka||Modi was responding to Rajapaksa's tweet, "Looking forward to interacting with PM @narendramodi at the virtual summit scheduled for September 26. We expect to review the multifaceted bilateral relationship between our nations, ranging from politics, economics, defense, tourism and other areas of mutual interest." Modi said, "Thank you, @PresRajapaksa! I too look forward to jointly reviewing our bilateral relationship comprehensively. We must explore ways to further enhance our cooperation in the post-Covid era."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-looks-forward-to-jointly-review-bilateral-ties-with-sri-lanka-892181.html
24-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 cases breach 57-lakh mark with 86,508 new cases||India's Covid-19 caseload breached the 57-lakh mark, while over 46 lakh people have recovered from the disease, pushing the national recovery rate to 81.55 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 57,32,518 with 86,508 people testing positive in a day. The death toll climbed to 91,149 with 1,129 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries surged to 46,74,987 in the country so far.  The COVID-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection was recorded at 1.59 per cent. There are 9,66,382 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 16.86 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 6,74,36,031 samples have been tested up to September 23 with 11,56,569 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 1,129 new deaths include 479 from Maharashtra, 87 from Uttar Pradesh,  64 from Punjab, 63 from Tamil Nadu, 61 from West Bengal, 45 from Andhra Pradesh, 42 from Madhya Pradesh, 38 from Karnataka and 36 from Delhi. A total of 91,149 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 33,886 from Maharashtra followed by 9,010 from Tamil Nadu, 8,266 from Karnataka, 5,506 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,299 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,087 from Delhi, 4,544 from West Bengal, 3,367 from Gujarat, 2,990 from Punjab and 2,077 from Madhya Pradesh.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its  website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-breach-57-lakh-mark-with-86508-new-cases-892189.html
24-09-2020||National||UN report takes note of policies, initiatives in India to combat child, forced marriages||A report of the UN Secretary General on child and forced marriages has taken note of national policies and capacity-building initiatives taken in India to promote gender and child-sensitive health services, including for girls subjected to such alliances, and "promising experiences" about supporting those affected by the practices. The Report of Secretary General Antonio Guterres on "Issue of child, early and forced marriage," which covers the period from June 2018 to May 2020, said that several States adopted legislative and policy measures to raise the minimum age of marriage and also put in place comprehensive strategies to combat child, early and forced marriage. The report contains an overview of progress made towards ending child, early and forced marriages worldwide. “For example, Ethiopia, Ghana, India, Mozambique, the Niger and Uganda developed national policies and guidelines and undertook capacity-building initiatives to promote more gender and child-sensitive health and protection services, including for girls subjected to child, early and forced marriage,” the report said. The report also includes promising experiences with programmes aimed at ending those practices and supporting already married girls and women affected by the practices. It added that in India, adolescents are involved in the "Ladli Samman" campaign, which consists of the mapping of social and economic vulnerabilities and linking them to social protection schemes and counselling support. The report noted that the empowerment of girls at risk and that of already married women and girls can also be promoted by ensuring their access to economic assets and by strengthening their financial independence and their livelihood and entrepreneurship skills. “Families suffering from financial instability are more likely to regard daughters as an economic burden, in particular when unable to finance a daughter's education, and consequently justify their early marriage,” the report said. In India, the UNFPA-UNICEF Global Programme to Accelerate Action to End Child Marriage supported the Kanyashree Prakalpa programme of West Bengal through conditional cash transfers to encourage their continued education and prevent child marriage. The report said that countries and other stakeholders have also undertaken efforts towards addressing the specific needs of girls and women affected by child, early and forced marriage. In India, the Institute of Health Management contributed to empowering several dozens of married girls. They had the opportunity to obtain access to health, educational, economic and legal support. Another programme reported by UNICEF refers to more than 1,500 adolescent girls trained as digital champions (sathis) who had produced 103 short videos covering positive stories of resistance to, or avoidance of, child marriage. According to the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), in the past decade, 25 million child marriages have been prevented globally thanks to the increased rate of girls' education, the proactive investment of governments in adolescent girls and the raising of the public's awareness of the harms and illegality of child marriage. However, globally, the total number of married girls is estimated to be 12 million per year. The prevalence rate of child, early and forced marriage remain high, in particular in some regions, such as sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, which represent 18 per cent and 44 per cent, respectively, of the global burden. A marked reduction in the prevalence rate was recorded in South Asia, however, the prevalence in Latin America and the Caribbean has remained stagnant for 25 years. No region is on track to eliminate child, early and forced marriage by 2030, as set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Furthermore, the Covid-19 pandemic has transformed the lives of children and families across the globe, negatively affecting efforts towards ending child, early and forced marriage and unions. Reports are emerging from Africa and Asia in particular of an increase in the number of early or child marriages, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-report-takes-note-of-policies-initiatives-in-india-to-combat-child-forced-marriages-892220.html
24-09-2020||National||Delhi riots: Ex-JNU student Umar Khalid to be in judicial custody till October 22 under UAPA||A Delhi court Thursday sent former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, to judicial custody till October 22. Khalid was present before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat through video conferencing at the end of his police custody. Khalid was arrested on September 13 in the case. Police did not seek his further custody. In the FIR, police has claimed that the communal violence was a "premeditated conspiracy" which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others. He has also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at the international level about how minorities in India are being tortured, the FIR alleged. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, FIR claimed. Co-accused Danish was allegedly given the responsibility to gather people from two different places to take part in the riots, police alleged. Women and children were made to block the roads under the Jafrabad metro station on February 23 to create tension amidst the neighbourhood people, the FIR said. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-ex-jnu-student-umar-khalid-to-be-in-judicial-custody-till-october-22-under-uapa-892254.html
24-09-2020||National||Supreme Court imposes Rs 10k fine on lawyer for 'frivolous' PIL on rising suicides in IITs||The Supreme Court on Thursday termed as "frivolous" a PIL seeking a direction to the Centre and IITs to formulate and implement a student wellness program to curb rising number of suicides in campuses and imposed a cost of Rs 10,000 on the lawyer for filing it. The top court said the government was alive to the situation and dismissed the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyer Gaurav Bansal on the issue of suicides in IITs across the country. "This is an utterly frivolous petition. Tell us how much cost we should impose on you," a bench headed by Justice R F Nariman said in the hearing conducted through video conferencing. "We are dismissing it with Rs 10,000 as cost payable to the legal services authority," said the bench which also comprised justices Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee. Bansal, during the brief hearing, said that around 50 students have died by suicides in IITs across India in last five years and requested the court to intervene and direct the Union Education Ministry and IITs to formulate and implement a 'Student Wellness Program'. The lawyer said a committee headed by the IIT, Kanpur was formed to look into the cause of suicide by students, but there was no improvement in the situation. Referring to the reply of the Centre, the court observed that authorities were alive and aware of the issue. The plea had sought a direction to 13 IITs to "forthwith plan, design, formulate and effectively implement student health wellness programme focusing on prevention and reduction of suicides within their Institutions as provided under Section 29 and section 115 of the Mental Healthcare Act,2017". Issue direction to IITs for providing aid, support and advice to persons with suicidal thoughts through call centres or helplines at institute level, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-imposes-rs-10k-fine-on-lawyer-for-frivolous-pil-on-rising-suicides-in-iits-892257.html
24-09-2020||National||SC seeks Apollo Hospital's response on Tamil Nadu government's Jayalalithaa death inquiry plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought a response from Apollo Hospitals Enterprises Ltd on a plea by the Tamil Nadu government to vacate the stay on proceedings of an Inquiry Commission to probe into the death of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2016. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna sought a response from the hospital. The top court had on April 26, 2019, stayed proceedings, including summoning of all records, by the Justice A Arumugaswamy Commission. The Tamil Nadu government, in an application, contended the tenure of the Commission has been extended eight times since it was set up on September 27, 2017 and it was incurring Rs 4.26 lakh per month towards salary for the staff. The Commission had already examined 154 witnesses, including 56 doctors from the Apollo and five from AIIMS, 12 government doctors, including medical board of five doctors, 22 paramedical staff and 59 other witnesses, it said. The state government accused Apollo Hospitals, which readily acceded to and participated in the proceedings of the Inquiry Commission, of adopting dilatory tactics to unnecessarily delay the inquiry and publication of final report. It also asked the court to give an early date of hearing. Jayalalithaa was treated for 75 days at the Apollo Hospitals of Chennai till her death on December 5, 2016. The hospital has challenged the Madras High Court's order of April 4, 2019 whereby it had refused to stay the proceedings, including summoning of all records by the Commission.  The High Court had said though the apprehension of bias may be justified, the Commission should be allowed to continue the proceedings as its findings may not be binding but would determine the future course of action by the state government. As many as 30 volumes of medical records, CDs have been furnished before the Commission by the state government to look into the circumstances leading to death of Jayalalithaa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-apollo-hospitals-response-on-tamil-nadu-governments-jayalalithaa-death-inquiry-plea-892261.html
24-09-2020||National||Two asymptomatic healthcare workers reinfected with Covid-19||Scientists who genomically tested samples from the first and second episodes of infection found that genetically distinct Sars-CoV-2 viruses were responsible for the two separate infections. Both healthcare workers had tested positive as a result of routine surveillance.  Dr Vinod Scaria of CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology tweeted that: “Since the individuals were asymptomatic during both incidents and identified on regular surveillance, it suggests that asymptomatic reinfections could be an underreported entity.” The paper which was published by Oxford University on Wednesday, reveals the two healthcare workers, a 25-year-old man and 28-year-old woman, both employed on Covid-19 duties at a tertiary hospital in north India, had first tested positive for the disease on May 5 and May 17, respectively.  Testing was done using the RT-PCR method. The researchers wrote: “Though both individuals were asymptomatic, they were hospitalised as per institutional policy on 5th May and 18th May, respectively.” The male worker tested negative nine days later on May 13 while the woman staffer tested negative 11 days later on May 27.  Scientists say the pair resumed work at the hospital. However, routine surveillance testing found the male worker again positive for the disease on August 21 while the woman staffer tested positive on September 5. Both were again asymptomatic, but the data indicates the woman staffer had a high viral load. The Cycle Threshold (Ct) values were 36 for the man and 16.6 for the woman during the first episode and 28.16 and 16.92 for the second episode, respectively. (A number of 20 or below indicates higher viral load). They were subsequently deemed as being clear of the disease on the 14th and sixth day, respectively. In a recent case of claimed reinfection in Bengaluru, researchers lacked nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swabs from the first episode of infection, which experts say make it difficult to prove reinfection. However, in these two cases, the investigating scientists, from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Noida, CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) in New Delhi and the Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR) in Ghaziabad, had access to nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swabs collected from both the male and woman staffer during their first episode. “Genomes revealed 9 and 10 unique variant differences between the virus isolates from the two episodes of infection,” the scientists said. They added that the virus found in the second episodes had a genetic variant (22882T>G) which they say may confer resistance to neutralising antibodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-asymptomatic-healthcare-workers-reinfected-with-covid-19-892262.html
24-09-2020||National||Who is Bilkis, Shaheen Bagh's ‘dadi’ listed among TIME’s most influential people of 2020?||One of the three "dadis of Shaheen Bagh" who led the anti-CAA agitation has been listed among TIME’s most influential people of 2020. Braving icy winds during the months-long anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh, 82-year-old Bilkis sat under a tent with hundreds of women and children. She emerged as the face of the protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC). She is known for her fiery speeches. In February, she had said the protesters wouldn't move an inch even if someone fires a gun. "We have not blocked the whole stretch. It is Delhi Police which barricaded the whole road in the name of security. Why don't you get that removed first? We never asked police or any authority to block the roads for us. It is they who did it and are now blaming us for the blockade," she had argued. The sit-in protest at Shaheen Bagh was arguably blocking a critical arterial road connecting Delhi and Noida, causing trouble to commuters and schoolchildren. "They call us traitors. When we pushed Britishers out of the country, who are Narendra Modi and Amit Shah? We won't move an inch even if someone fires at us. You remove NRC and CAA, we will clear the site in no time," she said as the crowd of about 100 people cheered on with her. Her profile in the TIME’s most influential people of 2020 by an Indian journalist Rana Ayyub describes her as a "symbol of resistance in a nation where the voices of women and minorities were being systematically drowned out by the majoritarian politics of the Modi regime." “I will sit here till blood stops flowing in my veins so the children of this country and the world breathe the air of justice and equality,” Bilkis told the journalist. However, the protests at Shaheen Bagh ended in March this year in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and a subsequent lockdown announced by the government to contain the spread of the disease. Narendra Modi and Ayushman Khurrana also named in the TIME most influential people list Also on the TIME magazine's list from India are Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi's feature on the TIME Magazine by the publication’s editor Karl Vick describes him as the only Indian Prime Minister, who has governed as if no one else matters apart from Hindus. “First elected on a populist promise of empowerment, his Hindu-­nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party rejected not only elitism but also pluralism, specifically targeting India’s Muslims. The crucible of the pandemic became a pretence for stifling dissent. And the world’s most vibrant democracy fell deeper into shadow,” his profile reads. Meanwhile, Ayushmann's profile says: "Where male protagonist roles often fall into the trap of stereotypical masculinity, Ayushmann has successfully and convincingly transformed into characters who challenge those very stereotypes." Responding to his feature, National Award winner actor Ayushmann Khurrana said he has always aimed to bring a positive change in society through cinema. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-bilkis-shaheen-baghs-dadi-listed-among-time-s-most-influential-people-of-2020-892273.html
24-09-2020||National||Govt allows airlines to decide baggage limitations for domestic flights||The Civil Aviation Ministry has permitted airlines to decide baggage limitations for domestic passenger flights, stated an official order. In an order dated September 23, 2020, the ministry said the "baggage limitation would be as per airlines' policies". "The matter with regard to check-in baggage has been reviewed based on the feedback/inputs received from the concerned stakeholders," the ministry noted. Currently, airlines are permitted to operate not more than 60 per cent of their pre-Covid-19 domestic flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allows-airlines-to-decide-baggage-limitations-for-domestic-flights-892278.html
24-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Saudi Arabia permits outbound passenger flights to India||Air India Express said Saudi Arabia has permitted outbound passenger flights to India under the Vande Bharat mission. On Tuesday, Saudi Arabia had banned flights to and from India amid a surge in coronavirus cases. In a tweet on Wednesday night, Air India Express clarified it would not carry passengers from India to Saudi Arabia. "Air India Express Vande Bharat Mission flights would continue to carry passengers on its flights from Saudi Arabia to India," it added. In a circular issued on Tuesday, Saudi Arabia's General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA) said it was "suspending travel to and from the following countries: (India, Brazil and Argentina) including any person who has been in any of the mentioned countries above in the last 14 days prior to their arrival to the Kingdom". However, it excluded "passengers who have official government invitations”. The GACA circular -- titled: 'Suspension of travel to countries where the Covid-19 virus has outbreak' -- was marked to all the airlines and chartered flight companies operating at the Saudi Arabia's airports. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) host a significant Indian migrant population. Five days ago, Air India Express said that the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) had suspended its flights for 24 hours for bringing two passengers with Covid-19 positive certificates on August 28 and September 4. Dubai is the most populous city of the UAE. According to rules of the UAE government, every passenger travelling from India is required to bring an original Covid-19 negative certificate of an RT-PCR test done within 96 hours prior to the journey. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the outbreak. However, special international flights have been operating between India and Saudi Arabia since May 6 under the Vande Bharat mission. The total coronavirus cases on Thursday in India rose to 57,32,518 with 86,508 people testing positive in a day. The death toll climbed to 91,149 with 1,129 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the Health Ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-saudi-arabia-permits-outbound-passenger-flights-to-india-892288.html
24-09-2020||National||Despite more testing and vaccine developments, Covid-19 crisis far from over, say scientists||From 500 cases to 57 lakh. Six months after a nationwide lockdown, Covid-19 is spreading fast across the length and breadth of India with more testing and developments on the vaccine front but no clarity on when the disease will be controlled, say scientists.   On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown for the entire country, stating it was the only way to break the chain of infection. At the time, the number of people infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus was a little over 500 and the death toll 12.   Six months on, India has the second highest number of cases in the world after the US with a tally of 57.32 lakh cases, 86,508 people testing positive in a day and a total of 91,149 fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry figures on Thursday. As Covid-19 rages -- and even laypersons get conversant with the complexities of RT-PCR tests versus the cheaper but not so reliable rapid antigen tests -- US-based economist and epidemiologist Ramanan Laxminarayan said there is a “hidden epidemic” happening even as the pandemic spreads. He noted that the infection is spreading widely across all parts of the country, including into rural India, although the visibility is lower in places where testing is weak or inadequate.  “We will likely see some increases in states like UP and Bihar but only if RT-PCR testing increases. Right now, we have a hidden epidemic in many parts of the country which have weak health systems,” the director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in Washington told PTI.  “While the infection is spreading at a slower rate than if people were not taking precautions, it is definitely not under control,” Laxminarayan added. However, he expects the number of cases to start coming down in the next month or two as India approaches some sense of “population immunity”. As a substantial number of the population is infected and recovers from the disease, they are unlikely to spread the virus. “Given the precautions that are being taken both by the government and individuals, the epidemic has slowed down. This would mean that we would see a sustained plateau for a while before the cases start coming down,” Laxminarayan said. On March 23, a day before the prime minister announced the lockdown and two days before it came into force, India had tested 18,383 samples. Till September 22, this had gone up to at least 6,62,79,462 tests, both RT-PCR and rapid antigen. The recoveries have gone up to over 46 lakh people, pushing the national recovery rate to 81.55 per cent.  Immunologist Satyajit Rath sounded a note of caution and said India is still at the stage of spreading viral infection across communities.  “With global, international travel as the point of origin, the infection was first established in urban high-density localities, and is now spreading from those into the rest of the country, at widely varied speeds,” Rath, from the National Institute of Immunology (NII) in New Delhi, told PTI.   The infection has never really been under control in India, he said. “The early harsh prolonged lockdown somewhat delayed the large-scale establishment of the infection. But 'control' has never been a possibility. So we are certainly going to see growth in the infection numbers for quite a long while yet,” Rath added.    Immunologist Vineeta Bal concurred with Rath, saying the Indian government did not learn much despite experiences from other parts of the world and announced complete “draconian lockdowns” that were extended for long periods.   “Leadership in the country lacked in its vision and could not get a sense of the ground realities for poor people; or maybe did not care,” Bal, from Pune's Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, told PTI.   “Because of major undermining of public health infrastructure for decades, our epidemic handling preparedness was very, very poor. That could have been the only justifiable reason for imposing the lockdown,” Bal added.   Laxminarayan took a different view. He said there were many positives about the control strategy, including early recognition of the threat faced by India, and an early lockdown though the implementation and planning could have been much better.    “The lack of early testing really cost the country. With better and more expanded testing early on, that India was fully capable of, the lockdown could have been more targeted rather than been nationwide.    “Since then, there has been much confusion on the scientific communication, including on the prospects for a vaccine and the utility of hydrochloroquine. The performance across different states has been very varied depending on their health system capacity,” (sic) he noted.   Rath said the early harsh prolonged lockdown created more problems than it solved.   “It somewhat delayed the large-scale establishment of the infection, but it did that at the disproportionately massive cost of disruption of already fragile livelihoods, of the economy, and of healthcare systems,” he explained.   Bal also pointed out that India has been paying for its long-term neglect of healthcare infrastructure that should accessible to the poor and the needy.   “While there have been serious efforts to build infrastructure, upgrade facilities in the past six months, what has been done is still not enough,” she added.   Discussing the vaccine, on which rest the hopes of billions of people globally, the experts said there are almost 200 efforts across the world to build and test candidates. A large number, growing by the week, are in clinical trials of actual efficacy. In India, there are at least eight vaccine candidates being developed, two of which have entered Phase 2 trials or the penultimate stage. “In all likelihood, a number of vaccines will emerge. Optimistically, the first vaccines will probably be licensed by the end of this calendar year,” Rath said.   “Further, the first-generation vaccines are likely to provide significant but not complete protection, and it will not be clear how long protection will last and how well booster vaccination will work,” he said.   Laxminarayan, also an affiliate professor at the University of Washington, added that it is too early to know if any of the vaccine candidates under development in India will play a major role in Covid-19 control in the country. “However, one should hope that,” he said.   “This is the first disease in human history, to the best of my knowledge, where candidate vaccine trials began in less than eight-nine months from the day the virus was identified and its sequence published. This is a major technological achievement,” Bal added.   The expert noted that in India the pandemic is unlikely to be over in the months to come, and the number of people getting infected will continue to rise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-more-testing-and-vaccine-developments-covid-19-crisis-far-from-over-say-scientists-892289.html
24-09-2020||National||'Rail roko' agitation to severely affect movement of essential items, foodgrains: Railways||The Railways on Thursday said the 'rail roko' agitation in Punjab over farm bills will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods as well as the movement of passengers travelling on special trains, mostly on an urgent basis. Farmers in Punjab on Thursday began their three-day 'rail roko' agitation to protest against the three farm bills while the Ferozepur Railway division suspended the operation of special trains due to the stir The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 were passed by voice vote in Rajya Sabha on Sunday. They await the President's nod to become laws. Officials here said that Punjab loaded 990 rakes of FCI foodgrains in August this year and 816 rakes till September 23. Thus, FCI is loading more than 35 rakes of food grains daily from Punjab. They said Punjab also loads 9-10 rakes daily of fertilizer, cement, auto, mixed goods in containers.  The state also receives around 20 rakes daily of coal, food grain, farm products, machinery petroleum products, imported fertilizer etc. "Punjab Rail Agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens and fast recovering Rail Freight and economy," a railway spokesperson said. Special passenger trains running from the railways' Ferozepur division have been cancelled fully or partially from September 24 to 26 in view of the farmer outfits' three-day rail roko protest against the Centre's agriculture bills. Many freight and parcel trains have also been rescheduled. According to the schedule, the Amritsar-Haridwar train will be cancelled from September 25 to 26 and the New Delhi-Jammu Tawi Express from September 24 to 26. The Hazur Saheb Nanded-Amritsar train will not go to Amritsar and end its journey in Old Delhi. Train number 02716 will run from Old Delhi instead of Amritsar on September 25 and 26. The Dhanbad-Ferozepur Cantt train will not go to Ferozepur Cantt and end its journey at Ambala Cantt. Train number 03308 will run from Ambala Cantt from September 24 to 26 instead of Ferozepur Cantt. The Mumbai Central-Amritsar train arriving on September 24 will be brought to Ludhiana and it will end its journey at Ambala from September 25 to 26. Train number 02904 will run from Ambala from September 24 to 26 instead of Amritsar. As many as 20 trains have been partially cancelled while five have been short terminated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rail-roko-agitation-to-severely-affect-movement-of-essential-items-foodgrains-railways-892312.html
24-09-2020||National||Supreme Court to consider plea for deferring Civil Services preliminary exams||The Supreme Court on Thursday decided to consider a plea for a direction to the UPSC to postpone Civil Services (Preliminary) examinations, scheduled to be held on October 4, in view of alarming rise of Covid-19 cases, besides flood and incessant rains in parts of the country. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna asked a counsel, appearing for 20 aspirants led by Vasireddy Govardhana Sai Prakash, to serve the copy of their writ petition to the UPSC and the Union government. The court decided to consider the matter on September 28. The petitioners, represented by senior advocate V K Shukla and advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava asked the court to direct the UPSC to defer the examinations for two-three months to let the curve of rising cases flatten. They claimed that if the examination was to be held on October 4, it would result in gross violation of fundamental right to health and life. The biggest sufferers would be students from middle and lower middle class for being unable to arrange for transportation, accommodation and other expenses. They claimed states like Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have already cancelled their tests for public service commission. About 6 lakh aspirants are likely to appear in the seven-hour offline examination, at centres in 72 cities, putting their lives at utmost risk and danger, in the wake of country recording rise of 78,000 Covid-19 cases per day, they said. On February 12, the UPSC has issued the notification for the examination to be held on May 31. However, due to nationwide lockdown and alarming spurt in Covid-19 cases, the UPSC on May 20 postponed the examination indefinitely. But, it published a revised calendar and took a decision in an "utterly arbitrary, unreasonable, and whimsical" manner to conduct the examination on October 4, the petitioners claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-consider-plea-for-deferring-civil-services-preliminary-exams-892319.html
24-09-2020||National||Will declare compartment exams results by October 10: CBSE tells Supreme Court||The CBSE on Thursday told the Supreme Court that results of compartmental examinations for Class XII would be declared by October 10, giving students a window of 21 days for the to seek admission to universities.  The UGC has already declared the academic calendar where the admissions can be availed till October 31 and classes for new session would begin from November 1. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna disposed of the matter related to a direction to the authorities to accommodate two lakh students who wished to take compartment examinations. The court had on Tuesday asked CBSE and UGC to coordinate among themselves to take a joint decision on declaration of results and admission of students for the new academic session, already delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-declare-compartment-exams-results-by-october-10-cbse-tells-supreme-court-892354.html
24-09-2020||National||Rakul Preet Singh acknowledges NCB summons||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday said actor Rakul Preet Singh has acknowledged the summons sent to her to join the probe being conducted by the agency into an alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus. Earlier in the day, the actor in her official statement said she has "not received the alleged summons either at Mumbai or Hyderabad so far". NCB officials, however, said the actor was contacted through various platforms, including a phone number which is available with the agency. "She has acknowledged the summons," a senior NCB official said. She will join the probe soon, he added. The NCB, which began the probe after a drugs angle came to light in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation and asked some 'A-list' celebrities of the Mumbai film industry, to "join the probe", an official said on Wednesday. The NCB on Wednesday summoned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh, among others, for questioning. Earlier, NCB sources had claimed that there was a "reference" to Rakul Preet Singh and Sara Ali Khan in the statement of Rajput's girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty, who has been arrested in the case. On Thursday morning, fashion designer Simone Khambata, who was summoned by the NCB to join the probe, reached the agency's guest house in south Mumbai around 9.30 am, an official said. Her name cropped up in the questioning of some persons during the probe in the matter, he said. Rajput's former manager Shruti Modi also appeared before the NCB probe team on Thursday, the official said. Some WhatsApp chats of the persons who were questioned earlier by the NCB suggested discussion about drugs, he said. The agency has so far registered two cases, one pertaining to drugs angle related to Rajput's death case and the other in connection with the alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus, a senior official said, adding that "both the cases have common linkages". Actors Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor will be questioned in connection with both the cases, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakul-preet-singh-acknowledges-ncb-summons-892358.html
24-09-2020||National||Last Mughal descendant vows to construct 'Mughal Museum' in Agra on own land||Last Mughal descendant Yakub Habeebuddin Prince Tucy has condemned rechristening of the under construction 'Mughal Museum' in Agra after the Maratha-Warrior king Shivaji and vowed to construct a similar museum in the same city on his own land. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had, a few days back, announced that the 'Mughal Museum' would be named after Shivaji as the Mughals could not be "our heroes". Tucy, who lived in Hyderabad, said that the UP government's decision was detrimental to communal peace and amity and would also 'tarnish' the image of the country abroad. In a post on his Facebook page, he said that Shivaji had no connection with Agra. "There is no rationale behind naming the museum after Shivaji," he remarked. The people, who visited Agra, would like to know about the Mughals after taking a round of the Taj Mahal, he said adding that he would get a 'Mughal Museum' constructed on his own land in Agra. He also said that the last Mughal king Bahadur Shah Zafar had sacrificed his life for the country. Zafar had been exiled by the British regime and was housed in a jail in Myanmar. Tucy had earlier announced that he would donate a gold brick for Ram Temple construction.  The 'Mughal Museum' project was the brainchild of the then UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and was conceived in 2016. The Museum would have Mughal and Braj (the region, where Lord Krishna was born) artefacts. Some historians have also criticised the rechristening of the Museum after Shivaji, saying that the Maratha warrior king had no connection with the town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/last-mughal-descendant-vows-to-construct-mughal-museum-in-agra-on-own-land-892386.html
24-09-2020||National||High Court seeks CBI reply on life convict’s appeal in Muzaffarpur shelter home case||The Delhi High Court Thursday sought CBI's reply on a plea by a convict, a member of Child Welfare Committee, challenging his life imprisonment in the sexual assault case of several girls in a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar issued notice to the CBI on the appeal filed by Vikas Kumar. The court listed it for hearing on October 1, along with appeals of other convicts -- Brajesh Thakur and Dilip Kumar Verma, both sentenced to imprisonment for the remainder of life by the trial court in the case. Verma and Thakur, who once unsuccessfully contested assembly polls on Bihar People's Party (BPP) ticket, have appealed against the trial court verdict sentencing them to life imprisonment in the case. Thakur, represented through advocate Pramod Kumar Dubey, has also sought suspension of Rs 32.20 lakh fine imposed on him. The CBI has opposed Thakur’s plea for suspension of fine amount saying no prejudice will be caused to himby imposition of fine as he has been convicted on multiple counts of aggravated penetrative sexual assault, conspiracy, abetment and sentenced to life imprisonment. The high court had earlier issued notice to the CBI on the appeals seeking to set aside trial court’s January 20 judgment convicting him in the case and February 11 sentencing order. A trial court here had sentenced Thakur to "rigorous imprisonment till remainder of his life" and imposed a hefty fine of Rs 32.20 lakh on him, saying he was the "kingpin" of a "meticulously planned" conspiracy and "displayed extreme perversity". The trial court on January 20, had convicted Thakur of several offences including aggravated penetrative sexual assault under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, and offences of rape and gang rape under the Indian Penal code (IPC). Besides Brajesh Thakur, Dilip Verma and Vikas Kumar, it had sentenced Child protection officer of District Child Protection Unit Ravi Roshan, Guddu Vijay, Kumar Tiwari, Guddu Patel, Kishan Kumar and Ramanuj Thakur to imprisonment for remainder of life in the case. It had also send three women -- Minu Devi, Kiran Kumari and Shaista Praveen -- to jail for life for abetment to rape. The trial court had sentenced Rama Shankar, Ashwani, Manju Devi, Chanda Devi, Neha Kumari and Hema Masih to 10 years in prison, and Indu Kumari to three years jail term. It had imposed varying fines on the convicts. It had also granted a compensation of Rs 5.50 lakh to three of the rape victims; Rs 6 lakh to one of the victims, Rs 9 lakh to another victim, Rs 40,000 each to two of the victims and Rs 25,000 to another victim. Former Bihar Social Welfare Minister and the then JD(U) leader Manju Verma had also faced flak when allegations surfaced that her husband had links with Brajesh Thakur. She resigned from her post on August 8, 2018. The case was transferred on February 7, 2019 from a local court in Muzaffarpur in Bihar to a POCSO court at Saket district court complex in Delhi on the Supreme Court's directions. The matter had come to light on May 26, 2018 after Tata Institute of Social Sciences submitted a report to the Bihar government highlighting the alleged sexual abuse of girls in the shelter home for the first time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-court-seeks-cbi-reply-on-life-convict-s-appeal-in-muzaffarpur-shelter-home-case-892388.html
24-09-2020||National||Covid-19 pandemic impact: 9 in 10 Indians cautious about spending going forward, says survey||With the record-setting coronavirus caseload creating more uncertainty about jobs and economic recovery, nine in 10 people polled in the country are worried and cautious about spending going forwards, says a survey. According to a global survey by British lender Standard Chartered Bank on Thursday, "as much as 90 per cent of Indian respondents say the pandemic has made them more careful with their expenditure now. Globally, only 75 per cent say so". Reflecting this increased caution, 76 per cent of Indian respondents as against 62 per cent globally feel that the economic impact of the pandemic has made them more likely to track their spending, with over 80 per cent either using or interested in using budgeting tools or tools that block card-spend over specified limits, says the survey. They also want new ways to track their money digitally even as a vast majority of 78 per cent of the Indian respondents say they will shop more online while the global average is only around two-thirds. Consumers around the world, including in India, are now spending more on basics such as groceries and healthcare and digital devices than they did prior to the pandemic, and they expect this increase to continue in the future. Also, a full 64 per cent of Indians in the survey said they have spent less on travel/holidays than they did before the pandemic (64 per cent globally), while 30 per cent have spent less on experiences (41 per cent globally) and 56 per cent have spent less on clothes (55 per cent globally). The survey assumes this trend to continue in India with 41 per cent saying they anticipate spending less on travel/holidays, 19 per cent on experiences and 28 per cent on clothes in the future. Also, Indians are more likely to shop conscientiously than the average global consumers as over two-thirds say they are now more likely to shop locally (72 per cent), more sustainably sourced products (69 per cent) and with small businesses (73 per cent). The online survey -- conducted among 12,000 adults across 12 markets of Britain, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Kenya, China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, Taiwan, the UAE, and the US -- is the second in a three-part series, looking at how the pandemic has transformed consumers' way of life, and what changes could be here to stay. While the first survey, carried out in July, had focused on the pandemic's impact on earnings, the second offers new insights into the way the global health crisis is changing consumer spending habits. Respondents in all the 12 markets want to do more online shopping from now on because of the pandemic but in India, the preference for online shopping has shifted significantly.  Prior to the pandemic, only 54 per cent of Indians preferred to shop online versus in-person, but this is now 69 per cent for future purchases. This higher preference for online shopping/payments is true across a range of purchases, from groceries and travel to digital devices, says the survey. As a result, 87 per cent of Indians in the survey as against 64 per cent globally now expect their country to go fully cashless, the highest in any country surveyed, with a majority expecting this to happen by 2025, says the survey. The survey results are supported by StanC's ATM withdrawals globally. Across the 10 surveyed markets where it offers retail banking (all except Britain and the US), the pandemic has dramatically accelerated decline in ATM usage. Cash withdrawals from ATMs are now half what they were two years ago. StanC India is largest international bank with 100 branches across 43 cities in the country, in operations since 1858, offering corporate, commercial and institutional banking, private banking as well as retail banking||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-impact-9-in-10-indians-cautious-about-spending-going-forward-says-survey-892394.html
24-09-2020||National||Researchers at IIT-M develop inhouse microprocessor||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras here have indigenously developed microprocessor 'MOUSHIK' aimed at serving the Internet of Things devices, under the Centre's Digital India 'smart cities' initiative. The project is funded by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. 'MOUSHIK' was conceptualised, designed and developed at the Pratap Subrahmanyam Centre for Digital Intelligence and Secure Hardware Architecture of the RISE Group, department of computer science and engineering, IIT Madras, a press release said. "There are three steps involved in the making of a microprocessor, namely Design, Fabrication and Post-Silicon Boot-up," IIT Madras, department of computer science and engineering, professor Kamakoti Veezhinathan said. All the three processes (design, fabrication and post-silicon boot up) for 'MOUSHIK' were undertaken in India demonstrating the 'Atma Nirbhar' ecosystem in Digital Design, Veezhinathan, who is also part of the Reconfigurable Intelligent Systems Engineering (RISE) Group, said. The field applications of the microprocessor include -- smart cards including credit cards, debit cards,electronic voting machines and office management systems, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/researchers-at-iit-m-develop-inhouse-microprocessor-892395.html
24-09-2020||National||Union Cabinet condoles demise of MoS Railways Suresh Angadi||The Union Cabinet on Thursday condoled the demise Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi. The Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi also observed silence for two minutes in the memory Angadi, said a statement. The Cabinet passed a resolution saying, "The Cabinet expresses profound sorrow at the sad demise of Suresh C Angadi, Union Minister of State for Railways on September 23, 2020 at New Delhi. In his passing away, the nation has lost an eminent leader, an educationist, a distinguished parliamentarian and an able administrator." Born on June 1, 1955, at KK Koppa village in Belagavi District of Karnataka, Angadi completed his graduation from SSS Samithi College, Belagavi and thereafter obtained a degree in Law from Raja Lakhamgouda law College, Belagavi. A member of the Bhartiya Janata Party, he became Vice- President of a Party’s Belagavi District unit in 1996. He was nominated as President of the Belagavi District Unit in 2001 and continued to hold that post until he was nominated as Party’s candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha Constituency in 2004. He won by a large margin and became a member of the 14th Lok Sabha. He was re-elected to the Lok Sabha from Belagavi in 2009, 2014 and 2019. He served as member, Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution; Human Resources Development and Defence as well as Member, Consultative Committee, Ministry of Finance. He also served as Member of the Joint Committee on Pension, Salaries and Allowances for Members of Parliament, the Advisory Committee on Central Direct Taxes, the House Committee and the Committee on Petitions. In May, 2019,  Angadi became Minister of State for Railways. He was involved in many social and cultural activities with special interest in Industry, Agriculture and Education of the poor. He was also Chairman, Suresh Angadi Education Foundation, Belgaum since 2009. He was fond of reading and travelling. The Cabinet extends its heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family on behalf of the Government and the entire nation," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-condoles-demise-of-mos-railways-suresh-angadi-892397.html
24-09-2020||National||Gujarat minister, Congress legislator bestowed with 'best MLA award'||Gujarat Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama was conferred with the "best MLA award" for 2020, while Congress legislator Mohansinh Rathva received the honour for 2019 in the state Assembly on Thursday. Gujarat Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi announced the awards on the fourth day of the state Assembly's Monsoon session here. The state Assembly started these awards for the first time this year since the formation of Gujarat in 1960, the Speaker said. Both legislators received a silver trophy weighing 1.5 kg from Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and other senior leaders in the House. While 76-year-old Rathva, a 10-time Congress MLA, represents Pavi-Jetpur seat of Chhotaudepur, 70-year-old Chudasama represents Dholka seat of Ahmedabad. Earlier in February, a decision was taken to institute the award, and in June, the rules and parameters were finalised, following which a selection committee was constituted under the chairmanship of the Speaker. "Before finalising our rules, we studied rules, regulations and parameters adopted by the Parliament and legislative Assemblies of other states," Trivedi said, while announcing the awards in the House. Some of the parameters included knowledge about parliamentary procedures, conduct in the House and in public life, attendance and cooperation in maintaining decorum of the House, he said. The chief minister congratulated both the senior legislators and said he was confident that this new tradition will encourage other members to walk in the footsteps of the award-winning MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-minister-congress-legislator-bestowed-with-best-mla-award-892407.html
24-09-2020||National||Centre allows states to spend up to 50% of disaster response fund to fight Covid-19||The Centre has allowed states to spend up to 50 per cent money from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to boost infrastructure such as quarantine facilities, testing laboratories, oxygen generation plants and purchase of ventilators and PPE kits to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. The move came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers of the seven worst affected states on Wednesday that his government has increased the states' limit to spend the SDRF to boost infrastructure to fight the pandemic. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories, the Union Home Ministry said that it has partially modified list of items and norms of assistance for containment measures of Covid-19, eligible from SDRF by way of special one-time dispensation with the overall capping of 50 per cent for the financial year 2020-21. The areas where the states can spend up to 50 per cent of the SDRF include quarantine, sample collection and screening facilities. Provision for temporary accommodation, food, clothing, medical care, etc., for people affected and sheltered in quarantine camps (other than home quarantine) or for cluster containment operations will be covered under the modified norms. Cost of consumables for sample collection, support for checking screening and contact tracing, procurement of essential equipments and laboratories for response to Covid-19, cost of setting up additional testing laboratories within the government and the cost of consumables and testing kit will be allowed under the new norms. Cost of personal protection equipment for healthcare, municipal, police and fire authorities, cost of thermal scanners, ventilators, air purifiers, oxygen generation and storage plant in hospitals, strengthening ambulance services for transport of patients, setting up containment zones, Covid-19 hospital, Covid-19 care centres and consumables in the government hospitals will also cover under it. State Executive Committee, headed by Chief Secretary concerned, shall ensure overall oversight mechanism so that no duplication takes place with reference to other government schemes, the home ministry said in its communication. Any amount spent by the state for Covid-19, over and above the ceiling, would be borne out of the resource of the state government and not from SDRF. Majority fund of the SDRF is contributed from the National Disaster Response Fund. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 57,32,518 on Thursday while the death toll climbed to 91,149. The total recoveries surged to 46,74,987 in the country so far. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection was recorded at 1.59 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-states-to-spend-up-to-50-of-disaster-response-fund-to-fight-covid-19-892408.html
24-09-2020||National||Cops deployed outside Deepika Padukone's residence||Police personnel have been deployed outside the residence of Bollywood actor Deepika Padukone, who is expected to arrive here from Goa on Thursday ahead of her appearance before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), an official said. The NCB, which is probing an alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus, has summoned Padukone on Friday to record her statement. A team from the Dadar police station has been deployed outside 'Beaumonde Towers' in Prabhadevi, where the 34-year-old actor owns an apartment as a precautionary measure, the official said. The NCB, which began the probe after a drugs angle came to light in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation and asked a clutch of Bollywood celebrities to "join the probe". Earlier, Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash was summoned to join the investigation, but she sought time due to ill-health and has been exempted from appearance till Friday, an official had said on Wednesday. Prakash's WhatsApp chats included conversations about drugs with one `D', NCB sources said, adding the central agency wanted to find out who this person was.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cops-deployed-outside-deepika-padukones-residence-892417.html
24-09-2020||National||AMU students demand review of cases filed for December 15 campus violence||Aligarh Muslim University students have demanded a reinvestigation into the December 15 campus violence during an anti-CAA protest and a review of the cases filed against some of them in a week after that, saying they were booked on "flippant grounds". Violent protests had broken out against the Citizenship Amendment Act on the campus in which over 70 people, including students, AMU security staff and police personnel were injured. The university had to announced an extended winter break following the clashes. The clashes started after an agitation by Jamia Millia Islamia students in Delhi against the amended citizenship law turned violent and police used batons and tear gas to disperse them. A number of AMU students were charged with rioting and causing damage to pubic property. On Wednesday, a group of student leaders, accompanied by university officials, met the Additional Director General of Police Ajay Anand in Agra to demand a review of the cases. The student leaders said in a statement a number of "innocent students" were booked on "flippant grounds" like their two-wheelers were parked inside the campus on the night of the violence. They said in a memorandum to the ADG that almost all the students booked "have no criminal record" and pursuing cases on the basis of "wild charges" would damage their careers. "We demand reinvestigation of the incident that took place on December 15 in which large number of students were injured and some students are facing false allegations. Charges should be framed after reinvestigation," the memorandum said. A spokesman of the student leaders said they had fully cooperated with the authorities in restoring normalcy and reopening the university in February after they were "given an assurance by the authorities that all false cases would be withdrawn and action would be taken against those policemen who had indulged in violence inside hostels leading to serious injuries to at least half a dozen students". He said the ADG "assured the students" that he would visit Aligarh next week, hold a meeting with AMU authorities and students and take steps to address their concerns. When contacted AMU spokesman Omar Peerzada confirmed that some top university officials led by Registrar Abdul Hamid accompanied the delegation and met the ADG. He said the discussions were "fruitful".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amu-students-demand-review-of-cases-filed-for-december-15-campus-violence-892425.html
24-09-2020||National||Obvious problems, loopholes in farm bills: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said there were obvious problems and loopholes in the farm bills and the voting for their passage in Rajya Sabha was “questionable” and “condemnable”. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, were passed by both the Houses of Parliament, amid protests by opposition parties and farmer outfits. AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh was among the eight parliamentarians who were suspended for the remaining part of the Monsoon Session over “unruly behaviour” during the passage of the bills in the Upper House of Parliament. "There are obvious problems and loopholes in the bills. Farmers across the country are protesting and you cannot say they all have been misled,” Kejriwal, who is also the AAP national convenor, told reporters. “Moreover, the way voting (on the bills) was done in Rajya Sabha is questionable and condemnable," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/obvious-problems-loopholes-in-farm-bills-arvind-kejriwal-892433.html
24-09-2020||National||Govt prepares plan to completely withdraw border guarding forces from internal security duty||The government is working on an "ambitious" plan to gradually withdraw border guarding forces like the BSF, the ITBP and the SSB from internal security duties in order to strengthen protection at various frontiers of the country, official sources said on Thursday. They said the proposal was first discussed during a meeting of these forces chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah last year. According to the proposal, accessed by PTI, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is working on a new "model" where the burden of internal security duties, including conduct of elections, will be largely borne by the country's largest paramilitary force, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). The 3.25 lakh strong CRPF is already designated as the lead internal security force of the country. Officials in the security establishment, quoting the proposal, said that a new experiment will be put in place during the forthcoming elections in Bihar and bypolls in some states where the CRPF will be deployed in a 70:30 ratio along with state police forces. "The CRPF will be the overall security in-charge during conduct of polls. Border guarding forces like the Border Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal will be gradually withdrawn from these duties," a senior official said. "It is envisaged by the home ministry that these three forces will be taken off completely from rendering routine internal security duties like elections and law and order duties in aid to state governments over the next few years," the official said. Every year, thousands of troops of these border forces are withdrawn from the front and sent for conduct of elections apart from duties to strengthen law and order arms of various state police forces in view of the challenging internal security scenario in their domains. The official said the border guarding forces have already been directed to strengthen security at their respective fronts including by operationalising more posts and reducing inter-border out post distance. While the BSF is tasked with guarding sensitive international borders with Pakistan (over 3,300 km) and Bangladesh (4,096 km), the ITBP mans the 3,488- km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China while the SSB guards open Indian fronts with Nepal (1,751 km) and Bhutan (699 km). The Assam Rifles, under the administrative control of the MHA but manned by army personnel and officers, guards the border with Myanmar. The home ministry has also directed the three border forces to create a team of their "young officers" who will traverse through the entire border area under their charge and bring to record the "smallest of security challenges" for discussion and resolution. The ministry has also proposed that a special cell be created in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to deal with border crime cases like cattle smuggling and check activities of smugglers, fake Indian currency notes operatives and corrupt government officers. A team of officers of these frontier guarding forces has also been created who have been tasked with finding ways to ensure that migration of  border population is stopped and they are provided work opportunities in their local areas, the officer said. The ministry, as per the proposal, has also directed that a committee of officers headed by the Union home secretary should discuss development of new technology tools for border guarding in consultation with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL). A specific mention has been made to find solutions, with help from agriculture experts, to check the menace of 'sarkanda' or elephant grass along the international border with Pakistan. The elephant grass aids terrorists to infiltrate, smuggle narcotics and dig tunnels as it cuts the line of vision of BSF troops who guard the area, the officer said. A review of these issues is expected to be held by the home ministry next month, a officer in the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-prepares-plan-to-completely-withdraw-border-guarding-forces-from-internal-security-duty-892435.html
24-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Legendary former cricketer Dean Jones passes away; Sensex tanks over 1,100 points||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Legendary former Australian batsman Dean Jones has died of a cardiac arrest; Congress' Basavakalyan legislator B Narayan Rao died due to Covid-19 complications; Indian equities continued to tumble as benchmark indices crashed by nearly 3%, continuing the losing streak for the sixth consecutive day.  Here are the top news of today, Thursday: September 24, 2020: Legendary former Australian batsman Dean Jones has died of a cardiac arrest in a Mumbai hotel. Jones, 59, was in Mumbai with the Star Sports' commentary team for the Indian Premier League. He played 52 Tests and 164 ODIs for Australia and was part of the 1987 World Cup-winning team.  Congress' Basavakalyan legislator B Narayan Rao died due to Covid-19 complications. He was 65.  According to a statement from Manipal Hospital's Director Dr Manish Rai, Rao was admitted on September 1 with "severe" Covid-19 infection. Rao was known to be loyal to Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah moved a no-confidence notice against the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government in the Legislative Assembly. Speaker Visveshwar Hegde Kageri, who admitted the notice under Section 167 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Legislative Assembly, said that date and time will be provided for discussion on the notice by Saturday. Siddaramaiah, meanwhile, demanded that the notice should be admitted on priority and discussed, as the members of the Legislative Assembly had no confidence in the state cabinet. Indian equities continued to tumble as benchmark indices crashed by nearly 3%, continuing the losing streak for the sixth consecutive day. With today's rout, the Sensex has lost about 2,600 points in six days (about 6.5%). BSE Sensex ended at under 36,600 down over 1100 points. Similarly, broader index NSE Nifty was trading at 10,873.10, down 258.75 points which is a drop of about 2.32%. A Delhi court Thursday sent former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, to judicial custody till October 22. Khalid was present before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat through video conferencing at the end of his police custody. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-legendary-former-cricketer-dean-jones-passes-away-sensex-tanks-over-1100-points-892437.html
24-09-2020||National||Featured on TIME's list, Shaheen Bhag's Bilkis says would have been happier if demand was met||Bilkis, who became the face of a women-led anti-citizenship law protest at Shaheen Bagh here, on Thursday said she was happy to have been recognised by the TIME magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020, but would have been happier had her demand been met. The 82-year-old, along with her two friends Asma Khatoon (90) and Sarwari (75), was at the protest site every day, braving a chilly winter last December, the coldest in over a century. The trio were hailed as "Dadis of Shaheen Bagh" on social media. "When we told her that she has been declared as one of the most influential people in the world, she just said 'okay'," her son Manzoor Ahmad told PTI on the phone. She is not as excited as the family is, Ahmad, who works as a translator, said. "I am thankful to the almighty. I would have been much happier had our demand been fulfilled...had the government listened to us and given us what we wanted (withdrawal of the Citizenship Amendment Act)," Bilkis said in a trembling voice. "It is sad we had to call it (protest) off because of the disease (Covid-19). I was there till the end,” she said. Ahmad said his mother had taken ill in December last year, but she continued going to the protest site. “It was so cold and she was running a fever, despite that she went there to support other women,” he said. Ahmad said all women in his family participated in the protest. “We are a joint family. So, the women took turns to participate in the dharna,” he said. The Shaheen Bagh protest demanding the government to withdraw the law went on for over a hundred days. It ended in March this year in view of the COVID-19 outbreak and a subsequent lockdown announced by the government to contain the spread of the disease. Also on the TIME magazine's list from India are Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/featured-on-times-list-shaheen-bhags-bilkis-says-would-have-been-happier-if-demand-was-met-892458.html
24-09-2020||National||Ex-Atomic Energy Commission chairman Sekhar Basu dies of Covid-19||Former Atomic Energy Commission chairman and Department of Atomic Energy Secretary Sekhar Basu who was one of the key architects of India’s first nuclear submarine INS Arihant died on Thursday in Kolkata due to Covid-19. He was 68. Under his leadership a secret team of some of India’s finest nuclear scientists and engineers developed a set of miniature 80MWe pressurised water nuclear reactors for INS Arihant (and other nuclear submarines that would follow), working tirelessly for decades at a secret BARC facility at Kalpakkam. “After completion of one year of BARC Training School programme in Nuclear Science and Engineering (in the early 1970s), he took up the responsibility of the development of nuclear submarine propulsion plant and was responsible for achieving success in the same,” the DAE said in a press statement. Once INS Arihant started sailing following its successful launch in 2009, Basu was moved to the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre in Mumbai where he served as the director of India’s biggest nuclear research establishment for five years before becoming the DAE Secretary in October 2015. It was under his tenure at the DAE, the Centre approved the construction of 10 large nuclear reactors for power generation at a fleet mode cutting down on the time taken to build nuclear reactors in India. Born on September 20, 1952, Basu completed his schooling at the Ballygunge Government School in Kolkata, and in 1974 he graduated in mechanical engineering from Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute in Mumbai. “Grieved to hear about the passing away of veteran nuclear scientist and former Atomic Energy Commission chairman, Dr Sekhar Basu. My condolences to his family and colleagues,” tweeted Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Condoling his death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Basu played a key role in establishing India as a lead country in nuclear science and engineering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-atomic-energy-commission-chairman-sekhar-basu-dies-of-covid-19-892474.html
24-09-2020||National||Centre allows additional borrowing of Rs 9,913 cr by five states||The Centre on Thursday permitted five states to go for additional borrowing of Rs 9,913 crore through Open Market Borrowings (OMBs) to meet their expenditure requirements amid falling revenues due to the Covid-19 crisis. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Karnataka and Tripura.  The permission has been accorded after these states successfully met the reform condition of implementation of 'One Nation One Ration Card' system, an official statement said. The Department of Expenditure, under the Finance Ministry, has accorded approval to Karnataka for additional borrowing of Rs 4,509 crore, followed by Telangana (Rs 2,508 crore) and Andhra Pradesh (Rs 2,525 crore). Goa intends to raise Rs 223 crore while Tripura Rs 148 crore, it said. In view of the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre had in May allowed additional borrowing limit of up to 2 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to states for the year 2020-21 with certain conditions. This made an amount up to Rs 4,27,302 crore available to the states.  Of the extra 2 per cent, only 0.5 per cent is unconditional. After that, states will be allowed four increments of 0.25 per cent subject to implementation of four specific state-level reforms, where weightage of each reform is 0.25 per cent of GSDP. The four reforms are -- implementation of 'One Nation One Ration Card' system; ease of doing business reforms; urban local body/utility reforms; and power sector reforms by privatising power distribution. "The remaining additional borrowing limit of 1 per cent was to be released in two instalments of 0.50 per cent each - first immediately to all the States as untied, and the second on undertaking at least 3 out of the above-mentioned reforms," it said.  The Government of India has already granted permission to states to raise the first 0.50 per cent as OMB in June 2020. This made an additional amount of Rs 1,06,830 crore available to the states. State net borrowing ceiling for 2020-21 is Rs 6.41 lakh core (3 per cent of GSDP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-additional-borrowing-of-rs-9913-cr-by-five-states-892475.html
24-09-2020||National||Congress doing double-faced politics over farm bills: BJP||The BJP on Thursday accused the Congress of "double-faced" politics over the contentious farm bills and said Rahul Gandhi should first disassociate his party from its 2019 election manifesto if he wanted to opposed these legislations as it had also promised what the Modi government has done. With the Congress and several other opposition parties, besides its ally Shiromani Akali Dal, vehemently protesting the bills, which have been passed by Parliament, BJP leader and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the government's commitment to farmers' welfare and said the new measures would bring them remunerative price for their produce. Tomar also said the government is open to holding talks with farmers, asserting, "If any farmer wants to speak to any government representative on these bills even at midnight, we are ready." Addressing a press conference, Tomar, who had piloted the two bills through the both Houses of Parliament, claimed that opposition members' criticism during debates was never about the provisions of these proposed laws but on things they did not have or other unconnected issues. Reacting to the demand that there should be a law to ensure that farmers are not paid less than the minimum support price (MSP) when the proposed laws come into force, he said MSP was always an administrative decision of the government and will remain. "Why did the Congress not bring a law during its 50 years of rule if it thinks this was necessary," he asked. He also cited reports of various commissions and reported views of Sharad Pawar, who was agriculture minister in the UPA government, to assert that these farm bills are in line with their recommendations. Asked about Rahul Gandhi's charge that the Modi government had harmed farmers and was now doing "PR", Tomar said the Congress leader should first withdraw his party's manifesto if he wanted to oppose these bill. If he agrees with the Congress manifesto of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, then he should join efforts in educating farmers, Tomar said. The Congress is "misleading" farmers and practising "double-faced" politics, he said, adding that this will weaken the party and the nation as well. Highlighting the Modi government's pro-farmers policies, he said it has given Rs 7 lakh crore to them through purchase of their produce in its six years of rule, which is more than double of the USA's 10 years. Good people have ceased to matter in the Congress, and those who are leading it have ceased to matter in the country, he said in a dig at the party's leadership. The new laws will allow farmers to get paid for their produce in advance, help them move to products which will fetch them better price, allow them to sell their produce outside agriculture 'mandis' without paying any taxes, he said. "Farmers, so far, were forced to sell their produce in mandis. In Punjab, there's 8.5% tax in the mandis on several items. Now, through these bills, farmers will now be able to sell his produce even outside the ambit of the mandi, even outside his state at any price he chooses," Tomar said. Parliament has passed three farm reform bills -- the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill -- in the Monsoon Session, which concluded on Wednesday. The Opposition has called these bill as "anti-farmers". The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside the notified APMC market yards (mandis). This, the government says, is aimed at facilitating remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits. They will become laws after getting assent of President Ram Nath Kovind and being notified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-doing-double-faced-politics-over-farm-bills-bjp-892479.html
24-09-2020||National||Narendra Singh Tomar launches portal for testing performance of farm machinery||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday launched a portal where manufacturers can online apply for testing and evaluation their farm machineries. The minister launched the 'Centralized Farm Machinery Performance Testing Portal' to improve services of farm machinery testing institutions and bring out transparency in the entire process of testing and evaluation of machines, an official statement said. Ministers of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala and Kailash Choudhary as well as Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal were present on the occasion. Tomar said the government is fully committed to the welfare of farmers and development of the agriculture sector and accordingly the budget allocation of the agriculture sector has also been considerably increased. The minister said there has been significant increase in adoption of agricultural machines which has resulted in the phenomenal expansion of cropped area, cropping diversity and the country’s agricultural production. To promote agricultural mechanization, he appealed to industry representatives to design farm equipment which can be utilized in cost-effective manner by small and marginal farmers. "This portal will facilitate manufacturers in applying, communicating and monitoring the progress of testing of their machines in a seamless manner as it is easily accessible from any location and from any device connected to the Internet," the statement said. The portal will help in improving the efficiency of the testing institutes thereby reducing testing time for various agricultural machines and equipment. "Testing of farm machines is an important aspect of agricultural mechanization which benefits both buyers i.e. farmers as well as the manufacturers of agricultural machinery. "Testing and evaluation of agricultural machinery encourages improvement in quality and functional suitability. Comparable data for similar machines is available to manufacturers, which help them in improving the design of their product...," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-singh-tomar-launches-portal-for-testing-performance-of-farm-machinery-892481.html
24-09-2020||National||Demand for coffee declines due to COVID-19: Union Minister Piyush Goyal||The demand for coffee declined both in domestic and international markets due to Covid-19 pandemic, Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said. "The demand for coffee in the major coffee markets has shown a downward trend since April 2020 due to the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic," the minister said in his written reply in Lok Sabha. "India’s coffee exports during 2019-20 have declined by 7.40% in terms of quantity and 10.32% in terms of export value realisation as compared to 2018-19," the minister said while replying to Shobha Karandalje, a BJP MP. "As per the assessment made by the Coffee Board, while the harvesting of the coffee crop was completed to a large extent by March 2020, some estate operations were delayed, which may have an impact on the coffee crop. However, 95% of coffee roasting units and instant coffee manufacturing units were closed due to the lockdown, the minister said. Due to restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the pandemic, demand from hotels, restaurants, cafe businesses as well as offices, vending machines, events etc., – which are the major out-of-home customers – was impacted. Export of coffee (green coffee and value-added coffee, including instant coffee) declined by about 26,400 MT during March 25, 2020, to May 31, 2020, as per the export permits issued by the Coffee Board and inputs received from exporters. He also said in the past two years, coffee production has been hit due to heavy rain, floods and landslides in major coffee-growing regions of Karnataka, Kerala and parts of Tamil Nadu. 2018-19 had shown an increase of 1.10% over 2017-18. It, however, declined by 6.73% during 2019-20. The minister also said the government and the Reserve Bank of India, have taken various policy measures to ease the financial stress caused by Covid-19 disruptions. This facility applies to all loans to agriculture and allied activities, including the coffee sector. However, the minister said no proposal for revision/restoration of export incentive to 5% from the existing 3% given under Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) for the coffee sector, is under consideration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-coffee-declines-due-to-covid-19-union-minister-piyush-goyal-892482.html
24-09-2020||National||SC 'surprised' over HC's order on granting bail to advocate in rape case||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed "surprise" over the Allahabad High Court acting "in teeth" of its order to grant bail to a government counsel in a rape case lodged by a junior advocate. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha, and Indira Banerjee set aside the interim order passed by the HC on September 3 granting relief to accused chief standing counsel Shailendra Singh Chauhan. The 24-year-old junior lawyer lodged the FIR against Chauhan at the Vibhuti Khand police station in Gomtinagar at Lucknow on July 24, alleging that he raped her in his chamber on the same day. Acting on a plea by the victim, the top court noted that it had on August 5, 2020, stayed the order of the division bench of the Allahabad High Court passed on July 31, 2020, by which he had been granted anticipatory bail.  After our order, the petitioner moved the trial court for anticipatory bail, which was rejected on August 19, 2020, the bench said. However, by an interim order, a single judge of the High Court, Lucknow Bench, has granted interim bail. The reasons given are that he is a reputed advocate of 29 years and there are no criminal antecedents, the bench noted. "We are surprised that the High Court should act in the teeth of our order. This is a very serious case which must be investigated properly so that the truth ultimately will come out," the bench said, in its order passed on September 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-surprised-over-hcs-order-on-granting-bail-to-advocate-in-rape-case-892491.html
24-09-2020||National||PM Modi to inaugurate AI summit 'RAISE 2020' on October 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on October 5 inaugurate a virtual summit on artificial intelligence 'RAISE 2020', which is being jointly organised by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and the NITI Aayog, according to an official statement on Thursday. 'Responsible AI for Social Empowerment 2020' (RAISE 2020) will be a global meeting to exchange ideas and chart a course for using AI for social transformation, inclusion and empowerment in areas such as healthcare, agriculture, education and smart mobility, the statement added. At the RAISE 2020 summit, delegates and experts in research, policy and innovation on AI will join from across the globe, it added. The statement added that keynote speeches and panel discussions will frame the summit, on cross-sector subjects like 'Leveraging AI for Pandemic Preparedness', 'The Impetus that Innovation Places on Digitisation', 'Inclusive AI', and 'Partnerships for Successful Innovation'. RAISE 2020, which will take place between October 5 and October 9, will facilitate an exchange of ideas to create mass awareness about the need to ethically develop and practice AI, the statement said. The summit will also feature start-ups working in AI-related fields. Start-ups chosen through the AI Solution Challenge will showcase their solutions in the AI Startup Pitch fest scheduled on October 6, the statement said. This is part of the Indian government's continuing support to tech entrepreneurs and start-ups by providing exposure, recognition and guidance. AI has emerged as a catalyst across industries and can play a transformative role in accelerating development, MeitY Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney said. He added that the summit will explore in-depth the role of AI in accelerating social empowerment. "RAISE 2020 has tracks like AI for health, agriculture, education, skilling, mobility, fintech, research, inclusive AI, future of work, and responsible AI, and the summit will serve as a platform for the meeting of some of the best minds in the world on AI." Industry analysts predict that AI could add up to USD 957 billion to India's economy by 2035. "India is uniquely positioned to become the AI laboratory of the world and contribute to inclusive development and growth through empowerment," NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said. He added that the summit aims to help create a data-rich environment, which is a stepping stone to eventually transform lives globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-ai-summit-raise-2020-on-october-5-892494.html
24-09-2020||National||Necessary to ensure stability on ground: MEA on Sino-India border standoff in eastern Ladakh||Two days after its military talks with China to resolve the border standoff in eastern Ladakh, India on Thursday said the way ahead will be to refrain from making any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo while the two sides continue discussions to achieve complete disengagement in all friction areas. At a virtual media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said disengagement of troops is a complex process which would require mutually agreed "reciprocal actions". "Even as two sides work towards complete disengagement in all friction areas, it is at the same time also necessary to ensure stability on the ground. The latest senior commanders meeting should be seen in this overall context," he added. India and China held the sixth round of Corps commander-level talks on Monday following which both sides announced a series of decisions including to stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. Srivastava said the talks gave the senior commanders an opportunity to have "candid and in-depth" exchange of views on stabilising the situation along the Line of Actual Control(LAC). "The way ahead will be to refrain from making any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, while the two sides continue their discussions to achieve complete disengagement in all friction areas and to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas," he said. The MEA spokesperson further said the next meeting under the framework of the lWorking Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs is likely to take place soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/necessary-to-ensure-stability-on-ground-mea-on-sino-india-border-standoff-in-eastern-ladakh-892502.html
24-09-2020||National||Samajwadi Party to organise protests across UP against farm, labour bills||The Samajwadi Party will organise a state-wide protest against farm sector and labour reform bills on Friday that they term as "harmful" and submit memoranda to the Governor through respective district magistrates. "On the instructions of Samajwadi Party National President and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, the party will protest against farm sector and labour reform bills which hurt the interest of farmers and workers. During the state-wide protests, a memoranda will be sent to the Governor through respective DMs", party chief spokesperson Rajendra Chowdhury said on Thursday. "In the farm bills, the Centre has ignored the interests of farmers and it will make the farmer become a labourer instead of owning his land. Due to the abolition of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees and not getting the minimum support price (MSP) in the Bills, the farmer will now be forced to sell his crop at one-off prices," he said. The removal of wheat and paddy crops from the Essential Commodities Act, will compel the farmer to sell his crop on the terms of big agents and business houses, he said, adding that SP will not let the voice of the farmers be suppressed. The labour laws passed by Parliament will severely affect the interests of workers, Chowdhury said, adding that it will empower industries with 300 employees to retrench whenever they want. "This will increase the feeling of insecurity among the workers and they will not be able to raise their legitimate demand. They will remain bonded labourers of industrialists", Chowdhury said. There is a lot of anger against the BJP government for these "anti-people" laws due to which farmers are demonstrating everywhere, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samajwadi-party-to-organise-protests-across-up-against-farm-labour-bills-892516.html
24-09-2020||National||Drugs case: Deepika Padukone to join NCB probe on Sat, Rakul Preet Singh on Friday||Actor Deepika Padukone will join the NCB probe into alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus on Saturday, an official said on Thursday. Earlier, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had summoned Padukone on Friday to record her statement in the drugs case, a fallout of probe into the death of filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput. According to the official, the 34-year-old actress has acknowledged the summons sent by the central agency and will join the investigation on Saturday. Another actor, Rakul Preet Singh, and Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash will join the investigation on Friday, he said. Prakash's WhatsApp chats included conversations about drugs with one `D' and central agency wanted to find out who this person was, NCB sources had said earlier. Meanwhile, statements of fashion designer Simone Khambatta and Shruti Modi, Rajput's former manager, were recorded by the NCB probe team in connection with the drugs case, the official said. The NCB, which began the inquiry after a drugs angle came to light in connection with Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation and asked a clutch of Bollywood celebrities to "join the probe". Rajput (34) was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-case-deepika-padukone-to-join-ncb-probe-on-sat-rakul-preet-singh-on-friday-892519.html
24-09-2020||National||Deepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh fly back to Mumbai from Goa||Actor Deepika Padukone and her husband Ranveer Singh on Thursday flew back to Mumbai from Goa, ahead of her appearance before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Deepika is slated to appear before the NCB in Mumbai in connection with a drugs case on Saturday. The couple arrived at Goa International Airport amid heavy security around 8 pm and boarded a chartered flight. Actor Rakul Preet Singh and Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash will join the investigation on Friday, an NCB official had said earlier in the day. The NCB, which began the inquiry after a drugs angle came to light in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deepika-padukone-ranveer-singh-fly-back-to-mumbai-from-goa-892529.html
24-09-2020||National||CBDT chairman tests Covid-19 positive||Central Board of Direct Taxes Chairman Pramod Chandra Mody has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Mody was admitted to the Yashoda Super Specialty Hospital in Ghaziabad on Wednesday, medical superintendent Anuj Agarwal told PTI. His blood has also been tested, apart from oxygen saturation. Lungs specialists are monitoring his health, Agarwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbdt-chairman-tests-covid-19-positive-892541.html
24-09-2020||National||Sara Ali Khan arrives in Mumbai ahead of NCB probe||Actor Sara Ali Khan, who has been summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug case related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, on Thursday arrived in the city from Goa. The 25-year-old actor reached Mumbai with her mother, actor Amrita Singh and brother, Ibrahim Ali Khan around 5pm and headed to their suburban Juhu residence. Khan made her acting debut opposite Rajput in the 2018 film "Kedarnath". The NCB, which began the probe after a drugs angle came to light in connection with Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation and called film celebrities for questioning. Khan is set to appear before the NCB on September 26 (Saturday), along with actors Deepika Padukone and Shraddha Kapoor. Actor Rakul Preet Singh and Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash are summoned on Friday. Meanwhile, statements of fashion designer Simone Khambatta and Shruti Modi, Rajput's former manager, were recorded by the NCB probe team in connection with the drugs case, the official said. Rajput (34) was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. His death has sparked a lot of controversy in the media and the case is currently being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the NCB. His girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, who has been accused of abetting Rajput's suicide by his family, has been arrested in a drugs case linked to his death. Padukone has been in Goa for a few days for the shoot of director Shakun Batra's next film and is likely to return to Mumbai on Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sara-ali-khan-arrives-in-mumbai-ahead-of-ncb-probe-892544.html
24-09-2020||National||India hits out at Pakistan for raising Kashmir issue at CICA meet||India on Thursday hit out at Pakistan for raising the Kashmir issues at a virtual meeting of multilateral grouping CICA, and advised Islamabad to cease its "overt and covert" support to cross-border terrorism. In a sharp reaction, the Ministry of External Affairs said Pakistan has misused another forum by continuing its "spurious narrative" about India. Pakistan raised the Kashmir issue at the ministerial meeting of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA), an intergovernmental forum of 27 countries. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar represented India at the meeting. The MEA said Pakistan has no locus standi to comment on internal affairs of India, asserting that the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been and will remain an integral part of the country. "Pakistan's remarks today constitute gross interference in India's internal affairs, sovereignty and territorial integrity which is inconsistent with the CICA Declaration on the Principles Guiding Relations between the CICA Member States of September 1999," the MEA said, in response to remarks by Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi. It said Pakistan is the "global epicentre" of terrorism and continues to be the source of terrorist activities in India. "We advise Pakistan to cease its sponsorship and overt and covert support to terrorism against India. This will enable the two countries to engage and address issues bilaterally rather than distract this important forum from its agenda," the MEA said. In his address at the CICA meeting, Jaishankar called for greater collective efforts to counter terrorism and its sponsors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hits-out-at-pakistan-for-raising-kashmir-issue-at-cica-meet-892548.html
24-09-2020||National||Centre firm on agricultural reforms; farmers to hit streets over Farm Bills today||After a stormy Parliament session over the Farm Bills, the Modi government is bracing to face the nation-wide protests by farmers’ organisations on Friday but sticking its guns on “historic” reforms that create new markets for the ryots. Opposition parties have thrown their weight behind the farmers’ organisations, with Congress launching its own programme to highlight the “lacunae” in the two legislations, even as Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar assured farmers that the new law did not mean to scrap the minimum support price regime or the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). Several farmers’ organisations including the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Indian Coordination Committee of Farmers Movements (ICCFM) have given a call for ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Friday. “The cry of farmers will echo throughout the country with ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 25. Millions of Congress workers under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi are standing with the farmers,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Youth Congress activists carried out a torch procession in the national capital to express solidarity with farmers. “When seen in totality, these bills have nothing to do with improving farmers’ incomes… Instead, they will empower agri-business and increase corporate control of our food systems, leaving farmers and consumers with little re-course to justice,” Yudhvir Singh, National Convenor, ICCFM, said in a statement here. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar accused the Congress of misleading the farmers on the farm sector reforms and pointed out that the opposition parties has promised similar reforms in its party manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “Even in the discussion in Parliament, Congress leaders did not oppose any provisions of the Bills, but focused on issues that were not part of the Bills,” Tomar said. Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur accused the Congress government in Punjab of issuing directions to officials to organise protests against the farm sector Bills. Akali Dal chief and former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal has called for a protest marches against the farm reform bills that were passed in Parliament on Sunday. Farmers’ organisations such as AIKSCC, Jai Kisan Andolan, BKU, All India Kisan Sabha have urged President Ram Nath Kovid not to give his assent to the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill which were “rammed” through Parliament by the Modi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-firm-on-agricultural-reforms-farmers-to-hit-streets-over-farm-bills-today-892553.html
24-09-2020||National||Govt highlights outcome of Sino-India military talks, says stability along LAC necessary while negotiating troop withdrawal||Even as the recent meeting between senior military commanders of the two nations failed to restart the stalled process of withdrawal of troops from the face-off points, New Delhi on Thursday said that it was necessary to ensure stability along India-China's Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Modi government also highlighted that the recent meeting between the military commanders of India and China was the first which ended with a joint statement. India on Thursday also tacitly asked China to refrain from making any further unilateral move to alter the status quo along the disputed boundary between the two nations. The joint statement issued after the recent meeting between the senior military commanders had no reference to the restoration of status quo ante that existed before the stand-off started in late April and early May. The diplomats of the two nations are likely to hold another video conference soon to discuss the ways to resolve the four-and-a-half-long military stand-off in eastern Ladakh, in addition to the next round of talks between the senior military commanders. Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had a more-than-14-hour-long meeting on the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector – last Monday. They agreed to stop sending more soldiers to the face-off points along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, but could not end the stalemate over withdrawal of large numbers of troops the two sides already deployed since the stand-off started. “Even as two sides work towards complete disengagement in all friction areas, it is at the same time also necessary to ensure stability on the ground,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi. "The latest senior commanders’ meeting should be seen in all this overall context," he said. He also noted that the senior military commanders had met after nearly 50 days, following talks between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar with their Chinese counterparts, Wei Fenghe and Wang Yi, in Moscow on September 4 and 10 respectively. Srivastava said the joint statement issued after the meeting between the senior military commanders reflected the stated commitment of both sides to disengage along the LAC. "As we have pointed out earlier, disengagement is a complex process that requires redeployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC. This would require mutually agreed reciprocal actions," he said. Lt. Gen. Singh and Maj. Gen. Liu earlier had five rounds of talks since the stand-off started, with the fifth on August 2. They did not hold any meeting for almost seven weeks till September 21, as the talks were stalled as the Chinese PLA declined to adhere to the process it earlier mutually agreed with the Indian Army for pulling back soldiers from the face-off scenes along the LAC. The MEA spokesperson on Thursday said that recent meeting had allowed the senior military commanders of the two sides "to have candid and in-depth exchanges of views on stabilizing the situation along the LAC". “The way ahead will be to refrain from making any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, while the two sides continue their discussions to achieve complete disengagement in all friction areas and to ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” he told journalists during a routine briefing. Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs, also participated in the meeting on Monday. So did his counterparts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government. The senior diplomats of the two sides would soon hold a video conference within the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which was instituted in 2013. New Delhi and Beijing already held four virtual meetings of the WMCC after the military stand-off started in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-highlights-outcome-of-sino-india-military-talks-says-stability-along-lac-necessary-while-negotiating-troop-withdrawal-892558.html
24-09-2020||National||AYUSH Ministry inks MoU to promote cultivation of medicinal plants||The National Medicinal Plants Board has inked an MoU with major AYUSH and herbal industry bodies to promote the cultivation of medicinal plants. The Board, which comes under the Ministry of AYUSH, signed the MoU with Ayurvedic Drug Manufacturer's Association, Mumbai; Association for Manufactures of Ayurvedic Medicines, New Delhi; Ayurvedic Medicines Manufacturers Organisation of India, Thrissur; Association for Herbal and Nutraceutical Manufacturers of India, Mumbai; Federation of Indian Industries, New Delhi; and Confederation of Indian Industry, New Delhi. The signing ceremony was graced virtually by the presence of AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, who assured the industry bodies his ministry would provide support to resolve their issues if they form a team and approach the ministry with solutions. He also said that the government is committed to the development of AYUSH systems, the ministry said in a statement. The industry bodies said they will offer buy-back guarantee to farmers/gatherers on the NMPB-supported medicinal plant cultivation and collection programmes, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-ministry-inks-mou-to-promote-cultivation-of-medicinal-plants-892560.html
24-09-2020||National||Covid-19: Challenges galore for schools to reopen||With more than 53,000 schools in India being single class room units, observing social distancing norms would be the biggest challenge for the government when it decides to reopen the schools in the post Covid-19 scenario. As per the government's own district information system for education (DISE) statistics, as many as 53,533 schools in India are single classroom schools. India houses nearly 15 lakh schools and in one-fifth of them, the student classroom ratio is 35 and above, making it almost impossible for the school to follow any kind of social distancing norms if all students turn up. Moreover in 8.3% schools involving 1.3 lakh pupils, more than 50 students sit in one classroom, according to a report prepared by two non-governmental organisations, Centre for Budget and Governance Accountability (CBGA) and Child Rights and You (CRY). While availability of water is essential for frequent hand washing to ward off the virus, only 52% schools have overall water, sanitation and hygiene systems such as drinking water, functional toilets and hand wash facilities in place. “It will be tough for the government to decide on the schools’ reopening in the absence of social distancing and running water in thousands of schools,” Priti Mahara, director of policy research and advocacy at CRY told DH. To compound the problem, there are around six lakh teachers of age 55 years and above serving the school education system. Public health experts said that because of their age, such teachers are more vulnerable to Covid-19. Since the majority of schools have a single staff room for all teaching and non-teaching staff, maintaining the social distancing norms would be equally challenging for the teachers.  As a part of Unlock 4.0, the government has allowed students from class IX to class XII to go to the schools to seek guidance from teachers provided they carry a no objection certificate from the parents. The University Grants Commission has fixed November 1 as the date for reopening of colleges for the freshers. But there is still on official word on when the schools will reopen. However, the government may not be able to delay the process for an indefinite period because of the adverse impact of such a delay on the education, which is already being seen. There is a growing digital divide in the online education system and the school drop out rates are likely to increase, more so for the girls. The school closures due to the Covid-19 pandemic could lead to a million more girls and transgender children dropping out before they complete their education. Due to the lockdown and economic recessions in households, it is likely that household responsibilities on girls will increase and even those enrolled in schools will drop out. Such instances of gender disparity are already being seen. “My daughter has a classmate from an economically weaker section of the society. Her father is an auto-rickshaw driver and can afford only one smartphone. So it is given to the online classes for the son because of which my daughter’s classmate missed out on most of her classes ever since the lock down began,” said an East Delhi woman who didn’t want to be identified. “In any case secondary education for girls was always challenging. The pandemic has made the situation even more difficult for them because of the clearly visible gender divide,” noted Mahara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-challenges-galore-for-schools-to-reopen-892563.html
24-09-2020||National||India has asked Pak to ensure minority communities' security: MEA on Sikh girl's abduction||India lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over the abduction of a Sikh girl in that country and has conveyed to Islamabad that it should take all steps for ensuring the security of minority communities, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said there was a lot of anger and concern among the Sikh community over the abduction of the Sikh girl in Pakistan and the community had made a representation to the ministry over the issue. "The ministry lodged a strong protest by summoning a senior (Pakistani) diplomat and gave a note verbale. This is not the first incident and such incidents have happened in the past as well," Srivastava said. "There are some reports that the girl has been released. We have told the Pakistan government that they should take all steps for ensuring the security of the minority communities," he said at an online briefing. According to reports, the Sikh girl was abducted from Panja Sahib region of Punjab province recently. Last month also, India raised with Pakistan the incident of a Sikh girl being forcibly converted to Islam in Punjab province. To another question about India's charge d’affaires-designate not being granted visa by Pakistan, Srivastava said the Pakistani side had some reservations about India's CDA-designate, and added that this was an "administrative issue" which the ministry was handling. On the Kulbhushan Jadhav case, Srivastava said all efforts were being made to ensure his safe return to India. Asked about Turkey raising Kashmir at the UN, Srivastava said, "You would have seen the right of reply exercised by our Permanent Mission in New York where we have stated inter alia that the remarks of the President of Republic of Turkey on the Indian Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir constitute a gross interference in India's internal affairs and are completely unacceptable." "Turkey should learn to respect the sovereignty of other nations and reflect on its own policies more deeply," Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-asked-pak-to-ensure-minority-communities-security-mea-on-sikh-girls-abduction-892570.html
24-09-2020||National||Nepal tacitly supports Pakistan’s renewed bid to host long-pending SAARC summit, but India, others shoot down proposal||India and some of the other South Asian nations on Thursday foiled Pakistan’s renewed move to get the consent of the SAARC to host the long-pending 19th summit of the regional organization. Nepal, which currently holds the chair of the SAARC, also stressed on holding the summit of the eight-nation-bloc early. India and most of the other members of the organization, however, expressed the view that it was not an opportune time to hold the conclave as they were preoccupied with dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic.   As he joined his counterparts from the other SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) nations in a virtual meeting, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar took a tacit dig at Pakistan for exporting terror to India and other nations and thus hindering cooperation within the SAARC for development and prosperity in South Asia. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on the other hand indirectly raised the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and said that the peaceful resolution of outstanding disputes was a “pre-requisite” for achieving development, poverty alleviation and social upliftment in the region. Qureshi reiterated the willingness of the Pakistan Government to host the 19th SAARC summit and said that the obstacles created in the way of holding the conclave should be removed for the bloc to function as an effective instrument of regional cooperation. The 19th SAARC summit had been scheduled to be hosted by the Pakistan Government in Islamabad on November 9 and 10 in 2016. It had been postponed after New Delhi had decided to opt-out, protesting cross-border terrorism coming from the territory under the control of Pakistan, particularly the attacks on the Indian Air Force base at Pathankot in Punjab in January 2016 and the Indian Army’s brigade headquarters at Uri in Kashmir in September 2016. The other SAARC nations had also followed suit and the summit had been postponed indefinitely. Pradeep Kumar Gyawali of Nepal chaired the virtual meeting of the SAARC Foreign Ministers on Thursday. He urged the SAARC member states to explore all viable options to hold the 19th Summit at an early date and to generate the new momentum and dynamism in the regional organization, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Nepalese Government. Nepal has been holding the chair of the SAARC since the 18th summit that it had hosted in November 2014. During the virtual meeting on Thursday, Nepal’s national statement was presented by its Foreign Secretary, Shanker Das Bairagi, who noted that holding the 19th SAARC Summit had remained stalled for a long period. He also pointed out that the meetings of the SAARC Council of Ministers and Standing Committee also remained pending since 2016. “We believe that the formal mechanisms of SAARC must function properly. The early holding of the 19th Summit has become imperative to further the SAARC process. We hope that the Council will make an appropriate decision on this vital matter,” said Nepalese Foreign Secretary. New Delhi’s relations with Beijing came under stress over the past few months after Nepalese Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli ratcheted up his country’s territorial disputes with India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government suspects that Pakistan’s all-weather ally China has played a role in straining the ties between India and Nepal – at a time when the Indian Army is already engaged in a stand-off with the communist country’s People’s Liberation Army along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi stated that the virtual meeting on Thursday saw several SAARC Foreign Ministers appreciating the leadership of the Prime Minister of India in convening a video conference of the leaders of the bloc on March 15 this year to initiate collaborative measures for combating the pandemic in the region. Jaishankar highlighted a slew of measures taken by India in the follow-up to the video conference of the SAARC leaders on March 15, including virtually convening health professionals and trade officials meetings, creating a Covid-19 Information Exchange Platform (COINEX), foreign currency swap support, and activation of SAARC Food Bank mechanism. He informed that under India’s contribution to SAARC Covid-19 Emergency Fund, the supply of essential drugs, medical consumables, protection, and testing kits, and other equipment, amounting $ 2.3 million, were made available to the countries in the region. He reiterated India’s continued commitment to assisting SAARC countries in combating Covid-19 pandemic and in building a connected, integrated, secure, and prosperous South Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-tacitly-supports-pakistan-s-renewed-bid-to-host-long-pending-saarc-summit-but-india-others-shoot-down-proposal-892573.html
24-09-2020||National||India and China going through 'unprecedented' situation: S Jaishankar||India and China are going through an "unprecedented" situation, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday, referring to the prolonged border standoff between the two countries in eastern Ladakh. Speaking at a virtual conference of the World Economic Forum, the external affairs minister, at the same time, said the border row happens to be one part of the larger issue of how India and China adjust to each other when both are rising. The remarks by Jaishankar on the four-and-a-half-month long border standoff are his first after he and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi reached a five-point agreement to resolve the issue at their meeting on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave in Moscow on September 10. Replying to a question on how the ties between the two Asian giants will move forward, Jaishankar said it is important for India and China to understand the need to accommodate each other's rise. "We are going through, in a sense, an unprecedented situation. But if one looks at it from a somewhat longer-term, I would say this is one facet of a larger phenomenon for which both India and China have to sit down and find a solution." Jaishankar said the challenge for the diplomacy of the two countries would be on how to adjust to each other's rise. "It is important that they (India and China) understand the need to accommodate each other's rise; clearly they will have some common interests and many interests which are more individual, nationally-centred and that process of how to adjust to each other when both of them are rising to my mind is one of the big issues in the diplomacy of both the countries," he added. "The border issue happens to be one part of that problem," Jaishankar said. On Monday, Corps commanders of the two sides held a crucial round of talks following which both sides announced a series of decisions including to stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. The agreement reached between Jaishankar and Wang was the basis for the talks. In his address at the WEF event, Jaishankar also delved on a host of other contemporary global issues including key challenges facing the world. "We need to revise our sense of what globalisation is. The world is more nationalistic now. It was already heading that way. It has become more so," he said, adding the world economy will be more knowledge-driven in the future. "We are looking at a more knowledge driven economy. We need to think about the world as a much more integrated workplace then we have done typically." The external affairs minister also said that reform in the multilateral organisations must not be blocked on the pretext of not having consensus. He said it is important to strictly follow international rules for the world order to work properly. "We are the largest democracy and very proud to be a democracy. But I accept that there are many countries in the world which are not democracies. One fundamental which we all should observe is rule of law," he said, without naming any country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-china-going-through-unprecedented-situation-s-jaishankar-892616.html
24-09-2020||National||Modi, Rajapaksa to review broad framework of Indo-Lanka ties on Saturday: MEA||The virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa on Saturday will give an opportunity to the two leaders to comprehensively review the broad framework of time-tested bilateral ties, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. At a virtual media briefing, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the summit is expected to further deepen the collaborative partnership between the two countries on key issues of mutual interest. "A virtual bilateral summit under challenging circumstances posed by Covid-19 testifies to the deep-rooted civilisational ties and shared heritage between the two neighbouring countries," he said. The two leaders are expected to deliberate on a host of issues like ways to further deepen anti-terror cooperation, boost overall defence and trade ties as well as the implementation of India's development projects in Sri Lanka. The long-pending Tamil issue in Sri Lanka is also likely to figure in the talks. "The summit will give an opportunity to the two leaders to comprehensively review the broad framework of the bilateral relationship in the context of the time-tested friendly ties between the two countries and give broad political direction for a strengthened and deepened collaborative partnership on key issues of mutual interest," Srivastava said. He said the summit will be Prime Minister Modi’s first such virtual engagement with a neighbouring country while it will be Rajapaksa’s first diplomatic engagement with a leader of a foreign country after he was sworn in as prime minister last month. Rajapaksa was sworn in as Sri Lankan prime minister for a fresh term on August 9 after his party, Sri Lanka People's Front, secured a two-thirds majority in the parliamentary polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-rajapaksa-to-review-broad-framework-of-indo-lanka-ties-on-saturday-mea-892617.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||After farmers, government targeting workers: Rahul Gandhi on labour Bills||The Congress on Thursday attacked the government over three labour reform bills passed by Parliament with former party chief Rahul Gandhi alleging that workers were the target after farmers. Parliament on Wednesday approved three key labour reform bills that will remove impediments to winding up companies and allow firms with up to 300 workers to fire staff without government permission. The earlier limit was 100 workers.  Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to Twitter to criticise the government on the bills. "After farmers, workers have been targeted, Exploitation of the poor, nurturing of 'friends', This is Modi ji's rule," Rahul Gandhi said in a three-line verse in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi, who also tweeted in Hindi, hit out at the government for its priorities and said the need of the hour in this difficult time is to ensure that everyone’s livelihood is protected. "… Look at the BJP government's priority – The BJP government has brought in a law that will make it easier to remove employees from their jobs," she said. The government, the Congress leader added, has made committing "atrocities" easier. The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed by voice vote the three labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety amid a boycott by opposition parties, including the Congress and the Left, over the suspension of eight MPs. The Labour codes were passed by the Lok Sabha earlier. "The purpose of labour reforms is to provide a transparent system to suit the changed business environment," Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar had said in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday while replying to the debate on the three labour reforms bills. The minister also told the House that as many as 16 states have already increased the threshold for closure, lay off and retrenchment in firms with up to 300 workers without government permission. The Opposition has also been protesting the passage of three agriculture-related bills -- Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. They have been passed by both Houses and await presidential assent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-farmers-government-targeting-workers-rahul-gandhi-on-labour-bills-892258.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami, DMK chief Stalin condole Angadi's death||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday condoled the death of Minister of State for Railways, Suresh Angadi. Palaniswami said he was shocked to hear the sad and untimely demise of Angadi and conveyed his heartfelt condolencesto the family members. Panneerselvam said he was saddened and shocked and prayedfor Angadi's soul to rest in peace and added "may the Almighty give the strength to his family to overcome this irreplaceable loss." Stalin, stating that he was deeply saddened to learn of Angadi's demise,conveyed his condolences to the family and loved ones. BJP nationalsecretary H Raja and DMK MP Kanimozhi were among others who condoledthe death of Angadi. Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, who died due to Covid-19 at the AIIMS in New Delhi on Wednesday, was a four-time Member of Parliamentfrom Belagavi (Karnataka) consecutively since 2004. The 65-year old, survived by his wife and two daughters, was associatedwith the RSS from a young age. The minister was instrumental in making the suburban railway project in Bengaluru a reality, which was a long pending demand of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-dmk-chief-stalin-condole-angadis-death-892268.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||What is a yo-yo test? PM Modi asks Team India skipper Virat Kohli; praises J&K woman footballer Afshan Ashiq||Skipper Virat Kohli explained how the Yo-Yo test helped Indian cricketers aim for high-level fitness when Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked him about the mandatory running aerobic fitness routine. Prime Minister Modi was interacting with fitness experts and influencers from across the country to mark the one-year anniversary of the 'Fit India Movement.' Modi was keen to know what is Yo-Yo test and asked if the captain also has to pass it or he gets spared? "I heard these days there is a Yo-Yo test for the team, what is this test," asked Modi during the virtual interaction. Kohli, smiling, replied, "This Test was very important from fitness point of view. If we talk about global fitness level, our fitness level is still low compared to other teams and we want to take it up, which is a basic requirement." The gruelling routine has two sets of cones that are 20 metres apart. Once the beep is sounded, the athlete has to reach the marker on the other side by the time the next beep sounds, turn and get back to where he started before the third beep. The frequency of the beeps gradually increases for the subsequent runs. Kohli, who is currently in the UAE for the ongoing 13th IPL, said even he has to clear the test to get selected for the India team. "I'm the one who goes to run first and this is the condition that if I fail that I am also not available for selection. It is important to set that culture and it will lead to improvement in overall fitness levels." The session was attended by sports persons such as Paralympic javelin gold medallist Devendra Jhajharia and woman footballer from Jammu and Kashmir Afshan Ashiq. Also present were actor, model and runner Milind Soman and nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar. Modi also interacted with Afshan, who hit the headlines in 2017 as a stone pelter in Srinagar. The 25-year-old played as a goalkeeper in J&K women's football team and later played in the Indian Women's League in 2019 for FC Kolhapur City. She also trains youngsters in Srinagar. To encourage her Modi said, "You have done very well in football. Mostly, football fans say 'Bend it like Beckham', but now they will say 'Ace it like Afshan'." Afshan said she gets inspiration from former India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni, eulogised as 'captain cool'. "I do meditation at 5:30 every morning to keep my mind cool. I have learnt a lot from M S Dhoni, he is always calm. I like getting that calmness in my life, it helps to do all work calmly. It helps in balancing mental stress." Kohli said better fitness has helped the players, especially fast bowlers, to perform during crucial moments. "In Test cricket, sometimes we get tired. Our fast bowlers are best in the world currently and if they have to put that effort on the fourth and fifth day on the field, they can do it now," he said. "We always had the skills but when in the crucial moment when the body gets tired and the team needs you, our performance used to dip and our opponents used to win, now because of our fitness, we have been able to capitalise and perform on those crucial moments," he added. Kohli said he didn't follow the right diet early in his career and stressed on the need to bring an overall change in lifestyle. "When I started playing, I started having lot of things which were not good from health point of view. So physical fitness and diet had to change. Now life is very hectic, so if we don't keep fitness in sync with our times, we will keep falling behind. If we wouldn't have focussed on our fitness then we would have fallen behind in our sports as well. We can't only depend on our skills as mental strength depends on how fit is the body and mind." Modi said he was glad that healthy eating is becoming a part of people's way of living. "Becoming fit is not as difficult as most think. It just requires a little discipline. 'Fitness ki dose, aadha ghanta roz'. Every Indian should play some game or do some fitness activity, be it tennis, badminton, kabaddi. It has to be for at least half an hour," the PM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-is-a-yo-yo-test-pm-modi-asks-team-india-skipper-virat-kohli-praises-jk-woman-footballer-afshan-ashiq-892342.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||Centre should have taken farmers into confidence before taking decision on Farm Bills: Mayawati||Amidst protests over Farm Bills, BSP president Mayawati on Thursday said it would have been better if the Centre had taken the decision on bringing the legislation after consulting farmers. The former UP chief minister recalled that during her regime, the BSP government in Uttar Pradesh used to take decisions relating to agriculture by calling a panchayat of farmers and "consulting them properly". In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, “It would have been better had the Central government also taken farmers into confidence before taking the decision” on Farm Bills. Opposition parties and farmers in some states have been protesting the Farm Bills passed by Parliament recently. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, have been passed by both Houses and await presidential assent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-should-have-taken-farmers-into-confidence-before-taking-decision-on-farm-bills-mayawati-892355.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition ‘directionless’, it boycotts Parliament and protests outside: Javadekar||The ruling BJP on Thursday termed the opposition’s politics "directionless" as it took a dig at its rivals for complaining to President Ram Nath Kovind over the passage of some key bills while "abdicating" the right to speak in Parliament. Senior party leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar took a swipe at the opposition parties, saying they boycotted Parliament when "revolutionary" labour bills were being debated and did not follow the Chair's direction to return to their seats for division of votes in Rajya Sabha during the passage of two farm bills. "They (opposition) shamed Rajya Sabha," the Information and Broadcasting minister told reporters about the ruckus in the House on Sunday following which eight opposition members were suspended. "The opposition's politics has become directionless. They had the right to sit in Parliament and express their views but they instead abdicated it and staged a walkout. They began protests and dharna outside and are now meeting the President," he said. There are nearly 300 days for these things, Javadekar said, adding that Parliament meets for 70-80 days so that its members could express their views there. The opposition boycotted Parliament and is now complaining everywhere, he said. The opposition parties have been up in arms against the passage of farm bills, and their delegation on Wednesday urged President Kovind not to give his assent to the same. They also called the passage of the bills "unconstitutional". Javadekar said farmers have received a "boon" in the form of these proposed laws and asserted that the opposition's allegations about the minimum support price (MSP) and agriculture 'mandis' have been proved "wrong". The government has just hiked MSPs of rabi crops and will now procure them, he said. The new labour laws will give "salary, social and health" rights to farmers and ensure equal wages for women for the first time since independence, the minister said, adding that the opposition is now complaining after not taking part in the debate on the same. "This is wrong," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-directionless-it-boycotts-parliament-and-protests-outside-javadekar-892363.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||Farm Bills become Mamata Banerjee’s new weapon against BJP||The recently passed contentious Farm Bills have provided West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee a new weapon against the BJP. She has been going all out against the Bills with the aim of labeling BJP as “anti-farmer.” This becomes evident if one looks at her comments after the Bills were passed. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo not only alleged that the Bills will result in farmer suicides, and also accused the Centre of passing them “to loot” farmers. The reason behind her scathing attack against the saffron party is to rally the rural population in West Bengal - a significant section of whom are involved in agriculture - behind her against the BJP. At least 60% of voters in the state live in rural areas and are the deciding factor in elections. She has also instructed her party to hit the streets against the Farm Bills and pressed the youth, students’, women’s and agricultural labourers’ organisations into service. TMC sources revealed that the party is keen on making most of the issue and use it as a counter to blunt BJP’s polarization tactics. This will likely be a cause of concern for BJP as she had used similar strategy focusing on farmers’ interest to dislodge the CPI(M)-led Left Front from power in Bengal in 2011. Spearheading land agitations at Singur and Nandigram she ate into the rural vote base of the CPI(M) by successfully convincing farmers that the party was no longer their friend. It is unlikely this time tested strategy of the TMC supremo will yield no results against BJP, which even after winning 18 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal, is still far from achieving the level of organisational clout which kept CPI(M) in power for more than three decades. Sensing trouble, the BJP has decided to launch a state-wide campaign on the benefits of the Farm Bills, with a special focus on rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-bills-become-mamata-banerjee-s-new-weapon-against-bjp-892402.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||Centre setting up East India Company, says NCP on new farm, labour laws||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday hit out at the Centre over the passage of farm sector and labour reform bills, accusing it of being a "government of capitalists". The bills were passed in a hurried manner, said NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase. "The Centre has again proved it is a government of capitalists and not of common people," he said. "The BJP government is in a way setting up an East India Company in the country by diluting farm and labour laws and protecting capitalists," he added. The farm sector laws do not clearly mention minimum support prices and that is why the farmers in northern states are protesting against these reforms, Tapase said. "The NCP is completely with farmers. (NCP chief Sharad) Pawar himself has said so," he added. On labour reforms, the NCP spokesperson said the Union government was bringing in the "hire and fire" work culture of the West. Talking about Bihar Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey opting for voluntary retirement, Tapase said the Election Commission and Department of Personnel and Training should make a two-year cooling-off period compulsory before former officials can join politics. Pandey was under attack from Maharashtra politicians for seeking CBI probe in actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. "Such officials can join politics after their cooling-off period is over," Tapase said. He also demanded that the Centre disburse to Maharashtra its Goods and Services Tax share of Rs 22,000 crore. Parliament passed Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill last week. On Wednesday it approved three key labour reform bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-setting-up-east-india-company-says-ncp-on-new-farm-labour-laws-892423.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||Rafale deal back on Congress radar after CAG report states Dassault did not meet offset obligation||“Chronology of biggest Defence deal continues to unfold. The new CAG report admits that ‘technology transfer’ shelved in Rafale offsets. 1st, ‘Make in India’ became ‘Make in France’. Now, DRDO dumped for tech transfer,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said the offset obligations should have started on September 23, 2019 and the first annual commitment should have been completed by September 23, 2020. “Will the government say if that obligation was fulfilled? Is the CAG report the opening of a can of worms? (sic),” the former Finance Minister asked. Ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year, Congress had made the alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal an election issue, but it failed to strike a chord with the electorate. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), in a report presented to Parliament on Wednesday, had said that the French fighter jet manufacturer was yet to meet the offset obligations under the deal to sell 36 medium multi-role combat aircraft to India. “In the offset of four contracts relating to 36 Medium Multi Role Combat Aircraft, the vendors Dassault Aviation and MBDA initially proposed (September 2015) to discharge 30 per cent of their offset obligation by offering technology to DRDO,” the CAG said in its report. The government auditor noted that the DRDO wanted to obtain technical assistance for indigenous development of engines (Kaveri) for the Light Combat Aircraft. “Till date the vendor has not confirmed the transfer of this technology,” the CAG said, adding that the Defence Ministry's policy of offsets has “not yielded the desired result.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rafale-deal-back-on-congress-radar-after-cag-report-states-dassault-did-not-meet-offset-obligation-892486.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||Amrita Dhawan appointed Delhi Mahila Congress president||The Congress on Thursday appointed Amrita Dhawan as president of the Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress, replacing Sharmistha Mukherjee. "Congress president has appointed Amrita Dhawan as president of Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress with immediate effect," AICC general secretary KC Venugopal said in an official communication. "The party appreciates the contribution of outgoing president of Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress Sharmistha Mukherjee," he said. Mukherjee is the daughter of former President Pranab Mukherjee. She was appointed as the Delhi Mahila Congress chief in January 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amrita-dhawan-appointed-delhi-mahila-congress-president-892498.html
24-09-2020||National Politics||Farm bills to adversely affect interests of 62 cr farmers, labours: AICC||The Congress on Thursday termed three farm bills as "anti-farmer" and said that it would adversely affect the interest of 62 crores farmers and farm labours by destroying the agriculture produce market system (APMC) in the country. The party cited Bihar as an example, saying in 2006 the APMC Act was abolished in the state resulting in a bad situation for farmers whose produce was purchased at cheaper rates by middlemen and sold in other states at MSP after earning profits.  "The three anti-farmer bills passed by the BJP government will adversely affect the interests of 62 crore farmers and farm labourers by destroying the APMC. The farmers will neither get the minimum support price (MSP), nor will they get the market rate of his produce," Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters here.  Flanked by Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress (JKPCC) president Ghulam Ahmed Mir and other senior party leaders, Khera said the three laws were passed after bypassing parliamentary traditions and genuine objections of the Congress and other opposition parties. He said this will have disastrous consequences as 86 per cent of small and marginal farmers having less than five acres of land will go from being owners to contract labourers under the new laws.  He said that the BJP government under the garb of new legislation wants to implement the Shanta Kumar Committee Report, thus bringing an end to the procurement system based on MSP through the FCI. Khera said this will result in farmers being solely dependent upon contract farming where a big company will determine the rates of the produce at its own discretion. Khera said the new system, by abolishing the stock limit of agriculture products, will neither benefit farmers nor consumers. He said it will benefit only hoarders and black- marketeers who will purchase the items at cheaper rates and  and sell them at higher rates.  The Congress leader quoted a 2020-21 report which stated that the government stocks pulses after purchasing from farmers and sells it in the open market when the next crop of pulses comes in, as a result of which the farmer does not get the market rate of their crop. The Modi government's claim that farmers will now be free to sell their agriculture produce anywhere in the country is a blatant lie, Khera alleged, adding that even under the existing system, the farmers are at a liberty to sell their produce anywhere as there are no restrictions under the APMC Act. The Congress leader said that with an average land holding of two acre or less, a small farmer is not expected to take his produce from one state to another for a better price. He said the farmer will sell it at a nearby mandi at MSP which, if abolished, will be detrimental to the farmers. He said that with the abolishment of these grains and fruit and vegetable markets, crores of people dependent on them in the shape of labourers, transporters and others  allied jobs, will lose their livelihood and the states will lose revenue which they use to earn as market fee and rural developmental funds.  The Congress leader cited Punjab as an example which earned Rs 736 crore as market fee and almost an equal amount as rural developmental funds during the procurement of wheat. He said Rs 613 crore was earned by wholesale dealers as commission and this amount was not paid by farmers but by the Food Corporation of India or other private companies procuring at MSP. Khera also questioned how the mandi system will survive when any transaction in the APMC was going to be taxed but outside there would be no such fee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-bills-to-adversely-affect-interests-of-62-cr-farmers-labours-aicc-892533.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan, militant killed in separate incidents in Kashmir||A CRPF personnel and a militant were killed in two separate militancy related incidents in Budgam and Pulwama districts of Kashmir on Thursday. Reports said the militants attacked a CRPF party in Keisarmulla area of Chadoora in central Kashmir’s Budgam district injuring one CRPF trooper. And before escaping from the spot, the militants also managed to snatch the injured soldier’s rifle. CRPF spokesman, Pankaj Singh said the jawan was identified as N Badolay from Nagpur who was injured in the militant attack succumbed at hospital. “His rifle is missing as well,” Singh added. In a separate incident a militant was killed in a gunfight that broke out in Machoma, Tral area of Awantipora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.A police official said in the initial exchange of fire one militant has been killed and operation is still underway. The identity of the slain militant is yet to be ascertained. The encounter erupted after a joint team of Army’s 42 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Machoma Tral. As the joint team encircled the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them. The fire was retaliated by the joint team, triggering off an encounter, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-militant-killed-in-separate-incidents-in-kashmir-892184.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out at east Delhi's Aditya mall||A fire broke out in an office at Aditya Mall in east Delhi's Karkarduma area on Thursday morning, fire officials said. The fire department received information regarding the blaze on the second floor of the mall at 7.50 am. Eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot, a senior fire official said. Further details are awaited, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-east-delhis-aditya-mall-892199.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Railway Ministry offices in Delhi closed for half day today in tribute to Suresh Angadi||The Railway Board, Rail Bhavan and all establishments of Ministry of Railways will be closed on the afternoon of September 24, a circular by Ministry of Railways read. Earlier, a condolence meeting was held at Karnataka Bhavan in Delhi that was attended by Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Housing Minister V Somanna, Karnataka MPs and officers. Family members tried to take the body to Belagavi for last rites, however, due to Covid-19 protocol, it has been decided that rituals would be held at Delhi only. The last rites will be held at 4 pm at Lingayat Rudrabhumi at Dwaraka. As per protocol, the body will be directly brought from AIIMS to Dwaraka. Only close relatives will be allowed at the final rites site, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railway-ministry-offices-in-delhi-closed-for-half-day-today-in-tribute-to-suresh-angadi-892224.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Salman Khurshid, Brinda Karat gave provocative speeches during CAA protests: Delhi riots charge sheet||More politicians and activists, including Salman Khurshid, Brinda Karat, and Annie Raja, find mention as making "provocative speeches" in disclosure statements of accused that are part of charge sheets filed by Delhi Police in riots that took place in February. The other names which were mentioned in disclosure statements include CPI(ML)'s Kavita Krishnan, activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan, scientist Gauhar Raza, and student activist Kawalpreet Kaur. In a separate charge sheet earlier, the names of CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan's Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand were mentioned as part of disclosure reports in which they were accused of provoking and mobilising anti-CAA protesters. The charge sheet also said that Rs 1.61 crore was received by Jahan, Saifi, Tahir Hussain, Sifa-ur-Rehman and Meeran Haide between 1 December 2019 and 26 February 2020. Of this, Rs 1.48 crore was withdrawn in cash and "spent in managing the protest sites as well as to execute the conspiracy hatched for the riots". Khurshid's name comes in the disclosure statements of Khalid Saifi and former Congress councilor Ishrat Jahan. According to the charge sheet, Saifi and Jahan had called many people, including Khurshid, to sustain the protest for more days. The CPI accused the Delhi Police of "trying to frame" political leaders and activists who are critical of the "anti-people policies" of the BJP-led government in the February riots cases. It said that Delhi Police is indulging in a "conspiracy" aimed at criminalising those who speak against human rights violations and injustice, rather than catching the real perpetrators of the violence. "The Party deplores the role of Delhi Police in investigating the North-East Delhi riots targeting leaders and activists including CPI National Executive Member Annie Raja, also General Secretary, National Federation of Indian Women (NFIW)," the CPI statement said. Congress' Rajya Sabha Chief whip and senior leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "A former Foreign Minister and Law Minister, Salman Khurshid is amongst the nicest, gentlest, learned, nationalistic, secular Indians I have known, and he figures in a chargesheet! It is a SHAME on the Delhi Police and it's true and two masters." Delhi Police had earlier said that none of them are named as accused in the charge sheet. According to the charge sheet, "several big names used to come to the Khureji site to give speeches against CAA/NPR/NRC, like Udit Raj, Salman, Khurshid, Brinda Karat, Umar Khalid (former JNU student leader)...," one of the witnesses has claimed. "In order to sustain the protest for a long time, several known persons were called by me and Khalid Saifi on the instructions of JCC, like Salman Kurshid, (filmmaker) Rahul Roy, Bhim Army member Himanshu, Chandan Kumar... gave provocative speeches because of which all the people sitting in the protest used to get instigated against the government," according to disclosure statement by Jahan. In his disclosure statement, Saifi claimed Yogender Yadav, Bhushan, Kurshid also used to attend these speeches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/salman-khurshid-brinda-karat-gave-provocative-speeches-during-caa-protests-delhi-riots-charge-sheet-892226.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Explore implementation of IARI technology to manage crop residue: Arvind Kejriwal to officials||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to explore the implementation of a low-cost technology developed by scientists of Indian Agriculture and Research Institute (IARI) here to manage crop residue across all farms in outer Delhi. Dr A K Singh, the director of IARI, and several senior scientists from the institute presented the technology to the chief minister on Wednesday. Commending the innovation, Kejriwal said, "Crop stubble is the major source of pollution in Delhi in winter. I congratulate IARI scientists for developing a low-cost, effective technology to deal with stubble burning. Governments need to listen and work hand in hand with scientists to address the issue of stubble burning." The meeting was also attended by Environment Minister Gopal Rai, officials from the Development Department and Dialogue and Development Commission. The chief minister instructed the officials from the Development Department to carry out detailed cost-benefit analysis and explore the implementation of this technology across all farms in outer Delhi that face the issue of crop stubble. Kejriwal will visit the Pusa campus on Thursday to witness a live demonstration.    The technology, called Pusa Decomposer, involves a liquid formulation prepared using Pusa decomposer capsules and readily available inputs, fermenting it over 8-10 days, and then spraying the mixture on crop residue to ensure speedy bio-decomposition of the stubble. Capsules worth Rs 20 can effectively deal with 4-5 tonnes of raw straw per acre. The use of this approach by IARI in Punjab and Haryana have shown very encouraging results over the last four years. It also reduces fertilizer consumption and increases farm productivity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explore-implementation-of-iari-technology-to-manage-crop-residue-arvind-kejriwal-to-officials-892234.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab: Four killed in Mohali building collapse||Four people, including three labourers, were killed after a double-storey building collapsed in Punjab's Mohali on Thursday morning. Four persons died in the incident which took place in Mohali's Dera Bassi, said officials. Earlier, three bodies of labourers were taken out of the debris while the owner of the building, Hardev Singh (72), who suffered head injuries, was rushed to a hospital. The owner succumbed to his injuries at the hospital in Chandigarh. Other deceased were identified as Gopi (60), Raju (46) and Ramesh (45), said Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. Four other labourers who were working around the building survived, a spokesperson said. The rescue operation lasted four hours and a team of the National Disaster Response Force was deployed to find anyone trapped under the debris. The two-storey commercial building collapsed after the roof of an under-construction shop on the second floor caved at around 9.30 am at Mira Malli Mohalla, said officials. A magisterial probe has been ordered into the incident and Dera Bassi Subdivisional Magistrate Kuldeep Bawa has been asked to submit a report within 10 days, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-four-killed-in-mohali-building-collapse-892251.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Bhima Koregaon case: SC declines to consider interim bail plea of activist Sudha Bhardwaj||A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Vineet Saran and Ajay Rastogi noted she was already being examined and given medication. She can file a regular bail if advised, they said.  Advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that she has been in custody for two years as an undertrial. She sought interim bail for the petitioner as she suffered from diabetes and other comorbidities. The counsel claimed the petitioner developed two diseases during her custody. One is a heart disease which is a ticking time bomb and another is arthritis, she said.  The bench, however, after going through the records, pointed out she was 58-year-old and was being provided all medications and her conditions did not look very serious. When the bench sought to know the case against her, Grover said there was a charge of criminal conspiracy, though she was practicing in Chhattisgarh High Court at Bilaspur. The bench, then, said: "If you have a good case why she did not file a fresh bail plea." Grover, to this, responded that one petition was pending. The bench asked her to withdraw the plea to which the counsel agreed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhima-koregaon-case-sc-declines-to-consider-interim-bail-plea-of-activist-sudha-bhardwaj-892270.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Stubble burning: Gopal Rai says Pusa institute's bio-decomposer can help reduce pollution||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday witnessed a demonstration of a bio-decomposer developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute to convert crop stubble into manure and said if successful, it will help reduce air pollution. He said he will discuss the technique, which involves spraying the decomposer on crop stubble, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and later a work plan will be developed for its implementation. Every year, Delhi's air quality plummets as farmers in the national capital and neighbouring states burn agricultural stubble to clear their fields before the onset of winter to sow the next crop. Farmers claim that setting their fields on fire is the only economically viable solution to clear stubble before the sowing season starts. Rai said the Delhi government will provide the bio-decomposer to farmers free of cost. "The cost of spraying the decomposer in fields will be borne by the Delhi government so that there is no financial burden on the farmers and an effective solution to the problem of stubble burning can be developed," he said. The minister said the central government has devised a scheme under which subsidy is provided to farmers for using machines to clear crop stubble. "I believe that the money spent on the purchase of machines and the subsidy can be used for the decomposition of stubble in these states. If successful, the technique will reduce smoke and air pollution," he said. The Union environment ministry has a very important role to play in this initiative, he added. Delhi faces air pollution every year in winter due to the burning of crop stubble in neighbouring states, Rai said. "Punjab produces 20 million tonnes of crop stubble out of which 9 million tonnes was burnt last year. In Haryana, 1.23 million tonnes out of 7 million tonnes was burnt," he claimed. Rai said the Delhi government will talk to the Union environment ministry and the governments of neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for coordination in implementing the bio-decomposer technique. The Delhi government is keen to develop a sustainable and effective solution to the issue of stubble burning that causes major pollution in Delhi, especially during the winter season, he said. Last year, stubble burning accounted for 44 per cent of Delhi's air pollution, he said. An official of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute said it has received an advance order from the Uttar Pradesh government to demonstrate the technique on 25,000 hectares of land. He said around 10 companies are manufacturing the institute's bio-decomposer on a large scale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stubble-burning-gopal-rai-says-pusa-institutes-bio-decomposer-can-help-reduce-pollution-892279.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Driest September in Delhi in 16 years, says IMD||Delhi recorded less than 21 mm rainfall in September, the lowest for the month in 16 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said Delhi has already recorded the last rainfall of the monsoon season and any precipitation is unlikely now. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 109.3 mm this month – a deficiency of 81 per cent, according to IMD data.   The last time the weather station recorded any rainfall (1.3 mm) was on September 8.    According to IMD, the national capital recorded only three rainy days this September, the lowest since 2016, when it witnessed just two rainy days.   Rainfall recorded in September last year was 74 mm. It was 237.8 mm in 2018 and 158.5 mm in 2017. The city gauged 75 mm rainfall in September 2016 and 21.8 mm in 2015.   Before this year, the lowest September rainfall was recorded in 2004 (3 mm). Delhi received just 1.6 mm precipitation in September 1994, according to the IMD data. Interestingly, the national capital had gauged 237 mm rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years.    Overall, the city has recorded 576.5 mm rainfall against the usual of 633.1 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season started -- a deficiency of 9 per cent.   The monsoon is likely to start withdrawing from Rajasthan on September 26-27. Thereafter, it will recede from Delhi, Haryana, west Uttar Pradesh simultaneously by September last week, Srivastava said.    The weather system had reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/driest-september-in-delhi-in-16-years-says-imd-892290.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Murder convict steals buffalo while on parole, arrested in UP||A gangster, convicted for killing nine people, allegedly stole a buffalo while on parole and was arrested in Bahraich district in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Thursday. Bulta, alias Muneshwar, was arrested on Wednesday in connection with the theft case. Bulta and his gang killed nine people in the Khairighat police station area of the district in 1992. He was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in 2001. He was granted parole by the high court, Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) Ashok Kumar said. The district police has decided to appeal for getting his parole cancelled by the high court, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/murder-convict-steals-buffalo-while-on-parole-arrested-in-up-892299.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra regrets his 'I don't wear face mask' remark||Under fire for saying he doesn't wear a face mask in any programme, Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday admitted that his comment was wrong and expressed regret over it. Mishra also said he would wear the mask as part of the Covid-19 prevention protocols, and urged others also to do the same and follow the social distancing norms. The minister on Wednesday said he doesn't wear a face mask in any programme. When the Congress attacked him, Mishra later tempered his remarks, saying he cannot continue to wear face mask for a long time due to a medical condition. "My statement was completely wrong and against the sentiments of the honourable Prime Minister (Narendra Modi). My words have caused me immense hurt. I express regret and appeal to all to wear masks and follow Covid -19 protocols," Mishra tweeted in Hindi on Thursday. "I felt that my statement about masks has caused contempt of the law. It was not in accordance with the Prime Ministers feelings," he said in another tweet. "I accept my fault and express remorse. I am going to wear mask. I also appeal to the society to wear masks and follow social distancing rules," he added. On Wednesday, when some reporters in Indore asked Mishra why he was not wearing mask at a function there, he said, "I don't wear a mask in any programmes. 'Isme kya hota hai?' (so what)." The Congress later attacked him, asking if Covid-19 norms are meant only for the common people. "Is there anyone who has the courage to take action against him (Mishra). Are rules only for common people?" Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja tweeted. As his remarks drew fire, the Home Minister said, "I normally wear a mask but I can't sport it for a long time, as I am suffering from Polypus and if I wear a mask it leads to suffocation". Mishra served as the health minister of Madhya Pradesh from April to July this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-home-minister-narottam-mishra-regrets-his-i-dont-wear-face-mask-remark-892301.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||52-year-old man shot at for resisting robbery on Shahdara flyover in Delhi||A 52-year-old man was shot at allegedly by two unidentified motorcycle-borne men for resisting a robbery bid on the Shahdara flyover here, police said on Thursday. The victim, identified as Manish, sustained a bullet injury in his stomach and is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Patparganj, they said, adding that he is out of danger now. The police said the identities of the accused are yet to be established and teams have been formed to trace them. According to them, the incident took place around 7.30 pm on Wednesday when Manish and his brother, Arun, were returning home. They live in Ramprastha in Ghaziabad district of Uttar Pradesh. As the brothers reached the Shahdara flyover, two men intercepted them on a motorcycle and tried to snatch their bag. Facing resistance, one of the accused allegedly took out a pistol and shot at Manish before fleeing, the police said. A case has been registered under section 399 (making preparations to commit dacoity), 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt the cause death or grievous hurt) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, a senior police officer said. Police are looking for CCTV footage from areas along the route, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/52-year-old-man-shot-at-for-resisting-robbery-on-shahdara-flyover-in-delhi-892303.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||No Covid-19 negative report needed, Uttarakhand eases norms for tourists||The Uttarakhand government has eased coronavirus norms for tourists, exempting them from producing a negative test report on arrival. In a revised set of guidelines for tourists, Chief Secretary Om Prakash said it is not mandatory for them to bring coronavirus negative report before checking into a hotel or homestay. Moreover, the requirement of a mandatory stay of a minimum two days in a hotel or homestay will also not be required anymore, he added. However, it will be mandatory for tourists coming to the state by any mode of transportation to register on the Smart City portal prior to their travel, the latest set of directions that came into effect on Wednesday said. The new directions supersede the order issued on September 19 by which tourists were required to produce a negative RT-PCR test report issued by an ICMR-authorised lab not more than 96 hours ahead of their arrival, the order issued by the chief secretary said. However, checks like thermal scanning, sanitisation and other prescribed health protocols for hotels and restaurants must be complied with, the new guidelines said. In case a tourist is found coronavirus positive, the hotel management shall intimate the district administration and make an arrangement for random testing to ensure the compliance of the guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-covid-19-negative-report-needed-uttarakhand-eases-norms-for-tourists-892311.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||75% of 86,508 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours concentrated in 10 states/UTs: Health ministry||Seventy-five per cent of the 86,508 Covid-19 cases reported in a span of 24 hours in the country are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Chhattisgarh, the health ministry said on Thursday. Maharashtra continues to top this list. It has alone contributed to more than 21,000 cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka with more than 7,000 and 6,000 coronavirus cases, respectively. The ten states and UTs are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh, the ministry said. “Also, 1,129 fatalities due to coronavirus have been registered in a day with 10 states/UTs --Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi and Haryana accounting for 83 per cent of such deaths,” it said. Maharashtra reported 479 deaths followed by Uttar Pradesh and Punjab with 87 and 64 deaths, respectively, the ministry said. There are 9,66,382 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 16.86 per cent of the total caseload, the ministry data stated. India has substantially ramped up its testing infrastructure across the country. As on date, there are 1,810 laboratories, including 1,082 government and 728 private labs. A cumulative total of 6,74,36,031 samples have been tested for detection of Covid-19 till September 23 with 11,56,569 samples being tested on Wednesday. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 57,32,518 with 86,508 people testing positive in a day, while the death toll climbed to 91,149 with 1,129 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am on Thursday showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/75-of-86508-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-concentrated-in-10-states/uts-health-ministry-892313.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Major improvement in air quality in Delhi's pollution hotspots during lockdown: CPCB||Air quality in Delhi's 13 pollution hotspots improved significantly due to restrictions on industrial operations and commercial and vehicular activity during the lockdown, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. The Delhi government has identified 13 pollution hotspots in the city based on the annual average of PM10 and PM2.5 levels. These are Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, R K Puram and Jahangirpuri. PM2.5 is tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter. It can enter deep into the lungs and even into the bloodstream. The CPCB said it analyzed air quality data in three stages — pre-lockdown (March 1-21), lockdown phase-I (March 25 – April 19) and lockdown phase-II (April 20 – May 3). A comparative analysis was also done for the corresponding time periods in 2019 to assess the improvement. "Noticeable reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels in hotspots of Delhi was observed during the lockdown period as compared to 2019 levels, in all likelihood due to restrictions on operations of industrial and commercial areas and vehicular activity," it said. The reduction in PM2.5 levels varied from 54 per cent in Jahangirpuri to 26 percent in Punjabi Bagh. Dwarka, which has a significant presence of residential-cum-institutional sites with substantial traffic movement, recorded a 50 percent decline in PM2.5 levels. "It affirms that traffic restrictions and closure of commercial areas were instrumental in improving air quality," the CPCB said. Restrictions on operations of industries in Mundka led to a 38 percent reduction in PM2.5 levels in the first phase of lockdown. "Even though there were data gaps for Anand Vihar and Narela, considerable reduction in PM2.5 levels was observed for the days on which data was available," the report read. PM10 levels in the hotspots of Dwarka, Mundka, Wazirpur declined by over 60 per cent during the lockdown periods. "This may be attributed to reduced road dust re-suspension due to minimal vehicular movement and restriction on construction and demolition activities," the apex pollution body said. Sizeable improvement in NO2 levels was observed across the hotspots as compared to 2019 levels, except Jahangirpuri. Other areas such as Rohini, Ashok Vihar and R K Puram witnessed over 70 percent reduction in NO2 levels during the lockdown periods as against 2019 levels, primarily due to reduced vehicular activity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-improvement-in-air-quality-in-delhis-pollution-hotspots-during-lockdown-cpcb-892333.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Sisodia's condition stable, to undergo another Covid-19 test in couple of days||The condition of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a state-run facility here, is stable, and he will be administered another coronavirus test in a couple of days, officials said on Thursday. He was admitted to the LNJP Hospital on Wednesday from being under home isolation after he had contracted the infection. "He is still in ICU since yesterday, but his condition is stable. The minister has been put on oxygen support as per requirement, and under constant observation," a senior doctor of the hospital said. The Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 facility. "The Deputy CM will be administered an RT-PCR test in a couple of days," the doctor said. Asked if the minister has any co-morbidities, the doctor, also a senior official said, "He has hypertension.” The 48-year-old Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader was admitted to the hospital after he complained of fever and low oxygen level. In a video message, Sisodia praised the efforts made by doctors at the LNJP hospital. "I have been brought to the LNJP Hospital after a need was felt for it. But, seeing the spirit with which the doctors and other healthcare workers are serving patients, I must say, as a Deputy Chief Minister, it is very encouraging," he said. "It is a wonderful facility here and I am very proud of them. If you need any medical attention in this coronavirus time, LNJP is ready to serve you," the minister said. Sisodia had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 and was in home isolation. "He (Sisodia) was admitted to the hospital as a precautionary measure since he was continuously having a little higher body temperature and his oxygen level dropped slightly," a senior official said on Wednesday. Sisodia was unable to attend the one-day Delhi Assembly session on September 14 since he had tested positive for the disease. He is the second Cabinet minister in the Arvind Kejriwal government to contract Covid-19 infection after Health Minister Satyendar Jain. The Health Minister had tested positive for Covid-19 in June and was hospitalised. He was later administered plasma therapy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sisodias-condition-stable-to-undergo-another-covid-19-test-in-couple-of-days-892367.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||States can buy testing kits, set up oxygen generation units with SDRF funds: MHA||During a Covid-19 review meeting with a clutch of states on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the states could utilise 50% of the allocation for State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) in a fiscal. The MHA followed this up with a letter to states informing them that it has modified the list of items for which the SDRF money could be used. According to the letter by MHA Deputy Secretary M Subramanian, the states could utilise funds on measures for quarantine, sample collection and screening as well as procurement of essential equipment/labs for response to Covid-19. Under the measures for quarantine, sample collection and screening, there is no addition and the states could utilise SDRF funds for provision for temporary accommodation, food, clothing, medical care for people affected and sheltered in quarantine camps (other than home quarantine) or for cluster containment operations. The money could also be spent on the cost of consumables for sample collection as well as support for checking screening and contact tracing. Under procurement of essential equipment/labs for response to Covid-19, the states could utilise the funds for setting up additional testing laboratories within the Government and the cost of consumables and testing kit. The funds could also be utilised for buying personal protection equipment (PPEs) for healthcare, municipal, police and fire authorities, thermal scanners, ventilators, air purifiers, oxygen generation and storage plant in hospitals, strengthening ambulance services for transport of patients, setting up containment zones, Covid-19 hospital, Covid-19 care centres and consumables in the government hospitals. Of this, the modified list has added testing kits, setting up oxygen generation and storage plants in hospitals, strengthening ambulance services for transport of patients, setting up containment zones, Covid-19 hospital and Covid-19 care centre are additions in the list. However, Subramanian has made it clear that the total expenditure should not exceed 50% of the annual allocation of the SDRF. The funding percentage between these two components could be interchangeable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/states-can-buy-testing-kits-set-up-oxygen-generation-units-with-sdrf-funds-mha-892378.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Man buried alive in borewell in Uttar Pradesh||A 60-year-old man was on Thursday buried alive and another injured after the earth in a 45-feet deep borewell caved in here. Ashraf (65) and Nandan Rajput (60) got trapped inside the borewell in Alaypur Peet Bholeshwar village following the incident, police said. Rescue work was carried out for over four hours with the help of JCB machines. Both the men were rescued and rushed to a hospital where doctors declared Rajput dead. Ashraf is undergoing treatment at the hospital and is in a serious condition, police said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed the district magistrate to rush to the spot and ensure proper treatment of the injured, an official spokesman said in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-buried-alive-in-borewell-in-uttar-pradesh-892396.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||'Rail roko' agitation starts in Punjab, train services suspended||Farmers in Punjab began their three-day "rail roko" protest against farm Bills on Thursday as the Railways suspended several trains to avoid a confrontation with them. Railway authorities said 14 pairs of special trains will remain suspended from September 24 till 26. The decision has been taken keeping in mind the safety of passengers and protection of railway property from any damage, officials said. Among the trains that will remain suspended are the Golden Temple Mail (Amritsar-Mumbai Central), Jan Shatabdi Express (Haridwar-Amritsar), New Delhi-Jammu Tawi, Karambhoomi (Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri), Sachkhand Express (Nanded-Amritsar) and Shaheed Express (Amritsar-Jaynagar), officials said. Many freight and parcel trains have also been rescheduled. At present, routine passenger train service remains suspended because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The call for 'rail roko' agitation was given by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and later different farmers' outfits extended their support to it.  Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) squatted on rail tracks in Barnala and Sangrur on Thursday morning. Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have decided to squat on rail tracks near Devidaspur village in Amritsar and Basti Tanka wala in Ferozepur. Representatives of the committee said they were getting support from several sections, including government employees and labourers. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee president Satnam Singh Pannu said they have appealed to representatives of political parties, ministers, MPs and MLAs not to take part in the farmers' agitation. They vowed to gherao BJP leaders and socially boycott those who voted in favour of the farm Bills. As many as 31 farmers' outfits have given a call for a complete shutdown of Punjab on September 25. Farmers in Punjab have expressed apprehension that the Bills would pave a way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. Parliament has passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill. They await the President's nod to become laws. Meanwhile, railway officials said the Nanded-Amritsar train will end its journey in Old Delhi. Train number 02716 will run from Old Delhi instead of Amritsar on September 25 and 26. The Dhanbad-Ferozepur Cantt train will not go to Ferozepur Cantt and end its journey at Ambala Cantonment. Train number 03308 will run from Ambala Cantt from September 24 to 26 instead of Ferozepur Cantt. The Mumbai Central-Amritsar train arriving on September 24 will be brought to Ludhiana and it will end its journey at Ambala from September 25 to 26. Train number 02904 will run from Ambala from September 24 to 26 instead of Amritsar. A Railways spokesperson in New Delhi said the agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrain and other essential goods. Officials said the Food Corporation of India is daily loading over 35 rakes of foodgrain from Punjab. They said Punjab also loads 9-10 rakes daily of fertiliser, cement, auto, mixed goods in containers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rail-roko-agitation-starts-in-punjab-train-services-suspended-892406.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||After anti-CAA protesters, UP govt to name and shame perpetrators of crimes against women under 'Operation Durachari'||Concerned over the rising incidents of rape in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to launch an operation against those involved in crimes against women. As part of ''Operation Durachari (amoral)'', names of people accused of rape, harassment and molestation of women would be made public. ''Posters carrying the names of such persons and their helpers will be pasted on the walls around all busy thoroughfares,'' a government official here said on Thursday. The official, quoting UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said that directives had been issued to make sure that those involved in crimes against the women were punished by the women cops only. Sources said that CM Adityanath issued the directives while reviewing the functioning of the much-publicised 'anti-Romeo squad', which was formed by the chief minister soon after assuming charge in 2017. The squad, however, faced widespread criticism after reports of its members harassing and assaulting couples under the pretext of rounding up molesters and eve-teasers in the state started surfacing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-anti-caa-protesters-up-govt-to-name-and-shame-perpetrators-of-crimes-against-women-under-operation-durachari-892412.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Woman murdered for refusing to convert: Police||A 23-year-old woman was murdered as she allegedly refused to convert after marriage, police said here on Thursday. Police have arrested her husband and one other in this regard. SP Ashish Srivastava said the woman’s beheaded body was found in a forest area near Preet Nagar under the Chopan police station area on Monday. Police tried to know her identity through social media. The SP said on Tuesday, one Laxminarayan from Preet Nagar identified her as his daughter Priya Soni from her shoes and clothes. He told police that Priya had married one Ejaz Ahmed against the wishes of the family about a month and half ago. He alleged that Ejaz was pressuring her to convert, to which she did not agree. Ejaz had made an arrangement for her stay at a lodge in the Obra area while continuously pressurising her to convert, the SP said. Angry over her refusal, Ejaz with the help of his friend Shoaib took her to the forest area and killed her, he said. Police had deployed teams to trace the accused and they were nabbed from Baggha Nala Pul early Thursday morning, the SP said. He said on information provided by them, the mobile phone of the deceased and a knife, iron rod and car were also recovered. The National Security Act will also be invoked against them, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-murdered-for-refusing-to-convert-police-892430.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||I can win election from anywhere in Bihar: Former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey||Former DGP of Bihar, Gupteshwar Pandey, who is again hogging the limelight after taking VRS and declaring that he may take a political plunge during the ensuing Bihar poll, has stated that he has offers to contest from 14 different constituencies and “I can win from any seat in the State.” Pandey was slammed by the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP a day after he took voluntary retirement and decided to join the hurly-burly of politics. The Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, in particular, questioned Pandey whether his controversial remarks related to Sushant’s Singh Rajput’s death case was part of his political agenda. "My statements related to SSR death case should not be linked to my VRS. And tell me, is joining a political party a crime? Anyone can take VRS after 30 years in service and do whatever he feels like doing. I have decided to serve people. People are asking me to contest from different constituencies. But I have not made up my mind," said Pandey, who is tipped to be the NDA nominee from Buxar, his birthplace. The other options, ruling party sources aver, are Shahpur in Bhojpur and Valmikinagar in West Champaran. One too many Incidentally, Pandey is not the first former DGP to enter the poll fray. His senior and former Bihar DGP, DP Ojha, who took action against controversial RJD MP, Mohammad Shahabuddin during Lalu-Rabri era, contested 2004 Lok Sabha election from Begusarai after his retirement, but forfeited his deposit. An upright officer, Ojha, got merely around 5,000 votes in the parliamentary poll, far less than his Independent rivals. Similarly, ex-DGP of Bihar, Ashish Ranjan Sinha, who served as Bihar top cop between 2005 and 2008, too contested the Lok Sabha election from Nalanda during 2014 parliamentary polls post retirement, but had to bite the dust. Meanwhile, a music video dubbing Pandey as ‘Robinhood of Bihar’ has gone viral ever since he took VRS on Tuesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-can-win-election-from-anywhere-in-bihar-former-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-892443.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Farm Bill: Farmers' 'rail roko' protest in Punjab to hit movement of essential items, foodgrains, says Indian Railways||The Indian Railways on Thursday said that the 'rail roko' agitation in Punjab over the farm Bills will hit the movement of freight trains carrying foodgrains and other essential goods as well as the movement of passengers travelling on special trains. In Punjab, farmers started a 3-day ''rail roko'' protest on Thursday to protest against the three farm Bills passed by the Parliament - The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020. "The Punjab rail agitation will severely impact the loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens, the fast-recovering rail freight and the economy," a railway spokesperson said.  As many as 20 trains have been partially cancelled while five have been short terminated till September 26. Due to the protest, the Ferozepur Railway division suspended the operation of special trains and rescheduled freight and parcel trains. The Railways officials said that Punjab loaded 990 rakes of Food Corporation of India foodgrains in August this year and 816 rakes till September 23. The FCI has been loading more than 35 rakes of food grains daily from Punjab. Besides, Punjab also loads 9-10 rakes daily of fertilizer, cement, auto, mixed goods in containers. The state receives around 20 rakes daily of coal, food grain, farm products, machinery petroleum products and imported fertilizer, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-bill-farmers-rail-roko-protest-in-punjab-to-hit-movement-of-essential-items-foodgrains-says-indian-railways-892459.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Farmer dies by suicide in Uttar Pradesh's Fatehpur||Upset over not being able to "repay" his loan, a farmer died by hanging himself from a tree in Uttar Pradesh’s Fatehpur, police said on Thursday. The incident took place at Naraini village in the Kishanpur area. The farmer, identified as Mahendra Savita (37), was found hanging from a tree around 9.30 am, Kishanpur SHO Pandhari Saroj said, adding that he had left his home in the morning to go to his fields. According to his wife Ranno Devi’s statement, Savita was upset as he could not repay his loan of Rs 60,000. The SHO said he had married off his daughter in June. "He probably committed suicide due to the loan," the SHO said, quoting the victim's wife. The body has been sent for a post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-dies-by-suicide-in-uttar-pradeshs-fatehpur-892468.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Security forces alert to Pak efforts of dropping weapons, narcotics; will give reply: DGP||Security forces are alert to Pakistani efforts of dropping consignments of weapons and narcotics into Jammu and Kashmir along the border and they will give a befitting reply to these attempts, Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said here on Thursday. The DGP, talking to reporters after the wreath laying function for a slain CRPF officer, was replying to a question about drones being used from across the border to send in weapons for militants operating in Jammu and Kashmir. "This is the latest evil deed that is happening along the border... Earlier it used to happen on the Punjab border. We will give a befitting reply to this as well... "So far we have tracked many drone consignments of weapons and narcotics and arrested all those involved in those modules. This is another evil design (of Pakistan) and we are alert to it," Singh said. He said underground tunnels and hideouts made by militants were a cause of concern as they posed a threat to the civilian population and peace in Jammu and Kashmir. "Tunnels are mostly old, but now the intelligence network is strong and we are destroying these hideouts whether in forests or built up areas," he added. The DGP said that while there were two attacks by militants within the past 24 hours, the security forces had conducted successful operations during the same period. "While we have had these two incidents in the last 24 hours, you must appreciate that we had a successful operation this morning at Tral in which one hardcore terrorist has been neutralised. Just couple of days back, many successful operations have been carried out," he said. Singh said in the current scenario in which Pakistan and its agencies are "sponsoring terror in the state and are promoting terrorism by all means", the effort of the security grid is to see that every such effort is foiled. "We have been successful and we will be successful. Anyone who is involved in terror will be brought to justice," he added. Assistant Sub-Inspector N C Badoley was killed in a militant attack in the Kaisermulla area of Budgam district on Thursday morning. Director General CRPF A P Maheshwari led the security forces in paying homage to the fallen officer. Maheshwari said such incidents would not deter the force. "We are in complete synergy with J-K police and we will continue our mission to neutralise the terrorists who have been operating in the area. This does not deter us and reinforces our resolve. I assure that we will be soon eliminating the terror elements who are operating in this area," he said. Maheshwari said that while the force is aggrieved at losing a member of the CRPF family, "we honour our martyrs. We are proud of the valour shown by the martyrs, we stand shoulder to shoulder with the family of the martyr and we undertake to take care of them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-alert-to-pak-efforts-of-dropping-weapons-narcotics-will-give-reply-dgp-892483.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court expresses concern over rise in bogus, blackmailing kind of PILs||The Delhi High Court on Thursday expressed concerns over the rise in "bogus" or "blackmailing" kind of PILs and said nowadays everyone has become a "champion" of such pleas and were behaving like "super police commissioners". "Most PILs (nowadays) are bogus or of blackmailing kind. Everyone is a champion of filing such PILs," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said while declining to entertain a PIL against mushrooming of hookah bars in south Delhi. The high court said not a single PIL is filed with regard to non-payment or evasion of taxes and only pleas against illegal construction or unauthorised buildings were being filed primarily. "Everyone is walking around like super police commissioners, saying this law is being violated, that rule is being violated. Take up any city in the country, take up any Act and you will find a number of violations. But no one sees the instances of tax evasion or non-payment of taxes," the bench remarked. On the PIL against hookah bars, the bench said that the petitioner -- a law clerk -- has not made even one such establishment as a party nor has pointed out which bar was in violation of the norms and only general allegations have been made. The high court said the petitioner should do some homework before filing a PIL and pleas with such general allegations cannot be entertained. The petition had contended that the hookah bars were "operating illegally without statutory requisite licenses and clearances from appropriate authorities and in further violation of laws relating to prohibition of sale/consumption of tobacco to persons under eighteen years of age".   The bench said it was allowing the petition to be withdrawn without imposing any cost as the petitioner was a clerk who works in courts and also in view of the prevailing pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-expresses-concern-over-rise-in-bogus-blackmailing-kind-of-pils-892487.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: Suspected militants kill advocate in Srinagar||Suspected militants shot a prominent lawyer dead and TV debate panelist in Hawal area of old city Srinagar on Thursday evening. The lawyer was identified as Babar Qadri. A police official said the gunmen fired upon Qadri around 6:25 pm from a point-blank range, killing him on the spot. Medical Superintendent of SKIMS hospital, Dr Farooq Jan said that Qadri had received a bullet wound and was declared dead at the hospital. Besides practicing as a lawyer, Qadri also took part in TV debates as a panelist. His social media posts often generated controversies.  Three days ago, he had tweeted a screenshot and urged the police in Jammu to register an FIR against a Facebook user for spreading "wrong campaign" against him. "I urge the state Police administration to register FIR against this Shah Nazir who has spread wrong campaign that I work for agencies. This untrue statement can lead to threat to my life, Qadri had written in his last tweet.  Reports said soon after the attack the area was cordoned off and security forces launched a manhunt to nab the attackers. No militant organization claimed the responsibility for the attack till this report was filed.  The advocate becomes second political or social activist to be shot dead by militants in the past 24 hours. Bhupinder Singh, a member of the block development council in Khag area of Budgam district, was shot dead by militants at his ancestral village Dalwash on Wednesday night. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-suspected-militants-kill-advocate-in-srinagar-892501.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Ruckus in SDMC House: Leader of Opposition tears off 'Mayor' sticker, suspended for 15 days||AAP councillor and Leader of Opposition in the BJP-led SDMC House Prem Chouhan tore off the sticker of 'Mayor' mounted on the dais during a discussion on civic issues on Thursday, causing chaos and forcing the mayor to suspend him for 15 days. Chouhan, when contacted, admitted what he did was "wrong". "Yes, what I did was wrong conduct but the mayor was not allowing me to speak even though I am the leader of opposition," he said. In the last session too, on August 28, he attempted to tear off his shirt to "register protest" during the proceedings which witnessed a huge uproar. "Today, when I tried to speak, a councillor from another party used an objectionable word for me. And, then, I tried to raise other important issues, but the mayor just wouldn't listen at all," Chouhan alleged. So, if Mayor Anamika "couldn't maintain the prestige of the high office she holds, why should that sticker be there. Hence, I tore it off," he said. "The mayor suspended me immediately for 15 days from the House," Chouhan said. There was no immediate reaction from the mayor or the South Delhi Municipal Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ruckus-in-sdmc-house-leader-of-opposition-tears-off-mayor-sticker-suspended-for-15-days-892532.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia diagnosed with dengue||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia was diagnosed with dengue on Thursday, a day after he was hospitalised due to Covid-19, sources said here. They said the deputy CM's platelet count has also dropped. Sisodia was admitted to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital here on Wednesday from being under home-isolation after he had contracted the infection. He tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-diagnosed-with-dengue-892547.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||7 killed in rain-related incidents in UP, no end in sight for Delhi's dry spell||Seven people were killed in rain-related incidents in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, while neighbouring Delhi reeled under a prolonged dry spell with the rainfall recorded in September so far being the lowest for the month in 16 years. In Mumbai, which was battered by heavy rains on Wednesday, rail and road transport services resumed as the intensity of rainfall reduced. Rains eluded Delhi for the 16th straight day on Thursday. The city has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall in September, the lowest for the month in 16 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said Delhi has already recorded the last rainfall of the monsoon season and any precipitation is unlikely now. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had last recorded rainfall on September 8. The average rainfall for September is around 129.8 mm. According to the IMD, the national capital recorded only three rainy days this September, the lowest since 2016, when it witnessed just two. In contrast, Delhi gauged 237 mm rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years. Overall, the city has recorded 576.5 mm rainfall against the usual of 633.1 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season started, a deficiency of 9 per cent. In Uttar Pradesh, seven people were killed in rain-related incidents, according to an official statement. One person each died in lightning strikes in Ambedkar Nagar and Mau districts. Two died due to wall collapse in Ghazipur and one each in Pratapgarh and Sultanpur, the Relief Commissioner's Office said in a statement. Another person died due to snakebite in Ghazipur, it added. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to provide an assistance of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the deceased. He also asked the officials to assess the damage caused in the districts due to the rain and submit a report. In Mumbai, there was a let-up in rains on Thursday and road and rail transport services resumed. Heavy rains on Wednesday had led to waterlogging in several areas and brought the city to a standstill. The intensity of rains has reduced and there is no waterlogging anywhere in the metropolis, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Mumbai's suburbs and neighbouring Navi Mumbai received over 100 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period ending 8:30 AM on Thursday, an IMD official said. The Santacruz Observatory (in western suburbs) recorded 108.7 mm rainfall during the period, while the Colaba Observatory (in south Mumbai) recorded 50.4 mm rain. The local train services are now running normally, railway authorities said. "The special suburban trains being operated for essential services staff are running without any disruption," Central Railways' chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said. Suburban services of the Western Railway are also running as per schedule since early morning, sources said. Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus services, which were diverted on many routes on Wednesday, are also running normally now, a BMC official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-in-up-no-end-in-sight-for-delhis-dry-spell-892567.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||Kapil Mishra files complaint over 'hate campaign' against him||Delhi BJP leader Kapil Mishra lodged a police complaint on Thursday over an alleged "hate campaign" being run against him. Mishra's name has been doing the rounds in connection with the northeast Delhi riots in February. His detractors accused him of giving "instigating speech" before the communal violence. "I lodged a complaint with Delhi Police today against those running hate campaign against me, running false news in media, protecting real rioters and terrorists, and posing threat to me and my family's safety," Mishra tweeted in Hindi. The police confirmed that Mishra had lodged a complaint with them, but did not disclose its nature. "Kapil Mishra has given a complaint to Delhi Police Special Cell on Thursday. Police are inquiring into it," Anil Mittal, additional PRO of Delhi Police, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kapil-mishra-files-complaint-over-hate-campaign-against-him-892585.html
24-09-2020||North and Central||52 UP teachers accuse school management of secretly filming them in toilet, blackmailing over salary||Close to 52 teachers from a private school in Meerut have filed an FIR against the school authorities for secretly filming them in the school toilet and then blackmailing them into working without salary for months. An FIR was filed on Wednesday against the secretary and his son. The duo was booked for alleged sexual harassment and a case was filed under IPC Sections 504 (intentional insult), 354 (a) (sexual harassment) and 354 (c) (voyeurism) by the Sadar Bazaar police in Meerut, said the report. The son was arrested later that evening. Responding to the allegations levelled against him, the secretary denied the charges. “The sexual harassment allegations are absolutely false. It is true that we were unable to pay salaries for the last few months due to the prevailing situation," he told the publication. He added that there was no CCTV camera inside the ladies toilet but they had to install one inside the gents toilet following the recent reports of crimes happening inside schools in the state. Further investigation by the police are underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/52-up-teachers-accuse-school-management-of-secretly-filming-them-in-toilet-blackmailing-over-salary-892593.html
24-09-2020||Oasis||Safeguard your self-respect||In your dealings with people, sometimes you become the target of blame, get hurt and feel guilty. The situation may drive you to introspect and blame yourself unnecessarily. It is during such moments that you have to muster courage and guard your self-confidence and self-respect. Reflection is alright, repentance is good, apologising is majestic and determination to compensate is welcome, but losing self-esteem and self-confidence, feeling hurt and allowing your self-respect to weaken should be avoided at any cost. Self-respect, self-esteem, and self-confidence are synonyms and they co-exist. Your self-respect is exclusively yours and no person or event should be allowed access to it, much less power over it. If you do not protect and safeguard your self-respect, nobody will. Your self-respect and self-confidence infuses you with courage and will help you overcome crises and live with dignity and honour. You gain self-respect by learning of your strengths and living them. You are convinced of your values and prepared to defend them fiercely when externally attacked or internally challenged. The active presence of your self-respect is externally perceptible in your conduct, respecting and forgiving others and being lovable and friendly with all. These are also attributes of courage and self-esteem. Low self-respect is manifested when you exhibit a lack of confidence in your actions, underestimate your strengths, and undervalue your worth. Some are causes, some are also effects-- these maybe an unhappy childhood, poor academic performance, weak physique, successive catastrophes in life, and so on. They can and should be overcome because most of them are mere perceptions rather than realities. Self-respect, as the word itself indicates, is to be gained, nourished and maintained by yourself and is not something which can be overcome extraneously. However, the following thoughts can help improve your self-respect-- everyone present on this earth is a divine creation, has a purpose, and contributes to the well-being of the world, you are not an exception. Both your strengths and weaknesses are unique to you and are required for the welfare of humanity. Who you are right now is the product of your previous thoughts and actions and as a corollary, you can increase your future value by your present thinking and actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/safeguard-your-self-respect-892097.html
24-09-2020||Opinion||Modi bets the farm in gamble to relaunch economy||By Andy Mukherjee Big changes are afoot in Indian agriculture, driven by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at considerable political risk. Freeing up farming markets may be as significant as dismantling industrial licenses in 1991. However, if the state’s protection withers away only to reveal a few large capitalists as the new overlords, there will be chaos and misery rather than progress and prosperity. To gauge the scale of what’s being done, picture the depth of the stasis: 119 million cultivators and 144 million farmhands — taken together, 10 times Australia’s population — yoked to a marketplace designed to be anti-competitive, and denied the lift in productivity that propelled urbanization from Japan and South Korea to Taiwan and China. “It’s like a massive old table in the center of the room, crawling with parasites.” That’s how Hemant Gaur, an entrepreneur who’s bringing technology to potato farming in India, describes to me the “mandi,” or the designated market yard in which produce changes hands. “We dared not discard it, because how would we ever replace it?” Finally, Modi has thrown out the old furniture by ramming legislation through parliament, passed by a dubious voice vote. Now growers don’t have to bring their harvests to the mandi. They can sell it at farm gates, factories, warehouses, silos, and cold storages. The market yard remains, but can’t charge any fee on transactions outside its physical space. Trades can take place online. Farmers can enter five-year, fixed-price contracts with corporate buyers. The government will tame only excessive price increases rather than impose caps on incremental jitters; free markets will be the rule. The repercussions will reverberate across the world’s second-most populous country. India’s sheer size as a producer and consumer means ripples may also be felt as a long-term deflationary wave in global food prices. Gaur’s SV Agri Pvt. operates at the intersection of technology and farming. It produces and markets seeds and inputs to farmers, buys back and stores their potatoes in modern warehouses before supplying firms that make crisps and snacks. In one stroke, the 2.5% mandi tax Gaur pays in Uttar Pradesh, India’s largest state, is gone. With the more efficient procurement that makes possible, he reckons on savings of up to 10%. The efficiency gains will be shared by farmers, processors and consumers. They’ll lead to more investments in cold chains, and less wastage, a huge problem. But without the fees and commissions, the market yards may atrophy, and the local elite that’s thrived off the system but also buffered it could lose its sway, leaving farmers at the mercy of traders’ cartels controlled by corporate monopolies. This could be particularly true in the grain-producing belt of Punjab and Haryana, where the percentage cut in mandi taxes and other levies is in double digits. No wonder that political opposition will be fiercest in these northern states. Modi has gambled big before, with some disastrous results. It’s asking a lot of people in rural India to trust him again. The ban on most currency notes in 2016 was supposed to immobilize tax cheats. It froze the economy. His goods and services tax became a compliance nightmare. Opposition parties claim that the agricultural “reform,” too, will fail, especially since freedom from the regulated yard in the poor eastern state of Bihar 14 years ago brought the market to the roadside, with no infrastructure and no open auction for price discovery. Cultivators’ biggest fear from deregulation is losing their most important bargaining chip: minimum prices guaranteed by the state. Modi has assured farmers the support will stay by announcing prices for the winter crop, though as farmer activists have noted, the 2.6% increase for wheat is only half the cost escalation. The need of the hour is for farmers to establish large sales organizations of their own. If state support could give them bargaining power, they wouldn’t be selling cotton to private traders for a quarter less than the guaranteed minimum. How will Modi assure base prices once the mandi system slips into disuse? The professionally run dairy cooperative in Gujarat, the prime minister’s home state, has $5 billion in annual revenue from its Amul brand of milk, butter and cheese. But that movement took shape in a very different political firmament of the 1960s, and it didn’t succeed everywhere or in all commodities. With all the risks involved, a new farm-to-fork model is still worth it. Boosting agricultural productivity is important for societies to reach the “Lewis turning point.” Beyond that threshold posited by the economist Arthur Lewis, surplus rural labor ceases to be a drag on urban wages and living standards. Japan got there by nearly tripling per capita output between 1950 and the early 1960s, thanks to the shakeup from General Douglas MacArthur’s postwar land reforms. After independence from the British, India missed its chance to give land to tillers, and allowed absentee landlords to remain backseat drivers of policy. Almost 9 out of 10 Indian farmers have less than five acres. A majority carry on reluctantly, barely able to scratch out a living. Landless labor is paid to stay in villages with a rural job guarantee from the taxpayer. The pressure of feeding India’s 1.3 billion people has led to suboptimal choices, like a water-guzzling rice crop grown in abundance in Punjab that bleeds aquifers dry. The burning of the paddy residue causes unbearable pollution in New Delhi. Expected 20-fold growth in online grocery sales over the next five years is the surest shot to end the stifling status quo, provided farmers can unite and hold their own in negotiations with aggregators. With the Covid-19 lockdown hollowing out urban production centers, the rural economy has become more crucial. But free markets should also be fair. Otherwise, India’s farmers will crawl out of a hole only to land in a ditch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-bets-the-farm-in-gamble-to-relaunch-economy-892366.html
24-09-2020||Opinion||Why we need to rethink how we disagree online||In July, an anonymous Twitter handle that purportedly offers ‘unpopular unapologetic truths’ distastefully advised its male followers to "only marry virgins". A quick Twitter search suggests that this wasn't the first time this account had engaged in such rhetoric, it wasn't the last either – but on this particular occasion it broke out from its regular set of followers to garner wider attention. Understandably, there was outrage. Some of the account's past content was called out, regular followers of the account were called out, both the tweets in question and the account were reported in unison by multiple users and more. However, two days later the account itself declared victory stating that interest in its content had increased and 'weak' followers had been cleared out. Earlier in the year, efforts by the campaign 'Stop Funding Hate' led to a movie streaming service, a business school and an ad-network excluding a far-right Indian website from their ad programs. However, the website itself claimed an increase in voluntary contributions 'upto 700 per cent' and also stated that there was no drop in advertising revenues. And in an ongoing instance, in late August, a news anchor tweeted out a ‘teaser’ video of an upcoming series that claimed it would unearth a conspiracy enabling minorities to occupy a disproportionate number of civil services posts in the country. An indicative analysis, using the tool Hoaxy, seemed to show that a lot of the initial engagement came from tweets that were meant to call out the nature of the content via quote tweets. Often, many of these accounts had a large number of followers themselves. While the matter of this particular series itself is sub judice, let’s focus on the days just after the tweet in question. In four days, the anchor’s follower count had grown nearly five per cent. In the ensuing period there have also been multiple hashtag campaigns professing their support both for the anchor and channel. What is common in each of these situations is that efforts to call out problematic content may have inadvertently benefitted the content creators by galvanising their supporters (in-group), propagating the content on digital platforms (algorithmic reward) and perhaps even recruiting new supporters who were inclined to agree with the content but are only choosing to participate as a result of the amplification and/or perceived attacks against their points-of-view or beliefs (disagreement with the out-group). Undoubtedly, in each of these cases, the actions also had several benefits: Signalling that such content is not kosher has immense value, and when that comes from influential individuals, even more so. It can also result in strengthening in-group ties as well as expanding the group by encouraging more people to participate. The melding together of group dynamics and amplification/’algorithmic reward’ highlights the challenges faced even when people want to “do the right thing”. While, admittedly, these challenges are not necessarily new, new affordances made possible by social media platforms adds several degrees to the difficulty. The frequency of these events also means that we are now locked in a continuous cycle of conflict. Many of these conflicts may seem ephemeral, but they often bleed into each other and even if they don’t their effects are rarely as fleeting as the events themselves. The end result is the long term degradation of the information ecosystem we inhabit. It should be noted that the intention is not to advocate against pushback. To quote, Whitney Phillips, Assistant Professor at Syracuse University: “Pushback is important, it is also deeply fraught.” The question that now arises, is how to tame the beast without feeding the monster? Admittedly, this isn’t made any easier by the ongoing clash between what are derisively referred to as ‘cancel culture’ and ‘both-sidesism’. There are no silver bullets, but there are two frames that can aid a better understanding of the dynamics at work. First is the idea of the internet's ambivalence, proposed by Whitney Phillips and Ryan Milner in their 2017 book, The Ambivalent Internet. It espouses the idea that the situations like those described here, responses to them and their effects are ambivalent. They argue that the same set of behaviours “that can wound can be harnessed for social justice”. Embracing this ambivalence at multiple levels is a step towards breaking out of ‘cancel-culture’ v/s ‘both-sides’ allegiance and considering events case-by-case. It exhorts one to consider who the speaker is, who is listening and whether the message is enforcing existing power structures or challenging them. The former helps contextualise a given situation and the latter helps understand the possibility of real-world harm. Together, they can help guide choices regarding the necessity, level and nature of pushback as well as an understanding of what to expect as potential consequences. (Prateek Waghre is a research analyst at The Takshashila Institution and writes MisDisMal-Information, a newsletter on information disorder from an Indian perspective) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-we-need-to-rethink-how-we-disagree-online-892374.html
24-09-2020||Opinion||Will China abide by agreement?||Although the much-needed breakthrough in the border stalemate continues to remain elusive, India and China have taken a step forward towards keeping a lid on escalating tensions along the Line of Actual Control. At the sixth round of talks between their military commanders, they agreed “to stop sending more troops to the frontline” and to avoid” unilaterally” changing the status quo along their disputed border. Since April-May, China has been amassing troops and military equipment along the LAC and followed that up with occupying land on the Indian side of the disputed border. In response, India has been building up its forces, too. The two sides have been racing to match each other’s deployment, creating a volatile and dangerous situation along the border. The agreement to halt the further build-up of force levels is welcome as it could halt the spiralling deployment by the two countries in the Himalayan heights. The agreement freezes force levels along the LAC. It appears to be a first step towards maintaining the status quo, even as winter takes hold of the border areas. Whether this will benefit India in the medium and long-term will depend on our own force levels and on whether they are in advantageous positions in the mountains. If the disparity is in China’s favour and has been frozen by the deal reached on Monday, it would be an unstable situation that Beijing could be tempted to exploit in the coming weeks. A standstill of sorts has been put in place along the LAC, but this must not lull the Indian Army into complacency. In recent months, the Chinese have repeatedly violated agreements, walked away from agreements within days, if not hours of them being struck. This was the case at Galwan Valley, for instance, when the PLA quietly returned to the area days after agreeing to pull back troops from the areas. India must guard against a repeat of such an experience. It is becoming more and more evident that Indian troops will have to remain deployed in the icy Himalayas through the brutal winter months. An agreement to put a lid on force levels may limit the number of soldiers who will be exposed to the fierce weather conditions in the mountains but it will not give much comfort to those who are already deployed there. As China persists with its expansionist designs in the Himalayas, soldiers, both Indian and its own, are having to bear the brunt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-china-abide-by-agreement-892606.html
24-09-2020||Panorama||As China ages, a push to add elevators as economic relief||When China faced previous economic slowdowns, it favored pharaonic, multibillion-dollar construction projects to quickly pump money into the economy. A bullet train network that now connects 700 cities. Ultramodern expressways longer than America’s interstate highways. And 81 of the world’s 100 highest bridges. Now, a top Chinese official has a new idea to rev up growth during the coronavirus pandemic: elevators. China’s premier, Li Keqiang, and his allies in the government want to retrofit as many as three million older, walk-up apartment buildings, projects that usually cost less than $100,000. The downsized ambitions reflect the evolution of China, from a youthful but impoverished country to a graying but increasingly middle-class one. Although China still likes grandiose infrastructure projects, they no longer have the same economic effect. High-speed rail lines and superhighways already link every large city, so new ones connect smaller and smaller communities in China’s mountainous interior — at exorbitant cost. And the country’s debt has spiralled so high that it has become a serious drag on growth. While elevators may pack a smaller economic punch, they provide a social benefit for a rapidly aging population. A wealthier Chinese society is also demanding more from its leaders. Kong Ting endured nine months of pregnancy in a 10th-floor walk-up apartment in Guangzhou, the semitropical hub of southeastern China. Several times a day, she trudged up and down the building’s 162 stairs. “The hardest part was carrying food and drinking water,” she said. Every day, she sat on the building’s third-floor patio and complained to the neighbours, many of them older. Last year, most apartment owners in the building chipped in $4,300 apiece, collected a large municipal subsidy, and added a small elevator to the side of the building. Buildings all over China need a similar upgrade. As China’s economy started to open up after Mao’s death in 1976, young migrants moved en masse from the farms to newly built factories popping up everywhere. Over the next 25 years, Chinese cities swelled by almost as many people as the entire population of the United States. To house the new city dwellers, municipal governments and state-owned enterprises hastily built no-frills apartment towers of seven to 10 stories across the country. The Soviet-style, hulking complexes soon dominated the landscape, particularly in manufacturing hubs like Guangzhou.  Almost none had elevators. China was still a poor country. It had few factories to manufacture elevators. Imports were expensive. The lack of elevators is now a major problem in a rapidly ageing society. Through the 1960s, Mao encouraged families to have lots of children. The slogan became “the more people, the stronger we are.” Starting this year, babies born in the 1960s are turning 60, an age by which many Chinese retire. They have few children or grandchildren to help them, since China began imposing its stringent “one child” policy in the 1970s. “If we do not prepare ahead of time, we may have a greater challenge than expected” as the number of older adults in China rises steeply, said Lu Jiehua, a professor of demographic studies at Peking University. Without elevators, many longtime tenants become trapped in their homes, reliant on food deliveries and unable to meet friends or go for walks. Jiang Weixing, a white-haired woman in her 90s, sat in sunshine in a wheelchair outside a Guangzhou clinic on a recent afternoon. She waited briefly with two younger family members for a special wheelchair-accessible taxi that took her home after a medical treatment. Until the recent addition of an elevator to her high-rise building, Ms. Jiang almost never left her apartment. Doing so required two or three people to carry her down many flights of stairs. Elevators, or the lack of them, have become another cause of surging economic inequality in China. Guangzhou, a fairly affluent and socially progressive city, can afford to subsidize the projects and has already added about 6,000 elevators to older buildings — almost as many as the rest of China combined. In Beijing, the prosperous municipal government pays almost the entire cost of elevator installations, offering a $93,000 subsidy to apartment buildings within the city limits.  Many less affluent cities have no programs for elevator installation or tiny ones. In far southern China, Zhanjiang offers a meager $3,000 subsidy for each apartment building. The projects also are not universally appreciated, particularly by residents on bottom floors. Elevators usually block one or more of their windows and scarcely benefit them. Chen Xin, a 52-year-old owner of a ground-floor apartment in Guangzhou, initially resisted an elevator project in her building that involved bricking up her front door, forcing her to come and go through a side door onto a patio. Ms. Chen agreed after residents of higher floors paid her $3,500. To avoid arguments and court cases, Guangzhou imposed rules on the projects. If the owners of two-thirds of the units in an apartment building and two-thirds of the square footage in the building vote in favor of the elevator, the project must be installed. Guangzhou’s approach is spreading. Hefei, a metropolis of eight million people in central China, announced on Sept. 1 that it was adopting a similar rule.  From an economic perspective, a national elevator policy, which Premier Li proposed in May in his annual speech to the country’s legislature, could help mitigate the economic effects of the pandemic on China’s blue-collar workers. Constructing elevator towers of concrete or glass and steel up the sides of apartment buildings is labor intensive. It could provide jobs to some of the tens of millions of still-unemployed Chinese migrant workers. But the plan’s supporters may lack the political muscle to make it truly national. Building elevator shafts on the sides of buildings is a task dominated by small, private contractors in China. The contractors then buy elevators from a multinational — usually Otis Elevator, Schindler, Kone, Mitsubishi Electric or Hitachi — or one of several smaller Chinese manufacturers, like IFE Elevators in Guangzhou. While China’s top leader, Xi Jinping, has called for greater reliance on domestic demand to stimulate growth and has separately called for addressing poverty and improving housing for the elderly, he has not specifically backed a national elevator agenda. His main constituencies — the military, security agencies and very large state-owned enterprises — have little to gain from elevator projects. They have focused on building rail lines and highways that allow China to rush troops to remote hot spots, like the border with India. Housing experts in China insist that the country will resolve its elevator shortage. “Everyone invests together, and then solves the issue,” said Huo Jinhai, a senior engineer at the Ministry of Housing and Construction. And the plan has a powerful backer: the Ministry of Finance. Such support is rare. The ministry has kept central government spending on a very tight rein even as most local and provincial governments have plunged deep into debt. One of the ministry’s most famous budget hawks is Jia Kang, its longtime research director. When he finally retired, the ministry set up an influential advisory group nearby for him to run, the China Academy of New Supply-Side Economics. In his new role, Mr. Jia has emerged as an outspoken advocate of spending money — on elevators. His support is born of personal experience. Mr. Jia, 66, and his wife, Jiang Xiaoling, 63, bought a tiny ground-floor apartment years ago and then, as their savings grew, purchased a somewhat larger third-floor apartment nearby. They walk back and forth between the two apartments many times every day, and want an elevator installed so that they do not need to trudge up the stairs. “In recent years,” he said, “my wife frequently complains, ‘Why do we tolerate these conditions?’”  International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/as-china-ages-a-push-to-add-elevators-as-economic-relief-892098.html
24-09-2020||Panorama||Legalising illegality: Post-facto environmental clearances ||India is the fifth most polluted country in the world (World Air Quality Report, IQAir, 2019). Its natural resources and biodiversity are fast dwindling. Weak environmental governance is the primary reason behind this. This is exemplified by the issue of post-facto clearances which the Ministry of Environment and Forests has attempted time and again to allow, with the objective of giving industries leverage to operate, despite violations of the law of the land. The 2020 Draft EIA Notification continues down this trajectory. ‘In decisions relating to post facto clearances, the judgements of the Supreme Court have overlooked principles/precedents that the SC itself has applied/relied on in other cases. Polluting industries in Ankleshwar industrial area, Gujarat, operating for about a decade without an Environmental Clearance (EC), were ordered by the National Green Tribunal to close and their ECs were revoked. The tribunal declared that the Circular of the Ministry of Environment and Forests on the basis of which the attempt had been made to legalise their operations was “void, ab-initio,” further declaring that, “we have no hesitation in holding that ex-post facto process of obtaining ECs…was just a farce, stage-managed, wrong and impermissible under the Law and suffered from illegality, which is incurable in any manner.” The Supreme Court in its decision on the case (Alembic Pharmaceuticals, judgement delivered on April 1, 2020), agreed with NGT’s assessment, also stating that “the administrative circular is contrary to the EIA Notification 1994, which has a statutory character. The circular is unsustainable in law.” It, however, gave a clean chit to the defaulting industries, doing so through a questionable application of the principle of proportionality. Proportionality is intended to be a ‘principle of justice,’ to serve as a check on administrative actions and ensure that they do not excessively violate fundamental rights. When infringement of rights outweighs the interests intended to be pursued by an administrative or legislative measure, it can be considered excessive and unconstitutional. This principle, with foundations in the Aristotelian concept of justice, has become the mainstay of the protection of human rights across the world. A particularly rich and well-articulated jurisprudence on the principle has emerged from courts in Europe.  The interpretation of the principle of proportionality in the judgement of the Supreme Court can put environmental rule of law in jeopardy in regard to post-facto clearances. The judgement has overlooked the application of the SC’s own jurisprudence on proportionality and the structured four-part proportionality test, grounded on Justice Barak’s conceptualisation and the formulation used by the German Federal Constitutional Court, i.e. that a measure restricting a right must serve a legitimate purpose and be a suitable means for furthering it. There must not be any less restrictive but equally effective alternative and the measure must not have a disproportionate impact on the right-holder. The legitimate goal must “be of sufficient importance to warrant overriding a constitutionally protected right or freedom and also that such a right impairs freedom as little as possible” (Aadhar case, 2018).    Indeed, in its role as guardian of fundamental rights, the Supreme Court has time and again recalled its long history of employing a proportionality analysis in cases dealing with the right to life and other fundamental rights, even when not calling it as such. In an environmental context, where people’s life and health are at risk, a review of impacts on the fundamental rights to life and health guaranteed by the Constitution is a key aspect of proportionality. Local communities, the first sufferers, have to live with serious impacts of pollution and environmental degradation, very often across generations. Further, as pollution and environmental harm do not remain confined to man-made borders, impacts are often felt across state and international borders as well, with thousands, even millions, being affected. These are some of the impacts that an Environmental Impact Assessment is meant to investigate, in order to mitigate adverse consequences as far as possible and put in place remedial measures, including an Environmental Management Plan. Ankleshwar, where the industries under scrutiny in the Alembic Pharmaceuticals case are located, is a highly polluted area. The Central Pollution Control Board’s Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index report reveals that water, air and soil parameters in and around the Ankleshwar industrial area are among the most critical. Pollution from Alembic Pharmaceuticals alone impacted crop production by up to 50% and contaminated the only source of drinking water. This was corroborated by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board when it tested the water in the area nine years after the unregulated operation of the plant. It also found that the industry did not have a functioning effluent treatment plant. A decade later, when the case reached the Supreme Court, it acknowledged the unlawful establishment and operation of the industries. Compensation was ordered, which, however, was in no way commensurate to the harm done to the environment and the local population. It does not adequately compensate for the harm and suffering inflicted upon people. To achieve sustainable development, stringent and deterrent measures need to be taken against polluters, as well as administrative authorities that enable industries to operate unlawfully. Environmental Impact Assessments are a key mechanism by which adverse impacts on the environment can be minimised, managed and addressed. They must be conducted properly and Environmental Clearance should be granted only after a full review of EIA reports and the Environmental Management Plan. India’s obligations under international environmental law also require this.    The future of environmental governance looks bleak considering that the 2020 Draft EIA Notification also intends to allow post-facto clearances. This growing pattern of post-facto clearances will reduce the environmental clearance regime to a mere formality (The writer is Assistant Professor, Environmental Law, Jindal School of Environment and Sustainability, O P Jindal Global University, Sonipat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/legalising-illegality-post-facto-environmental-clearances-892099.html
24-09-2020||Panorama||Social media, addiction, and democracy||Here are some startling figures. Of the roughly 7.8 billion people in the world, slightly over 2.5 billion of them were Facebook subscribers as of March 2020. More than 80% of these subscribers live in the countries comprising North, Central and South America. In countries such as Bhutan, Myanmar and Malaysia, the Facebook participation rate is close to 100% while in Indonesia and Nigeria, it is around 80%. That the world has become addicted to social media is an understatement but, as with any addiction, this is not necessarily a good thing even though it cuts across age, gender, race, education, and community lines. This cancerous growth of social media is turning out to be a huge threat to societies in general, and democratic ones, in particular. Such a conclusion warrants careful explanation and adequate justification. Over the decades, addiction has typically centred around tangible goods – narcotics (heroin, cocaine, opium, and cannabis), tobacco, alcohol, fossil fuels and, specific to the United States, firearms. A variety of approaches have been taken by governmental and private organisations to combat addictions since they lead to loss of life, loss of productivity, violence, family strife, impact on the environment, etc. In the case of drug addiction, the primary focus is on controlling the producers and distributors of narcotics and, secondarily, the users. The same goes for addiction to fossil fuel. As for controlling tobacco and alcohol addiction, the focus is on the users but not the producers. The addiction to firearms, unique to the US, is a problem that is hardly ever addressed, either at the gun manufacturer level or the gun owner level, despite the mass shootings that occur at regular intervals across the country, resulting in numerous deaths and injuries. A detailed analysis of these different approaches reveals a disturbing pattern in selective enforcement. Much of the heroin and cocaine destined for North America and Europe comes from the developing and under-developed world. For example, the Mexico-based Sinaloa cartel and the (now defunct) Colombia-based Medellin cartel, long considered to be the two most powerful drug trafficking organisations in the world, and the poppy-growing warlords of Afghanistan have been targeted for elimination by law enforcement agencies such as the US Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). The DEA, which is responsible for coordinating and pursuing US drug investigations both domestic and abroad, has officials attached to US embassies in over 60 countries, especially in Central and South America, South and Southeast Asia. However, when it comes to tackling user addiction, at least in the US, the emphasis of the ‘War on Drugs’ programme has been on mass incarcerations of African-American and Hispanic users rather than white users, even though the latter comprise a larger proportion of users overall. Even though tobacco (including second-hand smoke) is universally regarded as one of the major public health hazards, few countries have prohibited the growing of tobacco. In 2004, Bhutan became the first country to completely outlaw the cultivation, harvesting, production, and sale of tobacco products. In the US, even though leading tobacco companies such as R J Reynolds and Philip Morris suffered huge financial losses from court cases pertaining to smoking-related cancer deaths, they are still very much in business and have since moved much of their manufacturing operations to Eastern Europe, Africa and Southeast Asia. They have also actively engaged in preventing the adoption of smoke-free environment legislation across the globe. While alternative energy sources such as solar and wind have reduced the demand for fossil fuels somewhat, nevertheless Big Oil has succeeded in reversing some of the clean air and pollution control legislation to further open up large areas of wilderness and the ocean floors for oil exploration. Also, Big Oil is now pressuring the US government to lean on Kenya to allow the dumping of plastic waste on their shores. Plastics are usually derived from petrochemicals. Since 2012, social media platforms have been used to promote disinformation and hate speech during elections in many democracies across the globe, including the European Union, Mexico, United States, Britain, Brazil, and India. Last October, Facebook admitted that snooping software supplied by an Israeli company was used to spy on Indian journalists, activists and senior government officials who were using WhatsApp just prior to the May 2019 elections. As reported in the New York Times, when Canada announced new transparency laws last March requiring social media platforms to keep a registry of all political or partisan ads they publish, rather than comply, Google simply opted not to run any election advertising in the country. In the same NYT article, it was noted that Facebook had carried out a secretive global lobbying operation targeting hundreds of legislators and regulators in an attempt to garner influence across the world, and threatening to withhold investments from countries unless they supported or passed Facebook-friendly laws. With the backing of the US government, no doubt. In an interview given back in 1988, Milton Friedman, the guru of free market economics, stated that a democratic society, once established, destroys a free economy and that an authoritarian government that protected free markets was preferable to a democratic one that redesigned them. The same sentiment was recently echoed by Stephen Moore, a senior economic adviser to President Trump. Trump, of course, is addicted to Twitter and is the world’s most powerful misuser of social media for political and financial gain. Social media is one addiction for which there doesn’t seem to be a cure. With friends like Facebook, who needs enemies? (The writer is a computer scientist based in the US)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/social-media-addiction-and-democracy-892611.html
24-09-2020||Panorama||Satish Dhawan: The man who made India’s space dream a reality||During the crucial phase of its genesis, the Indian space programme was led by people who were suited to play a role that was essential for its progress: Vikram Sarabhai nurtured it during its infancy in the early 1960s and provided a vision to it. Satish Dhawan (1920-2002), who took over the space programme in 1972, consolidated Sarabhai’s work and gave direction to the space programme. As APJ Abdul Kalam aptly put it, “Prof Dhawan transformed Sarabhai’s vision to a truly outstanding national mission.” Today, his birth centenary, is a good time to remember his contributions to the nation. Prof Dhawan, as he was respectfully referred to by his fellow academics, students and the Indian space community, had a distinguished academic career in India and the US. Even more than that, what instilled in colleagues and students great respect and appreciation for him were his towering persona and his humanism. When Prime Minister Indira Gandhi formally asked him to head the space programme following the sudden death of Sarabhai in December 1971, Dhawan is reported to have gently put forward two conditions: First, he did not wish to leave the directorship of the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru; and second, he would be able to assume his new duties only after completing his sabbatical at Caltech. Indira Gandhi agreed to both, and the rest is history. Dhawan set out with missionary zeal to mould ISRO. He consolidated space activities at Thiruvananthapuram and Ahmedabad into ISRO Centres. This was followed by his choice of Kalam to head India’s first indigenous Satellite Launch Vehicle SLV-3 project, based on the assessment of Kalam’s capability as a ‘master coordinator,’ as one of his juniors recently put it. Dhawan also involved the country’s academia, research institutions and private and public sector industries in the space programme.  Dhawan presided over the development and realisation of India’s first satellite, Aryabhata, and its launch in April 1975. This was followed by three more experimental satellites, Bhaskara 1 & 2 and APPLE. Development of India’s own launch vehicles also saw significant progress during his time, beginning with the SLV-3, which successfully launched the Rohini RS-1 satellite into orbit around the Earth on July 18, 1980.   The first attempt to launch a satellite on the SLV-3 had failed on August 10, 1979. On that occasion, Dhawan told Kalam not to address the media, and instead took the responsibility for the failure on himself. Less than a year later, when the launch was successful, he encouraged Kalam to address the media, rather than taking the credit himself, revealing the quality of a true leader. The design of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV), which has now emerged as India’s workhorse rocket, was frozen during Dhawan’s time as chairman of ISRO. Focused studies on the more complex Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) were also initiated. Other major contributions of Dhawan to the space programme include the creation of ISRO headquarters, the evolution of the participatory management philosophy, with the inclusion of senior civil servants to the ISRO Council and the pioneering of the Joint Consultative Machinery (JCM) for the welfare of ISRO/Department of Space employees. Dhawan took certain crucial decisions on cryogenic rocket technology, too, which were interpreted by some analysts as “missed opportunities.” But those decisions were based on pragmatic technical considerations. Having presided over the crucial experimental era of the Indian space programme that put it on a solid foundation, Dhawan relinquished office in 1984 after steering the programme for 12 meaningful years. The grateful Indian space establishment has named India’s only satellite launch centre after him. Through his pivotal contributions, Dhawan facilitated India’s later emergence as a prominent space-faring nation. (The writer is a Science Writer and Broadcaster)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/satish-dhawan-the-man-who-made-india-s-space-dream-a-reality-892612.html
24-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Decluttered delight||The scant attention bestowed on it was telling. My balcony’s atrophied look could be discerned from a mile. The clutter was stifling. At one end stood a rusty three-storied metal stand with pots housing a potpourri of wilted plants. The middle ground had made way for my weather-beaten bicycle that appeared weary out of continued disuse. The other end was a veritable store for all household castaways ranging from the ‘would come in handy someday’ bubble wrap to the unused wood left behind by the carpenter. Jostling for space amidst the assortments was my broken microwave that should have been unceremoniously tossed into the garbage bin years ago. Our balcony was nothing more than an appendage to the rest of the apartment. Every room had its purpose but what about the balcony? Sheer apathy had relegated its status to that of a repository for all the stuff that had outlived their use. Well, all this changed when I read that a man in faraway France, not venturing out due to the pandemic, had run the length of a full marathon on his balcony. If somebody was motivated enough to run a marathon, lesser mortals like me could at least attempt a sprint. No sooner had this thought found root in my head, all the accumulated scrap was carted off in a jiffy. Shorn of all the junk, my balcony looked spic and span. The feeling was uplifting.  My ambitions had already withered when it came to fulfilling my resolve to run sprints, I decided to embark upon a much-abbreviated version of a sprint which was to pace up and down the balcony with measured steps. Initially, I relished the freedom of occupying a space that had barred me entry all these years, but the novelty of it soon wore away. The U-turns that I was forced to take after every few steps contributed no less to jettisoning the idea.  The only gear adorning my balcony today is my reclining chair. Sitting on it, I start my day savouring my morning cuppa, gazing at the verdant vegetation in my opposite neighbour’s compound. I lend a willing ear to the tweets of the variety of birds fluttering around as if to disturb the stillness of the morning air, unhesitatingly showing off their plumage. As the sun sets, they return to their nests in the expansive jacaranda and gulmohar trees. During dusk, the birds seem a little more louder and rowdier. But I am not complaining. The balcony has now claimed its rightful place. My soul is filled with delight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/decluttered-delight-892096.html
24-09-2020||Right in the Middle||My blue fridge||Refrigerators are so mundane that everyone takes them for granted, and so did I. ‘My blue fridge (MBF)’ got an inkling of this and I had the shock of my life when it went silent during coronavirus lockdown curfew. Can you imagine life without a fridge? I was not sure if a technician was on the list of ‘essential service personnel’. I cursed myself for not replacing my 28-year-old fridge despite advice from my nearest and the dearest. I paced up and down impatiently, hoping for a miracle. I looked again at MBF and to say that it was full is an understatement. Was the compressor overloaded? Consequently, I spent all morning emptying and defrosting the fridge, which was required anyway. Although I was in complete despondency, I switched the fridge on and witnessed a miracle of hearing the melody of the compressor. Which was better than the best performance by T M Krishna! The melody gradually turned into its usual groan. MBF has been with me for long, this model is as outdated as I am. I bought it from a local store with a serviceman who gave the feeling of being talked to by the headmaster. Installation and demonstration happened with an air of superiority that unambiguously posed the question ‘have you ever seen a fridge?’ As years passed, I noticed that MBF froze the hell out of its contents, even when on its lowest cooling option. Surreptitious observations revealed that the compressor never took breaks, as it was supposed to. A change of its relay prevented it from restlessness and suicide. A fresh coat of paint restored its dignity. Over a period of time, MBF attained the state of ‘Sthithapragna’ and worked relentlessly in one single setting. Whenever we moved ‘MBF’ moved along silently and survived in the hands of packers and movers. I must confess that when parts of MBF failed, I was preparing myself with a heavy heart, to perform its final rites and bring in a new fridge. But its relentless performance and dedication to work changed my attitude completely. My elders used to say that throwing away things that work is an insult to those who made it. If MBF is junked, it might shatter its heart and the released CFC can contribute to further depletion of the ozone layer. We have desserts full of sweet memories and a few memories of sickness too (storing of antibiotics and vaccines). I am optimistic that MBF, in addition to being Sthithapragna, will attain immortality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-blue-fridge-892610.html
24-09-2020||Second Edit||Heading towards a sixth mass extinction?||The latest UN Global Biodiversity Outlook 5 and the WWF Living Planet Report 2020 highlight the serious damage done to biodiversity in the world in the past and continues to be done now. The UN report has pointed out that the world has failed to achieve even one of the 20 Aichi biodiversity targets signed by 170 countries through the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). The targets were set in 2010 at a historic meet in Aichi, Japan. The post-2020 framework of the convention is being worked out now for adoption at its next meeting in Japan in 2021. It will lay down new targets but, unfortunately, this will be from a position of absolute failure and non-performance during this decade and the past decade.   The Aichi targets included a number of specific measures under some strategic goals like addressing the underlying causes of biodiversity loss, reducing the direct pressures on biodiversity, safeguarding ecosystems, species and genetic diversity, enhancing the benefits to all from biodiversity and ecosystem services and participatory planning, knowledge management and capacity-building. No country can claim any credit for satisfactory performance on them. Instead, every day, one or more species of flora and fauna may be disappearing from the earth. The UN had already warned that one million species might disappear within the next few decades. The planet has already seen five big extinctions; the sixth may be happening now, this time driven by human activities. The Living Planet Report has noted that the earth’s wildlife population has declined by an average of 68% among monitored vertebrate species from 1970 to 2016. Clearing forests for agricultural space was the primary cause of the decline.  While population growth, destruction of forests, intensive agriculture, unrestrained industrial activity, expansion of infrastructure and modern facilities and amenities for life and overconsumption have mainly contributed to the shrinkage of biodiversity, awareness about its crucial role is yet to sink into human consciousness. All the causes are linked with development, but development will be real only if it is sustainable. All life forms, from the smallest to the biggest, and including plants, animals, birds and other species, form a grand and interconnected chain, and the loss of even one impacts the whole. Over a period, the extinctions gain a critical mass which is enough to threaten the survival of others, and we are fast advancing to that moment. A new and more effective CBD needs to be formulated, and governments, communities, organisations and individuals should consider it their responsibility to implement it in order to save ourselves from certain disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/heading-towards-a-sixth-mass-extinction-892092.html
24-09-2020||South||Puducherry adds 668 fresh Covid-19 cases, overall tally rises to 24,895||Puducherry on Thursday logged 668 new Covid-19 cases taking the overall tally to 24,895, a top Health department official said. As many six patients including four women succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours ending 10 am today taking the toll to 487, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said. The 668 new cases were identified at the end of examination of 5,945 samples, he added. Of the 24,895 coronavirus cases in the union territory, there were 5,097 active cases while 19,311 patients had recovered and were discharged apart from 487 fatalities. The Health department Director said so far 1,55,025 samples were tested and of them 1,25,215 samples tested negative. The result of the examination of the remaining samples was awaited, he added. The number of patients discharged during the last 24 hours was 418, the Director said. The fatality rate was 1.96 per cent while recovery rate was 77.57 per cent, he said. Four of the six people who succumbed on Thursday were from Puducherry while the other two died at the Government GH in Karaikal region. Most of the deceased had co-morbidities and were in the age group ranging between 50 and 75 years, Mohan Kumar said. The Puducherry region accounted for 533 new cases of the 668 fresh cases followed by 99 in Karaikal, Yanam (27) and Mahe (9). No death was reported in Yanam and Mahe regions during last 24 hours, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-adds-668-fresh-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-rises-to-24895-892255.html
24-09-2020||South||Kerala transport corporation converts worn-out buses into kiosks to earn extra revenue||In a best out of waste initiative, worn-out buses of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) are being modified as kiosks and being rented out so that the cash-strapped corporation could earn some additional revenue. While the worn-out buses used to be sold out for a maximum scrap value of Rs. 1.5 lakh, the bus-turned-kiosks could earn at least Rs 12 lakh in five years, corporation managing director Biju Prabhakar said. The first such bus-turned-kiosk was launched in Thiruvananthapuram city recently as a shop selling milk and other products while four more would be rolled out soon. In view of the huge response being received from government and private agencies, the corporation would be auctioning the kiosks to be set up in due course. The kiosks would be deployed near bus stands so that it would be of use for those waiting for buses also. The corporation has been struggling to meet even operational expenses as well as salary and pension obligations. Hence such additional revenue sources would bring some relief to the corporation. Prabhakar said that the first kiosk was set up by the Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation for running a Milma stall that sells milk and related products. Kudumbashree, which is a poverty eradication and women empowerment programme, implemented by the State Poverty Eradication Mission, and Kerala State Cooperative Federation for Fisheries Development (Matsyafed) have already shown a keen interest to set up kiosks. Many private agencies are also making enquiries, he said. The fresh initiative came close on the heels of converting a bus into a rest room for drivers and conductors who operate special services from Kochi international airport during odd hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-transport-corporation-converts-worn-out-buses-into-kiosks-to-earn-extra-revenue-892277.html
24-09-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: NIA questions Kerala CM's former secretary M Sivasankar for third time||Kerala Chief Minster's former principal secretary M Sivasankar was quizzed for the third time by the NIA on Thursday in connection with his links with the gold smuggling case accused. Sivasankar reached the NIA office in Kochi by Thursday morning and his quizzing was over by late in the evening. Gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh, who is a former executive secretary at the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, was also under NIA custody. It was learnt that the IAS officer under suspension was quizzed for the third time to seek further clarifications pertaining to his association with Swapna as NIA recovered certain additional pieces of evidence from Swapna's laptop. Apart from NIA, the Customs had also quizzed Sivasankar earlier. He had admitted his close relationship with the smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh but maintained that he was unaware of her smuggling activities. Customs' sources said that there was no evidence of his involvement in smuggling. But he seems to be aware of financial dealings of Swapna, including the commission she received in a UAE agency funded housing scheme for the homeless in Kerala. The nexus of Sivasankar with gold smuggling accused had caused much embarrassment to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as Sivasankar had been serving as his secretary over the last four days. Sivasankar was removed from CM's office and later suspended after his nexus with the smuggling accused surfaced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-nia-questions-kerala-cms-former-secretary-m-sivasankar-for-third-time-892325.html
24-09-2020||South||Actor-politician Vijayakanth tests positive for Covid-19||Actor-turned-politician and founder of the Desiya Dravida Murpokku Kazhagam (DMDK) Vijayakanth has tested positive for Covid-19 and is receiving treatment at a private hospital here where his condition is said to be stable. 68-year-old Vijayakant has been keeping unwell for some time and has only been making rare appearances in public. His party said in a statement that he tested positive for the novel coronavirus when he was admitted to the MIOT Hospital here for a regular check-up. The hospital issued a medical bulletin in which it said the actor tested positive for Covid-19 on September 22. “He is completely stable and admitted to MIOT Hospitals, Chennai. He is expected to make a full recovery and should be ready for discharge soon,” Dr Prithvi Mohandas, Managing Director of the hospital, said. Meanwhile, DMK Organising Secretary and Rajya Sabha MP R S Bharathi also tested positive for Covid-19. He is receiving treatment at a private hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-politician-vijayakanth-tests-positive-for-covid-19-892337.html
24-09-2020||South||Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh CMs lay foundation for pilgrim complex in Tirumala||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa and his Andhra Pradesh counterpart Jaganmohan Reddy laid the foundation for the Rs 200 crore Karnataka pilgrim accommodation complex in Tirumala on Thursday. The two CMs took part in the bhoomi puja of the modern complex to be built in the 7.05 acres of land leased by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams to the Karnataka Charities in 2008. While the expense of Rs 200 crore would be funded by the Karnataka government, the project would be executed by the TTD. The complex, on completion, would have 252 ordinary rooms, 32 suit rooms, 12 dormitories, a Kalyana Mandapam, and a dining hall, said Karnataka endowments commissioner Rohini Sindhuri while explaining the plan, which also includes the rejuvenation of an existing Pushkarani in the old premises. Located in a prime spot at the backside of the Lord Venkateshwara temple, the Karnataka choultries is a landmark on the hill. But the old choultry buildings were allegedly not being maintained properly for some time. A plan to build a new complex has been stuck for many years because of legal hurdles, TTD officials said. An agreement in July between the Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka governments has cleared the way for the construction of the expansive guest house in Tirumala to serve the large number of devotees from Karnataka. Earlier in the morning, Yediyurappa and Reddy together had darshan and offered prayers in the Lord Venkateshwara temple. The Chief Ministers later participated in the 106th day of Sundarakanda Pathanam at the Nadaneerajanam Mandapam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-andhra-pradesh-cms-lay-foundation-for-pilgrim-complex-in-tirumala-892411.html
24-09-2020||South||Congress student leader in Kerala booked for providing fake contact info during Covid-19 test||In an embarrassment to the opposition party Congress in Kerala, the president of its student's outfit Kerala Students Union has been booked on charges of giving fake identity for Covid-19 test. KSU state president Abhijith K M, who was recently tested Covid-19 positive, allegedly gave a fake identity as 'Abhi M K' during the test. The address and phone number given were also that of another KSU leader. The incident came to light when health workers inspected the address mentioned by him for follow up. Based on a complaint filed by a panchayat president in Thiruvananthapuram, a police case was registered against him under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and the Indian Penal Code for impersonation. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleged that the KSU president had taken the task of spreading Covid-19. Congress leaders should show responsibility in curbing such acts by their young workers, he said. The chief minister had earlier accused the opposition parties of triggering the Covid-19 spread by staging demonstrations against the government by flouting social distancing norms. Over 100 police personnel who were engaged in managing the demonstrations, most of which turned violent, were also already tested Covid-19 positive.  Abhijith, who is a native of Kozhikode, has been in Thiruvananthapuram over the last few weeks in connections with the stirs and other political engagements. Apart from him many other KSU workers and leaders were also suspected to have got an infection. KSU maintained that the case was politically motivated. The health workers would have wrongly entered his name. KSU state general secretary Bahul Krishna's address and phone number were given as Abhijith was remaining in-home care in his house.   Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that there was no need for Abhijith to conceal his identity. It is a fact that anyone can get Covid-19 infection, he said.  Kerala Tourism Minister and CPM leader Kadakampally Surendran said that a probe would be initiated to find if any health officials helped him in concealing the identity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-student-leader-in-kerala-booked-for-providing-fake-contact-info-during-covid-19-test-892428.html
24-09-2020||South||Sasikala asks jail authorities not to share information on her release via RTI||AIADMK leader V K Sasikala, who is currently serving her four-year jail sentence in a disproportionate assets (DA) case, has written to authorities of Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru not to entertain queries about her release date from “third parties” under the Right to Information Act (RTI). 66-year-old Sasikala, a long-time aide of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, said the information received about her release under RTI are being used by “third parties” to “gain publicity” and settle “political vendetta.” Sasikala made the representation to the Chief Superintendent of the prison in a two-page letter prepared in English by her counsel N Raja Senthoor Pandian and read out to her in Tamil. Sasikala was sentenced to four-year imprisonment in the DA case in which Jayalalithaa was the prime accused. But the latter had died before the Supreme Court upheld the trial court’s verdict in February 2017. In the letter, Sasikala said it has come to her notice that several applications are filed by “third parties” seeking information about her imprisonment, date of release, and other details. “The said third parties file those applications for certain reasons viz., gain publicity, political vendetta etc. The oblique motive of some of the applicants is to complicate my lawful release at the right time,” she wrote in the letter. Sasikala also contended that furnishing any information regarding imprisonment and other details may lead to intrusion into her privacy. To bolster her point further, she also referred to Tihar Jail’s refusal to share information relating to an undertrial prisoner on the count that providing details of under trial prisoners as well as convicts and any revelation of the identity of the same is barred under Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI act. “The Central Information Commission concurred with the stand the said Public Information Officer and upheld the decision of the said PIO by referring the Hon'ble Supreme Court's view that the Right to Privacy is a fundamental right. Thus, furnishing any information regarding imprisonment and other details may lead to intrusion into my privacy,” Sasikala said in the letter Her letter comes amid a slew of RTI replies about her probable release date and whether she is eligible for remission. A recent reply from the prison authorities under RTI had said that the probable date for Sasikala’s release is January 27, 2021. However, maintains that Sasikala should walk free from the jail by the end of September or early October as she is eligible for “remission” on grounds of non-availed regular leave. He also said they will soon move a court in Bengaluru to pay the fine of Rs 10 crore imposed on Sasikala by the Supreme Court. Sasikala’s release from the jail might lead to political changes in AIADMK as several Ministers and MLAs owe their positions to her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-asks-jail-authorities-not-to-share-information-on-her-release-via-rti-892429.html
24-09-2020||South||Playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam's health condition 'extremely critical'||The health condition of legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who is being treated for Covid-19 infection, has deteriorated further in the last 24 hours and he is “extremely critical”, the hospital where he is admitted said on Thursday evening. A health bulletin issued by MGM healthcare said Balasubrahmanyam’s current health condition warrants “maximal life support”. 74-year-old Balasubrahmanyam, who has sung over 40,000 songs in more than 10 languages, was admitted to the hospital on August 5 after he tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He was put on ventilator support after being moved to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the hospital on August 13 and has remained critical since then. “Thiru S P Balasubrahmanyam who had been admitted at MGM Healthcare on August 5th, remains on ECMO and other life support measures. His condition in the last 24 hours has deteriorated further warranting maximal life support and he is extremely critical. The team of experts at MGM Healthcare are closely monitoring his health condition,” Dr Anuradha Baskaran, Assistant Director – Medical Services, MGM Healthcare, said in the bulletin. It is believed that Balasubrahmanyam developed a fever on Wednesday midnight that led to further complications in his health on Thursday morning. His condition further deteriorated on Thursday afternoon, prompting the hospital to issue a health bulletin. Though Balasubrahmanyam tested negative for Covid-19 on September 7 and showed improvement, his health has now suffered a setback. His son and film producer S P Charan had been maintaining that his father was showing improvement and was communicating with doctors and family through writing on a paper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/playback-singer-s-p-balasubrahmanyams-health-condition-extremely-critical-892439.html
24-09-2020||South||Covid-19 patients' kin will be tested at doorstep: Minister||The Tamil Nadu government has taken steps to identify those with coronavirus by going door-to-door to contain the spread of the infection in the district, state Municipal Administration Minister, S P Velumani said Thursday. For this purpose, 20 mobile testing vehicles would be used. The vehicles would have a lab technician, a nurse and a health worker, he said during a review meeting of Covid-19 situation with senior officials of various departments here. He said the ambulances would go to houses of those who had already tested Covid-19 positive, and test their family members and others in contact. The Minister further said those testing positive would be sent for treatment. This would help control the spread, he said. On an average 7,000 people have been undergoing the test daily in the district and so far 3.39 lakh have undergone such tests, he said. Of the 27,157 who tested positive, 22,181 hgave been discharged and 4,584 undergoing treatment at various hospitals. So far, 392 deaths have been reported, he said. Of the 812 patients treated with Siddha medicine, 750 recovered and 62 under treatment, Velumani said. District Collector K Rajamani, city Police Commissioner Sumit Saran, West Zone IG K Periaiah, Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital Dean Dr Kalidasu and ESI Hospital Dean Dr Nirmala were among those present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-patients-kin-will-be-tested-at-doorstep-minister-892441.html
24-09-2020||South||Husband and wife to be judges at Madras High Court||They joined the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service in the same year and got their promotions together. And now, the couple is all set to enter the 128-year-old Madras High Court complex together as judges. Meet Thamilselvi T Valayapalayam and Murali Shankar Kuppuraju, the judge couple, who are among 10 names that have been cleared for elevation as judges of the Madras High Court. While Mr. Kuppuraju is currently the Principal District and Sessions Judge in Tiruchirapalli, Ms. Valayapalayam is working as the Registrar (Judicial) of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. “It is all destiny. What else do I say?” asked a smiling Ms. Valayapalayam on their elevation as Judges of the High Court. Their names were cleared by the Supreme Court collegium on Wednesday and they will be sworn-in as judges once President Ram Nath Kovind issues the warrant of appointment.  Ms. Valayapalayam said that she and her husband Mr. Kuppuraju belong to the same batch of the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service in 1995 and got married the next year after falling in love. “We joined service in the same year and had worked in different capacities in different towns across Tamil Nadu. We were in the same government service and this (the appointment that has come together) in my opinion is just destiny,” she told DH.  While the husband is a native of Coimbatore, the wife hails from Perundurai town in Erode district. Mr. Kuppuraju completed his law degree from the Government Law College in Coimbatore and his wife graduated from neighboring Puducherry. Reports said that both Mr. Kuppuraju and Mr. Valayapalayam got promoted as sub judge, district judge, and principal district judge at the same time. Madras High Court is one of the oldest courts in the country having been established in 1862 by the then British regime. The current complex was inaugurated on July 12, 1892.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/husband-and-wife-to-be-judges-at-madras-high-court-892473.html
24-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt allows class 10-12 students to come to schools from Oct 1 on voluntary basis||Effective October 1, students of classes 10 to 12 in Tamil Nadu are permitted to come to their schools on a voluntary basis by following the Standard Operating Procedure to prevent spread of coronavirus, the state government said on Thursday. The students must be divided into two batches and those placed in the first batch shall come to school on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and the second on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Schools located in containment zones are, however, not permitted to function and only those outside of hotspots could allow students, a state Government Order, citing the Centre's 'Unlock-4' guidelines of August 29 and accepting a proposal of the state school education department, said. It permitted students studying in standards 10 to 12 in government, aided and private schools to come to schools on a voluntary basis and with the written consent of parents for taking guidance from their teachers and for further related works with effect from October 1. It also allowed the schools to call upto 50 per cent of teachers who are taking classes for standards 10 to 12, the G.O said. The government made it clear that assemblies, sports or other events that can lead to overcrowding must be strictly avoided. Measures to prevent spread of the pandemic and explained in the SOP such as thermal screening, wearing face masks, social distancing and disinfecting the school premises must be followed. Instead of biometric attendance for teachers/staff, alternative arrangements for contactless attendance should be made. The Centre's unlock-4 order permitted upto 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to schools at a time for online teaching, tele counselling and related work, in areas outside the containment zones only with effect from September 21. Schools in the state have remained closed since March in view of COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-allows-class-10-12-students-to-come-to-schools-from-oct-1-on-voluntary-basis-892488.html
24-09-2020||South||Two specials train from Chennai to Mangaluru and Thiruvananthapuram||Southern Railways, on Thursday, announced that it will operate two daily special trains from Chennai to Mangaluru and Thiruvananthapuram from September 27. As approved by Railway Board, the fully reserved special trains will be introduced daily, from Chennai from September 27, a Southern Railway release here said, adding the return trains from Mangaluru and Thiruvananthapuram will start on September 28. The train from Chennai (No. 02601) will leave Dr MGR Chennai Central at 8.10 pm and reach Mangaluru at 12:10 pm the next day. In the return direction, the train (No. 02602) will leave Mangaluru at 1.30 pm to reach Dr MGR Chennai Central at 05:35 am the next day, the release said. It said that train no. 02623 will leave Chennai at 07.45 pm to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 11.45 am the next day. In the return direction, the train (No. 02624) will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 15.00 hrs and reach Dr MGR Chennai Central at 07.40 hrs the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-specials-train-from-chennai-to-mangaluru-and-thiruvananthapuram-892506.html
24-09-2020||South||Set up All India Institute of Siddha near Chennai: TN CM Palaniswami to PM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set up the Centre’s proposed All India Institute of Siddha near Chennai. Already, Chennai houses the National Institute of Siddha. “I would like to thank the Government of India for this initiative as well as request you to establish the All India Institute of Siddha in Tamil Nadu, in the current financial year itself. It would be apt to establish this pioneer institute in Tamil Nadu, which is the place where the Siddha system of Medicine originated,” Palaniswami said in a letter to Modi. The Chief Minister also said that he was very happy to learn that the Centre has been giving due importance to the Indian System of Medicine namely, Siddha, Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, as well as Homoeopathy. He told PM Modi that the land required for this Institute, with good air, rail and road connectivity, has already been identified near Chennai city and that he has already directed the officials concerned to provide all the details required by the Centre. “The Secretary to Government of India has already been addressed by the State Government and a reply is awaited. I am very keen that this All India Institute of Siddha is established in Tamil Nadu and expect a favourable reply,” the Chief Minister said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/set-up-all-india-institute-of-siddha-near-chennai-tn-cm-palaniswami-to-pm-892517.html
24-09-2020||South||Andhra BJP holds protests, demands sacking of YSRCP's Kodali Venkateswara Rao over remarks on PM Modi, UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Andhra Pradesh BJP on Thursday held statewide protests demanding the sacking of YSRCP minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao for his controversial remarks on Prime Minister Modi, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the Tirumala temple traditions. Reacting to the demand from the BJP and others that Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy should be accompanied by his wife in Tirupati temple festivities as per the tradition, Kodali asked the saffron party leaders to tell “Modi to visit (Ayodhya) Ram temple again with his wife and perform the Bhoomi Puja as per tradition.” “Let Modi with his wife alongside stand as an exemplary couple like Shiva-Parvati, Venkateshwara-Padmavati. Then the BJP can ask others to follow him. Which wife has Modi or Yogi Adityanath of UP taken along to temples?” the minister demanded to know while speaking to reporters in Tirumala on Wednesday. On Thursday, the state BJP leaders and cadres staged protests in the district centres demanding Kodali's apology for his comments and also said that Reddy should remove him from his cabinet. The police restrained the agitators and moved them to police stations. BJP MP and national spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao dubbed Kodali 'Kaliyuga Shishupala'. “Kodali has been offending Hindu Gods and distinguished Hindus Modi and Yogi. Jaganmohan Reddy should decide if he would sack him immediately or wait till Kodali insults Modi 100 times and invites their obliteration like Chandrababu Naidu,” GVL tweeted. Leading the agitation in Vijayawada, AP BJP general secretary Vishnuvardhan Reddy said that Rao was intentionally engaged in making enraging comments. “Why are the police not registering a case on Kodali even after complaints are made? Kodali has no stature to talk about leaders like Modi, Yogi. He should not be in the government. If Jagan does not act, it would be construed that Kodali is speaking at the CM’s behest,” Reddy said. Appearing unruffled, Kodali had further incensed the BJP leaders by inquiring: “If Modi would sack (home minister) Amit Shah or (MoS Home) Kishan Reddy if I too demand so agitating with a handful of supporters?” The civil supplies minister in Jaganmohan Reddy cabinet is known for his caustic comments on political opponents, especially his former boss and TDP chief Naidu. Kodali, representing the Gudivada Assembly constituency, joined the YSRCP in 2012. Like the BJP, the TDP raised the issue of Reddy not signing the Tirumala temple faith form as required by non-Hindus to enter the Lord Venkateswara temple, Kodali triggered widespread outrage in the state by dubbing the declaration rule 'archaic' and saying that it should be done away with.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-bjp-holds-protests-demands-sacking-of-ysrcps-kodali-venkateswara-rao-over-remarks-on-pm-modi-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-892524.html
24-09-2020||South||Don't shut Tamil-medium school in Ahmedabad: Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami tells Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday shot off a letter to his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani expressing distress at the closure of a Tamil-medium school in Ahmedabad. He said that the Tamil Nadu government is willing to undertake the entire expenditure for the continuance of the Tamil medium school in Ahmedabad. Palaniswami said that the school, which had been imparting education in Tamil medium to mainly migrant labourers in Ahmedabad, has been closed suddenly, citing low attendance. “These Tamil children are now left without any choice to continue their education. Tamil is an ancient language with a rich history and culture. Tamils have contributed and are contributing to the development of Gujarat. The future of Tamil linguistic minority in Gujarat needs to be protected,” he said. The Tamil Nadu government is willing to undertake the entire expenditure for the continuance of the school, he said, expressing hope that the Gujarat government will protect the Right to Education of Tamil linguistic minorities. Meanwhile, Tamil Maanila Congress MP and former Union Minister G K Vasan met Ahmedabad MP Dr Kirit Solanki and handed over a letter addressed to Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani urging the chief minister to take steps to get the school reopened. In the letter, Vasan also mentioned that Palaniswami has already written to Rupani in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-shut-tamil-medium-school-in-ahmedabad-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-tells-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-892536.html
24-09-2020||South||Telangana to resume interstate, city bus services from September 25||After a gap of over six months, the Telangana government has decided to resume bus services in the city from September 25. Inter-state bus services from Telangana to Karnataka and Maharashtra will also be restarted from Friday, an official release said on Thursday. Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar said 25 per cent of the nearly 2,800 buses in 29 depots of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) in Greater Hyderabad would be operational. The city bus services have been under suspension since March as part of the lockdown announced to contain coronavirus. The minister directed the authorities to take appropriate steps to ensure that the bus services will be operational in compliance with the Covid-19 rules, a release said. The TSRTC used to run about 1,700 buses in the Hyderabad region and 1,200 buses in the Secunderabad region earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-resume-interstate-city-bus-services-from-september-25-892546.html
24-09-2020||South||HC stays fresh privilege notices to DMK chief Stalin, other MLAs over displaying gutka pouches inside TN assembly||The Madras High Court on Thursday granted an interim stay on the fresh show cause notices issued by the Tamil Nadu Assembly Secretary to DMK president M K Stalin and 17 other MLAs and consequent proceedings in connection with displaying banned 'gutkha' pouches inside the House in 2017. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana, passing orders on a batch of writ petitions, said the petitioners -- Stalin and others -- have made out a prima facie case and posted the matter for September 28 after recording Advocate General's undertaking to file a counter affidavit. The fresh notices were issued on September 7, seeking their explanations after the high court had last month set aside the breach of privilege notices against the DMK MLAs saying it suffered a "foundational error" in assuming their action of displaying Gutkha to be prohibited in law. On July 19, 2017, DMK members, led by Stalin, had displayed sachets of 'gutkha' a banned product, which is a mixture of chewing tobacco and betel nut, in the House and Speaker P Dhanapal had referred it to the Privileges Committee. The Opposition MLAs, held the gutkha packs while seeking to raise an issue of the 'availability,' of the banned products. The Assembly Secretary issued the latest notices on grounds that the Committee of Privileges had discussed further steps on the petitioners' conduct in displaying gutkha packets without Speaker's permission, the disturbance caused, setting a bad precedent and bringing disrepute to the proceedings. Senior counsels for the petitioners, R Shanmugasundaram and N R Elango, submitted that the present notices were issued on the very same basis and they deserved to be set aside and sought an interim stay. Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted it was not only displaying of gutkha sachets, but bringing such banned products without the permission of the Speaker and therefore, the Privileges Committee is of the opinion that petitioners have committed breach of privilege. Since these were only show cause notices, it was open to the petitioners to raise the objections they made in the writ petitions before the Privileges Committee, the AG said. After perusing the materials on record, the Judge said the Division Bench had already held that the conduct of displaying gutkha sachets will not be violative of any prohibitory law. This judgment was not challenged by the respondents and instead, they issued fresh show cause notices based on the liberty granted by the court. "It is argued that once the division bench has held that displaying of Gutkha sachets in the assembly will not be breach of privilege," then the other grounds like causing disturbance to the assembly proceedings will not stand, the court noted. The impugned notices were also issued on the same ground except that "permission" of the Speaker was not obtained before bringing in the banned sachets. The question of permission of the Speaker cannot be decided independently and the same can be decided only in the contest of breach of privilege. "As the declaration and final determination of the rights are already concluded by this court, it amounts to reopening of the issue. "However, the same requires factual adjudication and till such conclusion is arrived at, the proceedings against the petitioners pursuant to the impugned show cause notices cannot be allowed to go on," Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana held adding "there shall be an order of interim stay, as prayed for, until further orders."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-stays-fresh-privilege-notices-to-dmk-chief-stalin-other-mlas-over-displaying-gutka-pouches-inside-tn-assembly-892588.html
24-09-2020||South||TTD to launch cow conservation programme for Hindu temples across Andhra, Karnataka & Telangana||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to commence its desi cow protection and promotion plan by offering indigenous cows to 28 temples spread across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Karnataka. The executive committee meeting of TTD’s Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad (HDPP) was held on Thursday at the Annamaiah Bhavan in Tirumala to take forward the idea which was mooted earlier. The committee headed by TTD board chairman Y V Subba Reddy has decided to, as part of a pilot project, provide one cow to each of the 28 temples covering all the 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh, 10 previously undivided districts of Telangana and five temples in Karnataka. The cow donation scheme would be executed through the Sri Venkateshwara Dairy Farm. Devotees should contribute indigenous cows to these temples in consultation with the farm director, TTD officials said. Once the cow is donated, the concerned temples will take care of the bovine under the banner "Gudiko Gomata-TTD". Through the unique desi cow protection and promotion programme, TTD will provide cows to mutts, Vedic schools, hereditary institutions, temples under the purview of the endowments departments. Brahmotsavams Gaja-vahanam On the evening of the sixth day of the ongoing annual Salakatla Brahmotsavam of Lord Venkateshwara in Tirumala, Sri Malayappa Swamy was seated on Gaja Vahanam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-to-launch-cow-conservation-programme-for-hindu-temples-across-andhra-karnataka-telangana-892596.html
24-09-2020||State||Ponnanna appointed as KPCC spokesperson||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Law, Human Rights and RTI Cell president Ajjikuttira S Ponnanna has been appointed as spokesperson of the KPCC. An order in this regard was issued by KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Wednesday. Shivakumar has stated that the appointment was done considering Ponnanna's experience and expertise in the subjects. Ponnanna, who is a senior advocate in High Court of Karnataka, has been asked to take charge of his new duty immediately. Son of firebrand politician late A K Subbaiah, Ponnanna has also served as Additional Advocate General of Government of Karnataka during the tenure of Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ponnanna-appointed-as-kpcc-spokesperson-892123.html
24-09-2020||State||Elephant menace forces farmers to abandon paddy cultivation||Several paddy growers in Siddapura have left their fields barren fed up with the wild elephants' menace. A herd of wild elephants have been destroying the crops, leading to huge losses to the farmers, in Siddapura, Karadigodu, Ammatti, Hosuru and Nellyahudikeri for the last few years.  The farmers are growing paddy in these areas for many generations. The elephant herds camp in the coffee plantation during the daytime and stray into the paddy fields at night and destroy the crops. While many farmers have left the fields barren, some others have discontinued paddy and have started cultivating ginger and arecanuts. Several paddy fields have been converted into coffee and pepper plantations as well. Even though the forest department personnel drive the elephants back into the forests, the pachyderms return after a few days. Some farmers have built scaffolding in their fields where one can stay at night, keeping an eye on the crops and scare away the elephants when they stray into the fields. With the installation of railway barricade from Baradi to Dubare, the elephant menace might come under control, opined C U Ganesh, a farmer from Guhya village. He said that laying the trenches had no effect on the elephants. He has left his paddy field uncultivated for the past three years. Another farmer from the village, M S Venkatesh said that he had not transplanted paddy during the last two years. However, he carried out the cultivation this year. But, a herd of six wild elephants destroyed the crop. It is a challenge to save the paddy crop from elephants till the harvest is completed. If the elephant menace continues, the traditional paddy farming may come to an end in the region, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/elephant-menace-forces-farmers-to-abandon-paddy-cultivation-892124.html
24-09-2020||State||'New farm bills have instilled hope in farmers'||Kodagu BJP unit president Robin Devaiah said that the new farm bills that were passed in the Parliament had instilled hope in farming community by ensuring rightful prices to their produce. Addressing mediapersons here on Wednesday, he said that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, passed by the Central government, allowed the farmers to sell their crops at the market of their choice. This will ensure profit for the farmers, he added. Earlier, the farmers had no choice other than to sell their produce through APMCs. The rate fixed by the middlemen were final. According to the amended law, the farmers can sell their produce in other states as well. Devaiah further said, “The farmers can directly negotiate with the food processing industries to finalise the rate for the produce. The menace of middlemen will be put to an end. Therefore, the farmers should cooperate in the implementation of the new farming acts.” BJP State Krishi Morcha Secretary Dr Navin Kumar said that the government had taken special measures to safeguard farmers’ interest even amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He meanwhile lamented that 86% of farmers in the country, who are carrying out agriculture on 5 to 10 hectares of land, were not coming forward to take up profitable farming while some are willing to carry out farming on smaller lands. The new acts will benefit both. The farmers should be convinced about the uses of the new acts. The opposition parties are protesting against the acts without knowing them, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-farm-bills-have-instilled-hope-in-farmers-892125.html
24-09-2020||State||Kannada comedian Rockline Sudhakar no more||Popular Kannada comedian Rockline Sudhakar, who also excelled as a supporting actor, passed away due to cardiac arrest during the shooting of a film on Thursday. Sudhakar, who made a memorable debut in ace director Yogaraj Bhat’s ‘Pancharangi’, was on the sets of the film ‘Sugar Less’, produced by Pushkara Mallikarjunaiah. The senior actor had recently recovered from Covid-19. Blessed with a unique voice, Sudhakar’s cracking dialogue delivery earned him many comedy roles. In Bhat’s blockbuster romantic-comedy ‘Pancharangi’ (2010), playing a blind man unsatisfied with his son’s aimless life, Sudhakar gave a riotous performance. Sharing a nice equation with Bhat, Sudhakar was seen in the director’s subsequent ventures like ‘Paramathma’ (2011), ‘Drama’ (2012) and ‘Vaastu Prakara’ (2014). Sudhakar also worked with several other directors with his roles in the Upendra-directorial ‘Super’ (2010), Santosh Ananddram’s ‘Mr and Mrs Ramachari (2014) Prashanth Raj’s ‘Zoom’ (2016), Suni’s ‘Chamak’ (2017) and Suri’s ‘Tagaru’ (2018) being famous. In a recent interview with YoutTube channel ‘Heggade Studio’, Sudhakar thanked his first industry friend and veteran producer Rockline Venkatesh for his immense support. Before his shift to acting, Sudhakar worked in various capacities at Rockline Productions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannada-comedian-rockline-sudhakar-no-more-892263.html
24-09-2020||State||Thirthahalli: Bridge collapse halts traffic on Agumbe road||The vehicular movement on the road leading towards Agumbe from Thirthahalli town has been banned following the collapse of mini bridge near Ranjadakatte on the outskirts of the town, on Thursday. The bridge was in dilapidated condition due to heavy rains that lashed the region recently. Though local people alerted the officials of national highway authority of India, they did not take up repair works. But the bridge was collapsed disrupting the movement of vehicles on Agumbe road. So, vehicle users have been asked to ply on the alternate route- Bilukoppa-Saathgodu-Bobbi from Agumbe to reach Thirthahalli town. Similarly, people heading towards Agumbe from Thirthahalli town have been asked to use the alternate route-Kavaledurga-Kondluru-Saathgodu and Bilukoppa. Speaking to DH, engineer Nagaraj Naik said the work pertaining to new bridge is in progress. The repair work would be completed soon and the road will be open to traffic in two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/thirthahalli-bridge-collapse-halts-traffic-on-agumbe-road-892400.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||At meet with PM Modi, CM Yediyurappa airs oxygen woes||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he was concerned over the supply of oxygen in hospitals during the Covid-19 pandemic and asked the Centre to "incentivise" industries to set up new oxygen generation units.  In a video conference with Modi, Yediyurappa said the consumption of oxygen was drastically increasing owing to the increase in the number of oxygenated beds and ICUs. While the current availability for liquid oxygen for medical purposes is around 375 metric tonnes per day, which is sufficient for the time being, the peak demand of medical oxygen is calculated to be about 870 metric tonnes per day, Yediyurappa said. Karnataka, he said, will have some 31,000 oxygenated beds in government hospitals alone.  "Once the project of increasing the number of oxygenated beds is completed and there is a surge in the number of positive cases, we will not be able to provide sufficient medical oxygen without affecting industries," Yediyurappa said, according to a statement from the Chief Minister's Office.    The CM requested the Centre to rope in industries to meet the demand. "The production of hospital-level oxygen generation units also needs to be ramped up," Yediyurappa said. "At present, these firms are asking for three-four months' time to supply such units." According to the CM, oxygenated beds, ICUs and ventilators are crucial to treating serious Covid-19 patients. "When the outbreak began, we had about 7,000 oxygenated beds in government hospitals. This has been increased to about 18,000. More than 10,000 of these beds have been reserved for Covid-19 patients. Apart from this, another 4,250 oxygenated beds have been reserved for Covid patients in private hospitals," Yediyurappa said.  In ICUs, the government has earmarked 1,811 beds in state-run hospitals and 1,269 in private hospitals for Covid patients, he said.  In other measures, Yediyurappa told Modi that an increase in the number of tests was helping Karnataka bring down positivity and fatality rates.  The Centre asked Karnataka to concentrate on nine districts registering the highest number of deaths. It also asked the state government to increase surveillance and RT-PCR tests to threefold the current number.  The state has 136 testing laboratories at present with a capacity of 70,000 samples per day. So far, over 43 lakh samples have been tested, the government informed the PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-meet-with-pm-modi-cm-yediyurappa-airs-oxygen-woes-892116.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Radio | The Lead: The state of Covid-19 pandemic in Bengaluru and Karnataka||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Bengaluru and Karnataka's Covid-19 case numbers are rising every day, we figure out how the city and state are coping with the pandemic and try to understand how authorities are attempting to tackle it.  Ahmed Shariff: It's been months now and the pandemic persists. To give us more information about the state of the pandemic in Karnataka, we have our correspondent Suraksha P. Welcome to DH radio, Suraksha. Suraksha P: Hi. Ahmed: My first question to you is what is the current state of the pandemic in Bengaluru and Karnataka? Suraksha: Karnataka on Wednesday reported 6,997 new Covid-19 cases and 38 fatalities, taking the total case tally to 5,40,847 and the death toll to 8,266. Out of 6,997 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, 3,547 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Twenty three out of 38 deaths reported were from Bengaluru Urban. Bengaluru Urban now has so far reported 2,04,275 infections. One model which makes one-week predictions shows that the state’s curve is ascending. It predicts the city will have 2.23 lakh total cases by September 28, an increase of 25,645 cases since September 21. Scientists who have been conducting a predictive analysis of the Covid-19 outbreak have cautioned that the latest mathematical analysis of the outbreak predicts that 50% of the population is set to get infected by January 2021. Ahmed: Can you shed some more light on the under-reporting of cases in the state? Suraksha: Back-to-back strikes, first by medical officers in Mysuru and then across the state by 4,968 doctors led to an information black hole in the state. Many districts reported zero recoveries or cases in two digits. Two districts reported zero and one case. The state had to subsequently reconcile this data. We would see in successive bulletins for days to come at least in Mysuru, there would be a little asterisk that said, "Data reconciled." The information on Covid-19 caseload released by the Karnataka government is often as much as 72 hours old. this is being done to avoid creating panic among people. we only update the bulletin from 7 am to 3 pm. Any cases after that are pushed forward. The central government has granted states a disparity leeway of between 10,000 and 15,000 cases when it comes to publishing daily figures. If the disparity is more than this, it indicates a problem. To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-radio-the-lead-the-state-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-bengaluru-and-karnataka-892135.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress moves no-confidence motion against B S Yediyurappa govt||The Opposition Congress moved a ‘no-confidence’ notice against the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. Speaker Visveshwar Hegde Kageri, who admitted the notice to move the motion under Rule 167 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Legislative Assembly, said the date and time will be provided for discussion by Saturday. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the people of the state and the House had lost confidence in the Yediyurappa government. “The chief minister should resign, and the ministers should go home,” he said, demanding that the notice be admitted on priority. While there is no threat to the BJP government, the curious move is being seen as Congress’ attempt to position itself to lure disgruntled BJP and JD(S) legislators keeping the long-term in mind.   Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who objected to the no-confidence motion, said the BJP was confident of proving the majority. “You don’t have the numbers. Your own people have joined us and many more legislators from Congress will join the BJP,” he said. Taking a dig at Ashoka, Siddaramaiah said some BJP MLAs will back the motion. “The trust in this government will be revealed when the House votes on the motion,” he said, pointing at a section of BJP legislators seated in the Assembly. Senior Congress leader H K Patil, meanwhile, urged the Speaker to ensure that no major Bills are taken up for discussion when a notice for a ‘no confidence’ motion was moved. “Clearing any Bills when the notice is in place will set a bad precedent,” he added. A no-confidence motion can be moved if one-tenth of the Assembly members back it. JD(S) legislators did not vote for the notice moved by Siddaramaiah. In the 225-member Assembly, the ruling BJP has 116 members, Congress 67, JD(S) 33, BSP one, two Independents, one nominated member and the Speaker (who has a casting vote in case of a tie). Four seats -- Sira, Basavakalyan, Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Maski -- are vacant.  Congress is expected to use the notice as a platform to corner the government. “Corruption in this government is widespread,” Siddaramaiah said, after the Congress Legislature Party meeting held on Thursday morning. “Development works have suffered and finances have hit rock bottom. After Yediyurappa came to power, Rs 1.01 lakh crore has been borrowed. They don’t have money for committed expenditure also,” he said, adding that the government had failed on all fronts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-moves-no-confidence-motion-against-b-s-yediyurappa-govt-892292.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress MLA B Narayan Rao dies due to Covid-19||Congress' Basavakalyan legislator B Narayan Rao died due to Covid-19 complications on Thursday. He was 65. According to a statement from Manipal Hospitals' Director Dr Manish Rai, Rao was admitted on September 1 with "severe" Covid-19 infection and he passed away at 3.55 pm on Thursday. “He was critically ill with multi-organ failure on multiple supports including a ventilator in the intensive care unit under constant observation by our expert panel of doctors,” the statement said. Born on July 1, 1955, in the Basanthpur village of Bidar, Rao was a MA graduate. A first-time MLA, Rao was known to be loyal to Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah. In the 2018 elections, he defeated Mallikarjun Khuba of the BJP and PGR Sindhia of the JD(S). In 2019, he was appointed as the chairperson of the Forest Development Corporation. Condoling his death in the Assembly, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa described Rao as "an excellent orator" and "a dedicated Congress worker". Siddaramaiah remembered Rao for his commitment to the development of backward classes. "He used to tell me that his sole aim was to enter the Legislative Assembly. He lost twice but won the third time in 2018. He couldn't fulfill his desire because his term as a legislator has been cut short," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-mla-b-narayan-rao-dies-due-to-covid-19-892364.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt allows five states including Karnataka to raise funds via Open Market Borrowings||The government on Thursday allowed five states including Karnataka to raise additional financial resources of Rs 9,913 crore through Open Market Borrowings (OMBs) to meet additional expenses arising due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Ministry also permitted four other states - Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, and Tripura to raise additional financial resources through the open market. The Department of Expenditure under the Ministry of Finance has granted permission after these states successfully met the reform condition of implementation of the One Nation One Ration Card system. Among the states, Karnataka is allowed to borrow Rs 4,509 crore, while Andhra Pradesh is permitted to borrow Rs 2,525 crore. Telangana is allowed to borrow Rs 2,508 crore, followed by Goa Rs 223 crore and Tripura Rs 148 crore. "In view of the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic, the Central Government had in May 2020 allowed additional borrowing limit of up to 2% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to the States for the year 2020-21. This made an amount up to Rs. 4,27,302 crore available to the states," the statement said. The four reforms are: implementation of One Nation One Ration Card system, ease of doing business reform, urban local body/ utility reform, and power sector reforms. The remaining additional limit of 1% was to be released in two installments of 0.50% each. The first immediately to all the states untied, and the second on the undertaking at least 3 out of the four reforms. The government granted permission to states to raise the first 0.50% as OMB in June this year. This made an additional amount of Rs 1,06,830 crore available to the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-allows-five-states-including-karnataka-to-raise-funds-via-open-market-borrowings-892426.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Union Minister Suresh Angadi laid to rest in Delhi||Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi was laid to rest with full state honours on Thursday evening here. He was buried as per the Covid-19 protocol in the Lingayat-Veerashaiva burial ground at Sector 24, Dwarka at Delhi. Angadi's wife Mangala, daughters, sons-in-law, and other relatives paid their last respects clad in PPE kits while conforming to the Covid-19 guidelines. A Railway Protection Force contingent gave the late minister a guard of honour along with a gun salute. 65-year-old Angadi died on Wednesday night at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19.  While some Angadi followers demanded his body be taken to Belagavi for the last rites, Karnataka Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who is also related to Angadi, said the family decided to hold it in Delhi as Covid-19 protocol did not permit transportation of body over that long a distance. Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, MPs and other dignitaries were present during the last rites Earlier in the day, Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, met and condoled Angadi's demise. The Cabinet also observed a two-minute silence in the memory of the Union minister and passed a resolution recalling his services in public life Railway Minister Piyush Goyal also a chaired a virtual condolence meeting at the Rail Bhavan which was attended by top officials of the Railway Ministry and zonal offices. The Ministry of Railways also declared a half-day holiday on Thursday afternoon for all offices of railway establishment in Delhi. Speaker Om Birla and Congress Leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also visited Angadi's official residence on South Avenue Lane and expressed their condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-minister-suresh-angadi-laid-to-rest-in-delhi-892489.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru violence: NIA conducts searches at 30 places, arrests key conspirator||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested one of the key conspirators of the DJ Halli and KG Halli riots. Sayed Saddiq Ali, 44, was involved in the attack on the KG Halli police station on August 11, resulting in the damage and destruction of public and government property, along with damage to the police station building and vehicles parked on the premises and surrounding areas. Ali is a recovery agent with a private bank and was at large.   The NIA officials also conducted searches at around 30 locations in DJ Halli, KG Halli and surrounding areas in East and North Bengaluru. The officials seized air guns, pellets, iron rods, digital devices, DVRs and many incriminating documents against the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Popular Front of India (PFI).  The NIA had taken up the investigation into the two cases as per the directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The CCB was investigating the case earlier and had invoked the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) based on the evidence gathered during their probe.   The riots had erupted late on August 11 following a derogatory Facebook post by Naveen, the nephew of Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, MLA of Pulakeshinagar constituency. The CCB officials had got information about the interference of political leaders. Former mayor of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Sampath Raj, had skipped interrogation for the second time after testing positive for Covid-19.     Muzamil Pasha and other members of SDPI and PFI had gathered a mob at the MLA's house, police stations and vandalised the premises and resorted to arson. Further investigation is on, the NIA spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-violence-nia-conducts-searches-at-30-places-arrests-key-conspirator-892497.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers' protest against Land Reforms, APMC Acts to hit transportation in Karnataka||Movement of goods and passengers will be affected in parts of the state on Friday as several farmers’ groups have called for blocking of all the state and national highways to protest against the state and central governments’ move to amend key legislations, including Land Reforms Act and the APMC Act. Under the banner of Raita, Dalita, Karmikara Aikya Horata several organisations have called for blocking all the state and national highways on Friday, to coincide with the countrywide bandh by the Bharatiya Kisan Union and others. Farmers in Karnataka had deferred the decision on the strike as they expected the state government to listen to their demands. As the government tabled the bill to amend APMC Act on Wednesday afternoon, a call has been given for a state bandh on Monday. On Friday, protests will take place across the districts under the banner of Aikya Horata even as the Kodihalli Chandrashekhar-led association has decided to limit itself to the large protest at Mysore Bank circle. Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha and Hasiru Sene state president Badagalpura Nagendra said Mysuru, Mandya, Chikkaballapur, Kolar, Mangaluru, Hubballi and Dhawad are some of the districts where the protest and road blockage is expected to be total. “Some parts of Bengaluru will be affected. Our main focus is on the Monday bandh. Tomorrow, we are protesting in support of a nationwide bandh,” he said. Some districts may not see major impacts as one of the associations has stayed away. However, a member of the Aikya forum said the Monday bandh will be total. Officials said there will be no change in operations of buses, including city, suburban and inter-city services, either in Bengaluru and outside. Decisions to cancel services will be taken based on the prevailing situation. While officials in BMTC said normal operations will continue on Friday, KSRTC officials said officials at its divisions have been put on alert. “We have issued directions to all divisional controllers to ensure road deviations and smooth operation of services. They have been told to stay in touch with police authorities,” an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-protest-against-land-reforms-apmc-acts-to-hit-transportation-in-karnataka-892523.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP MLA charges private hospitals in Karnataka with indulging in 'loot'; asks govt to act||Accusing the private hospitals of indulging in "loot" during the Covid-19 pandemic, BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Thursday sought to know from his party-led government in Karnataka what it was doing to check it. The former Union Minister cited his own example where he had to shell out a huge amount at a private hospital for the treatment. "Private hospitals are looting, I was charged Rs 3,80,000 for eleven days, this is the fate of an MLA, what will the poor do," Yatal asked. Participating in the condolence motion for Union Minister of State for Railways, Suresh Angadi, who died due to coronavirus last night, in the assembly, he quoted MLA Siddu Savadi as saying that recently Rs 18 lakh was charged by a hospital in Bijapur. "Is there no control (on private hospitals), what is the government doing? We have to ask, what control does the government have on such hospitals, what is the health department doing? They are erratically looting...," he said. Yatnal, who was also affected by the virus and was in the hospital for about eleven days and has now recovered, said the government has to take strict measures so that we don't have to keep observing silence as the mark of respect for the deceased. Despite getting treatment at the country's foremost medical institution AIIMS, we could not save Angadi, he noted. Referring to the death of Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti and some leaders battling for life due to the infection, he said we have to be serious about coronavirus as there may come a situation where we may have to go for lockdown again at least twice a week. Angadi (65) passed away on Wednesday, days after he tested positive for Covid-19 at the AIIMS trauma centre which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility. The assembly paid rich tributes to the fourth-term MP from Belagavi. Paying tributes to Angadi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa called him "Ajatashatru" while Leader of Opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah remembered him as a gentleman and good human being. Several legislators recalled his service for the state as Minister and the way he acted as a link between the Centre and state government for getting developmental works done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-mla-charges-private-hospitals-in-karnataka-with-indulging-in-loot-asks-govt-to-act-892549.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 7,710 new cases, 65 deaths reported in Karnataka||Karnataka on Thursday registered 7,710 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 65 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 5.48 lakh and the toll to 8,331, the health department said. The day also saw 6,748 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 7,710 fresh cases reported on Thursday, 4,192 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of September 24 evening, cumulatively 5,48,557 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 8,331 deaths and 4,44,658 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 95,549 active cases, 94,722 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 827 are in ICU. Out of 65 deaths reported on Thursday 24 are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Ballari 10, Hassan and Shivamogga 6, Davangere and Dharwad 4, Chamarajanagara, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Haveri and Vijayapura 2, and Mandya 1. Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban is accounting for 4,192, Mysuru 481, Hassan 407, Dakshina Kannada 266, Dharwad 264, Shivamogga 234, Belagavi 191, Bengaluru Rural 189, Chikkamagaluru 186, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 2.08 lakh infections, followed by Mysuru 31,573 and Ballari 29,673. A total of 44.59 lakh samples were tested so far, out of which 64,164 were tested on Thursday alone. Among the samples tested today 23,232 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-7710-new-cases-65-deaths-reported-in-karnataka-892555.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah at his candid best, calls tax collections bogus||In a candid remark, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday said all governments, including the one he headed, did little to increase efficiency in tax collections, calling them “bogus.”  Siddaramaiah, who holds the record of presenting 13 state budgets, said this during a discussion on the supplementary estimates in the Assembly. The government’s supplementary estimates aggregate Rs 4,008 crore additional expenses incurred over and above the budget provisions.  “The supplementary estimates are in addition to the Rs 2.37 lakh crore budget,” Siddaramaiah pointed out. “The government commonly says it will increase tax efficiency. It’s all bogus. Nothing will happen. It was like that even when I was there (as CM). Why lie to ourselves? We just say what officials write for us,” he said.  Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri jokingly remarked that it was uncharacteristic of Siddaramaiah to say this.  “Tax collections won’t increase. In fact, they won’t even meet the collection targets. Ultimately, we end up cutting expenditure,” Siddaramaiah said.  Siddaramaiah was referring to resource mobilisation through its own tax revenues. For 2020-21 fiscal, the BJP government has estimated that its own tax revenues will be Rs 1.28 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-at-his-candid-best-calls-tax-collections-bogus-892576.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP MLA slams govt inaction on pvt hospitals||BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal embarrassed the government on Thursday by pulling it up for 'failing' to regulate private hospitals charging Covid-19 patients exorbitant fees. "Private hospitals are looting patients. I was billed Rs 3.8 lakh for 11 days. If this is the fate of a legislator, how will the poor pay for hospital care," Yatnal, a former union minister, asked while speaking during the condolence motion over the demise of Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi in the Legislative Assembly. Yatnal said that he was forced to ask tough questions. "Is there no regulation for hospitals? What was the government and Health Department doing?" he said. The Bijapur City MLA also blamed the public for throwing caution to the wind, leading to a spike in Covid-19 cases. "People are not aware and are irresponsible," he said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said Angadi's death caused anxiety among politicians. "Angadi, as a union minister, received the best treatment. If that didn't help, I am worried about what fate would befall others," he said. Though there was nothing to fear, precautions were essential to prevent infection, he said. Tributes to Angadi Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recalled Angadi's significant contributions to railways in Karnataka. "He had worked actively to revive old projects and approve new ones to the state," he said. Congress leader D K Shivakumar said the 'shocking' demise of Angadi forced some people to question their faith in god. Speaker Visveshwar Hegde Kageri described Angadi as a "simple, cultured" politician. "He believed all his achievements and growth were because of his mother."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-mla-slams-govt-inaction-on-pvt-hospitals-892578.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Over 2.14L drivers received Covid-19 cash aid'||The state government on Thursday admitted in the Assembly that over five lakh auto and taxi drivers were yet to receive financial assistance announced in the month of May to help them during the Covid-19 lockdown. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had announced a package comprising financial assistance to the drivers, farmers, barbers and other communities. Of this, the government had said Rs 5,000 will be given to 7.75 lakh drivers in the state.  "We estimated there were 7.75 lakh auto and taxi drivers based on vehicle registration data. Of this, only 2.45 lakh people applied and 2.14 lakh have received the assistance," Law Minister J C Madhuswamy told the Assembly, during a discussion on the supplementary estimates.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah hit out at the government for not being able to cover all 7.75 lakh drivers. "There are impractical conditions for drivers to receive the assistance. One of them is that they need to have a badge, but half of them don't have one," he said. "This package was announced when there was a lockdown during which autos and cabs weren't allowed. Drivers lived on doles and loans. Is it not injustice to five lakh drivers who didn't receive the assistance," he asked.  BJP's Udupi MLA K Raghupathi Bhat said the government should relax conditions for drivers. "Even the Centre has done away with badges. Also, owner-cum-driver isn't eligible at present. If these clauses are removed, the government will be able to reach 7 lakh drivers," he said.  Madhuswamy lost his cool when former Congress minister R V Deshpande urged the government to dig into its records and identify drivers who have not applied for the assistance. "If we don't recognise drivers based on badges in urban areas, imagine what the situation will be. Do you expect the government to go door-to-door in search of drivers?" Madhuswamy said.  Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said the government should sit with officials and legislators to find a way out of the technicalities.  The supplementary estimates aggregating Rs 4,008 crore expenditure the government has incurred during the Covid-19 pandemic was passed in the Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-214l-drivers-received-covid-19-cash-aid-892579.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SIT raids premises of Anand Singh's sister||The Special Investigation Team sleuths on Thursday raided the premises of Rani Samyukta, sister of Forest Minister Anand Singh, in the town in connection with an illegal mining case. SIT led by inspectors Raghavendra and Lakshminarayan raided Rani Samyukta’s new house near Joladarashi Gudda, old house on College Road and her M P Prakash Nagar office. Searches at the said premises are underway. While the SIT officials refused to share information about the raids, Rani Samyukta’s mobile phones were switched off. It is said, the ongoing raids were part of the illegal mining case against Rani Samyukta-owned Krishna Minerals. Rani Samyukta is the state vice-president of BJP Mahila Morcha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sit-raids-premises-of-anand-singhs-sister-892582.html
24-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Strengthen Lokayukta with adequate resources: MLCs||While the state government tabled the Karnataka Lokayukta (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the Legislative Council on Thursday, seeking to fix a time limit for investigating complaints, MLCs urged the government to strengthen the anti-corruption watchdog. The Lokayukta needed more staff and the government had to ensure there were no corrupt officials heading it, the legislators said.  As per the amendment, all preliminary inquiries by the Lokayukta or Upa Lokayukta have to be conducted within 90 days of receiving a complaint while minor investigations have to be completed within six months. If the officials exceed this time limit, they need to given a written explanation, seeking more time.  While welcoming the government's move, Congress MLC P R Ramesh recalled how a complaint he filed 10 years ago had not been addressed to this day. "There is a huge delay in addressing the complaints," he said. He was joined by his party colleague Vasanth Kumar who said he'd registered a complaint in 2013 and was still waiting for it to be resolved.  The MLCs were joined by the others who asked the government to either strengthen the Lokayukta with appropriate infrastructure or to dissolve it. MLC K Govindaraju urged the government to appoint more staff. "You came to power promising rejuvenation of the Lokayukta. It's been a year since this assurance and instead of acting on your word, you are making only minor changes with this amendment," added Marithibbe Gowda.  Responding to their concerns, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy assured to strengthen the anti-corruption body. "Two district judges and supporting staff have already been appointed," he said. The Bill was passed by the Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/strengthen-lokayukta-with-adequate-resources-mlcs-892584.html
24-09-2020||West||Fire at ONGC plant in Gujarat extinguished||A fire broke out at the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation's (ONGC) Hazira gas processing plant in Gujarat's Surat district in the wee hours on Thursday, an official said. The blaze, which was preceded by three blasts, has been extinguished, the official said, adding no one was hurt. The blaze was massive and could be seen from a distance of several km, eyewitnesses said. Some also posted videos of the explosions and the fire on social media. "The fire broke out in the inlet gas terminal after three massive blasts at 3.05 am. The compressed gas was depressurised to bring the fire under control," Surat District Collector Dhaval Patel said. Fire vehicles of the ONGC, Surat Municipal Corporation and local industrial units rushed to the spot and brought the blaze under control, he said. The inlet gas terminal where the fire broke out was cordoned off and the plant secured, he said, adding the cause of the fire will be ascertained after cooling operations are completed. No other industry in the area was affected, he said. There was no confirmation from the district administration of reports that the fire was apparently caused by a rupture in the 36-inch Uran-Mumbai gas pipeline. The ONGC in a tweet said, "A fire was observed in the Hazira Gas processing plant in the morning today. Fire has been brought under control. There is no casualty or injury to any person." "Fire has been completely extinguished. Efforts are being made to resume normal operations at the earliest," it said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-ongc-plant-in-gujarat-extinguished-892129.html
24-09-2020||West||11-kg tumour successfully removed from 55-year-old woman’s abdomen ||An expert team performed a successful nine-hour complicated surgery to extract 11-kg tumour from a 55-year-old woman’s abdomen during these unprecedented times at Zen Multispecialty Hospital at Chembur.  The team was headed by Dr Tanveer Abdul Majeed,  Surgical Oncologist, Dr Santosh Palkar, Urologist and Dr Shilpa Deshmukh, Anaesthetist.  The patient, a housewife hailing from Chembur, had generalized abdominal distension. It was not a big deal for her a few months ago but things turned awry when she noticed that her abdomen was growing day by day causing a sensation of being bloated and difficulty in breathing. Over the period, her abdominal distension progressed and made it more difficult for her to breath. Since it was a very large tumour it made her look obese. “On evaluation at admission on September 8, she weighed about 80 kg, was diabetic and hypertensive. A contrast CT scan abdomen with vascular reconstruction performed revealed the presence of a large tumour in the abdomen completely filling the Right half of the abdomen and extending to the left side displacing the right kidney, duodenum, small intestine and colon to the left side completely. And displacing the Inferior Vena Cava (Major blood vessel) to the left with 270-degree contact with IVC, aorta, and right external iliac vessel. It was also splaying the portal vein. It had also displaced the right lobe of the liver to the left and anteriorly. Normally, tumours arising on the posterior part of the kidney tends to push anteriorly but it was a large tumour pushing the right kidney on the left side and the whole cavity was occupied by the tumour,” Dr Majeed at Zen Multispeciality Hospital, Chembur, said. According to him, after opening the abdomen an 11-kg tumour of size 55 x 40 x 35 cm was successfully removed. "The surgery lasted for gruelling nine hours and there was 1,000 ml blood loss. The patient is in the hospital and doing very well. She is on oral liquid and is tolerating it well. She is also able to breathe freely. She will be advised to follow up after 3 months of discharge," he said. "Our world turned upside down when I felt bloated. The stomach appeared bigger and I weighed 80 kg. We delayed treatment due to the pandemic. But I am fortunate to get operated at Zen Hospital and I thank doctors for saving my life. After the tumour extraction, I feel lighter now and can eat and breathe properly, and have resumed to normal life,” the patient said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/11-kg-tumour-successfully-removed-from-55-year-old-woman-s-abdomen-892148.html
24-09-2020||West||Maratha groups call for bandh on October 10 demanding reservation||In what would be a litmus test for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, several Maratha groups and organisations have called for Maharashtra bandh on October 10 to press for the demand of reservation to the politically-influential community. The Supreme Court had stayed the law in Maharashtra that provided reservation to the Maratha community under the specially-created Socially & Economically Backward Class (SEBC). However, the Maharashtra government has appealed in a larger bench to vacate the stay. In 2018, when the BJP-Shiv Sena government was in power, the Maharashtra legislature had unanimously resolved to provide 16 per cent reservation to the community in jobs and education. The Bombay High Court had upheld the decision but asked the state government to ensure that the quota does not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admission in educational institutions. The Marathas account for nearly 33 per cent of the total 11.25 crore population of Maharashtra. Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan, after a series of consultation within Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, BJP’s leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, announced some sops. The government has decided to extend the reservation meant for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) to the Maratha community. Of the total 52 per cent reservation in the state, SCs and STs account for 13 and 7 per cent, respectively, OBCs get 19 per cent, VJNT, Special Backward Class and Nomadic Tribes account for 13 per cent. “We will ensure that the certificates needed for the EWS quota are issued and the legal issues involved are resolved at the earliest. The state government will try to safeguard the interest of the Maratha community even while abiding by the interim stay of the Supreme Court,” said Chavan. However, groups like the Maratha Kranti Morcha are not satisfied and have decided to go in for a state-wide bandh to press for reservation. “The government has said that benefits of EWS will be extended to those from SEBC. The Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of the SEBC Act, 2018, granting reservation to Maratha community in jobs and admissions. It is the government’s duty to get the stay vacated,” said MKM Convenor Suresh Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-groups-call-for-bandh-on-october-10-demanding-reservation-892196.html
24-09-2020||West||Suburban Railway services increased in Mumbai||With growing demand for trains during the morning and evening peak hours, more than 200 services have been added this week in Mumbai’s suburban rail network – considered the lifeline of the financial capital. The train services were shut down on March 22, when the day-long 'janata curfew' was imposed after which followed the subsequent lockdown period in the wake of teh coronavirus pandemic. On 15 June, skeletal services re-started for people engaged in essential services, state and central governments, banks and so on. However, with Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again gaining pace and Unlock -4 underway, the demand for local trains has increased and there has been a series of agitations in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) again. When the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) restarted, there were totally 450-odd services – which were gradually increased - and this week, over 200 services have been added. On Monday, the WR scaled up its services from 350 to 500, while on Thursday, the CR increased services from 355 to 423. Out of these 68 additional CR services, 46 will be on the main line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Kasara, Khopoli and Karjat, and 22 on the harbour line between CSMT to Panvel and Goregaon. More than 80 lakh people use Mumbai's suburban network daily,  that is spread across six lines covering 390-odd kms and 157 stations in the Mumbai metropolitan region comprising five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. CR and WR collectively run over 3,000 services daily but now scaled down services are being run. Railway passes can be purchased based on I-card and QR-code that one has to obtain. Some videos of overcrowded trains have gone viral - but these were on Tuesday and Wednesday when heavy rains choked services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suburban-railway-services-increased-in-mumbai-892293.html
24-09-2020||West||Bombay High Court terms Bhiwandi building collapse 'very serious'||The Bombay High Court on Thursday took suo moto cognisance of the building collapse in Bhiwandi town of Maharashtra's Thane district and described it as a "very serious" incident. A bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta made the state of Maharashtra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, and civic bodies of Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Kalyan-Dombivali, Thane and Navi Mumbai as respondents in the case. The court was hearing another unrelated case of construction in Kalyan-Dombivali when Chief Justice Datta remarked that the incident in Bhiwandi, in which around 40 people were killed, was a "very serious" one. The three-storey building in Bhiwandi powerloom town, located on the outskirts of Mumbai, crashed on Monday. "A building has collapsed in Bhiwandi, several lives have been lost. We are told the situation is quite serious in Mumbai too," Chief Justice Datta said. "We are making the state and all municipal corporations parties and issuing notices," he said while directing Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to ensure the state and the civic bodies filed their replies to the notices. The replies have to be filed in two weeks, the high court said while taking suo moto (on its own) cognisance of the incident. Kumbhakoni said, "We will file our replies detailing what has been done so far across the state for such buildings and measures taken, as well as the steps we propose to take in future." There have been cases of rampant unauthorised construction and tenants occupying dilapidated structures despite evacuation notices in Mumbai and neighbouring areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-terms-bhiwandi-building-collapse-very-serious-892302.html
24-09-2020||West||Transport services resume in Mumbai as rain intensity reduces||A day after heavy rains battered Mumbai and caused flooding in several areas, the city was limping back to normalcy on Thursday following resumption of rail and road transport services, officials said. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), rain intensity has reduced and there is no waterlogging anywhere in the metropolis. Mumbai's suburbs and neighbouring Navi Mumbai received over 100 mm rainfall in last 24 hours, an official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Santacruz observatory (in western suburbs) recorded 108.7 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Thursday while the Colaba observatory (in south Mumbai) recorded 50.4 mm rain during the period, it said. As per the BMC, the island city received 256 mm in 12 hours ending at 8 am on Wednesday, and the western and eastern suburbs received 237 mm and 158 mm rain, respectively, during the period, which had led to heavy waterlogging in many areas. Local train services of the Central Railway (CR) and the Western Railway (WR) were affected on Wednesday due to submergence of tracks at some places. With the rain intensity reducing on Thursday, the local train services are now running normally, railway authorities said. "The special suburban trains being operated for essential services staff are running without any disruption," CR's chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said. Suburban services of the Western Railway were also running as per schedule since early morning, sources said. Bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), the city civic body's transport wing, which were diverted on many routes on Wednesday, are now running normally, a BMC official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/transport-services-resume-in-mumbai-as-rain-intensity-reduces-892306.html
24-09-2020||West||NCB steps up the heat on Bollywood with summons issued to A-listers||Stepping up heat on Bollywood, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday grilled popular designer Simone Khambatta in Mumbai. Meanwhile, actors Deepika Padukone and Sara Ali Khan, who were in Goa for shoots, are returning to the city. Deepika, Sara, Rakul Preet Singh and Shradhha Kapoor are expected to be grilled over Friday and Saturday. According to reports, NCB has also summoned executive producer and director Kshitij Ravi Prasad, who works with Dharma Productions owned by eminent filmmaker Karan Johar. The NCB has several A-listers, talent managers and production executives in their list, who are expected to be summoned over the next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-steps-up-the-heat-on-bollywood-with-summons-issued-to-a-listers-892323.html
24-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Bombay High Court refuses to intervene in Maharashtra govt's move to not open temples||The Bombay High Court on Thursday refused to intervene in the Maharashtra government's decision to not open places of worship to the public in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the court did not wish to interfere in the state's decision keeping in mind the "prevailing situation" of constant rise in coronavirus cases, even in rural areas. The observation came after Advocate General (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that worshippers could not be allowed to visit temples, or any other places of worship as yet. "Unfortunately, we are creating new records every day (of number of positive coronavirus cases). It will not be possible right now to open places of worship considering the situation," the AG said. The bench was hearing a PIL seeking that places of worship be reopened to public and that the state government ensure implementation of social distancing and other Covid-19 safety measures. The plea filed by a local NGO through advocate Dipesh Siroya had suggested that the state government limit the number of devotees permitted to enter a place of worship at a time. In a previous hearing however, the state had said it would not be possible to limit the number of devotees and that there was no guarantee that the public would follow norms once allowed inside places of worship. The Chief Justice accepted the state's submission and agreed that the rise in coronavirus cases was indeed alarming. "Every day we are reading about the rise in numbers. It is alarming. We get so many messages saying that the situation in the state is bad," Chief Justice Datta said. He further stated that the court had recently received a WhatsApp video from one Omprakash Shete, who claimed to be from the Maharashtra Chief Minister's Medical Assistance Cell. In the video, Shete had claimed that the medical infrastructure in the state was inadequate to handle the Covid-19 situation and said several people across the state were dying due to lack of treatment for coronavirus, he said.  "He claims that the system in the state is collapsing. That people are not getting treatment and are dying. If this is true then something needs to be done," the Chief Justice said. He directed the AG to verify the authenticity of the video and to ascertain if Shete was indeed part of the state government. "Because, if he is a part of the state's system and this video is authentic, then you will have to address the situation," the Chief Justice told the AG.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bombay-high-court-refuses-to-intervene-in-maharashtra-govts-move-to-not-open-temples-892326.html
24-09-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput's death case: Police intervene as journalists scuffle over coverage||For a change, the action was outside the guest house where the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) team has been grilling Bollywood figures in a drugs case, as journalists scuffled over a vantage point and a slur. Police intervened in the fight between journalists of a national news channel - whose main anchor is known for his histrionics - and some Mumbai reporters, after they termed the local media as 'chai biscuit wale partakar, an official said. Videos of the incident, which took place at 10 am outside the Colaba guest house in south Mumbai where the NCB team is camping, have gone viral on social media. The NCB team is probing Bollywood's alleged drugs nexus and is questioning some actors and other industry figures. Every time a Bollywood figure comes in to record his or her statement, the journalists, mostly from TV channels, stand outside the guest house to get a 'byte' and such was the case on Thursday morning, before the scuffle ensued. The trigger was a Delhi-based TV journalist, who is in Mumbai to cover the NCB probe, coming "in the frame" of the camera of another national news channel. After he was asked to shift a bit and go out of the frame, he began abusing Mumbai journalists, calling them "depression wale patrakar" and "chai biscuit khane wale garib partakar", a police official said. This led to a heated argument and a scuffle in which some Mumbai-based journalists slapped the Delhi reporter, an eyewitness said. Some police personnel, who were present at the spot intervened and dragged away the fighting media personnel who almost came to blows, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-police-intervene-as-journalists-scuffle-over-coverage-892330.html
24-09-2020||West||Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde tests COVID-19 positive||Maharashtra Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde on Thursday said he has tested positive for coronavirus, and urged all those who came in contact with him to get themselves tested. Shinde attended the state cabinet meeting earlier this week. He is the 13th state minister to be infected by the disease. "I conducted my Covis-19 test yesterday and have tested positive. Health is fine thanks to the blessings of you all. Requesting all who came in my contact over the past some days to take proper care and get themselves tested," the minister tweeted. काल मी माझी कोव्हीड-१९ ची तपासणी करून घेतली असता ती पॉझिटिव्ह आली आहे. आपल्या सगळ्यांच्या आशीर्वादाने प्रकृती ठीक आहे. गेल्या काही दिवसांत माझ्या संपर्कात आलेल्या सर्वांनी योग्य ती काळजी घ्यावी आणि स्वतःची कोव्हीड चाचणी करून आवश्यक ती खबरदारी घ्यावी, ही विनंती... Earlier, state ministers Jitendra Awhad (housing), Ashok Chavan (PWD), Dhananjay Munde (social justice), Sunil Kedar (animal husbandry), Balasaheb Patil (cooperation), Aslam Shaikh (textile), Nitin Raut (energy), Hasan Mushrif (rural development), Varsha Gaikwad (school education) had contracted COVID-19. Abdul Sattar (Minister of State-rural development), Sanjay Bansode (MoS-environment) and Vishwajit Kadam (MoS- cooperation) had also tested positive for COVID-19 in the recent past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-eknath-shinde-tests-covid-19-positive-892341.html
24-09-2020||West||Bombay High Court seeks Sanjay Raut's reply to Kangana Ranaut's plea on bungalow demolition||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut to file his reply to actor Kangana Ranaut's petition against the demolition of a part of her bungalow in Mumbai by the BMC. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla also directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) H-ward officer Bhagyawant Late to file his reply to the plea. Late had signed the demolition notice served to Ranaut on September 7. On Tuesday, Ranaut's lawyer senior counsel Birendra Saraf submitted in the court a DVD containing a speech in which Raut allegedly made a comment threatening the actress. Following this, the HC bench had permitted Ranaut to make both Raut and Late parties to the case. On Thursday, the bench said it will begin final hearing in the case on Friday. Raut's counsel Pradeep Thorat asked for more time to file the reply, saying the Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member is currently in New Delhi. BMC's senior counsel Anil Sakhre also sought more time for Late to file his reply. Justice Kathawalla said the bench will begin hearing the petitioner (Ranaut) on Friday and Raut could file his reply anytime before his turn to put forth his arguments in the court. The bench, however, directed the BMC to file the reply on Late's behalf by Monday, saying it could not delay the hearing. "We cannot leave the demolished house the way it is. The building is demolished partly, and in the heavy monsoon, we cannot leave it in this state. We will start hearing the petitioner tomorrow," the bench said. Ranaut, in her plea filed in the HC on September 9, sought that the demolition carried out by the BMC at her Pali Hill bungalow be declared illegal. She subsequently amended her plea to demand Rs two crore as damages from the civic body and its officials. In her plea, she alleged that the BMC had demolished the bungalow out of personal vendetta, since she had made some comments adverse to the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government. The BMC in its affidavit filed in the high court denied the allegation. In the affidavit filed through advocate Joel Carlos, the BMC said Ranaut had carried out illegal structural changes and repairs at the bungalow, and the civic officers were merely following the law in demolishing unauthorised portions of the structure. The civic body had urged the high court to dismiss Ranaut's plea and to impose a cost on her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-seeks-sanjay-rauts-reply-to-kangana-ranauts-plea-on-bungalow-demolition-892375.html
24-09-2020||West||Court allows NCB to question Showik Chakraborty in jail||A court here on Thursday allowed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to record the statements of Showik Chakraborty and Deepesh Sawant inside jail in the drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. The two, alongwith prime accused Rhea Chakraborty and others, are currently in judicial custody. Showik, who is Rhea's brother, and Sawant who worked as a cook at Rajput's house, are lodged in Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. The NCB, in its plea before the special court for Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said mobile phone data showed Showik's deep involvement in the case. It also showed he was in touch with various high-profile personalities, and theseaspects needed further probe, the agency said. It also wanted to question Sawant afresh, it said. Special judge G B Gurao granted permission for an NCB team to visit Taloja prison and record their statements in the presence of jail officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-allows-ncb-to-question-showik-chakraborty-in-jail-892409.html
24-09-2020||West||Fire at ONGC Hazira plant snaps supplies, co diverts gas from Uran to meet shortfall||A fire at India's top oil and gas producer ONGC's gas processing facility near Surat in Gujarat on Thursday snapped fuel supplies to power and fertilizer companies but the company is diverting gas from other fields to make up for the shortfall. The fire broke out at around 3 am at Oil and Natural Gas Corp's (ONGC) Hazira gas processing plant and was extinguished by 7.30 am, the company said in a tweet. There were no casualties, ONGC said. "Fire at Hazira Plant has been completely extinguished. Efforts are being made to resume normal operations at the earliest." Hazira facility received gas from ONGC's Bassein field off the west coast as well as from Panna/Mukta and Tapti fields. It was handling some 32-33 million standard cubic meters of gas per day. As a safety drill, after the fire, fields were shut and gas supplies to customers snapped, a company official said adding operations will be restarted soon once the safety review is complete. ONGC rushed senior officials including Director (Offshore) Rajesh Kakkar to Hazira to oversee the safe restart of the system which can happen as early as Friday. The Hazira plant is India's largest gas-processing facility and a critical supplier of the fuel to domestic industries that receive gas from the Hazira-Vijaipur-Jagdishpur (HVJ) trunkline. The HVJ trunkline is the country's largest and runs from Hazira in the west to Jagdishpur in northern India. State-owned gas utility GAIL India, which used to supply gas from Hazira to users such as power plants and fertilizer units, has enough stocks in the HVJ pipeline to maintain supplies for some time but said it is rationing gas supplies to customers because it is unclear when the Hazira plant will resume full operations. GAIL in a statement said "about 30 mmscmd of natural gas supplies into its north-western pipeline network (HVJ system) was immediately shut-off" following the fire. "In the force majeure event triggered by the ONGC Hazira incident, supply cuts up to 40 per cent against current allocations has been imposed on the downstream customers. "However, uninterrupted supplies are continued to be maintained to the city gas customers for supporting domestic kitchens (piped natural gas) and public transportation (CNG)," GAIL said in a statement. The ONGC official said the company was diverting 2-2.5 mmscmd of gas from Uran to meet the immediate shortfall of critical customers. Operations will be resumed once all safety parameters are reviewed, he said adding the damage was limited due to the company's high safety standards including automatic shut-off of gas source in the event of any disaster. State-owned power producer NTPC shut its 656-megawatt gas-based power plant at Kawas near Hazira and the 657 MW Jhanor-Gandhar plant due to gas supply disruption. Fertilizer maker Kribhco has reduced capacity after cut in gas supplies. "GAIL north-western pipeline grid supports about 80 mmscmd and there is no damage to the network due to the unfortunate incident at ONGC facilities at Hazira," the company statement said. GAIL said it is committed for the safe operation of the pipeline network and is maintaining close coordination with ONGC teams at the site, towards the speedier restoration of natural gas supplies through alternative systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-ongc-hazira-plant-snaps-supplies-co-diverts-gas-from-uran-to-meet-shortfall-892460.html
24-09-2020||West||Bombay HC adjourns Rhea, Showik Chakraborty's bail plea till Sept 29||The Bombay High Court adjourned the bail plea of Chakraborty sister-brother duo Rhea and Showik till next Tuesday. After their arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drug angle of the Sushant Singh Rajput case, they are now under judicial custody. They have been accused of sourcing and purchasing drugs for Sushant, who had died on June 14 under mysterious circumstances. While Rhea (28) is in Women’s Prison in Byculla, Showik (24) is in Taloja Jail in neighbouring Raigad district. Meanwhile, a special NDPS court in Mumbai has allowed the NCB to question Showik in Taloja Jail. The bail plea was heard before Justice Sarang Kotwal, where Rhea and Showik were represented by their counsel Satish Maneshinde and the NCB by Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh. Maneshinde said that the investigations by NCB are without jurisdiction and illegal as the Supreme Court in its order dated August 19 had directed that all cases in relation to Sushant’s death be transferred to CBI. “Therefore, the investigations are illegal,” he said. He also pointed out that the case under section 27A of the NDPS Act is not applicable to them. “The embargo on bail under section 37 of NDPS Act applies to commercial quantities only and the offences in relation to Rhea at worst are of small quantity.  Nothing has been seized from Rhea… it’s a witch hunt,” he said. Singh has sought time to file NCB’s reply. It may be recalled the Metropolitan Magistrate's Court and Special NDPS Court had rejected their bail pleas following which Maneshinde had moved the Bombay High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-adjourns-rhea-showik-chakrabortys-bail-plea-till-sept-29-892463.html
24-09-2020||West||Congress stages walkout from Gujarat Assembly on fee waiver issue||The Opposition Congress on Thursday demanded a fee waiver for all school and college students in Gujarat in view of the coronavirus pandemic and later staged a walkout from the Assembly over the issue. Around 40 Congress MLAs, led by Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani, walked out of the House accusing the BJP government of not taking a firm decision regarding fee waiver at a time when people are suffering financially due to coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown. In his "short notice question", Imran Khedawala (Congress) sought to know if the state government had any plans to help people by waiving school as well as college fees. In his reply, Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said the House should refrain from discussing a sub-judice issue as a petition regarding college fee is pending before the Gujarat High Court. Notably, the High Court recently disposed of a petition seeking school fee waiver and asked the government to take a call on the matter. However, another petition regarding college fee is still pending before the HC. Dhanani said the government must waive six months' fees of 1.36 crore school pupils and 15 lakh college students in Gujarat in view of economic slowdown and loss of employment of millions of poor and middle-class citizens due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. When the government did not respond to the demand, Congress MLAs walked out of the the House in protest. They returned to the Assembly after sometime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-stages-walkout-from-gujarat-assembly-on-fee-waiver-issue-892476.html
24-09-2020||West||366 foreigners jumped bail in Goa, are untraceable: Court||As many as 366 foreigners who have been granted bail by Goa's Courts have gone missing over the last five years, according to an order passed by the Bombay High Court bench in Goa, which has also slammed the Goa Police for not doing enough to curb the trend. A division bench comprising of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar, made the observation while hearing an appeal by the State against the acquittal of a Czech citizen, who has been untraceable since he was granted bail by a trial court. “It is evident that in almost 90 per cent of the cases where the foreigners have been enlarged on bail, their present whereabouts are unknown meaning thereby, that in all probabilities such foreigners have fled the country or otherwise not available to face the prosecution,” the order said. The Court was hearing an appeal petition filed by the prosecution, against the acquittal of Czech national Pavel Neuhausel, who has been accused of murdering his partner Marketa Horka in 2013. Neuhausel cannot be contacted by the police ever since he was granted bail by a Goa Court. In course of hearing the appeal petition, the Court had directed the state police to submit data related foreign nationals who were untraceable after they were granted bail. “If the concerned police officials were to realise that the foreigners are not attending the police stations and marking their attendance, the least that was expected was to move the courts for cancellation of bail. Besides, the police officials were required to immediately swing into action and trace such foreigners, before they succeed in fleeing from justice,” the order also said. The Court also said the police agencies espcially the top brass, "were not at all serious", either in apprehending the accused or fixing any responsibility upon the police officials, who were responsible for the accused jumping the bail and fleeing the country. “This is a serious issue affecting the administration of criminal justice. If this continues, then, it will have a very serious effect upon the administration of criminal justice in the State of Goa,” the High Court said in its stinging observation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/366-foreigners-jumped-bail-in-goa-are-untraceable-court-892478.html
24-09-2020||West||Gujarat: Lawyer fined Rs 10,000 for smoking during virtual court hearing||The Gujarat High Court on Thursday fined a lawyer Rs 10,000 for smoking a cigarette in his car during an online hearing. This "act" of the lawyer didn't go down well with the judge who slapped the fine and ordered initiation of appropriate action against the lawyer. The advocate J V Ajmera, a junior lawyer from Surat, was appearing for two petitioners seeking bail. During the hearing, justice A S Supehia noted Ajmera smoking while sitting in the car. The court deprecated the "conduct" of Ajmera while stating that "It was not expected from an advocate to be smoking in the car during the court proceedings. Such behaviour of the advocate is required to be strictly condemned." Justice Supehia wrote in its order that "advocates appearing through video conference are required to maintain minimum dignified decorum so that the majesty and dignity of the proceedings as well as the Institution are maintained." He ordered the registrar (judicial) to initiate appropriate proceedings and file a report in ten days before the court. The order reads that the report should be forwarded to the Bar Council of Gujarat (BCG). The BCG and Bar Association of High Court should inform the advocates "to maintain a dignified decorum while conducting the matters through video conferencing. They shall be informed/instructed that the proceedings conducted through video conferencing shall be either from their respective residences or any office space, barring any vehicle or any open ground." The order also says that "While attending the proceedings from their respective residences/offices, they shall also maintain appropriate sitting posture while addressing the court."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-lawyer-fined-rs-10000-for-smoking-during-virtual-court-hearing-892537.html
