25-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police take hundreds of farmers into custody in Mysuru||The city police took hundreds of farmers into custody for blocking the Mysuru-Bengaluru national highway at the Outer Ring Road here on Friday. The farmers hit the streets and raised slogans against the state and Union government in opposition to the amendments to the Land Reforms Act and the APMC Act.  The police took the protestors into custody when they refused to pay heed after being told to not disturb the traffic movement by blocking the highway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-take-hundreds-of-farmers-into-custody-in-mysuru-892784.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Farmers block highway in Mandya||Farmers, led by various farmers outfits like sugarcane growers association and others staged a protest against the APMC and Land Reforms Amendment Act, on Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway, near KSRTC bus stand, in Mandya, on Friday. They also raised slogans against anti-farmer policies of the governments. Police had stepped up security as a precautionary measure and personnel deployed on the highway and near the DC's office. Protests were also held at Santhemarahalli, in Chamarajanagar taluk, in Chamarajanagar district. The farmers blocked the road as a mark of protest. It affected the movement of regular traffic and the vehicles were seen stranded on the road, at Santhemarahalli. Protests were also held at Hanur, Gundluet and Kollegal taluks also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-farmers-block-highway-in-mandya-892789.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Meeting with Karnataka CM and farmers' leaders ends in a stalemate||A meeting between Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and farmers' leaders ended in a stalemate on Friday. The farmers' associations have now decided to go ahead with their call for a statewide bandh on Monday. The farmers are protesting against the government's move to amend the APMC Act and the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, contending that the proposed amendments are against the interests of farmers' welfare. Speaking to DH, Kuruburu Shanthakumar, who leads the Federation of Farmers’ Associations, said they met with Yediyurappa on Friday afternoon and conveyed their concerns about the proposed amendments. "We have clearly told the CM about how it would affect the farmers. In response, the CM offered to tweak one provision in the Land Reforms Act concerning the ceiling of landholding per individual. We told him that minor tweaks will not help the farmers and that the Bills should be withdrawn,” he said. “At the very least, we asked him to hold discussions with all stakeholders involved instead of passing the Bills in a hurry. Since no such assurance was given, we have decided to go ahead with the bandh," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/meeting-with-karnataka-cm-and-farmers-leaders-ends-in-a-stalemate-892894.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Assembly stalls Bill to create new varsities||The Legislative Assembly on Friday stalled the passage of a Bill to create three new universities in the state after legislators across parties said this would lead to “wasteful” expenditure. The Karnataka State Universities and Certain Other Law (Amendment) Bill proposes to upgrade Bengaluru’s Government Science College as Nrupathunga University, create the Maharani Cluster University and make the government college in Mandya as Mandya University. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy, who piloted the Bill in the absence of Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, said it was in line with a decision that was taken by the previous Congress government and the new universities were already approved under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). “I don’t know how the Finance Department permitted this,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said. “At a time when we’re talking about reducing wasteful and unwanted expenditure, do we need new universities? Let's first improve existing universities,” he said. Madhuswamy quickly clarified that the Bill was readied when the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government was in power. “So what? Nothing stops you from dropping it,” Siddaramaiah said. Former Congress minister Krishna Byre Gowda said the idea of creating these new universities was based on a one-time grant of Rs 50 crore that the University Grants Commission (UGC) offered. “A clause to get this grant is that the institution should be upgraded as a university. To get a one-time grant of Rs 50 crore, we’ll end up spending a lot more every year,” he said. BJP’s Aravind Limbavali and Veeranna Charantimath also opposed the Bill. While Charantimath said the Bill had lost its relevance in the wake of the New Education Policy, Limbavali said: “We've not been able to provide infrastructure to the new Bangalore North University and Bangalore Central University. What is the necessity to create a new university?” Congress’ Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad said it would take ten years to convert the Government Science College into a full-fledged university. “There aren’t people to even clean the college. It’ll be enough if the government could give grants to develop the college,” he said. Madhuswamy made a vain attempt to push for the Bill. “The idea is to ensure quality. We’re already paying salaries and other bills of these colleges. It won’t cost much,” he said, adding this Bill was to replace an ordinance already promulgated. Finally, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said the Bill would be kept pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-assembly-stalls-bill-to-create-new-varsities-893002.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Demand for paid doctorates on the rise||The Covid crisis has not hit representatives of a few organisations, followers of political leaders, journalists, and seers, who are making a beeline to receive honorary doctorates, presented by a Tamil Nadu-based private university. The university is organising a programme at a private hotel in Mysuru on Saturday (September 26), to handover honorary degrees to 120 aspirants. The programme is being held at 10 am and people from across the state will receive the doctorates, according to sources. Leaders of Raitha Sangha, Samatha Sainika Dal and Ambareesh Abhimanigala Balaga from Mandya are getting the degrees. S N Shankaregowda, writer and Kannada professor of Mandya University (Unitary), said that some private and unauthorised universities are awarding degrees for cash, which undermine honorary doctorates. C S Suresh of Maddur has filed a public interest litigation against paid honorary doctorates and the High Court has directed the Ministry of Union Human Resources and Development to issue notice to the University Grants Commission, in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/demand-for-paid-doctorates-on-the-rise-893012.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||PIL against nomination of A H Vishwanath as MLC||A Mysuru-based advocate has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) before Karnataka High Court in Bengaluru, against Assistant Chief Electoral Officer and Under Secretary of the State Government, in connection with the nomination of A H Vishwanath as Member of Legislative Council (MLC), under writers’ quota. Advocate and auditor N R Ravichandregowda has filed the PIL, on September 18, citing a Supreme Court order, stating that the nomination is a violation of the order. “A divisional bench of the High Court, headed by Chief Justice A S Oka, has directed issuance of notice to the state government, as well as Vishwanath. Advocate Chandrakanth R Goulay is representing me, in the court,” he said. Ravichandregowda, also state spokesperson of JD(S) said that as per the Supreme Court order, issued on November 13, 2019, a member disqualified under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution shall be subject to sanctions provided under Articles 75(1B), 164(1B) and 361B of the Constitution, which provides for a bar from being appointed as a minister or from holding any remunerative political post from the date of disqualification till the date on which the term of his office would expire or if he is re-elected, whichever is earlier. “The other disqualified MLAs were re-elected as per the SC orders. However, the nomination of Vishwanath is a case of contempt of court, as it is a violation of the SC order,” Ravichandregowda said. Vishwanath was not available for a comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pil-against-nomination-of-a-h-vishwanath-as-mlc-893013.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Seven held for kidnapping Bengaluru youth||Nagamangala town police arrested seven people, for allegedly kidnapping a Bengaluru-based youth for a ransom of Rs 30 lakh in Nagamangala town on Thursday. According to the police, the accused, who were staying at SLN Lodge, had kidnapped Naveen, a resident of Bengaluru, two days ago, and had demanded a ransom of Rs 30 lakh. Later, they brought Naveen to Nagamangala from Bengaluru. With the help of their friends, they had booked a room in the lodge here. They released Naveen, after cash was exchanged through a third person. When Naveen called his family members and informed that he has been released, they immediately lodged a complaint with Tilak Nagar Police station, who alerted their counterparts in Nagamangala. A team, led by PSI Ravikiran, conducted a raided on the lodge and arrested seven people, residents of Vidyaranyapuram in Bengaluru. The arrested are Mahesh, Mohan, Navyanth, Bharath, Joseph, Ravikiran and Raju. They were handed over to Bengaluru police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-held-for-kidnapping-bengaluru-youth-893015.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Agriculture reforms Bills: Farmers block highways in Mysuru, taken into custody||Members of various organisations blocked vehicle movement for nearly 30 minutes on Mysuru-Bengaluru National Highway at Columbia Asia Junction on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) in Mysuru city on Friday. However, the police took them into custody and cleared the traffic. Members of Dalit organisations and Raitha Dalita Karmika Aikya Horata Samiti staged a protest against the Union government for the amendments to the APMC Act, Essential Commodities Act and Land Reforms Act. The agitators raised slogans against the state government, alleging that the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act removed land ceiling and allowed corporate companies to buy lands. The move is anti-farmer and a threat to the farming community, they said. Activist Pa Mallesh, who released a book, said, “The government is not responding to the protests. The government is enacting laws that are against the farming community. The government is working on behalf of the corporate sector. The ministers and political parties are favouring the corporate sector.” The activists slept on the road and also dumped maize and other agriculture produce on the highway, as a mark of protest. Despite repeated requests, the agitators declined to clear the highway. Thus, the police took more than 200 protesters into custody and cleared the road for traffic. The police took the agitators to a ground near GRS Park in three KSRTC buses. They were released by noon. Leaders Hosakote Basavaraju, Kiragasur Shankar and Ugra Narasimhegowda were present. The agitators at KR Nagar, Periyapatna, Hunsur, Nanjangud and other parts of the district staged protests, by blocking the roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/agriculture-reforms-bills-farmers-block-highways-in-mysuru-taken-into-custody-893016.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Unsure if Karnataka Congress is serious about no trust vote: HD Kumaraswamy||JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy said on Friday that the Congress did not consult him on moving a no confidence motion against the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government and suggested that it could well be just a publicity stunt. On Thursday, the Congress moved a notice for a no confidence motion to be taken up against the year-old Yediyurappa administration. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri admitted the notice, which is yet to be discussed in the Assembly. “Congress leaders, even to this moment, haven’t discussed the no confidence motion with us,” Kumaraswamy told reporters, adding that he would take a decision if the Congress approached him. “I don't know how serious they are about this no confidence motion. If they were serious, maybe they'd have discussed with us. I can’t tell if it’s for real or if it is just a publicity stunt,” the former chief minister said. Asked if he had trust in the BJP government, Kumaraswamy said: “My trust isn’t important. What’s important is the people’s trust. But I will say that there’s no proper atmosphere for any issue that we want to raise.” Kumaraswamy urged all elected representatives to work together to help flood victims, fight Covid-19 and face economic distress. On the controversial amendments to laws governing land reforms and agricultural markets, Kumaraswamy the JD(S) opposed them. “Our party has already staged protests in every district centre. The ordinances were promulgated in a hurry three months ago. Since then, the government should have discussed with groups and stakeholders on how this will help or affect them,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/unsure-if-karnataka-congress-is-serious-about-no-trust-vote-hd-kumaraswamy-892785.html
25-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Assembly passes Bill to raise fiscal deficit ceiling||Amidst a walkout by Opposition Congress, the Legislative Assembly on Friday passed a Bill allowing a one-time relaxation to raise fiscal deficit (FD) to five percentage points of the GSDP. At present, the law requires the government to keep the fiscal deficit within 3% of GSDP. During a discussion on the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged the BJP government to restrict the fiscal deficit to 3.5% of GSDP, adding that he was "strictly opposed" to increasing the ceiling beyond that. "We can't increase the limit for a year, as it is still uncertain when the pandemic will end," Siddaramaiah said, adding that additional borrowing that the amendment would allow could push the state to bankruptcy. As the Centre will stop providing GST compensation from 2022-23 fiscal, revenue deficit will surge by over Rs 30,000 crore, the Congress leader said. "Rather than additional borrowing, drastic measures should be taken to cut down wasteful expenditure and increase non-tax revenue," he added, asking the government to do away with unwanted posts and merge departments to save costs. "For example, why should there be a joint director and a deputy director in the agriculture department?" Former Congress minister Krishna Byre Gowda highlighted the long-term effects of the amendment, saying that the borrowings would add to the government's committed expenditure leaving little funds for development activity. Noting that the government had planned to borrow based on 2020-21 budget estimates of GSDP, Gowda said: "Borrowings should be on actuals and not the notional projection of Rs 18 lakh crore GSDP." He also sought to know why the government had not moved for an amendment of the ratio of liabilities to GSDP, adding that it was certain that the government's liabilities would exceed the 25% GSDP limit set under the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Law Minister JC Madhuswamy, who piloted the Bill in Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa's stead, said that the amendment was necessitated by "extraneous circumstances" due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "Liabilities-to-GSDP ratio will be within 23.5% of GSDP," he assured the House.  Madhusway said reducing committed expenditure - salaries, pensions, and so on - was easier said than done.  In 2020-21 fiscal, Karnataka could face a revenue shortfall of Rs 65,288 crore, Madhuswamy said.  Siddaramaiah said the government should to fight for Rs 5,495 crore special grant recommended for the state by the 15th Finance Commission, but "rejected" by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. "We'll make sure we get it," Madhuswamy said. Members also raised the concern that the government's decision to borrow an additional Rs 33,000 crore (2% of GSDP) would be used to meet committed expenditure instead of developmental works. "We might have to use of some of the borrowed money for committed expenditure," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-assembly-passes-bill-to-raise-fiscal-deficit-ceiling-892993.html
25-09-2020||Mysuru||Police bust gambling racket in Mysuru||The Mysuru city police raided a lodge and busted a gambling racket in the city on Thursday. Devaraja Police raided BTC comforts, opposite to Jaganmohan Palace after receiving a tip off and took 13 people into custody under charges of gambling as they were found playing cards. The police seized Rs 1.33 lakh in the raid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/police-bust-gambling-racket-in-mysuru-892686.html
25-09-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: This Bengaluru-based NGO uses postcards to mentor children in Bihar||In today's episode of The Lead from DH Radio, we look into an NGO's novel idea to use postcards to mentor children in Bihar. When their project with school children in Bihar was interrupted by Covid-19, Bengaluru-based NGO, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies (CBPS) came up with the idea to continue the project using postcards. Its director Dr. Jyotsna Jha, talks about how the project succeeded and could well provide an alternative for electronic devices children use for online classes.  L Subramani: This is L Subramani for DH Podcast. At a time when doctors and educationists are so concerned about online classes, a city-based NGO has tested a learning method that could well be a game changer for children who are forced to learn from home. In 2018, the Center for Budget and Policy Studies joined hands with the Malala Fund to mentor students in 10 Bihar schools, the project was interrupted earlier this year by the Covid-19 pandemic, and the lockdown that followed. Researchers at CBPS put their heads together and came up with the idea of using postcards to continue the mentorship program. Dr. Jyotsna Jha, Director of CBPS told us how it worked, and how the learning method would be effective for children of all backgrounds. Dr Jyotsna Jha: The postcard idea came only after Covid-19 . What happens that we are working with 10 schools and what used to happen is that one mentor goes every week to one school, so one schools gets once in seven days. So that's the model we are using. And five schools in Muzaffarpur in Bihar and five schools in Patna, two districts. We work intensely. The idea is it's an action research project. So idea is that we document each and everything like any activity that we do, how did children respond and everything their attendance patterns, responses, the kind of families they come from teacher-student relationship that they have in school. And based on that we then formalize a model that can be used for mentoring of girls and boys, adolescent, early adolescent boys and girls on issues. The idea is to develop critical skill, but we are using issues of gender, diversity, environment, science, communication, that is the idea. L Subramani: The first question that probably comes to us is that when you even in even in the lockdown period, you know, there is always the image of children sitting before the the tablet, the tablet PCs, or their smartphones, to attend classes or to take any training session So it's very curious that you chose the postcard model for this. Dr Jyotsna Jha: No, so what happened that when schools got closed, and in Bihar, they got closed even before the lockdown because of the teachers strike. And then came the lockdown. So we were wondering what to do, we were aware through our earlier research, not in this area, but we have done a major long-term research on open schooling. And we knew that access to technology is very limited. And we also knew that it's not only the affordability, there are other structural issues, for example, girls don't have access even if the household owns a phone and those kinds of things. So, what we did is that we did a rapid survey. So about half of our children had phones and since we had done we had the earlier research, we had addresses and phone numbers and we realized that only half had phones and only about say one third or less than third had smartphones and half of that or about say 15% of our children actually had access to net-based learning if at all. So, therefore, the idea of postcard you know,  w were talking as a team, and then we came up with this idea that why not use postcard. Tune in to the podcast to know more about the conversation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-this-bengaluru-based-ngo-uses-postcards-to-mentor-children-in-bihar-892645.html
25-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 25||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 58 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  58,98,179 as of September 25 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  93,308  No. of people discharged: 47,56,164 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-25-892646.html
25-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Fit India: PM Modi interacts with fitness experts||Skipper Virat Kohli explained how the Yo-Yo test helped Indian cricketers aim for high-level fitness when Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked him about the mandatory running aerobic fitness routine. Prime Minister Modi was interacting with fitness experts and influencers from across the country to mark the one-year anniversary of the 'Fit India Movement.'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-fit-india-pm-modi-interacts-with-fitness-experts-892651.html
25-09-2020||National||Election Commission to announce Bihar Assembly election schedule today||The Election Commission is set to announce the schedule for Bihar assembly elections on Friday. The EC has convened a press conference in this regard at 12.30 pm on Friday. The term of the 243-member Bihar legislative assembly comes to an end on November 29. The Commission is likely to announce the schedule for the by-election to one Lok Sabha and 64 assembly seats spread across 15 states. The bypoll to the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat in Bihar has been pending. Among the 64 vacant assembly seats, 27 are in Madhya Pradesh. Most of these 27 seats fell vacant when rebel Congress members resigned from the party and the assembly to join the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-to-announce-bihar-assembly-election-schedule-today-892663.html
25-09-2020||National||India records 86,052 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 58-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload zoomed past 58 lakh, while over 47 lakh people have recuperated from the disease, pushing the national recovery rate to 81.74 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 58,18,570 with 86,052 infections being reported in a day. The death toll climbed to 92,290 with 1,141 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries have surged to 47,56,164.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection was recorded at 1.59 per cent. There are  9,70,116  active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 16.67 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 6,89,28,440 samples have been tested up to September 24 with 14,92,409 samples being tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-86052-new-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-58-lakh-mark-892716.html
25-09-2020||National||Bihar to vote between Oct 28 and Nov 7 in first Covid-19 era elections||Over 7.29 crore people of Bihar are expected to cast votes between October 28 and November 7 next to elect 243 members of the state legislative assembly in the first direct polls of the country in the Covid-19 era. The Election Commission (EC) announced the schedule of the assembly polls in Bihar on Friday. The polling will be conducted in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The votes will be counted on November 10.   The commission held indirect polls to fill vacancies in the Rajya Sabha and the legislative councils in the states over the past few months, but the general elections to the Bihar Legislative Assembly will be the first direct one to take place after the Covid-19 pandemic swept the country. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will lead the ruling coalition of the Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the coming elections in Bihar. A ‘grand alliance’ of the Congress, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the left parties is set to pose a challenge to the ruling coalition. Bihar currently has 13,015 active cases of the SARS-CoV-2 infection registered, while 160178 people have recovered after being infected by the virus. The state recorded 878 deaths due to the Covid-19 so far. With 86,052 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded across the country in the last 24 hours, the national tally of the SARS-CoV-2 infection neared 5.9 million, with 970116 active cases and 4.75 million already recovered. The EC on August 21 issued broad guidelines for holding polls at the time of pandemic. It, however, left it to the Chief Electoral Officers in the poll-bound states to frame specific plans for holding elections amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, based on the broad guidelines issued by it. The National Capital Territory of Delhi went to the polls on February 8 – a few days after the country’s first case of Covid-19 infection was detected in Kerala. The outbreak turned severe across the country a few weeks later.  Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and the two other Election Commissioners – Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar – announced the schedule of the elections to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar during a press-conference at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi. The EC of late brought down the maximum number of electors to be facilitated at a polling station from 1500 to 1000 to ensure implementation of social distancing norms in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of polling stations in Bihar thus jumped by 40 per cent, from 65,000 to 100,000. The EC’s guidelines for conducting polls during Covid-19 require all voters to come with masks on their faces. If anyone forgets to do so, they will be provided masks while waiting in the queues before entering polling booths – maintaining six feet distance from each other. They will also get gloves to put on before pressing the buttons on the Electronic Voting Machines. Apart from infrared thermometers for checking the body temperatures of the voters, the polling stations will also have sanitizers, soap and water and all poll officials too will be issued masks, face-shields and gloves to put on. The polling booths will be sanitized, preferably a day before the date of voting.  If a voter running high body temperature turns up at a polling station, she or he will be sent back with a token and asked to come again at the last hour to cast votes. The Chief Election Commissioner said that over seven lakh hand sanitiser units, about 46 lakh masks, six lakh PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) kits, 6.7 lakh units of face-shields and 23 lakh pairs of gloves had been arranged for the poll officials. He also said that 7.2 crore single-use gloves had also been arranged for the voters to put on before pressing the buttons of the EVMs. The quarantined Covid-19 patients will be allowed to cast votes at the last hour of polling, along with the ones who will be turned back earlier on the day when thermal screening found them to be running high temperature. The EC extended the time for polling by an hour. The “new normal” of elections will in fact begin with the filing of nomination by the candidates, who will have the option of filling the forms and the affidavits online and submission of printouts before the Returning Officers. They will also have the option of depositing the security money online. They will however not be allowed to take out long processions while going to submit nomination papers. They can take only two vehicles and two supporters to the offices of the Returning Officers. The campaigning ahead of polling in the Covid-19 era is also going to be a toned-down affair. Not more than five persons will be allowed to go for door-to-door campaigning and only five vehicles can take part in the roadshows. Only a limited number of people will be allowed to attend the public meetings in the designated grounds as the EC wants the authorities to ensure strict adherence of the social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-to-vote-between-oct-28-and-nov-7-in-first-covid-19-era-elections-892725.html
25-09-2020||National||Farm Bills to benefit small, marginal farmers most, says PM Modi||Hitting out at the Opposition at its attack on his government over the farm bills issue, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that those who always "lied" to farmers are now "shooting from their shoulders" and misleading them for their own political benefit. Addressing BJP leaders and workers on the birth anniversary of party's ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay, Modi asked them to reach out to farmers on the ground and inform them about details and benefits of the new agriculture reforms and how these will empower them. Our ground connect will finish off the propaganda being spread about the reforms, he said. Modi said small and marginal farmers, who constitute 85 per cent of the peasant community, will benefit the most from these reforms which, he added, give them an option to sell their produce outside agriculture 'mandis' for a better price. Attacking the Congress, which has been trying to mount a nationwide protests against these bills, Modi said hollow slogans were given in favour of farmers and workers for many decades since Independence and governments at the Centre and states were formed in their name. All that farmers and labourers got was a jumbled web of promises and laws, he said. Modi said those who always lied to farmers are now "shooting from their shoulders" and misleading them. "They are spreading rumours. Saving farmers from such rumours and explaining the importance of the agriculture reforms is the responsibility and duty of all BJP workers because we have to make the future of farmers bright," Modi said. The three bills passed by Parliament are the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Congress along with many other opposition parties has claimed that the bills will harm the interest of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted the proposed laws will be beneficial for farmers and increase their income. The prime minister also lauded the new labour laws passed by Parliament in the Monsoon session, asserting that they will ensure timely salary for over 50 crore organised and unorganised workers. In his address, Modi also said his government has been very clear that it should not excessively interfere in the lives of those who do not need the government. "The government must use its resources more on the deprived and the marginalised," he said. "This birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal ji is even more relevant as the reformist decisions taken by the government in recent times had the imprint of the vision shown by him," he said. "Every BJP government, Central or State, is trying to ensure that every individual feels included in the growth of the nation and doesn't feel ignored," he said, adding that, "this is our motivation moving ahead". It is fitting that faceless assessment of tax filings, one of the biggest reforms in our tax system, comes into effect from today on Deendayal Upadhyay's birth anniversary, he noted "Our mantra and karma is Nation first," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-bills-to-benefit-small-marginal-farmers-most-says-pm-modi-892731.html
25-09-2020||National||Masks, gloves, PPE kits: How Bihar gears up for the biggest direct election amid Covid-19 pandemic||In what could be the world’s largest direct election exercise during the Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar will go to polls prioritizing health and safety of the voters. The Election Commission on Friday announced that Bihar Assembly Election 2020 will be conducted in three phases, beginning October 28 till November 7. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora emphasized that the Election Commission will be thoroughly prepared to conduct elections safely. The elaborate preparations and rules for the polls include distribution of masks, PPE kits and sanitisers. The EC will distribute 23 lakh pairs of gloves, 7 lakh sanitisers, 46 lakh masks and 6 lakh PPE kits and 6.7 lakh units for poll-workers. Besides 7.2 crore single use gloves will be arranged for the voters. Besides, the EC has decided to cap the poll booth voter count at 1,000 instead of the usual 1,500 to allow for implementation of strict social distancing norms at the poll booths. To insulate the lower voter count at poll booths, the EC has decided to extend the voting times by an hour. The polling will begin at 7 am and end at 6 pm. In LWE-affected areas of Bihar, the EC will conduct polling till 5 pm. Provisions have been made for Covid-19-infected persons and those suspected of being infected will to vote separately. Besides, the EC has made arrangements for those in in quarantine to cast their ballots at the end of voting time. Arora said political parties campaigning for the elections will need to ensure that strict health protocols, especially social distancing, will have to be followed without fail. The EC has prohibited any form of physical contact during the campaign. The election body has also issued list of grounds for public gathering with social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/masks-gloves-ppe-kits-how-bihar-gears-up-for-the-biggest-direct-election-amid-covid-19-pandemic-892747.html
25-09-2020||National||His melodious voice, music enthralled audience for decades: PM Narendra Modi on Balasubrahmanyam's death||Paying rich tributes to legendary singer S P Balasubrahmanyam who died on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he was a household name across the country and that his melodious voice and music enthralled the audience for decades. Balasubrahmanyam, who held sway over millions of fans with his golden voice for over five decades, died at a Chennai hospital here where he was being treated for Covid-19 since last month. He was 74. In his condolence message, Modi tweeted, "With the unfortunate demise of Shri SP Balasubrahmanyam, our cultural world is a lot poorer. A household name across India, his melodious voice and music enthralled audiences for decades. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/his-melodious-voice-music-enthralled-audience-for-decades-pm-narendra-modi-on-balasubrahmanyams-death-892774.html
25-09-2020||National||SPB's regret: I missed watching my kids grow up||"I missed watching my children grow up", celebrated playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam once said as he opened up on regrets in his life. As he entered the 50th year of his career in 2015, SPB, as he is fondly called, counted Telugu movie'Sankarabharanam' and 1981 hit' Ek Duje Ke Liye'as films that were the turning points of his singing journey. Balasubrahmanyam, who died on Friday at a Chennai hospital where he was admitted on August 5 after testing positive for Covid-19, had said he regretted not watching his kids grow up due to his busy schedules, but termed his professional journey as "amazing". "It is amazing. I dont know how I lasted so long. I am not a trained singer. At this age, I am getting work and I am able to deliver, Balasubrahmanyam had told PTI in an interview nearly five years ago. "I missed watching my children grow up. I dedicated (to singing) all my 49 years (in the year 2015). On an average, I am working 11 hours every day. I missed my children growing," he had said. The singer, who got his first break in the 1966 Telugu film 'Sri Sri Sri Maryaada Raamanna', had felt every day is a turning point because his passion and sincere approach towards work and his dedication kept him going. "If I have to report (for recording of songs) at 5 oclock, I rush come what may. I prepare myself. I never go to the microphone until I am sure of it. Whether small or big directors, I will do justice, he had said. His other regrets in life include not learning classical music and not completing his engineering degree. He, however, felt not knowing classical music came as a "blessing in disguise" and said had he learnt it, he would have not sung light music (songs) well. SPB, who has given innumerable hits in several languages, including Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Hindi and Kannada, had said Mohammed Rafi was his 'all time favourite' singer, adding he learnt from the late legendary singer more than anyone else. He had said he would stop singing the day he feels he is not able to do justice with his songs. "I don't want to just hang around. If I feel that my physical and mental strength is not capable of doing justice to singing, the best way is to hang up my boots." When asked if there is still a 'pinnacle' he wants to conquer, he had said he was happy as long as he can sing properly. "I dont have any more ambitions.. To do this thing or that thing. I am an actor, I am a dubbing artist and I have got, without my asking, a lot of challenging opportunities." On what life has taught him, SPB said, "Be simple. Dont make things complicated and everything falls in the right groove if you deserve it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spbs-regret-i-missed-watching-my-kids-grow-up-892778.html
25-09-2020||National||Four former CBSE officials under CBI scanner||The Central Bureau of Invetigation (CBI) has registered a case against four former officers of CBSE on charges of misusing official position, circumventing reservation provisions, using forged and fake documents to get jobs in the Central Board of School Education and paying a consultant Rs 26.92 lakh for which no contract document could be located. S P Rana, a Joint Secretary who retired while on suspension, dismissed Assistant Secretary Babita Rani, Assistant Secretary Shikha Tomar and Assistant Programmer Ruchin Tomar have been named in the case, the CBI has said. Rana is accused of appointing Rani and Tomar, who belong to the Jat community, between 2012 and 2014 under the OBC quota though the community was not eligible for reservation at that time. It was also alleged that Rana facilitated the selection of Shikha Tomar, daughter-in-law of his brother, as Assistant Secretary on the basis of a fake and invalid experience certificate. The FIR also claims that Rana allowed overpayment of Rs 26.92 lakh to M/s KPMG for its outsourced services for processing of an application for affiliation and upgradation of schools. During enquiry, CBSE was not able to provide the original file for the award of the contract to M/s KPMG. During preliminary inquiry by the CBI, it came to light that Rana made repeated recommendations for Rani's appointment in 2012. "Rani was selected under the OBC category despite the fact that she was not a bonafide OBC candidate," the FIR said adding that the government had included the 'Jat' community in the OBC list only in March 2014. "At the time of the interview, Rana was holding the charge of Joint Secretary (Administration and Legal), CBSE under whose supervision the selection was made. Rana further facilitated Rani by approving the request made by her for not verifying her credentials i.e. caste certificate, experience certificate, etc," the FIR said. Rani was dismissed from service on 31 January 2020. The CBI FIR claimed that Shikha was appointed as Assistant Secretary in 2013 on the basis of a fake experience certificate issued from Ozark Global Information Services (OGIS), whose Director Atul Goel said that she never worked with OGIS and the certificate issued to her is a forged one. A charge sheet dated 12 November 2018 for major penalty proceedings has been issued by CBSE but she has not joined duty for long and not responding CBSE's correspondence. Ruchin is accused of producing forged and fake degree certificate and mark sheets of Bachelor of Engineering in 2014 to land up in a job in CBSE. He was also terminated from the job after he did not provide original mark-sheets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-former-cbse-officials-under-cbi-scanner-892802.html
25-09-2020||National||Covid-19, dengue double infection treatment complicated; needs balanced approach: Experts||There is "no standard protocol" for treatment of patients who have contracted a double infection of Covid-19 and dengue, and a very "finely balanced" approach is needed to tackle both the ailments at once, experts said. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia was shifted to LNJP Hospital on Wednesday for Covid-19 treatment and tested positive for dengue a day later. On Thursday evening, the 48-year-old AAP leader was shifted to the ICU of Max Hospital Saket here. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 and is perhaps the first prominent personality in the city to have been diagnosed with both infections. Medical Director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) B L Sherwal said both the diseases have no specific treatment, which makes it even difficult for treating doctors of such patients. "Both Covid-19 and dengue need symptomatic treatment and in some aspects, the treatment is kind of contradictory and thus tricky. In Covid-19, we inject heparin drug subcutaneously which ultimately reaches the bloodstream, and this is done to prevent embolism in these patients which can prove fatal," he told PTI . Embolism is the sudden blocking of an artery that can obstruct the flow of oxygen, and that is why some patients get complications even after treatment, the doctor said. RGSSH is a dedicated Covid-19 facility run by the Delhi government. "In dengue, on the other hand, platelet infusion is needed in cases where its count has fallen to a dangerously low level. So, it's kind of the opposite. And, therefore, we can't inject heparin if a Covid-19 patient has dengue too," Sherwal said. So, for a treating doctor it is like "walking a tight rope" and a very "finely balanced approach" is needed, he said. Vikas Maurya, Director and Head of Department, Pulmonology, Fortis Hospital Shalimar Bagh, also feels a balanced approach is needed in tackling the "double infection" of Covid-19 and dengue. "One will have to also see which disease takes preponderance in such a patient, and the course of treatment will depend accordingly. Both are spread by virus, so it is quite an unusual scenario for a doctor as well as the patient," he said on Friday. Maurya also referred to a "study done by a university in Brazil along with an American varsity". "Though the study is yet to be peer-reviewed, one of its findings was that in patients who had suffered dengue infection earlier had developed anti-bodies, and in some patients, a false-positive result was coming for Covid-19, even with RT-PCR test. But it is too early to say anything," he added. Rajesh Rautela, Medical Superintendent of GTB Hospital, said a doctor "will have to be like a juggler, balancing two things at the same time". "So, best way is to take precautions and preventive measures to avoid stagnation of water where mosquitoes can breed. No medicinal cure is there for either of the two ailments, just symptomatic treatment, so people should be alert," he said. Mugdha Tapdiya, senior consultant, internal medicine at Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj said, "Diseases like malaria and dengue have overlapping symptoms with Covid-19, except where there are respiratory symptoms." "If there is a co-infection with dengue in which there is a risk of hemorrhage, then management becomes very tricky. Similarly there is a capillary leak in dengue fever which is treated by intravenous fluids, whereas with co-infection of Covid-19, large intravenous fluid is a risk in the view of potential trial risk of ARDS and pulmonary oedema," she cautioned Sources at LNJP Hospital on Thursday said "there is no standard protocol" for treatment of double infection of Covid-19 and dengue, and treatment is "patient-specific". LNJP Hospital is the largest hospital under the Delhi government and a dedicated Covid-19 facility. "The patient's age, condition, comorbidities and other factors are taken into account for treatment of both the ailments," a source said. Asked if there are any side effects of treatments in cases of a "double infection", the source said, "Any treatment can have a side effect, but the treating doctor decides the methodology for it". A dengue patient, if his or her platelets level falls dangerously below the normal level, needs external platelet infusion. A normal platelet level is considered in the range of 1.5-4.5 lakh, according to doctors. "If a patient needs plasma for Covid-19 treatment, he can be administered that, and if he needs platelets that too can be infused. The treating doctor will decide the course of treatment," the source said. Common symptoms of Covid-19 are high fever, breathlessness, cough, body fatigue and loss of sense of smell and taste. In dengue, a vector-born disease caused by Aedes aegypti mosquito, a person runs a high fever, suffers red rashes on the skin, pain behind eye sockets, joint pain and in serious case internal bleeding which can prove fatal. "In about 10 per cent of dengue cases, a patient suffers hemorrhagic fever which leads to deaths. Internal bleeding can manifest through nose, gums and those are danger signs," Sherwal said. Recently, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, himself a Covid-19 survivor, had told reporters that about 2-3 patients of Covid-19 in Delhi had shown dengue infection too. "We have managed to contain dengue this year. Our campaign '10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute' was very effective last year, and this year too dengue situation in Delhi is under control," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-dengue-double-infection-treatment-complicated-needs-balanced-approach-experts-892807.html
25-09-2020||National||SC reserves order on refund for flights cancelled during Covid-19 lockdown; to consider Centre's refund voucher suggestion||The Supreme Court on Friday reserved its judgement on a plea on the refund of airfare for the flights cancelled due to Covid-19-induced lockdown. The top court said that it would consider the DGCA's suggestion of transferable refund vouchers to the passengers. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan wrapped up its hearing on a petition filed by NGO Pravasi Legal Cell and others for a refund of ticket fare. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), said that transferrable refund vouchers can be issued to the passengers, which can be used by the travel agents, who had booked tickets.  The bench said, “If the travel agents can use the vouchers of the passengers then it is a fair enough suggestion”.  Mehta explained the modalities of the refund to be given to the passengers and how it would work. The court also asked whether the money would go to the account of the travel agent if the refund voucher wasn't used by the passenger within the deadline. To this query, Mehta said that the government didn't know the travel agents or recognise them since there was no registration and an agent buys tickets in blocks as per the contract between him and the airline.   The DGCA cannot control the inter se contractual obligations between agents and passengers, he said, adding the government has done its best to ensure that the passenger either gets the money back or gets the voucher which is transferable. He said that a passenger concerned may surrender the ticket and travel agents can sell the tickets to others but ordering the refund for all the passengers will not be good for the airlines.  Mehta also said that the travel plan can be changed and alternate tickets can be issued.    Senior advocate Pallav Sisodia, appearing for travel agents' body, said that the airlines cannot be saved from insolvency at the cost of their insolvency. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for IndiGo airline, said that he has no difficulty with the arrangement.    Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for NGO 'Pravasi Legal Cell,' raised the concern of refund of ticket booked from abroad.    The bench told senior advocate Arvind Dattar, representing GoAir, that the government had given time till March next year to refund the money and if the airline wanted more time then it needs to approach the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reserves-order-on-refund-for-flights-cancelled-during-covid-19-lockdown-to-consider-centres-refund-voucher-suggestion-892808.html
25-09-2020||National||SC refuses to consider plea against Bihar polls||Just before the announcement of the Bihar Legislative Assembly polls, the Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea for deferring the elections due to the Covid-19 situation. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan refused to consider the petition filed by Ajay Kumar, saying that the Election Commission of India (ECI) would take care of the situation. "We are not inclined to hear the petition," the bench said. The court allowed the petitioner to withdraw the petition and gave him the liberty to approach the ECI with his prayers and petition.  The ECI announced the schedule for the Bihar polls that are going to be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7 to elect the 243-member Assembly. The counting of votes is to be held on November 10. Earlier, on August 28, the court had declined to hear a similar petition by Avinash Thakur for postponing the polls, calling it "premature and misconceived". "Covid can't be a ground for postponement of elections, specially when even a notification for polls has not been issued," the bench had then said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-against-bihar-polls-892812.html
25-09-2020||National||Court rejects Hardik Patel's plea to allow him travel outside Gujarat for 12 days||A sessions court on Friday rejected the application of Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel seeking suspension of his bail condition for 12 days for attending political meetings in Delhi and briefing his lawyers in the Supreme Court where his petition was pending.  Additional sessions judge B J Ganatra refused to entertain Patel's plea while observing that, "At a time when a serious disease like coronavirus has spread across India, such political or social meetings can be held online as well. In such circumstances, the request of suspending the bail condition for 12 days doesn't sound reasonable." The sessions court had imposed this condition earlier this year while granting him bail after his arrest for remaining absent from the trial in the 2015 sedition case. Earlier, after Hardik Patel was appointed as Working President of Congress party, he had moved the court to remove this condition which was rejected in June. This month, he again moved the court seeking 12 days suspension of his bail condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-rejects-hardik-patels-plea-to-allow-him-travel-outside-gujarat-for-12-days-892843.html
25-09-2020||National||AYUSH ministry resumes ‘Yoga Break’ protocol||Activities for promoting the “Yoga Break” protocol of the Ministry of AYUSH, which were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic, resumed from Friday, the ministry said. The five-minute protocol is intended to introduce people at the workplace to Yoga, and also help them to take a break from the work schedule and to refresh and re-focus, it said. Yoga is an ancient Indian discipline intended to bring balance and well-being of individuals to the physical, mental, emotional and spiritual dimensions.  "Due to the change in working habits, particularly on the computer and continuously sitting for long hours, the majority of the workforce is feeling work stress. Such stress may decrease the focus at work which may further hamper their efficiency and effectiveness," the ministry said. The Ministry of AYUSH in association with the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) had developed five minutes yoga break protocol to de-stress, refresh and re-focus the workers at the workplace in 2019. The protocol developed by a group of eminent Yoga experts contains stretching exercises like Tadasana, Kati Chakrasana, among others, and Nadisodhana Bhramari Pranayama and Dhyana. The protocol was initially launched on a trial basis in January and was found to be effective, based on an analysis of feedback of participants. The AYUSH Ministry resumed the demonstration and practice of the “Yoga Break” (Y-Break) protocol on Friday at the AYUSH Bhavan and MDNIY campuses in Delhi, the ministry said.  "Taking account of the currently prevailing health emergency, additional emphasis was laid on breathing exercise (pranayama), in view of its effectiveness in increasing the lungs' capacity," it said. The demonstration and training will continue for 10 minutes daily in the lawns of AYUSH Bhavan and participants from various offices in the vicinity have enlisted themselves to join it. Strict adherence to the norms of social distancing and other guidelines of the government are being ensured, the ministry said.  The AYUSH Ministry will extend this facility free of cost to the staff and officers of various offices situated in GPO Complex, INA, New Delhi, in the coming weeks, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-ministry-resumes-yoga-break-protocol-892846.html
25-09-2020||National||Telangana CM, Telugu film industry mourn SPB's death||Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, superstar Chiranjeevi and a host of film personalities expressed grief over the demise of legendary singer S P Balasubrahmanyam on Friday. In his message, the MoS said Balasubrahmanyam was a colossal talent who left an indelible mark in Indian music. "He lent his voice in many languages and took an active part in nurturing and producing talent. He was a mentor to many aspiring singers. Om Shanti to his Atma and condolences to his family," Kishan Reddy said. Praising SPB's stellar contributions as a playback singer, composer, and actor, the Chief Minister, in a message, said the void created by his death can never be filled. It was unfortunate that the best efforts put in by the doctors to save his life did not succeed, Rao said and conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family. State BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, state Congress president and MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy, TDPs Telangana unit president L Ramana, CPI national secretary K Narayana and several other leaders condoled the death of the singer. Besides Chiranjeevi, top Telugu stars Mahesh Babu, 'junior' NTR, and others also conveyed their grief. An era has come to an end with the demise of Balasubrahmanyam, Chiranjeevi said. "Darkest day for the world of Music. With the passing of the unparalleledMusical Genius of Sri SP Balu Garu, an Era has come to an end. Personally, I owe my success greatly to Balu garus voice through the numerous memorable songs he had sung for me," Chiranjeevi tweeted. Balasubrahmanyam's melodious voice transcended linguistic, cultural boundaries and enchanted audiences across India alike for decades, he said. Mahesh Babu tweeted "Unable to process the fact that #SPBalasubramaniam Garu is no more. Nothing will ever come close to that soulful voice of his. Rest in peace, sir. Your legacy will live on." Another top star junior NTR, a grandson of the legendary N T Rama Rao, said he was devastated over the news of Balasubrahmanyams death. "Indian Music has lost its favorite son. Devastated! In a Legendary career spanning over five decades, Padma Bhushan S.P Balasubrahmanyam Garu has breathed life into over 40,000 songs. As long as music exists in this universe, you will live on sir," he said. Balasubrahmanyam died on Friday at a hospital in Chennai where he was being treated for Covid-19 since last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-cm-telugu-film-industry-mourn-spbs-death-892853.html
25-09-2020||National||98% candidates for JEE-Advanced allotted exam city from top three choices, says IIT Delhi||Nearly 98 per cent of candidates appearing for JEE-Advanced have been allocated examination centre from the top three choices of cities made by them during registration, according to Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here which is conducting the exam. A total of 1.6 lakh candidates have registered for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced after qualifying the JEE-Main. The exam is scheduled for September 27. "As many as 97.94 per cent of candidates who have registered and paid the fee for IIT JEE Advanced 2020 have been allocated examination cities, which fall under the top three choices they had made during the registration. The rest of 2.06 per cent has also been allocated exam cities from eight choices made by them during registration," a senior official of IIT Delhi said. "The examination cities to the candidates have been finally allocated completely randomly, based on an advanced algorithm, to achieve the most efficient distribution. The algorithm also takes note of the fact that these are challenging times because of Covid-19 and physical distancing needs to be maintained at each centre to ensure their safety," he added. The official claimed that the number of exam centres has been increased from 600 last year to 1000 and the number of exam cities has also been increased from 164 to 222. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Mains for admission to engineering colleges was conducted from September 1 to 6, amid stringent precautions and social distancing measures in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Staggered entry and exit for candidates, sanitisers at the gate, distribution of masks and maintaining distance as candidates queued up, were among the scenes witnessed at the exam centres across the country. While a total of 8.58 lakh candidates had registered for the JEE-Mains exam, 2.5 lakh of the candidates were eligible to appear for JEE-Advanced exam which is conducted for admission to IITs across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/98-candidates-for-jee-advanced-allotted-exam-city-from-top-three-choices-says-iit-delhi-892870.html
25-09-2020||National||Rhea Chakraborty procured drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput through her brother: NCB||Rhea Chakraborty used to procure drugs through her brother Showik and supply them to her boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer said here on Friday. The probe into drugs angle of the Rajput death case led the bureau to the discovery of several "linkages" or drug supply networks, he said. The NCB is probing the drugs case related to Rajput's death as well as an alleged nexus between Bollywood and drug peddlers. Showik Chakraborty's name came up during the interrogation of alleged drug peddler Basit Parihar, a resident of suburban Bandra, the official said. Parihar allegedly revealed that he used to procure `bud' (a curated form of marijuana) and weed for his friend Showik. During questioning, Showik accepted that he used to procure weed and bud through Parihar and Kaizan Ebrahim and pass them to his sister Rhea who gave it to Sushant, the official said. Rajput's manager Samuel Miranda and cook Dipesh Sawant used to collect the contraband and make `joints' (marijuana cigarettes) for the deceased actor, he claimed. The starting point of the entire probe was some WhatsApp chats about drugs that the Enforcement Directorate came across in its money laundering probe against Rhea and her family. The ED informed the NCB about these conversations. "Based on network analysis undertaken on technical level, the linkages were explored and one of the nodes of the drugs network was busted on the intervening night of August 27 and 28," the official said. Abbas Lakhani and Karn Arora were arrested during this raid and bud was seized from their possession, he said. It led the NCB to Zaid Vilatra, who runs an eatery in Bandra. Zaid was held and Rs 9.55 lakh, USD 2,081, 180 British Pounds and 15 Dirhams were recovered from his possession, the official said. Zaid allegedly disclosed that these were proceeds of drug peddling. He also said that his eatery business suffered greatly during lockdown, so he took to peddling drugs, mainly bud. It was his interrogation which led the NCB to Basit Parihar, the official said. Kaizan Ebrahim's questioning led the bureau to Anuj Keshwani, his alleged drug supplier. From Keshwani's house in Bandra, 585 gm of charas, 270 gm for ganja and small quantities of THC and LSD were also seized along with Rs 1.85 lakh in cash. Following his arrest, "Karanjeet, Fernandis, Gupta, Aftaab Mohammad, Ankush and Sanket" were apprehended, the official said. Rhea and Showik are now in judicial custody alongwith other arrested accused. The NCB has so far recorded statements of Bollywood talent manager Jaya Saha, Rajput's former manager Shruti Modi, producer Madhu Mantenna, fashion designer Simone Khambatta actor Rakul Preet Singh and actor Deepika Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rhea-chakraborty-procured-drugs-for-sushant-singh-rajput-through-her-brother-ncb-892877.html
25-09-2020||National||CAG flags improper use of funds collected from cesses, including GST cess||The Centre received nearly Rs 2.75 lakh crore from 35 cesses and levies but put less than 60% to use in 2018-19, with the rest being transferred to the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI) and for meeting general government expenditures. This was flagged by a CAG report, which cautioned that the cess fund is not being utilised for the specific purpose intended by Parliament. This also includes the GST cess, a revelation which could further strain the Centre-state relations which had soured over the GST compensation. West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra was quick to latch on to the revelation to target the Centre.  “Modi Government caught red-handed by its own CAG for hiding Rs 47,272 crore from Cess Compensation Fund meant for States! Slyly put into Consolidated Fund of India. Violating GST Act. Why?” he tweeted. The Centre imposes cesses, levies and other charges to raise funds for specific purposes. Such cesses and levies are required to be first transferred to designated reserve funds and utilised for the specific purposes intended by Parliament. The audit, however, observed that out of the Rs 2,74,592 crore received from 35 cesses, levies and other charges in 2018-19, only Rs 1,64,322 crore had been transferred to reserve funds during the year and the rest was retained in the CFI. “Consequently, not only was the revenue/fiscal deficit understated due to the non-transfer of these amounts to reserve funds, but the failure of the ministry to create and operate essential reserve funds made it difficult to ensure that the cesses had been utilised for the specific purposes intended by the Parliament,” the report pointed out. Major cesses include GST compensation cess, road and infrastructure cess, additional excise duty on high speed diesel and motor spirit, health and education cess. The audit also found that there was short crediting of GST compensation fund to the tune of Rs 47,272 crore during 2017-18 and 2018-19, which was retained in CFI, thus violating the GST Compensation Cess Act, 2017. The finance ministry accepted the audit observation and said that the proceeds of cess not transferred to Public Account would be transferred in the subsequent year. But transfer of cess in the subsequent year will become an appropriation from resources of that year and would require parliamentary authorisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cag-flags-improper-use-of-funds-collected-from-cesses-including-gst-cess-892879.html
25-09-2020||National||S Jaishankar holds talks with former Afghan vice prez Abdul Rashid Dostum||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday held talks with former Afghan vice president Marshal Abdul Rashid Dostum covering various aspects of the historic initiative to bring back peace and stability in Afghanistan. The visit of Dostum, an influential Afghan leader and former warlord, to India comes over a week after the Taliban and the Afghan government began direct talks for the first time to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country. Following the meeting, Jaishankar tweeted that India remains fully committed to an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process. "Glad to meet Marshal Abdul Rashid Dostum. Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the larger region. His vast experience and deep insights were evident. India remains fully committed to an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process," he said.  Dostum also met Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla during which issues like constitutional order and rights of all sections of Afghan society figured, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. "FS @harshvshringl met Field Marshal @ARashidDostu & listened to his insights on the #Afghan peace process and evolving situation. Constitutional order & rights of all sections of Afghan society were also discussed. India has conveyed it's long term commitment to #Afghanistan," Srivastava tweeted. India has been a major stakeholder in peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. On September 12, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha while Jaishankar joined it through video conference. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the US signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war in the country. The US has lost over 2,400 soldiers in Afghanistan since late 2001. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-former-afghan-vice-prez-abdul-rashid-dostum-892906.html
25-09-2020||National||Govt operationalises 'Faceless Income Tax Appeals' system||The government on Friday issued a notification operationalising 'Faceless Income Tax Appeals' system which seeks to honour honest taxpayers of the country and promote transparency in tax collection. Under faceless appeals, all Income Tax appeals will be finalised in a faceless manner under the faceless ecosystem with the exception of appeals relating to serious frauds, major tax evasion, sensitive and search matters, international tax and Black Money Act, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. Necessary Gazette notification has also been issued in this regard, it added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 13, while launching the faceless assessment and taxpayers' charter as part of "Transparent Taxation - Honouring the Honest" platform, had announced launching of faceless appeals on September 25 on the birth anniversary of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayay. In recent years, the Income Tax Department has carried out several reforms in direct taxes for simplification of tax process and ease of compliance for taxpayers. "Under the Faceless Appeals, from now on, in income tax appeals, everything from e-allocation of appeal, e-communication of notice/questionnaire, e-verification/e-enquiry to e-hearing and finally e-communication of the appellate order, the entire process of appeals will be online, dispensing with the need for any physical interface between the appellant and the Department," the ministry said. There will be no physical interface between the taxpayers or their counsel/s and the Income Tax Department. The taxpayers can make submissions from the comfort of their home and save their time and resources, it added. The faceless appeals system will include allocation of cases through data analytics and artificial intelligence under the dynamic jurisdiction with central issuance of notices which would be having Document Identification Number (DIN), the statement said. As part of dynamic jurisdiction, it said, the draft appellate order will be prepared in one city and will be reviewed in some other city, resulting in an objective, fair and just order. It further said that faceless appeal will provide not only great convenience to the taxpayers but will also ensure just and fair appeal orders and minimise any further litigation. The new system will also be instrumental in imparting greater efficiency, transparency and accountability in the functioning of the Income Tax Department, it said. As per the data with CBDT, as on date, there is a pendency of almost 4.6 lakh appeals at the level of the Commissioner (Appeals) in the Department, the statement said. Out of this, about 4.05 lakh appeals, that is about 88 per cent of the total appeals will be handled under the faceless appeal mechanism, and almost 85 per cent of the present strength of Commissioners (Appeals) shall be utilised for disposing of the cases under the mechanism, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-operationalises-faceless-income-tax-appeals-system-892907.html
25-09-2020||National||Chopper scam: Court takes cognisance of supplementary charge sheet||A Delhi Court Friday took cognisance of a supplementary charge sheet filed by the CBI against Dubai-based businessman Rajeev Saxena and others in the AgustaWestland chopper scam. Besides Saxena, summons were also issued to the then AgustaWestland International Director Giacomino Saponaro, also arrayed as an accused, for October 23. Special Judge Arvind Kumar also issued production warrant against British National Christian Michel James, who was earlier arrested in the case and is currently lodged in Tihar central jail here, directing the jail authorise to produce him on next date of hearing.  The supplementary charge sheet, according to the CBI sources details the alleged role played by Saxena and others in bringing bribes for politicians, bureaucrats and Indian Air Force (IAF) officials in India in the scam. The sources said that the agency, which had earlier this year sought sanction from the authorities concerned to prosecute former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma, has not named him as an accused since the request is not granted yet. The judge took cognisance of the offences including that of section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) read with 201 (destruction of evidence), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery) 468 (forgery for cheating) and 471 (using forged document as genuine) of IPC and various sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, related to bribing a public servant and criminal misconduct by a public servant. “I have heard counsel for CBI and gone through the material on record. Issue summons to accused persons for October 23,” the judge said while taking cognizance of the charge sheet filed on September 18. Others summoned include Sandeep Tyagi, Praveen Bakshi, Pratap Krishan Aggarwal, Narendra Kumar Jain, Rajesh Kumar Jain, Sunil Kothari, Deepak Goyal and K V Kunhikrishnan. Sandeep Tyagi is the cousin of former IAF chief SP Tyagi, who has been named as an accused with others in the first charge sheet filedf in the case in September 2017. The court also summoned several companies named as accused in the final report; IDS Infotech Ltd., India (through its MD P K Aggarwal), Aeromatrix Info Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (through its Director Gautam Khaitan), Neel Madhav Consultants Pvt. Ltd. (through its Director Sandeep Tyagi), Mainak Agency Pvt. Ltd. (through its Directors Sandeep Tyagi and Sanjeev Tyagi) and Interstellar Technologies Ltd., Mauritius (through its Director Rajiv Saxena). The agency told the court that it may file another supplementary charge sheet in the matter. The agency had earlier told the court that “during the course of investigation, copies of classified/ secret official documents of Indian Air Force (IAF)/ Ministry of Defence (MoD) such as Operational Requirements for VVIP helicopters before issuance of Request of Proposal and other incriminating documents running into more than one lakh pages received from Italy and Switzerland.” Michel had entered into as many as five contracts through two of his firms to legitimise the illicit commission/ kickbacks on the procurement of VVIP helicopters by MoD, India, the CBI said. It said that out of the kickbacks received from AgustaWestland, Michel further made payments to various persons in India. Michel was taken into custody by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on December 5 last year after his extradition from Dubai, while the ED took him into custody on December 22 last year. He is currently in judicial custody in both cases. Dubai-based businessman Saxena was extradited to India on January 31, 2019 in connection with the scam relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland. ED had earlier arrested Saxena but he was later granted bail after the agency supported his plea to turn approver in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-scam-court-takes-cognisance-of-supplementary-charge-sheet-892908.html
25-09-2020||National||India’s healthcare effectively kept Covid-19 mortality at 'minimum', recovery at 'maximum': Harsh Vardhan||More than 5 million people have been infected with coronavirus but the healthcare system of India has shown great efficiency in providing diagnostic and management facilities as well as keeping the mortality at ‘minimum’ and recovery at ‘maximum’, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. He was speaking at an event to mark the 65th Foundation Day of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. He said the country’s continuously rising Covid-19 recovery rate and progressively falling case fatality rate have proven the success of the containment strategy followed by all states/UTs, the health ministry said in a statement. "We have successfully ramped up our testing capacity which has touched nearly 15 lakh milestone today with more than 1,800 testing labs spread across the country. "I have confidence in the scientific developments taking place in the field of treatment and vaccines for Covid-19 and soon India will achieve more success in our fight against coronavirus infection," the statement quoted Vardhan as saying. Congratulating the AIMS fraternity for being ranked as number one among medical institutions by the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) under the Ministry of Human Resource and Development, Vardhan expressed satisfaction that AIIMS has fulfilled the objectives of its establishment by the Indian Parliament in 1956. He also hailed the institution's huge contribution during the Covid-19 pandemic. "More than 5 million patients have been infected with coronavirus but the healthcare system of India has shown great efficiency in not only providing diagnostic and management facilities but also keeping the mortality at minimum and recovery at maximum. “I appreciate that in the last six months, AIIMS has taken a huge responsibility of providing care to patients suffering from Covid-19, for innovating in areas of research, guiding colleagues across the country and developing new methods of teaching and communication,” the statement said. Speaking at the event, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey praised the medical community for their endless and selfless efforts during Covid times. "AIIMS has established high reputation and has contributed significantly in academic, research and patient care. It has attracted students from various other countries like the US, UK, Australia, Germany, among others. It is a huge achievement," he was quoted as saying in a statement. Choubey added that the central government was making efforts to spread the services of AIIMS to every nook and corner of the country. Vardhan and Choubey also gave away awards and medals to faculty members and graduating students during the event. "This is the dream of every medical student to become a student of AIIMS. On this 65th foundation Day, I request all of you to aggressively and meticulously brainstorm some ideas which will be helpful in strengthening the medical services in India and in positioning India among the top scientific nations," Vardhan said. The Health Minister also released a manual and inaugurated an exhibition titled 'AIIMS in Covid Times' which highlighted the contribution of AIIMS in dealing with public health emergency, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-healthcare-effectively-kept-covid-19-mortality-at-minimum-recovery-at-maximum-harsh-vardhan-892916.html
25-09-2020||National||Around 10 nations contacted Education Ministry showing willingness to implement NEP: Ramesh Pokhriyal||Around 10 countries have contacted the Education Ministry showing their willingness to implement India's new National Education Policy (NEP), Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Friday. He was speaking during a webinar on "NEP 2020 - The Brighter Future of Education" organised by ASSOCHAM. "Around 10 countries have contacted us, with their education ministers showcasing the willingness to implement India's new education policy in their countries," Pokhriyal said. "The government is seeking paragraph-wise suggestions on how to go about implementing the NEP. So far 15 lakh comments have been received and we are open to receiving more suggestions," he added. The minister lamented some people are arguing that to make progress on international level one needs to learn English. "I must say we are not against English but mother tongue as a medium of education would help strengthen Indian languages. The government does not intend to impose any language on any state. We are in the favour of strengthening 22 Indian languages and we want to promote all of these languages," he said. "People need to understand that English is not an Indian language. I would like to tell those people who argue that if we do not learn English we cannot progress on a global level, we need to look at countries like Japan, Russia, Israel, France, USA that all provide education in their language," the minister added. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet in July replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Choice between 3 or 4 year undergraduate courses, multiple entry and exit options in degree courses, adding 3.5 crore seats in higher education institutions, which will now have a single regulator, discontinuation of MPhil programmes and fixation of fees are among the higher education reforms outlined in the new NEP. "The main objective of NEP 2020 is to develop good human beings and not machines. It is a nation-centric policy, full of human values and with regards to innovation, knowledge, research, science and technology, it will be on the top on international level," Pokhriyal said. "Perhaps it is the first such policy in the world which has seen such huge consultations with over 1,000 universities, 45,000 degree colleges, 15 lakh schools, 1 crore teachers and professors along with 33 crore students and their parents, politicians, state governments and their education ministers, chief ministers, parliamentarians and industry bodies," he added. The minister said that they have incorporated most of the 2.25 lakh suggestions received from across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/around-10-nations-contacted-education-ministry-showing-willingness-to-implement-nep-ramesh-pokhriyal-892919.html
25-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Iconic singer S P Balasubrahmanyam passes away; Election Commission announces Bihar Assembly election schedule||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom,  S P Balasubrahmanyam breathed his last at 1.04 pm after suffering a cardio-respiratory arrest in the morning, MGM Healthcare announced in a statement; Four people were injured, two seriously, in a knife attack in Paris Friday outside the former offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo; The Election Commission announced the schedule of the assembly polls in Bihar.  Here are the top news of today, Thursday: September 25, 2020: Legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, whose magical and deep rich voice gave life to thousands of songs that mesmerised millions of music lovers transcending borders and languages, passed away on Friday after losing a 52-day long battle against the novel coronavirus. Sripathi Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam (74), who is survived by his wife Savitri, son S P B Charan, and daughter Pallavi, got himself admitted to MGM Healthcare here on August 5 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He breathed his last at 1.04 pm after suffering a cardio-respiratory arrest in the morning, MGM Healthcare announced in a statement.  Four people were injured, two seriously, in a knife attack in Paris Friday outside the former offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, said the Prime Minister. Two of the victims were in a critical condition, the Paris police department said, adding two suspects were on the run. Police later said one suspect had been detained after the attack, which occurred as the trial was underway for the alleged accomplices of the 2015 Charlie Hebdo attack. The Election Commission announced the schedule of the assembly polls in Bihar on Friday. With me is DH correspondent Anirban Bhaumik with details on the announcement. The polling will be conducted in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The votes will be counted on November 10.  The commission held indirect polls to fill vacancies in the Rajya Sabha and the legislative councils in the states over the past few months, but the general elections to the Bihar Legislative Assembly will be the first direct one to take place after the Covid-19 pandemic swept the country. Bihar currently has 13,015 active cases of the SARS-CoV-2 infection registered, while 160178 people have recovered after being infected by the virus. The state recorded 878 deaths due to the Covid-19 so far.  The EC on August 21 issued broad guidelines for holding polls at the time of pandemic. It, however, left it to the Chief Electoral Officers in the poll-bound states to frame specific plans for holding elections amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, based on the broad guidelines issued by it. The EC of late brought down the maximum number of electors to be facilitated at a polling station from 1500 to 1000 to ensure implementation of social distancing norms in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of polling stations in Bihar thus jumped by 40 per cent, from 65,000 to 100,000. The EC’s guidelines for conducting polls during Covid-19 require all voters to come with masks on their faces. If anyone forgets to do so, they will be provided masks while waiting in the queues before entering polling booths – maintaining six feet distance from each other. They will also get gloves to put on before pressing the buttons on the Electronic Voting Machines. Apart from infrared thermometers for checking the body temperatures of the voters, the polling stations will also have sanitizers, soap and water and all poll officials too will be issued masks, face-shields and gloves to put on. The polling booths will be sanitized, preferably a day before the date of voting.  If a voter running high body temperature turns up at a polling station, she or he will be sent back with a token and asked to come again at the last hour to cast votes. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-iconic-singer-s-p-balasubrahmanyam-passes-away-election-commission-announces-bihar-assembly-election-schedule-892921.html
25-09-2020||National||Did you know S P Balasubrahmanyam was once addicted to cigarettes?||Singers value their voice so immensely that they shun many favorite food items considered harmful to a melodious tone. Although, Sripathi Panditharadhyula Balasubrahmanyam, aka Balu or SPB to his millions of fans never felt the need to suppress his cravings.   Balu used to relish all kinds of food items from groundnut, coconut, to ice-creams, sweets, sodas, and also savored the avakaaya (the famous Andhra spicy mango pickle). “I eat everything without restrictions except non-vegetarian food. No food item ever harmed my voice,” SPB said once. SPB was also addicted to cigarettes for many years but left it one fine day when his daughter Pallavi pleaded with him not to smoke. “I was addicted to cigarettes. But I stopped just like that when my daughter implored me once,” SPB had said in a popular Telugu TV talk-show three years back.   Another great risk that SPB took that could have been detrimental to his voice, was getting operated, several years ago, to get a nodule formed in his throat removed. “I thought surgery was the best option. When she came to know, Lata Mangeshkar Ji called me and advised against such a step ever. However, I went ahead with the procedure.” Luckily, his voice remained the same. Surprisingly for a singer who sung over 40,000 songs in a career spanning three generations of actors, SPB describes his singing career as unforeseen. Renowned music director SP Kodandapani, with whom Balu shares the same SP surname, gave him the first break after spotting his talent in a singing contest in Madras. Balu’s wedding with his wife Savitri was an adventure on a movie scale. As their elders had some reservations, Balu, with help of friends drove to Bangalore in a car and took her to Visakhapatnam and got married at the famous Simhachalam temple. “We lived away from our families for two years. Later after our kids were born, we were happily reunited,” Balu said.   SPB possessed the expertise of modulating voice to suit the personality of the actor he is singing for like from heroes Kamal Hassan to yesteryear comedians Allu Ramalingaiah. He dubbed for Kamal Hassan in Telugu for a long time; many of Salman Khan’s hit songs were sung by Balu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-you-know-s-p-balasubrahmanyam-was-once-addicted-to-cigarettes-892931.html
25-09-2020||National||2 former employees of Lakshmi Vilas Bank arrested in Religare case||Two former employees of Lakshmi Vilas Bank have been arrested for their alleged involvement in misappropriation of fixed deposit receipts worth Rs 729 crore of Religare Finvest Limited, police said on Friday. In a statement, the Delhi Police said that Pradeep Kumar (57), who was the regional head of Delhi Region and controlled business of northern and eastern areas, and Anjani Kumar Verma (48), a former assistant vice president RMG- Corporate Credit Group at Janpath Branch, have been arrested by its Economic Offences Wing. "Kumar and Verma were holding senior positions in Lakshmi Vilas Bank and in collusion with promoters of REL (Religare Enterprises Limited) -- Malvinder Mohan Singh and Shivinder Mohan Singh -- deliberately did not complete the formalities which are mandatory for loan transaction to benefit the promoters/ accused of RHC Holding Limited and Ranchem Pvt. Limited by extending loan to the entities which the promoters/accused persons used to square off their liabilities," the police said in the statement. The police said a probe was initiated after Manpreet Singh Suri of Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL) had filed a complaint against Malvinder Mohan Singh, Shivinder Mohan Singh and their companies RHC Holding Ltd., Ranchem Pvt. Ltd, and Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd. (LVB) and its then directors/employees. RFL is a group firm of REL which was earlier promoted by the Singh brothers. The Singh brothers were arrested and are still in judicial custody, but further investigation was carried out in the matter to ascertain the role of officials of Lakshmi Vilas Bank, the police said. According to the police's statement, the complainant alleged that in November 2016, RFL had placed an amount of Rs 400 crore in two fixed deposits (FDs) with LVB. These FDs were created by RFL for short-term tenor with intention to keep them free from all and any encumbrance. Thereafter, in January 2017, RFL had placed an additional amount of about Rs 350 crore in another couple of FDs with LVB. These were short-term FDs and were renewed by RFL from time to time till their maturity date in July, 2017, it stated. "However, on July 31, 2017, RFL was shocked to receive an email from LVB with accounts statement with respect to RFL's current account. RFL discovered that LVB had credited the proceeds of the FDs to RFL's current account and subsequently debited from RFL's current account cumulative amount of Rs 723,71,50,920 without any prior intimation to RFL," the police said. "It is further alleged that LVB cheated RFL and misused its public shareholder money entrusted with LVB in its capacity as RFL's banker, thus causing wrongful loss to the complainant company to the tune of Rs 729 crores approximately," the police also said in the statement. Dr O P Mishra, the Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW), said that after preliminary probe, a case was registered on September 23, 2019 under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 120 B (Punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and an investigation was taken up. The officer said, "During investigation, grave irregularities and flouting of rules and regulations by officials of Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd in sanctioning of loans were noticed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-former-employees-of-lakshmi-vilas-bank-arrested-in-religare-case-892939.html
25-09-2020||National||West Bengal Transport Minister Suvendu Adhikari tests positive for Covid-19||West Bengal Transport Minister Suvendu Adhikari has tested positive for Covid-19. Health Department sources said that the Minister had mild symptoms and was under home isolation. Adhikari, an MLA from Nandigram and East Medinipur district is the fourth Minister from Bengal to be infected by the virus. Earlier Food and Supplies Minister Jyotipriya Mullick, Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sujit Bose, and Minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, and Textile Swapan Debnath had tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources Adhikar’s mother also tested positive for the infection and had been hospitalized. Earlier his brother tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-transport-minister-suvendu-adhikari-tests-positive-for-covid-19-892947.html
25-09-2020||National||L Adimoolam elected as new president of Indian Newspaper Society||L Adimoolam of the publication 'Health and The Antiseptic' was on Friday elected as the president of the Indian Newspaper Society (INS), the apex body of publishers of newspapers, magazines and periodicals. Adimoolam will succeed Shailesh Gupta of Mid-Day. In the 81st Annual General Body Meeting of the INS, D D Purkayastha of the Ananda Bazar Patrika was chosen as the Deputy President, Mohit Jain of The Economic Times as the Vice President and Rakesh Sharma of Aaj Samaj was elected as the Honorary Treasurer for the year 2020-21. Mary Paul will be the Secretary General. In his presidential address, outgoing president Gupta said the print media faced "unprecedented challenges" in recent times due to Covid-19 though the earlier part of the year showed signs of economic revival. The Covid-19 lockdown led to a drop in both commercial and government advertising, which has affected the bottom lines of all, and the industry continues to "shrink" with several newspapers "gasping for breath". "Shrinking readership and advertisement revenues, rising costs and an onslaught of digital and social media have taken a huge toll on its financial health. There is thus an urgent need to reinvent, explore new revenue models, effective cost-cutting measures and above all, improve the contents," he said. He said the print media needs to emphasise on quality and credible journalism as advertisers have started to prefer their brands to be associated with credible news sources which was a positive trend. Highlighting the need for the complete withdrawal of 5% customs duty on newsprint, he also said that the industry has managed to impress upon the government to not impose a separate anti-dumping duty on newsprint, which has been advocated by the newsprint manufacturers. Gupta also found fault with the new Print Media Advertisement Policy, 2020, saying that it was "arbitrary, unjustified and discriminatory and against the interests" of newspapers, especially from the small and medium categories. With the print media facing competition from the social media giants that defy the conventional definition of media, he said the INS has taken up the issue with Google India and Facebook to enable print media to get a fair share from the tech giants because they are using the content generated by others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/l-adimoolam-elected-as-new-president-of-indian-newspaper-society-892960.html
25-09-2020||National||New medical education regulator comes into effect from today||In a long-awaited reform, India's new medical education regulator, National Medical Commission came into effect from Friday replacing the 87-year-old corruption-riddled Medical Council of India. Though the MCI was suspended for the last ten years with a Board of Governors running the show, the Union Health Ministry has now issued four notifications abolishing the council and setting up the commission as well as four boards that would regulate the medical education sector and keep an eye on the doctors. After two failed attempts, the Parliament last year passed the National Medical Commission law culminating a process that began nearly 15 years ago. The 33-member commission would be headed by Suresh Chandra Sharma, a retired professor and head of the department (ENT) at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. The 33-member commission has 19 doctors representing the state governments and state medical councils besides 9 ex-officio members, three independent experts, and the member secretary. "There was a need for revamp in MCI was given—there were too many allegations of corruption, inefficiency, and bureaucracy impeding quality medical education in the country. One of NMC’s premises is that it will help us move away from the MCI ‘inspector-raj’,” Anant Bhan, a researcher of bioethics and health policy and past president of the International Association of Bioethics told DH However, he cautioned that it remained to be seen how the mechanisms of governance and regulation of medical education will be operationalised and implemented under the NMC. As per the law, the NMC would function through four autonomous boards to regulate (1) undergraduate medical education (2) postgraduate medical education (3) medical assessment and rating, and (4) ethics and medical registration. The composition of these boards has also been announced. Describing the change as historic, the ministry in a statement said, "The basic change that has happened is that the regulator is now 'selected' on merits, as opposed to an 'elected' regulator. Men and women with impeccable integrity, professionalism, experience, and stature have been now placed at the helm to steer the medical education reforms further." Some of the tasks cut out for the NMC is to reduce the cost of medical education and creating a middle-level public health cadre to take care of the unmet public health needs in the countryside and small towns. The commission is likely to face stiff opposition on both fronts. “The continuing introduction of mid-level health providers such as community health officers, which will now be further enabled by the NMC, may continue to cause consternation with IMA and other organizations which see it as being inimical to doctors,” Bhan noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-medical-education-regulator-comes-into-effect-from-today-892964.html
25-09-2020||National||Kamal Haasan on SP Balasubrahmanyam: He was part of my first love, marriage and melancholy||Superstar Kamal Haasan on Friday said he looks back at his five-decade-long bond with legendary singer SP Balasubramanyam as an act of fate, where the latter became an inseparable part of his life. Balasubrahmanyam, 74, died on Friday after being admitted to a hospital on August 5. He had tested positive for Covid-19. In his glorious career of over 50 years, SPB, as the singer was fondly called, was known as the voice of Haasan, not only dubbing for his films in Telugu but singing songs for him, most notably in the 1981 blockbuster "Ek Duje Ke Liye". The film marked the singer's Hindi debut and he continued singing for Haasan in movies like "Zara Si Zindagi", "Ek Nai Paheli", "Dekha Pyar Tumhara" and "Appu Raja" among others. Over a virtual press conference, the 65-year-old actor described SPB as his "greatest public relations man" as he would always shower love and praise on him. "I heard him first before I saw him. Like everyone else, he has been a part of my romance, melancholy, part of my happiness, first love and marriage as well. "I used to complain to him that it's only your songs that got me into marriage! That's the kind of relationship (I had with him)," Haasan told reporters. The actor said it would be impossible to recollect the first time he met SPB as it's similar to recalling "the first time you saw your mother”. Haasan credited fans for their union as artistes. "We were knitted together by popular choice. It was not like we chose each other. The audience chose us. Since they loved us as a pair, we started falling in love and later became brothers." A six-time national award winner, Balasubrahmanyam, who had sung over 40,000 songs, was also honoured with Padma Shri in 2001 and Padma Bhushan in 2011. Haasan said though his achivements were endless, Balasubrahmanyam was not a man blinded by success. "He never carried his fame with him. When he completed recording 30,000 songs, I wanted to speak about it but he requested not to as it won't look nice, look like we are showing off. That's what I liked about him. He took criticism and applause in the same way... "To sing more than 40,000 songs is not an easy feat. If Covid had not hit him, he would still be singing, recording everyday. He died with his boots on." Balasubrahmanyam blurred geographical boundaries, crossed language barriers and left an indelible mark with his work across Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Hindi and Malayalam film industries. Haasan said limiting him to just one state would be objectionable to his fans in other regions. "He is not just a Tamil or Telugu singer. He is a national voice and that's how we should celebrate him." The singer's legacy, Haasan said, would be that of kindness. Balasubrahmanyam's humility "was not a mask" and he would often extend the same kindness he received as a young singer to the new artistes working with him, the actor said. "He wanted to improve, he admired new talents and worked with them kindly. He never forgot the kindness which was offered to him as a young singer and imparted it those young talents who worked with him. That's why he could move with times. "I never spoke about his singing. The world did. I would just be there, brimming with tears, proud of my brother," Haasan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-haasan-on-sp-balasubrahmanyam-he-was-part-of-my-first-love-marriage-and-melancholy-892971.html
25-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi speaks to Japan's Yoshihide Suga; agrees to strengthen all-round partnership||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga and said they agreed that stronger India-Japan ties would help meet the challenges of the current regional and global situation.  "Had a very good conversation with PM Suga Yoshihide. We exchanged views on the tremendous progress in our relationship in the last few years, and the future direction of our Special Strategic and Global Partnership. @sugawitter," Modi tweeted on Friday.  He added, "We agreed that stronger India-Japan ties would help meet the challenges of the current regional and global situation. I look forward to working with PM Suga to further strengthen our all-round partnership."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-speaks-to-japans-yoshihide-suga-agrees-to-strengthen-all-round-partnership-892975.html
25-09-2020||National||As farmers' protest rages on, PM Modi asks BJP to counter rumours||On a day the farmer protests broke out in a number of states and the Bihar Assembly election dates were announced, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reminded BJP workers of their “responsibility to protect farmers from rumours” and the party has planned a fortnight awareness campaign on three Farm Bills, which the Opposition has described as ‘death warrant” for the farming community. “Those always speaking lies to farmers are again trying to mislead them to suit their political interests. It is the responsibility of BJP workers to protect the farmers from such rumours and explain to them the importance of the farm sector reforms in easily comprehensible language,” Modi said, exhorting the BJP workers to puncture the propaganda of the Opposition.   Addressing the BJP leaders and workers on the birth anniversary of party's ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay, Modi asked the party workers to expose those who always "lied" to farmers are now "shooting from their shoulders" and “misleading” them for their own political benefit. Having burnt its fingers twice over farmer issues in the past, once in 2015 after the protest against Land Bill and then the loss of Madhya Pradesh in 2018 after the killing of six farmers in police firing, BJP has gone in aggressive campaign mode to counter the Opposition charges—from door to door and village level meetings. While the BJP MPs and leaders in seven states including farm-agitation hit Punjab and Haryana as well as Rajasthan, Delhi has already been directed to start the public awareness campaign on the Bills from September 25, such an exercise will also be carried out in other states including Bihar, which goes to polls this year, West Bengal, where elections will be held in 2021 and Uttar Pradesh, where elections will be held in 2022. The central leadership in its missive has asked the state units to counter the Opposition ‘campaign of falsehood’ on this issue during the 15-day Jan Jagaran Abhiyan. The tone and the tenor at the birth anniversary of Upadhyay also gave a clear inkling that the BJP, which had to do a somersault on the Land Bill issue in 2015, is in no mood to blink this time and would rather go for a long haul and try to convince the farmers how the newly-passed farm legislations are not anti-farmer and will launch campaigns and meetings to call out the Opposition on this issue even as the latter feels that it has got an issue to put the ruling party on the mat. Immediately after the Bills were passed on Sunday, BJP fielded its farmer face in Northern India Rajnath Singh, who repeatedly said “I am also a farmer” as he tried to clear the misgivings of farmers on the Bills. In the very next cabinet meeting, the government announced a rise in the MSP, giving a message that it is committed to protecting it. The understanding in the BJP is that they have four years to govern and the benefits of the legislation will start occurring to the farmers not before long, which will take away the steam out of the Opposition campaign eventually. Asserting that for the first time in decades the government has framed laws that benefit farmers, Modi said that the farmers were kept in a trap of laws due to which they could not sell their produce according to their choice. “This led to a situation in which despite the increase in their produce, their income did not rise and loans kept piling upon them, a situation which the NDA government repeatedly tried to change.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-farmers-protest-rages-on-pm-modi-asks-bjp-to-counter-rumours-892980.html
25-09-2020||National||NHAI agrees to 25 suggestions by developers body NHBF to ease highway construction||To resolve issues and speed up construction of highway projects, the government on Friday said the NHAI has agreed to most of the suggestions made by the highways builders body NHBF. The suggestions were made pertaining to nine areas that included Covid-19 relief, bidding process, contract management, EPC (engineering, procurement and construction), HAM (hybrid annuity mode) and BOT (build, operate and transfer) agreements and project preparations. "In order to resolve issues and increase the pace of construction of highway projects, NHAI has agreed to most of the suggestions made by the National Highways Builders Federation (NHBF) related to project delivery," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. The suggestions made by the NHBF were deliberated by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for proper redressal and the authority has agreed to 25 suggestions which were related to the NHAI, it said adding that the authority has assured that all good suggestions shall be positively considered in future too. Other suggestions pertaining to policy related matters have been sent to the ministry for consideration. Some of the key suggestions accepted by the NHAI include extension of time to contractor/ concessionaire for construction period without imposition of any cost or penalty by the project director up to 3 months and regional officer for more than three months and up to six months in view of Covid-19. Other suggestions included providing DPR (detailed project report) along with Network Survey Vehicle (NSV)/data as per availability to the bidders by the NHAI and making available all survey data collected by DPR consultants to agencies under one platform through 'Data Lake' in order to enable the bidder to have an assessment of road condition at the time of bidding. It also included ensuring timely payments to vendors. The NHAI in the past has also taken various initiatives from time to time to support concessionaires. In March 2020, the NHAI disbursed Rs 10,000 crore through online payments and ensured that no payments remain pending due to closure of office during the lockdown. In the first quarter of the current financial year, the NHAI disbursed more than Rs 15,000 crore to the vendors. Additionally, steps such as monthly payments to the contractors were taken to ensure cash flow to the contractors. Such moderations resulted in spiraling effect on the growth of the road sector, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-agrees-to-25-suggestions-by-developers-body-nhbf-to-ease-highway-construction-892985.html
25-09-2020||National||Fact check: PM Modi’s edited clip shared to claim he made the ‘potato-gold’ machine remark||The reality of Aloo se Sona. A quick scroll through the comments on the video reveals that people indeed believe PM Modi had originally made the statement.   Both the videos – one shared by Congress supporters and the YouTube video on BJP’s channel – start from the same point in his speech. PM Modi can be heard saying, “We have taken the initiative to create clusters for potatoes. A few months ago, we drafted a big policy related to the exports of farmers’ produce. Work is in progress to implement this policy…” It may be noted that after the phrase “we drafted a big policy” the viral video plays the ‘potatoes-gold’ machine remark. However, in the original video, PM Modi says, “Work is in progress to implement this policy.”  There is also a jump-cut in the phrase “I make gold from potatoes…” We will explain how several clippings from the full video were merged. Therefore, a poorly edited video was used to ascribe the remark to PM Modi. It is noteworthy that PM Modi has also falsely attributed the statement to Rahul Gandhi. He said, “In our country, there are such intelligent and bright people who make gold out of potatoes.” In reality, Rahul Gandhi never made such a claim. On November 12, 2017, the Congress leader took a jibe at PM Modi, “A few months ago, there was a flood when (PM Modi) said ‘I will give 500 crores’. He didn’t give a single penny. He told potato farmers that he procure a machine where if you insert a potato from one end, gold will come out from the other end. This is are not my words. These are Modiji’s words.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-pm-modi-s-edited-clip-shared-to-claim-he-made-the-potato-gold-machine-remark-892987.html
25-09-2020||National||New Parliament building to be ready in 21 months: Om Birla||Construction on the new Parliament building has started and it would be completed within the next 21 months, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday. According to Birla, the new building, part of the Central Vista redevelopment plan, will come up on a 13 acre plot opposite the existing 93-year-old Parliament building that houses the reception barracks for secretarial and security staff and a small in-house nursery. “The total expenditure on the construction of the new building is Rs 892 crore,” the Lok Sabha Speaker said. The new Parliament building with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square, as against the 8,838 meter square area of the old building. Earlier this month, Tata Projects was awarded the tender to construct the new building complex. The project has been mired in controversy with opposition parties such as the Congress, NCP, Trinamool, DMK terming the expenditure on the new Parliament building as “wasteful”, particularly at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic. The existing Parliament building was commissioned in 1927 and ranks among the Grade-I heritage structures in the country. “Its facilities and amenities are highly inadequate to meet the current demand of Parliament. There is an acute shortage of office space and there are no individual chambers for Members of Parliament. This building was not meant to be for bicameral Parliament and has been over-stressed through large scale retrofitting done over the years,” Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. Puri rejected the opposition allegations of the project being a wasteful expenditure. “In the current economic scenario, the project shall generate a large number of direct and indirect employment which could be an important fulcrum for economic revival,” the minister had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-parliament-building-to-be-ready-in-21-months-om-birla-892988.html
25-09-2020||National||Bihar Assembly Polls: EC issues counting day guidelines to ensure social distancing||To ensure distancing norms during the counting of votes in Bihar, the Election Commission has issued guidelines which include reduction in the number of counting tables along with an increase in the number of counting halls to ensure that results are not delayed. The EC said no more than seven counting tables, instead of 14 counting tables, should be allowed in a counting hall. "Hence, counting of votes of a constituency may be considered at 3-4 halls by appointing additional assistant returning officers," the EC said on Friday. According to guidelines, strong rooms should be sanitised before storing the EVMs used in elections. It has also directed that carrying cases of EVMs and paper trail machines should be sanitised before placing them over counting tables. The results from the control units should be displayed on a large screen to avoid accommodation of a large number of counting agents. One control unit and at least one ballot unit makes for one EVM. If required, postal ballots may also be counted in a separate hall under the supervision of the returning officer or the assistant returning officer, it said. Like in the past, the commission has roped in Investigation Directorate of the Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate, Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU-IND), DRI, RPF, Commercial Tax Department and Narcotics Control Bureau to monitor election expenditure of candidates and to prevent misuse of money power to influence voters. The Investigation Directorate of Income Tax Department has been asked to activate Air Intelligence Units in the airports of Bihar and also to gather intelligence and take necessary action to check movement of large sums of money in the state, the commission said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-assembly-polls-ec-issues-counting-day-guidelines-to-ensure-social-distancing-892991.html
25-09-2020||National||Indian market should be captured by domestic players: Pratap Chandra Sarangi||Union Minister Pratap Chandra Sarangi on Friday called for efforts by the local industry to capture the country's huge domestic market, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' or a self-reliant India. Addressing a virtual conference organised by industry body Assocham, the minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) said, "India is a big market and our domestic market should be captured by us." Citing an example, he said earlier the market depended on China and Vietnam for bamboo for making incense sticks (agarbatti), but now the duty has been increased to 25 per cent. The Centre recently shifted agarbatti from free trade to 'restricted' trade category in the import policy and enhanced the import duty from 10 per cent to 25 per cent on 'round bamboo sticks' used for manufacturing incense sticks in an effort to boost the domestic industry. Elaborating on the role and need of technology, especially in these pandemic times, the minister called for its adoption keeping sustainability in mind. "All sectors have been adversely impacted by Covid including MSMEs which employ a lot of people. Technology gives us the opportunity to bring our life back on the tracks and is a boon in many ways if used correctly. We now need eco-friendly tech focusing on sustainable, balanced and harmonious growth," he noted.  Technology can also be applied in remote areas and enable rural artisans to access global markets, he pointed out. MSMEs have gained increased attention in India in the recent times, considering their strategic importance to the economy. However, they face several challenges, including the need to keep pace with rapidly changing technologies and high cost of credit. There are 63.8 million MSMEs in various sectors, employing close to 111 million people. Of these, around 14 per cent are women led-enterprises, and close to 59.5 per cent are based in rural areas. In all, the MSME sector accounts for 31 per cent of India's GDP and 48 per cent of its exports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-market-should-be-captured-by-domestic-players-pratap-chandra-sarangi-892995.html
25-09-2020||National||Centre is authority competent to transfer IAS officer from one cadre to another: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Friday said that the Central government is the authority competent to transfer a 2013-batch IAS officer, who took on transport mafia in Bihar, from one cadre to another. The apex court granted liberty to the IAS officer, who is fighting a legal battle for his inter-cadre transfer, to make a fresh representation to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) within two weeks in this regard in light of the Delhi High Court’s last year decision. The high court had in July last year asked the Centre to initiate the process of inter-cadre transfer of IAS officer Jitendra Gupta forthwith and issue an order transferring him to a cadre outside the Bihar cadre. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the representation may be considered by the competent authority “sympathetically” and appropriate decision be communicated within two months from the date of receipt of representation. “The proceedings of inter-cadre transfer are awaiting finalization for the last more than two years. The appellant (Gupta) who is ready to render his services in any other state, which state needs to utilize his services for the welfare of the people. There is no doubt that it is the Central Government which is authority competent to transfer the appellant from one cadre to another,” the bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, said in its order. The apex court delivered the order on Gupta’s plea challenging the high court’s order of December 24 last year which had rejected his plea seeking initiation of contempt action against the authority concerned for allegedly not complying with the directions given by a division bench of the high court in its July last year verdict. In its order, the top court said that the officer cannot insist that he should be transferred to Haryana. “We, however, are inclined to grant a liberty to the appellant (Gupta) to make a fresh representation to the Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India in reference to letter dated December 13, 2019 within two weeks from today with regard to his inter-cadre transfer in light of judgment of Delhi High Court dated July 2, 2019,” the bench said. “It shall be open for the appellant to give his willingness/consent with regard to any other state. The representation may be considered by the competent authority sympathetically and appropriate decision be communicated at an early date preferably within two months from the date of receipt of the representation,” it said. After the high court’s July last year order, a letter dated December 13, 2019 was issued by the Centre to Gupta to convey his willingness or consent for inter cadre transfer to Nagaland, Andhra Pradesh or Manipur cadre which are having the maximum shortage of IAS officer as on date so that the matter could be considered further in the department. During the arguments before the apex court, Gupta’s counsel had argued that the high court’s July last year order has not been complied with by the authority. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had submitted that no contempt was committed by the authority and under the high court’s July last year order, the Centre was to take decision regarding inter-cadre transfer of Gupta as per law. “In the facts of the present case, we are of the view that present was not a case of any willful disobedience of the direction of the High Court dated July 2, 2019 and the high court rightly refused to initiate contempt proceedings,” the bench said, while disposing of the appeal. It said that the apex court had earlier passed two orders in the matter with the hope that the matter “may be amicably settled”. A division bench of the high court had in July last year said that “willingness/consent” of Gupta be also sought for inter-cadre transfer as per law and the entire process be completed within four weeks. "If we fail in our duty to protect a man, who has had the nerve to stand up against a mafia and the State machinery, we would be doing great disservice to the system and setting a bad precedent, where no officer would gather the courage to stand up against the wrongdoers,” the high court had said. Before the high court, Gupta had sought transfer to Haryana alleging threat to his life for acting tough against the transport mafia in Bihar. The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) had earlier directed the Centre to consider the case of the officer for inter-state deputation to Haryana or for central government deputation. Thereafter, Bihar government had challenged the CAT order before the high court. In 2016, Gupta was arrested in a corruption case and was sent to jail. He was later granted bail and the FIR was quashed following Patna High Court's order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-is-authority-competent-to-transfer-ias-officer-from-one-cadre-to-another-supreme-court-893001.html
25-09-2020||National||Election Commission to take call on bypolls on September 29||The Election Commission (EC) will take a call on holding the bypolls in a parliamentary constituency in Bihar and 64 assembly constituencies in 14 states across the country on September 29. Though the poll-panel announced the schedule of holding the assembly elections in Bihar on Friday, it did not do so for the pending bypolls. It had earlier decided that all the bypolls would be held along with the general elections to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar. The commission, however, of late received representations from the governments of some of the states about conducting the bye-elections. The poll-panel would study the views expressed by the state governments during a meeting on Tuesday, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said. The 65 bypolls pending across the country include the one required to be held in Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency in Bihar. The assembly constituencies, where by-elections will be held, include Sira in Karnataka. The vacancy was created as the Janata Dal (Secular) MLA B Sathyanarayana passed away early last month. The other assembly constituencies, where bye-elections are due, include 27 in Madhya Pradesh, where most of the vacancies were created in March as the MLAs followed Jyotiraditya Scindia left the Congress to join the Bharatiya Janata Party leading to a change of regime in Bhopal||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-to-take-call-on-bypolls-on-september-29-893009.html
25-09-2020||National||Businesses to display 'best before date' of loose sweets from Oct 1: FSSAI||Next week onward when you walk into a sweet shop, you would immediately know which of the items are to be picked up for your family and friends – the trays in the showcase will carry the “Best-Before” date.  The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India on Friday came up with an order making it mandatory for all sweet shop owners to display the Best Before Date depending on the local weather conditions. This will come into effect from October 1. It has been decided that in case of non-packaged or loose sweets, the container (tray) holding sweets at the outlet for sale should display the “Best Before Date” of the product mandatorily, the FSSAI said in the order. Almost all packaged food products now carry such a date informing the consumers if it’s alright to purchase the items. Besides the Best Before the date, the sweet business owners can also display the date of manufacturing, but that would be voluntary and non-binding, The order comes weeks before Dussehra and Diwali festivities when demand for the sweetmeat rises sharply. While the date would have to be determined by keeping the nature of the product and local conditions in mind, according to a guidance note prepared by the FSSAI on traditional milk products the Bengali sweets and those made out of milk should be consumed within two days whereas laddoo and khoya sweets can be consumed within four days of making. The sweets made of ghee and dry fruits have a shelf life of a week. The food regulator has also asked the manufacturers of edible oils not to blend any other vegetable oil with mustard oil to keep its purity intact. “From Oct 1, no manufacturing of blended edible vegetable oil with mustard oil as an ingredient shall be allowed,” the FSSAI said in another order. While earlier an admixture of two vegetable oils in which one component has to be a minimum of 20% by weight was allowed, the government decided to prohibit such blending in the case of mustard oil for domestic consumption in the public interest, the FSSAI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/businesses-to-display-best-before-date-of-loose-sweets-from-oct-1-fssai-893010.html
25-09-2020||National||Adani, Tata, GMR among 43 firms to show interest in CSMT redevelopment project: Railways||Tata Projects, Adani Group, Larsen & Toubro, and GMR Group were among 43 prospective bidders who attended a pre-bid meeting on Friday for the redevelopment of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus of the railways in Mumbai, a UNESCO World Heritage site. According to a railway ministry statement, the Rs 1,642-crore redevelopment project encapsulates integration of various modes to make the iconic railway station a multi-modal transport hub. The total real estate built-up area is 25 lakh square feet and the construction period is of four years, it said. The cost of the real estate around it is Rs 1,433 crore. The Niti Aayog CEO and the Railway Board Chairman and CEO chaired the pre-bid meeting via digital platform. The meeting was attended by representatives of 43 prospective bidders, including Adani Group, Tata Projects Ltd., Eldeco, GMR Group, JKB Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd, SNCF Hubs and Connexions, I Squared Capital, Kalpataru Power Transmission Ltd., Ace Urban developers, GR Infrastructure, Essel Group, and Larsen & Toubro. The meeting was also attended by architects (namely BDP Singapore, Hafeez Contractor, AECOM), fund houses (namely Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holdings Ltd., Brookfield), consultancy firms (namely JLL, Boston Consultancy Group, KPMG, PwC India, EY), and embassies namely the British High Commission. Invest India, set up by DPIIT which is the national investment promotion and facilitation agency that helps investors looking for investment opportunities and options in India, also attended the meet. CSMT is a historic station and UNESCO World Heritage site located in the heart of Mumbai city. The redevelopment plan will include segregation of arrival and departure, divyang friendly station, better level of services for passengers, energy efficient building and restoring the heritage site as per its 1930 levels. The CSMT railway station will function like a city centre rail mall where, in addition to a passenger's transportation needs, his daily needs like retail, food and beverage, entertainment, souvenir shopping are also fulfilled. The aim is that most of his daily needs are catered to by visiting the railway station thus avoiding unnecessary travel within the city. The Request for Qualification (RFQ) for redevelopment of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus on public-private partnership (PPP) mode has been invited by Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC). During the pre-bid meeting, it was highlighted that at the RFQ stage the applicants would need to fulfil only the financial criteria, and the technical eligibility criteria has been dispensed with. The selected bidder at the RFP stage shall take up the redevelopment of the railway station and commercial development of the surrounding railway land on leasehold basis for 60 years for commercial development and up to 99 years for residential development on selected plots, along with operation and maintenance of the station for 60 years on concession basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adani-tata-gmr-among-43-firms-to-show-interest-in-csmt-redevelopment-project-railways-893019.html
25-09-2020||National||India rejects China's push for starting disengagement process from southern bank of Pangong lake||At the recent military talks, the Chinese PLA pushed for starting the disengagement process from the southern bank of Pangong lake but the Indian Army conveyed that steps to defuse the standoff in eastern Ladakh should simultaneously cover all the friction points, government sources said here on Friday. Though differences and contrasting views between the armies of India and China on the disengagement process marked the talks, both sides were on the same page that care should be taken to ensure that the overall situation in eastern Ladakh does not escalate, the sources said. The Indian side also told the Chinese delegation that the talks on disengagement should include Depsang as well as all face-off sites, insisting that it should be a simultaneous process and not a selective one, they said. It also conveyed to the Chinese side that as the standoff began in early May due to aggressive actions by the Chinese troops, they should take the lead in disengaging from the friction points. The Indian side made it clear to the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) that any misadventure or aggressive behaviour by it will be met with firmly as India was determined to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. In the aftermath of the Galwan Valley clashes in mid-June, the government had given the Army the free hand to firmly deal with any Chinese action including use of firearms. The Corps commander-level meeting on Monday took place in the backdrop of deteriorating situation in the Chushul sector following three incidents of shots being fired in the air by the PLA soldiers since the intervening night of August 29 and 30. Following the incidents, India had occupied at least 20 strategic heights around southern and northern banks of Pangong lake. It has been communicated to the Chinese side that the Indian Army will also not hesitate to resort to use of firearms in extreme circumstances to protect the country's territory in case Chinese troops resort to unacceptable level of aggression, the sources said. The Indian Army conveyed to the PLA that the strategic heights occupied by the former around the southern bank of Pangong lake since August 29 were well within the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and there was no question of withdrawing the troops from them,they said. At the talks, the two sides agreed not to escalate the situation by announcing a series of measures. However, there was no breakthrough on the disengagement process. The sources said a series of talks will be required for the disengagement process to begin with. They said once peace and tranquility returns in eastern Ladakh, the two sides may think of new confidence building measures(CBMs) as decided at a meeting between the foreign ministers of the two countries in Moscow on September 10. The new CBM in eastern Ladakh could include patrolling certain areas by two sides every alternate week. A similar arrangement is already in place in certain areas along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh. India on Thursday said it is necessary to ensure stability on the ground while the two sides work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction areas in eastern Ladakh. At a virtual media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said disengagement is a complex process which would require mutually agreed "reciprocal actions", and the way ahead will be to refrain from making any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo. The situation in eastern escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the clashes in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side acknowledged suffering casualties, but it is yet to divulge the details. The situation further deteriorated following at least three attempts by the soldiers of the PLA to "intimidate" Indian troops along the northern and southern bank of Pangong lake area in the last three weeks where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the LAC in 45 years. As the tensions escalated further, External Affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi held talks on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meet in Moscow on September 10 where they reached a five-point agreement to defuse the situation in eastern Ladakh. The agreement was the basis for the sixth round of Corps commander-level talks on Monday which was also attended for the first time by a joint secretary from the MEA. The agreement aimed at ending the tense standoff included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-chinas-push-for-starting-disengagement-process-from-southern-bank-of-pangong-lake-893023.html
25-09-2020||National||Vodafone wins retro tax fight against India; govt to study tribunal award||British telecom giant Vodafone Group plc on Friday won an arbitration against the Indian government over its demand for Rs 22,100 crore in taxes using retrospective legislation. However, the Centre said it will study the arbitration award on decide on its future course of action. The international arbitration tribunal ruled that India's demand in past taxes was in breach of fair treatment under a bilateral investment protection pact. "Vodafone confirms that the investment treaty tribunal found in Vodafone's favour," the British firm said in a statement. "This was a unanimous decision, including India's appointed arbitrator Rodrigo Oreamuno. The tribunal held that any attempt by India to enforce the tax demand would be a violation of India's international law obligations." The government said it will be studying the award and all its aspects carefully in consultation with its counsels. "After such consultations, the government will consider all options and take a decision on further course of action including legal remedies before appropriate fora," the finance ministry said in a statement. Meanwhile, sources with direct knowledge of the matter said the Government of India's liability will be restricted to about Rs 75 crore in cost refunds. As per the award, the government has to reimburse Vodafone 60 per cent of its legal costs and half of the 6,000 Euros cost borne by Vodafone for appointing an arbitrator on the panel. The arbitration tribunal said India's "conduct in respect of the imposition" of tax demand on Vodafone "notwithstanding the Supreme Court judgement is in breach of the guarantee of fair and equitable treatment" in the bilateral investment protection treaty. Vodafone had before the arbitration tribunal challenged India's usage of a 2012 legislation that gave it powers to retrospectively tax deals like Vodafone's USD 11 billion acquisition of 67 per cent stake in the mobile phone business owned by Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. It challenged the demand of Rs 7,990 crore in capital gains taxes (Rs 22,100 crore after including interest and penalty) under the Netherlands-India Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT). Sources said the tax demand was on the UK-listed company and Vodafone's India venture faced no liability. Vodafone merged its India operations with billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla's conglomerate but the combined entity Vodafone Idea Ltd is facing a USD 7.8 billion bill in past statutory dues. Tax authorities had in September 2007 served notice to Vodafone International Holdings BV (VIHBV) for its alleged failure to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd. Vodafone challenged this in the Supreme Court, which in January 2012 set it aside, saying the transaction was not taxable in India and so the company had no obligation to withhold tax. In May that year, Parliament passed the Finance Act 2012 that amended various provisions of the Income Tax Act 1961 with retrospective effect to tax any gain on transfer of shares in a non-Indian company which derives substantial value from underlying Indian assets. The company was in January 2013 served a tax notice of Rs 14,200 crore after including interest on the principal amount. A year later, Vodafone challenged the tax demand under the Dutch BIT. Sources said the company in April 2014 served the notice of arbitration after out-of-court dispute resolution talks failed. The tax department in February 2016 served a demand notice of Rs 22,100 crore, including interest accruing since the date of the original demand. Vodafone has always maintained that there is no liability and that it will "continue to defend vigorously any allegation that VIHBV or Vodafone India Ltd is liable to pay tax in connection with the transaction with Hutchison and will continue to exercise all rights to seek redress". Besides Vodafone, the Indian government also used the retrospective tax legislation to seek Rs 10,247 crore from British oil explorer Cairn Energy Plc over a 2006 reorganisation of its Indian businesses. Commenting on the judgment, Kumarmanglam Vijay of J Sagar Associates said, "Vodafone's win in the arbitration against the government in the retrospective taxation of indirect transfers is very significant as it may cause other similarly placed companies to seek arbitral reliefs." "While many bilateral investment treaties have been scrapped by government or modified not to cover taxation within their ambit, this space is likely to witness further action," he said. Soman Chandwari of KS Legal & Associates said the recent Supreme Court judgment providing a 10-year repayment period for debt-ridden telecom companies brought some respite for Vodafone-Idea. "It would be interesting to observe the implications of this decision on other international arbitration cases over retrospective tax claims and cancellation of contracts against companies like Cairn Energy and a dozen others if others were to follow suit," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vodafone-wins-retro-tax-fight-against-india-govt-to-study-tribunal-award-893035.html
25-09-2020||National||India unlikely to revoke PUBG ban despite Tencent licence withdrawal: Source||India is unlikely to revoke a ban on PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds (PUBG) following PUBG Corp's decision to withdraw the mobile game's publishing rights in the country from China's Tencent, a senior government official said on Friday. PUBG, a popular online multiplayer battle game, was among 118 Chinese-origin mobile applications banned by New Delhi earlier this month. That led PUBG Corp, the unit of a South Korean firm behind the game, to announce it would no longer give Tencent Games the rights to publish the game in India. It also said it was exploring ways to provide gaming experiences to Indian users in future. The new ownership structure is, however, unlikely to change things immediately, said the source, declining to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media. "The violent nature of the game has been the cause of many complaints from all quarters," the source said. "That does not change with the change in ownership rights." A spokeswoman for PUBG Corp in South Korea said the company was closely reviewing India's concerns and that it was ready to work on anything that needed improvement. The company has also been in talks with Jio Platforms, the digital unit of Indian conglomerate Reliance Industries, to bring the game back in its biggest market by users. "We had initial talks with Jio Platforms to seek for cooperation opportunities, but nothing has been decided yet," the PUBG spokeswoman told Reuters. Reliance did not respond to a request for comment. While officially New Delhi says it has banned the apps because they collect user data and pose a threat to national security, the move is widely seen as a way to pressure Chinese tech companies following a months-long standoff between India and China along a disputed Himalayan border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-unlikely-to-revoke-pubg-ban-despite-tencent-licence-withdrawal-source-893044.html
25-09-2020||National||India, US, Japan, Australia hold meet on hold meet on Indo-Pacific under Quad framework||Senior officials of India, the US, Japan and Australia on Friday held a virtual meeting under the framework of Quadrilateral coalition or "Quad", focusing on ways to promote peace, security, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region. The meeting took place in the backdrop of China's growing military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region. The foreign ministers of the four-member nations of the "Quad" are set to hold talks in Tokyo next month to further boost their cooperation in the Indo-Pacific. In a statement, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the officials reaffirmed their commitment towards a "free, open, prosperous and inclusive" Indo-Pacific region based on shared values and principles and respect for international law. It said the officials exchanged views on ongoing and proposed practical cooperation in the areas of maritime security, counter-terrorism, connectivity and infrastructure development with the objective of promoting peace, security and stability in the Indo-Pacific. The MEA said the officials reiterated their firm support for ASEAN-centrality and ASEAN-led mechanisms for the Indo-Pacific, and their readiness to work with ASEAN and all other countries towards realising a common and promising vision for the Indo-Pacific. Ten-nation regional grouping Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a major stakeholder in the Indo-Pacific region. "In the context of the ongoing Covid-19 global pandemic, the officials underscored the importance of enhancing the resilience of supply chains and sharing best practices on how to combat the pandemic," it said. A statement by the US said the four countries explored ways to work together in the Mekong sub-region, in the South China Sea, and across the Indo-Pacific to support international law, pluralism, regional stability, and post-pandemic recovery efforts. "Noting the importance of digital connectivity and secure networks, the officials discussed ways to promote the use of trusted vendors, particularly for fifth generation (5G) networks," it said. "They explored ways to enhance coordination on counterterrorism, maritime security, cyber security, and regional connectivity, as well as quality infrastructure based upon international best practices," it added. In November 2017, the four countries gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quadrilateral" coalition or "Quad" to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. India is also expanding bilateral cooperation with Japan, the US and Australia in the Indo-Pacific region. On its part, the US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China's growing clout in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-japan-australia-hold-meet-on-hold-meet-on-indo-pacific-under-quad-framework-893046.html
25-09-2020||National||Fact Check: Photos of Italian artwork viral as ‘dangerous animal’ lurking farms at night||A message warning farmers to say wary of a ‘dangerous animal’ is widely circulating on social media. “It is requested to all farmers to not step out on farms at night. Stay safe, beware, this is an extremely dangerous animal which is now headed to Rajasthan from Gujarat.” सभी किसान भाइयों से निवेदन है कि अकेले खेत में ना जाएं और सुरक्षित रहें सावधान रहें यह बहुत ही खतरनाक जानवर आया है गुजरात से राजस्थान के लिए रवाना हो गया है  Alt News has also received verification requests on its official mobile application.  On October 3, 2018, Maganuco shared videos of her artwork along with pictures going viral on Facebook. She wrote that the creation is a silicon artwork of a hybrid version of an Armadillo. Pictures of numerous such silicon artwork have also been shared on Maganuco’s Instagram page. single piece silicone armadillo hybrid.   Thus pictures of silicon artwork made by an Italian artist are viral with false claims warning farmers to beware of a ‘dangerous animal’ lurking on farms at night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-photos-of-italian-artwork-viral-as-dangerous-animal-lurking-farms-at-night-893051.html
25-09-2020||National||DRDO completes key process relating to Pinaka missiles||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday kick started a key process for production of Pinaka rockets, launchers and related equipment, officials said. They said the DRDO handed over to the Directorate General of Quality Assurance (DGQA) all relevant details for mass production of the Pinaka rocket systems. The DGQA is responsible for ensuring quality specifications and standards of all defence equipment. "An important milestone was achieved today when Authority Holding Sealed Particulars (AHSP) responsibility of Pinaka weapon system was handed over by DRDO to DGQA," the defence ministry said in a statement. The AHSP is the authority responsible for collecting, collating and analysing key defence items in accordance with the laid down procedure. Pinaka is a free flight artillery rocket system having a range of 37.5 km. Pinaka rockets are launched from a multi barrel rocket launcher which has a capability to launch 12 rockets in 44 seconds. The weapon system is designed and developed by Pune-based DRDO lab, Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-completes-key-process-relating-to-pinaka-missiles-893054.html
25-09-2020||National||Navies of India, Japan to hold 3-day mega military exercise from Sept 26||Indian and Japanese navies will hold a three-day mega military exercise beginning Saturday in the North Arabian Sea to further consolidate their operational convergence, officials said. The exercise is taking place in the backdrop of growing concerns over China's military muscle flexing in the Indian Ocean Region as well as in the Indo-Pacific. It will be the first military exercise after the two countries signed a landmark agreement on September 9 that will allow their militaries to access each other's bases for logistics support. The officials said the fourth edition of the India-Japan maritime exercise JIMEX will feature a multitude of advanced exercises across the spectrum of maritime operations, in reflection of high degree of inter-operability and joint operational skills. The JIMEX series of exercises commenced in January 2012 with a special focus on maritime security cooperation. The last edition of JIMEX was conducted in October 2018 off Visakhapatnam coast. "Advanced level of operations and exercises planned during JIMEX-20 are indicative of the continued upswing in Indo-Japanese defence relations and continued efforts by both governments to work closely for a more secure, open and inclusive global commons, in accordance with international regulations," an Indian Navy spokesperson said. He said multi-faceted tactical exercises involving weapon firings, cross deck helicopter operations and complex surface, anti-submarine and air warfare drills will further consolidate coordination between the two navies. Indigenously built stealth destroyer Chennai, Teg Class stealth frigate Tarkash and fleet tanker Deepak will represent the Indian Navy at the exercise. The Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force will be represented by ships Kaga, an Izumo class helicopter destroyer and Ikazuchi, a guided missile destroyer. In addition to ships, a fleet of long range maritime patrol aircraft, helicopters and fighter aircraft will also be part of the exercise, officials said. This week, the Indian and Australian navies carried out a two-day mega exercise in the Indian Ocean Region that featured a range of complex naval manoeuvres, anti-aircraft drills and helicopter operations. In July, the Indian Navy carried out a military exercise with a US Navy carrier strike group led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz off the coast of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The USS Nimitz is the world's largest warship. In the exercise with the US Navy, four frontline warships of the Indian Navy participated. The US carrier strike group was transiting through the Indian Ocean Region on its way from the South China Sea. The Indian Navy carried out a similar exercise with the Japanese navy in June. India has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region with a plethora of warships and submarines following the border row to send across a message to Beijing. The maritime space around the Malacca Strait is very critical for China's supply chain through sea routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navies-of-india-japan-to-hold-3-day-mega-military-exercise-from-sept-26-893055.html
25-09-2020||National||PM Modi to deliver virtual speech at UN General Assembly today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to deliver a virtual address at the annual UN General Assembly on Saturday, official sources said. The UN General Assembly this year is largely being held online due to the coronavirus pandemic. Majority of world leaders are delivering pre-recorded speeches at the summit in New York. The sources said Modi's pre-recorded video statement is expected to be broadcast at the UN General Assembly hall in New York around 9 am local time (6:30 PM IST) and added that he is scheduled as the first speaker in the forenoon. Some of the priority issues for India at the ongoing 75th session of UN General Assembly will be to push for strengthening global action against terrorism, they said. The sources said that India will pitch for more transparency in the process of listing and delisting of terror entities and individuals by the UN sanction committees. Being one of the largest troops contributing nations to the UN, India will also seek to engage intensively in finalising of mandates for the UN peacekeeping mission, they said. The sources said that continuing with active engagement on issues relating to sustainable development and climate change will be another priority for India. India will also highlight its role as a "pharmacy to the world" while elaborating on its contribution to global cooperation against Covid-19 by aiding more than 150 countries, they said. The sources said India's role as a South-South development partner, especially in the context of the India-UN development partnership fund will also be explained at the summit. India will also reiterate its commitment to the idea of global partnership under the sustainable development goals, including on climate change. The sources said India’s priorities will be to ensure inclusive and responsible solutions for international peace and security, effective response to international terrorism, new orientation for a reformed multilateral system, technology for all and streamlining of UN peacekeeping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-deliver-virtual-speech-at-un-general-assembly-today-893061.html
25-09-2020||National||Bihar polls in 3 phases from Oct 28; counting of votes on Nov 10: EC||Voting for Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 in one of the biggest elections globally during the COVID-19 pandemic, followed by counting of votes on November 10, the Election Commission announced on Friday. The ruling NDA in the politically-crucial state will face a challenge from the RJD-Congress alliance, though uncertainty still prevails over the composition of the two main political blocks and about a number of smaller parties as to which way they will go in this battle of alliances. While the BJP-JD(U) alliance and the Congress-RJD combine are firmly in place, a key NDA member LJP and some opposition parties like former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-headed RLSP have kept their options open. The announcement of dates by the Election Commission is likely to speed up the process of political realignment in the coming days. In the outgoing assembly, the RJD has 80 members while the JD (U) has 69. The BJP has 54 seats, Congress has 25, while the remaining seats in the 243-member assembly are held by other parties. The NDA has already announced that JD(U) president and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will be its face for the top job in the state, which has an estimated 7.29 crore voters. The BJP said it is fully prepared for the elections and exuded confidence that it will form the government with a three-fourth majority, while Kumar and his party also welcomed the election dates and said it was confident of a win. The RJD, on the other hand, asserted that people of the state have made up their mind for a change of government. Political activities have already intensified in the state with all major parties having stepped up their efforts in the last few months, despite the pandemic situation, while a number of projects have been announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself for the state in recent weeks. Announcing the poll schedule for the 243-member Bihar assembly, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said voting will begin as usual at 7 am but the period will be extended by one hour until 6 pm, except in the Left Wing Extremism affected areas, so that COVID-19 patients can vote in the last hour of the day. "The world has changed significantly since the last major election in our country, which was held for Delhi assembly, and the COVID-19 pandemic has forced a new normal in every aspect of our life. "Bihar assembly polls will be one of the biggest elections globally to be held during prevailing COVID-19 situation," Arora said. He also said special protocols have been readied for voters who are COVID-positive patients. Besides, all voters will need to wear face masks and pass through thermal scanners at polling booths, where they will also be given hand gloves before they cast their votes. Some parties had demanded deferring the polls due to the pandemic, but Arora said special arrangements have been made for holding the elections during such difficult times. Under the new guidelines, parties will need to ensure that social distancing norms are followed at public gatherings during the poll campaign. The number of people accompanying a candidate for submission of nomination has been restricted to two, while door-to-door campaigns can have a maximum of five people including the candidate. For roadshows, the convoy of vehicles would need to be broken after every five vehicles, instead of 10 vehicles earlier. Announcing the poll schedule at a press conference here, Arora said the number of phases for 243-member Bihar assembly polls has been reduced to three, from five last time, keeping in mind security arrangements and festive season, among other factors. Voting for the first phase on October 28 will cover 71 assembly constituencies, while the second-phase voting on November 3 will cover 94 seats. The third phase of voting on November 7 will cover 78 assembly seats. Counting of votes for all seats will take place on November 10. According to the Election Commission, 7 lakh hand sanitisers, 46 lakh masks, 6 lakh PPE kits, 6.7 lakh face shields and 23 lakh pairs of hand gloves have been arranged for Bihar polls. To ensure voters are not infected with the virus while using the electronic voting machine and signing the register at the polling station, 7.2 crore single-use gloves have also been arranged. Face masks would also be kept handy at polling stations for voters who turn up without wearing one. The poll panel has also extended the option of postal ballot for electors who are marked as persons with disabilities and those above 80 years. Electors who are COVID-19 positive or are suspected of having the infection and in quarantine at home or at an institution can also exercise the postal ballot option. An official explained that this postal ballot facility is different from the one extended to service voters. Here, those willing to use the facility have to fill up a form. Officials then carry the ballot to the residence of such voters and videograph the process to ensure transparency. COVID-19 patients who are quarantined will be allowed to cast their vote at the last hour of the poll day at their respective polling stations, under the supervision of health authorities. Arora further said anyone using social media for mischievous purposes, such as for flaring communal tension, during elections will have to face consequences, while hate speech will be also dealt with harshly by the Election Commission. Keeping in mind distancing norms, the EC has reduced the number of voters per polling station to 1,000 instead of 1,500, resulting in an increase in the number of polling stations. While in 2015 elections, the state had 65,367 polling stations, the number now stands at 1,06,526, an increase of 62.96 per cent. The notification for the first phase of Bihar assembly elections would be issued on October 1, while the last date of nominations would be October 8 and withdrawal of candidature can be done till October 12. For the second phase, notification would be issued on October 9, nominations can be filed till October 16 and candidature can be withdrawn till October 19. The third-phase notification would be issued on October 13, the last date of nominations would be October 20 and the last date for candidature withdrawal has been fixed October 23. Arora further said there are about 18.87 lakh migrants across 38 districts of Bihar, out of which 16.6 lakh are eligible to vote. While 13.93 lakh already had their names on the electoral rolls, 2.3 lakh more have been registered and the process is continuing, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-polls-in-3-phases-from-oct-28-counting-of-votes-on-nov-10-ec-893065.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi's Atmanirbhar Bharat important initiative, says IMF||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) is an important initiative, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said on Thursday. "The economic package under this self-reliant India initiative, which was announced in the aftermath of the coronavirus shock, has supported the Indian economy and mitigated significant downside risks, so we do see that initiative as having been important," Gerry Rice, Director, Communications Department, IMF, told reporters at his fortnightly news conference here. Looking ahead, as the prime minister has said, for India to play a more important part in the global economy, pursuing policies that stimulate by improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy is critical, he said, responding to a question on Modi's call for an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat". "To achieve the stated 'Make For The World' goal in India, the priority is to remain focussed on policies that can help further integrate India in the global value chain, including through trade, investment and technology," Rice said. Responding to another question, he said the IMF's joint study with the NITI Aayog and the Ministry of Finance shows that to achieve a high performance in health-related sustainable development goals, India would need to gradually increase its total spending in the healthcare sector from the current 3.7 per cent of the GDP. "More generally, beyond the health sector, comprehensive structural reforms are needed to achieve more inclusive and sustainable medium-term growth. "We have talked about those reforms before -- infrastructure, land reforms, product market and labour market reforms, increasing female labour force participation, access to finance and better jobs," Rice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modis-atmanirbhar-bharat-important-initiative-says-imf-892699.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Farm Bills remind of East India Company rule: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said the PM Modi-led government's Farm Bills are like a bitter reminder of the East India Company's rule.  Hitting out at the NDA government over the passage of three contentious farm Bills, Gandhi said in a tweet that farmers will be deprived of Minimum Support Price (MSP). "They (farmers) will neither get price nor respect." किसानों से MSP छीन ली जाएगी। उन्हें कांट्रेक्ट फार्मिंग के जरिए खरबपतियों का गुलाम बनने पर मजबूर किया जाएगा। न दाम मिलेगा, न सम्मान।किसान अपने ही खेत पर मजदूर बन जाएगा। भाजपा का कृषि बिल ईस्ट इंडिया कम्पनी राज की याद दिलाता है। On the issue of contract farming, she said, "Farmers will become labourers in their own land." "Farmers are being forced to become labourers of billionaires through contract farming," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-bills-remind-of-east-india-company-rule-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-892704.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Pralhad Joshi on ‘misconduct’ of MPs over Farm Bills||Commenting on the chaos that flared up in Parliament when the Farm Bills were being passed in the Monsoon session this week, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi blasted the Congress Party while calling the incident “a blot on the conduct of the Opposition”. He also said that the way in which the MPs of the 'grand old party' behaved with the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh not only shows ‘sheer frustration’ on their side but also how they don't respect any position or institution. Taking a dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Joshi said, “What else do you expect when you have a leader like Rahul Gandhi? Any democracy can thrive on a strong Opposition, but it looks like Congress is pretty non-serious.” Following the passage of the Farm Bills, various opposition parties took out a silent protest march in the Parliament complex against the contentious Farm Bills passed recently. The protesting MPs carried placards with messages such as "Save Farmers, Save Workers, Save Democracy." They also stood before Gandhi's statue in a line. “If Rahul Gandhi was so serious, why did he miss out on the entire Parliament session? Those who do not have any faith in the Gandhian principles are sitting in front of the Gandhi statue in protest by the orders of the nakli (fake) Gandhis,” he added. With inputs from PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pralhad-joshi-on-misconduct-of-mps-over-farm-bills-892709.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Polls in the time of Pandemic: Bihar to witness country's first direct elections during Covid-19 era||Bihar is set to witness the first direct elections of the country in the Covid-19 era. The Election Commission (EC) is set to announce the schedule of the assembly polls in Bihar on Friday. The commission held indirect polls to fill vacancies in the Rajya Sabha and the legislative councils in the states over the past few months, but the general elections to the Bihar Legislative Assembly will be the first direct one to take place after the Covid-19 pandemic swept the country. The EC on August 21 issued broad guidelines for holding polls at the time of pandemic. It, however, left it to the Chief Electoral Officers in the poll-bound states to frame specific plans for holding elections amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, based on the broad guidelines issued by it. The National Capital Territory of Delhi went to polls on February 8 – a few days after the country’s first case of Covid-19 infection was detected in Kerala. The outbreak turned severe across the country a few weeks later.  Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and the two other Election Commissioners – Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar – will announce the schedule of the elections to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar during a press-conference at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi at 12:30 pm. The EC will have to complete the assembly elections in Bihar by November 29. Over seven crore people are expected to cast votes to elect the 243 members of the state legislative assembly. The poll-panel will also announce the schedule of the by-elections to fill 64 vacancies in the legislative assemblies in the 14 states and one in the Lok Sabha. The 64 assembly constituencies, where bypolls will be held, includes Sira in Karnataka. The vacancy was created as the Janata Dal (Secular) MLA B Sathyanarayana passed away early last month. Besides, the by-elections need to be held in 22 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh too. The vacancies were created in the Madhya Pradesh State Assembly after the MLAs loyal to Jyotiraditya Scindia resigned to leave the Congress to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, leading to a regime change in Bhopal. The EC of late brought down the maximum number of electors to be facilitated at a polling station from 1500 to 1000 to ensure implementation of social distancing norms in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of polling stations in Bihar thus jumped by 40 per cent, from 65,000 to 100,000. The EC’s guideline for conducting polls during Covid-19 require all voters to come with masks on faces. If anyone forgets to do so, they will be provided masks while waiting in the queues before entering polling booths – maintaining six feet distance from each other. They will also get gloves to put on before pressing the buttons on the Electronic Voting Machines. Apart from infrared thermometers for checking the body temperatures of the voters, the polling stations will also have sanitizers, soap and water and all poll officials too will be issued masks, face-shields and gloves to put on. The polling booths will be sanitized, preferably a day before the date of voting.  If a voter running high body temperature turns up at a polling station, she or he will be sent back with a token and asked to come again at the last hour to cast votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/polls-in-the-time-of-pandemic-bihar-to-witness-countrys-first-direct-elections-during-covid-19-era-892713.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||New Farm Bill reforms will 'enslave' farmers, says Rahul Gandhi||Expressing solidarity with the farmers who called a Bharat bandh on Friday to protest the farm bills, the Congress alleged that the legislations will "enslave" farmers and the MSP will be "snatched away" from them, with Rahul Gandhi claiming the laws will foster an East India company-like culture. The three bills were passed by both houses of Parliament during the Monsoon session and are awaiting presidential assent. Gandhi talked to some farmers through video conferencing and said they have no faith in the government, adding the country together opposes these agri-related laws. He said earlier it was the East India company and now it is the West India company that has come to do business. In a short video attached with a tweet, Gandhi said India attained independence with the voice of farmers and once again the country will achieve independence through their strong voice. "One thing is clear after talking to farmers - they do not have even a little faith in the Modi government. The voice of all of us has added to the loud voice of the farmers, and today the entire country together opposes these agricultural laws," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "ISupportBharatBandh". In the video, he said, "these laws have to be opposed, not for farmers but for the future of the country." "The farmer's voice is in the youth, the armed forces, the police. The farmer's voice has strength and India attained independence using this voice. "India became independent through the farmer's voice and once again today India will become independent through farmers' voices," he said in the video. At one point when a farmer said it was like bringing in the East India company once again, Gandhi said earlier it was the East India company, now it is the West India company. "A flawed GST destroyed MSMEs. The new agriculture laws will enslave our farmers," the former Congress chief earlier tweeted. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Randeep Surjewala spoke out against the farm bills and backed the Bharat Bandh. Priyanka hit out at the government, saying the three farm bills brought by it are reminiscent of the "East India Company rule". The MSP (minimum support price) of the farmers will be "snatched away" and they will be forced to become slaves of billionaires through contract farming, she said in a tweet in Hindi. "Neither will they get the price nor respect. Farmers will become labourers in their own land," she alleged. Congress' chief spokesperson Surjewala said the party joins farmers in their struggle. "Farmers are protesting with Bharat Bandh. Their livelihood 'is being snatched' away and the Modi government has attacked their farms," he said in a video message. "There is chaos everywhere. Modi ji swears by farmers, but stays true to his friendship with crony capitalist friends," Surjewala alleged. The Congress and farmers will struggle together and will never allow the Modi government to "mortgage farmers and agriculture at the doorstep of crony capitalists", he said. At a press conference, Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil said the farmers are out on the streets protesting the black laws which are anti-farmer. The Congress is launching a SpeakUp campaign on social media on Saturday in support of the farmers and against the laws. "It's time to speak up for what is right. It's time to speak up for those that give us life. It's time to speak up against those that seek to destroy our nation. It's time to #SpeakUpForFarmers," the Congress said on its Twitter handle. During Rahul Gandhi's interaction with around 10 farmers from across the country, Dhirender Kumar from Champaran, Bihar said, this is an "andha kanoon" (blind law) and the farmers and the poor are being exploited. Pankaj Taniram Matere from Bhandra in Maharashtra said no poor farmer will benefit from these laws and only companies and big people are going to benefit. "If a company buys from the farmer and does not pay, the poor farmer cannot even protest before them as they will beat them up and in that case what will the farmer do and eat," he asked. Amritrao Deshmukh of Dabri in Maharashtra said a large number of farmers have committed suicide here. Rakesh Jakhar of Jhajjar in Haryana said if the farmers are going to benefit from these laws, why the government does not make a law to ensure MSP. "Commission agents through whom the farmer used to sell his produce were called dalals. In fact, the dalals will come now when the farm produce will be sold to the corporate world," he said. As Rahul Gandhi asked why farmers fear that the MSP will go, Om Parkash Dhankar of Jhajjar said the government should guarantee that if anyone buys at below the MSP from farmers it should be considered as a punishable offence. Ashok Bootra of Yavatmal in Maharashtra said the corporates will buy cheap from farmers and will sell three-four times while Rudra Pratap Pandey of Bhojpur in Bihar said the businessmen used to earlier pay some advance but have stopped doing that saying they will not buy paddy. Gajanand Kashinath of Vashim, Maharashtra, said if Mahatma Gandhi was alive, he would have also opposed these laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-farm-bill-reforms-will-enslave-farmers-says-rahul-gandhi-892715.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||EC announces dates for Bihar polls: Key things to know||The Election Commission announced the schedule for Bihar assembly elections on Friday. The polls will take place between October 28 and November 7. The results will be announced on November 10 Key things to know: 1. The term of the 243-member Bihar legislative assembly comes to an end on November 29. 2. Bihar assembly has a strength of 243 members, of whom 38 seats are reserved for SCs and two for STs 3. EC Commissioner Sunil Arora says stringent health and safety protocols will be implemented in these elections. Bihar Assembly Elections 2020 is likely to be one of the biggest elections in the Covid-19 terms, said Arora. 4. 23 lakh gloves, 7 lakh sanitisers, 46 lakh masks, and 6 lakh PPEs to be distributed to voters 5. Polling time increased by one hour: will now take place between 7 am to 6 pm 6. Number of polling booths are being marked so that voters can maintain social distancing. Also, the number of voters in each booth has been reduced from 1,500 to 1,000.Polling stations will be increased to 1,500 7.  Over 1.75 lakh VVPATS will be deployed in the Bihar Assembly Elections 8. All polling stations will be located on the ground floor so that all people with diabilities can also can take 9. Campaigns, road shows will be allowed, but no physical contact will be allowed 10. Covid-19 patients who're quarantined will be able to cast their vote on the last day of poll, at their respective polling stations, under the supervision of health authorities. This is beside the option of the postal facility already extended to them 11. For voters specifically, 7.2 crore single-use hand gloves will be arranged 12. The Model Code of Conduct (MCC) stands enforced with EC's announcement. The Commission has already made elaborate arrangements for ensuring  effective implementation of MCC guidelines 13. Bihar Assembly Elections 2020 to be held in three phases: Phase 1: 71 Assembly Constituencies in 17 districtsPhase 2: 97 Assembly Constituencies in 16 districtsPhase 3: 78 Assembly Constituencies in 15 districts 14. Bihar to vote in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7, respectively. The results will be announced on November 10. 15. Strict action will be taken against hate speech and fake news amid the elections||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-announces-dates-for-bihar-polls-key-things-to-know-892735.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Bhiwandi AIMIM chief, three aides held for extortion||Police have arrested Bhiwandi unit president of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) and his three associates for allegedly kidnapping and extorting money from a builder, an official said on Friday. Mohammad Khalid Shaikh alias Guddu (47), who heads the AIMIM in Bhiwandi town in Thane district, has a number of criminal cases registered against him, police said. DCP (Bhiwandi) Rajkumar Shinde said the police, acting on a tip-off, raided the house of Shaikh and found that the builder had been held captive there. Shaikh and his three associates were asking the builder to pay up Rs 1.25 lakh and had pointed a weapon at him, he said. They were arrested and booked under IPC sections related to kidnapping and extortion, and also provisions of the Arms Act, Shinde said. The Crime Branch is conducting further probe into the case, the police stated. Shaikh faces several criminal cases, including kidnapping, extortion and attempt to murder, in Bhiwandi, Pune, Mumbai, Raigad and also Gujarat, they said. He was earlier a corporator and in the 2019 assembly polls in Maharashtra, had filed his nomination from the Bhiwandi West constituency as the AIMIM candidate, but his papers were rejected during scrutiny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhiwandi-aimim-chief-three-aides-held-for-extortion-892759.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Battle lines drawn in Bihar, but rift in both camps||While Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP is planning to dump the Mahagatbandhan after questioning Tejashwi Yadav’s leadership, the NDA too is plagued with a similar problem with Chirag Paswan showing a sign of no confidence in Nitish’s leadership. The JD(U), which has so far been the traditional ally of the BJP since 1996, barring an intervening period of 2013-17, is more pained at the aggressive stand of its alliance partner - the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The LJP has made a fresh demand that “since people in Bihar have already seen 15 years of Nitish rule and 15 years of Lalu-Rabri regime in the last three decades, so this time a new face, Chirag Paswan, the LJP president and son of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, should be projected as NDA Chief Ministerial candidate.” The statement issued by the LJP general secretary Shahnawaz Ahmed Kaifi, on the eve of EC poll schedule announcement, has exposed the chinks in the NDA armour. “The LJP’s fresh stand comes after the JD(U) made it clear to the BJP that it was not interested in talking to the LJP on seat pact. The BJP, on the other hand, offered Chirag Paswan 25 seats out of 243 constituencies, an offer not acceptable to the Paswan outfit. Hence, the aggression,” a ruling party source explained it to DH on Friday. Past Perfect This is the first time that the JD(U) will be contesting an Assembly election in alliance with the LJP. In 2015, the Nitish outfit contested Assembly polls under Mahagatbandhan umbrella and won 71 seats, while its allies - the RJD and Congress won 80 and 27 seats, respectively. Together the Mahagatbandhan (RJD, JD(U), Congress) won 178 seats, while the BJP could scrape through in 53 constituencies, while the LJP got merely two seats. During the 2010 elections, the NDA comprised only the JD(U) and the BJP. While the JD(U) and the BJP contested on 142 and 101 seats, respectively, it scored a landslide victory, winning 206 seats out of 243 constituencies. The JD(U) bagged 115, while the BJP won 91 seats, taking the NDA tally to a four-fifth majority in the Assembly, a record of sorts (by winning more than 80 per cent of the seats). Notably, the 2010 and 2015 polls were held in five phases. However, the 2020 polls will be held in three phases – on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The counting of votes will take place on November 10, four days ahead of Diwali. The term of the Assembly ends on November 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/battle-lines-drawn-in-bihar-but-rift-in-both-camps-892761.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Government sanctions 670 electric buses, 241 charging stations under FAME scheme||The government on Friday said it has sanctioned 670 electric buses for Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat and Chandigarh and 241 charging stations in Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Gujarat and Port Blair under Phase-II of the FAME India Scheme. Union Heavy Industries minister Prakash Javadekar said the decision reflects the Centre's commitment to reduce dependence on fossil fuel and address the issues of vehicular emissions, and is in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for eco-friendly public transportation. "This is a good start, these e-buses, e-rickshaws and e-scooties as well as e-cars for city use are the best way forward for environment friendly transport," Javadekar said. In a series of tweets, the minister informed that 25 charging stations have been sanctioned in Kollam, 27 in Thiruvananthapuram and 28 in Malappuram (all in Kerala). Besides, 10 charging stations have been sanctioned in Port Blair and 25 in Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu. Javadekar said the setting up of charging stations is a key infrastructure necessity to promote Electric Vehicles. "Already 450 buses are plying in various cities. Now 670 e-buses are sanctioned. Maharashtra has got 240, Gujarat has got 250, Goa has got 100 and Chandigarh has got 80. Kerala and other states have also got e-charging stations because all those corporations who are completing the formalities, we are sanctioning e-buses for them," said the minister. The Department of Heavy Industries under the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, is administering the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme since April, 2015 to promote adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles (xEVs) in India. At present, Phase-II of FAME India Scheme is being implemented for a period of 3 years with effect from April 1, 2019 with a total budgetary support of Rs 10,000 crore. This phase focuses on supporting electrification of public & shared transportation and aims to support, through subsidies, approximately 7,000 e-buses, 5 lakh e-3 wheelers, 55,000 e-4 wheeler passenger cars and 10 lakh e-2 wheelers. In the first phase of the scheme up to March 31, 2019, about 2,80,987 hybrid and electric vehicles were supported by way of demand incentive, amounting to about Rs 359 crore. Further, the department has sanctioned 425 electric and hybrid buses to various cities in the country at a total cost of about Rs 280 crore. It had also sanctioned 520 charging stations for about Rs 43 crore in cities like Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Jaipur and NCR of Delhi under Phase-I of FAME-India Scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-sanctions-670-electric-buses-241-charging-stations-under-fame-scheme-892770.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Disgusting conspiracy against farmers: Randeep Surjewala on Farm Bills||The Congress on Friday termed the agriculture-related bills introduced by the Centre as a "disgusting conspiracy" against the farmers of the country and said it stands firm with them in support of the Bharat Bandh call. At a press conference here, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala described the farm legislations as "black laws". "The Modi government through three black laws has launched a brutal attack on farmers, farm labourers and their livelihoods," Surjewala said on Friday. He said the bills are a "disgusting conspiracy" against the farmers and barns in the country. Surjewala said the country has been attacked by the coronavirus, and by China on the border while "Modi ji has targeted the barns in India". He further said, "Today, farmers and farm labourers have called for a Bharat Bandh across the country and under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi, the Congress Party stands firm with them." Earlier, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot attacked the Modi government, saying "These fascist people do not have faith in democracy, so they keep doing things that divert the attention of the people". He said the way these three bills were passed in Parliament is ''shameful''. Various farmer groups have called for a nationwide shutdown on Friday against the three bills, which were passed by both houses of Parliament during the Monsoon session and await presidential assent. The three bills are the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/disgusting-conspiracy-against-farmers-randeep-surjewala-on-farm-bills-892827.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Bihar Assembly polls will write 'new story' of state's betterment: Chirag Paswan||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which had urged the EC to not hold Bihar assembly elections during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, on Friday welcomed the announcement of its schedule, saying the polls will write a "new story" of betterment in the state. LJP president Chirag Paswan said the state elections will provide the party a chance to present Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream of a "developed Bihar" and its patron Ram Vilas Paswan's work in the state for five decades before the people. In his tweets, he also struck an emotional note, saying that his father remains in hospital and he misses his words of guidance. Ram Vilas Paswan, a Union minister, is hospitalised, and family sources said his condition is stable. Chirag Paswan said that for the first time in the last five decades, his father will not be present in Bihar during the elections and expressed confidence that he will be able to connect with the people of the state digitally. "The dates of the Bihar elections have been announced. The Lok Janshakti Party welcomes the Election Commission's decision. The 2020 elections will write a new story of betterment in Bihar," he said. In its representation to the EC, the LJP had spoken against holding of the Bihar elections amid the coronavirus pandemic and floods in the state. The party has been in a war of words with Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-headed JD(U), another NDA partner, and has indicated that it will put up candidates against that party's nominees. Voting for Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 in one of the biggest elections globally during the pandemic, followed by counting of votes on November 10, the Election Commission announced on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-assembly-polls-will-write-new-story-of-states-betterment-chirag-paswan-892930.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Oppn members boycotted last day of session due to some political compulsions: Om Birla||Opposition members boycotted the last day of the Monsoon Session due to some "political compulsions," Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday, noting that they conveyed they have no issues with him. Birla said he called the floor leaders of all opposition parties for a meeting over a cup of tea and requested them to attend the valedictory proceedings of the house. "The opposition leaders boycotted the last day of the session due to some political compulsions, while they conveyed to me that they had no issues with me," the speaker said. Birla was addressing a press conference here on the conclusion of the Monsoon Session. Underlining that the productivity of the Lok Sabha was at a historic 167 per cent, he said that despite the threat of Covid-19, the average attendance of MPs in the Lower House, during this session, was more than 300 which sends a very positive message and strengthens peoples' faith in democratic institutions. He credited the cooperation from all political parties for higher productivity of the Lower House. "The Lok Sabha sat for 60 hours instead of the allotted time of 37 hours. In fact, despite the curtailment of the session due to Covid-19, the Lok Sabha was able to function optimally with minimal loss of productivity," Birla said. Describing unruly scenes on the last day of the Rajya Sabha as "unfortunate," Birla said he doesn't want to comment on the proceedings of the other House and efforts should be made to further strengthen the democratic institutions. On the issue of the Question Hour, Birla said that members were given ample opportunities to raise matters concerning peoples' welfare through written questions and the Zero Hour. Highlighting the enhanced participation of members during the Zero Hour, Birla said it shows that they were given enough opportunities to express their views and were encouraged to participate in the discussions. Talking about curtailment of the session, Birla said the decision was taken with a consensus in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Monsoon Session of Parliament, which started on September 14, concluded on September 23, eight days before the scheduled end on October 1. When asked about new Parliament building, Birla informed that the construction work has started and it will be completed within 21 months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppn-members-boycotted-last-day-of-session-due-to-some-political-compulsions-om-birla-892957.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Farm bills liberalisation for farmers, opp spreading canards: Sambit Patra||Senior BJP leader Sambit Patra Friday slammed the opposition Congress and TMC for "misleading" the farmers on the farm bills issue and said the reforms will ensure liberalisation in the farm sector for the first time since Independence. He also criticised TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for agreeing to implement the central flagship Ayushman Bharat and PM -Kisan schemes with the rider that the central funds for the same should be channelised through the state administration. "The precondition was meant to allow the TMC cadres to indulge in corruption to extract cut money," he said. Speaking for the farm bills which was passed in Rajya Sabha amid chaotic scenes on Sunday, Patra said "The opposition parties are misleading the farmers on the farm sector bills. The opposition is not saying anything about the provision of the bills. They are spreading rumours that farmers won't get the minimum support price for their produce. "Nowhere in the bill is it written that the farmers won't get the MSP. They will continue to enjoy it like in previous years," Patra said. He said the farmers will have their own choice about whom to sell their produce. "This is not only liberalisation of the agriculture sector but also the liberalisation of every single farmer of the country. The farmers will taste freedom for the first time after Independence," Patra told a press conference. The farm sector reforms have ensured that farmers can sell their products to anyone outside his 'mandi'. This will empower him to sell wherever he gets a better price and grow what fetches him money, he said. The opposition claims that farmers will lose their lands when the bills become laws are only canards to mislead the cultivators, he said. The three bills passed by Parliament are the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Congress, along with many other opposition parties have claimed that the bills will harm the farmers' interests and benefit corporates. This claim has been denied by the Centre, which has asserted that the proposed laws will be beneficial for farmers and increase their income. On Banerjee's recent proposal on implementing Ayushman Bharat and PM -Kisan Samman Nidhi schemes with the rider, Patra said the TMC government is only interested in "cut money". "The TMC government is neither interested in agriculture nor industry. It is only interested in cut money. The TMC government wants the funds from the Centre under these schemes to fill their party coffers ahead of the state assembly election," the national spokesperson of BJP said. Patra also condemned the killing of BJP workers in various parts of Bengal during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-bills-liberalisation-for-farmers-opp-spreading-canards-sambit-patra-892979.html
25-09-2020||National Politics||Deen Dayal Upadhyay's view of Congress-free India realised under PM Modi's leadership: Nadda||BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday said that Bhartiya Jan Sangh co-founder Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay's view of Congress-free India has been realised under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  He was addressing party workers on the birth anniversary of the RSS ideologue through a video conference from New Delhi. Party workers were participating in the event at Deen Dayal Memorial in Dhankya near Jaipur. A railway quarter in Dhankya was the residence of Upadhyay's maternal grandfather, a station master then. He stayed in this village for three to four years before moving to Sikar. "A Congress-free India was conceived by Pandit Deen Dayal ji in the 60s which we have achieved today... A Congress-free India is being realised under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Nadda said.  Upadhyay reinforced his ideology by migrating to every corner of the country in a very short time, he said, adding "today, with his ideology, we have become the largest party in the world". He had said that the ideology which will move forward by creating a balance between every living and non-living thing will only give the right vision and direction. Nadda said thatl Upadhyay was a thinker, organiser and also a person with the power to provide leadership. "Today, Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay has done the work of giving direction and vision to the BJP which has moved ahead with its programs," he said.  He said Modi has clearly said that "if we want to build a self-reliant India, we all have to grow the economy together and strengthen the infrastructure". For this, complete arrangements have been made in self-reliant India, he said.  The BJP chief said that for a long time "we have been saying that education policy should be a reflection of India". The biggest feature of the new education policy is that all the people ideologically have appreciated it, he said. He said that the new education policy gives equal rights and the level of examination has also been changed. Now along with the memory of a child, his ability to understand will also be tested, Nadda added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/deen-dayal-upadhyays-view-of-congress-free-india-realised-under-pm-modis-leadership-nadda-893017.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||2 Haryana BJP leaders Parminder Singh Dhull, Rampal Majra term Farm Bills 'anti-farmer'||Haryana BJP leaders Parminder Singh Dhull and Rampal Majra on Thursday dubbed the Centre's Farm Bills "anti-farmer", claiming that the apprehensions about the minimum support price were not unfounded. The two former legislators said many farmer outfits were protesting against the Centre's farm reforms and their voices should be heard. "These bills are anti-farmers, anti-people. These reforms will deal a blow to the dreams of Sir Chhotu Ram, considered the messiah of farmers, who wanted to see the peasants prosperous and happy," Dhull said. Dhull underlined that at a time economy was adversely affected during the coronavirus pandemic, it was the agriculture sector that gave some hope. "But now, when farmers are protesting against these bills, we should listen to their voice," he said. Dhull said he had a meeting with state BJP chief O P Dhankar on Thursday. "I told him (Dhankar) that we should bring another bill, which will guarantee that nobody will procure crop below the MSP," he said. "When a farmer will have a guarantee that even if he sells outside or if any private player makes an agreement with him, the MSP will be guaranteed, most of his problems will be solved," Dhull said. He said the wholesale market system of Haryana and Punjab were an example for the rest of the country, wondering where would the farmers go if these were weakened. Asked if he would take part in the ongoing farmers' agitation, Dhull said being part of protest or not was not the issue. "But it's important that we stand shoulder to shoulder with peasants and raise their voice. They need our support," he said. Rampal Majra said the apprehension that the MSP would be dismantled was an not exaggeration. "We need to listen to the farmers' voice and address their concerns regarding these anti-farmer reforms," he said. If a private company enters into an agreement with a farmer, nowhere the MSP clause has been put. Farmers also have limited legal remedies in case of dispute and they can approach an area subdivisional magistrate, according to Majra. "Can a small farmer be expected to fight against a big company in case of a dispute?" he asked. Majra said when he was in the INLD, even then, he used to raise voice about what he felt was right. "Now, when I'm in the BJP, it doesn't mean that I will not raise voice in favour of the farmers. The kind of reforms introduced now have failed in many other countries. We should learn a lesson from them," Majra said. Earlier in the day, Dhankar said: "Today, they (Dhull and another leader) had a breakfast with me and appreciated the measures, saying these are in interests of farmers." He commenting on reports that a couple of former MLAs, who had switched over to the BJP from the INLD before the Assembly election last year, had expressed some reservations. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by the Parliament earlier this week. The bills are yet to get the assent of the President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-haryana-bjp-leaders-parminder-singh-dhull-rampal-majra-term-farm-bills-anti-farmer-892654.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Farmers begin protest in Punjab, Haryana over Farm Bills||Farmers on Friday began their protest as part of the 'Punjab Bandh' call against the contentious farm bills that were recently passed in the Parliament. As many as 31 farmer organisations, under ageis of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) have joined hands for the complete shutdown of Punjab. Among farmers' unions which are supporting the bandh call included Bharti Kisan Union Krantikari, Kirti Kisan Union, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and BKU (Lakhowal). Several organisations in Haryana, including the BKU, have also extended support to the nationwide strike called by some farmers' bodies against the bills. Police personnel in adequate strength were deployed across the state to maintain law and order, officials said. While the ruling Congress and the AAP have extended support to the farmers' protest, the Shiromani Akali Dal has announced to hold road blockades. Farmers at several places in the state started gathering at roads for stopping the movement of traffic. Women protesters under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee in Amritsar took out a protest march. Shops and commercial establishments at many places in Punjab remained shut on Friday morning in the wake of farmers' stir. Shopkeepers had been appealed to keep their shops shut in support of farmers. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said farmers would hold protests at over 150 places across the state adding that they were getting support from traders, transporters and taxi operators among others. The Punjab Bandh call is getting support from government employees' unions, singers, commission agents, labourers and social activists. Farmers on Thursday had started a three-day rail blockade against the bills and squatted on tracks at many places in the state. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said on Thursday the state government was fully with the farmers in their fight against the bills and no FIRs would be registered for violation of Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people. The protesters have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system and they would be at the "mercy" of big corporates. The farmers said they would continue their fight till the three farm bills were revoked. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by the Parliament earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-begin-protest-in-punjab-haryana-over-farm-bills-892700.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Two LeT militants killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir||Two Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants were killed in an overnight encounter with the security forces in Bijbehara area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Friday while four civilians were injured after an explosive device went off at the gunfight site later. In a statement on Twitter, a police spokesman said that two militants of LeT outfit were killed in the gunfight that broke out last night. The gunfight erupted at Sirhama area of Bijbehara on Thursday evening after a joint team of Army’s 3-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) on getting ‘specific’ information about the presence of two to three militants in the area. As the search team encircled the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them. The fire was retaliated by the joint team, triggering off an encounter. The operation was put on hold for the night a police official said. However, the entire area was cordoned off and the operation resumed this morning. Sources said after a fresh exchange of fire this morning, the house, where the two militants were holed up, was blasted by the security forces Meanwhile, four civilians were injured after an explosive device went off at the encounter site. A police official said the explosion took place as a group of people were clearing the debris of the house which was damaged in the firefight. In relentless anti-insurgency operations, security forces have killed over 180 militants, including 22 foreigners, in 75 operations across Jammu and Kashmir this year. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade. In 2019, out of 157 slain militants 32 were Pakistanis and majority of them 19 belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit.  In 2019, local militants accounted for 79% deaths in encounters while the number has grown to 88% this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-let-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-892714.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Militants open fire on security forces in Shopian||Militants on Friday opened fire at security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. No loss of life or injury has been reported far. Militants fired towards CRPF guards deployed at Mini Secretariat Shopian, in the south Kashmir district, early this morning, a police official said. He said the CRPF personnel retaliated the firing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-open-fire-on-security-forces-in-shopian-892738.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Two held in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam; arms, cash seized||Two persons were arrested and a huge quantity of arms, ammunition and cash seized from their possession in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said on Friday.  Security forces seized a huge quantity of arms, ammunition and cash from a vehicle in Qazigund area of the south Kashmir district during a search on Thursday, a police official said. He said two persons were arrested in this connection. Police have registered a case and investigation has been taken up, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-held-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kulgam-arms-cash-seized-892745.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Security beefed up at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border amid protests against Farm Bills||Hundreds of farmers gathered on a key road in Noida in Uttar Pradesh in a protest demonstration on Friday, prompting deployment of police in riot gear that kept them from proceeding towards Delhi. The farmers were at the Noida Gate in Sector 14A near Chilla, at the UP-Delhi border, where they were stopped by the Gautam Buddh Nagar police around 12 noon, officials said. The farmers under the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) banner are protesting the farm sector bills, alleging they were "anti-farmer" legislations, that were passed by the Parliament during the just-concluded Monsoon Session. "Today's protest is part of a bigger statewide and nationwide agitation by farmers against the farm-sector-related bills passed in Parliament recently. The farmers are opposed to these 'black laws'. Our demand is that a law should be made that fixes the MSP (minimum support price) as the lowest amount for purchasing crops from farmers," BKU's Meerut Zone president Pawan Khatana told PTI. Barricades came up amid heavy deployment of police personnel at the Noida-Delhi border where the farmers, who travelled on foot, two-wheelers and tractor trolleys, staged a demonstration and held a 'panchayat' addressed by regional farm leaders and BKU office-bearers. The gathering disrupted traffic movement on the key road between Noida and Delhi. "Police personnel have been deployed at the Noida Gate to check the movement of protesters. The situation is under control. We are talking to the farmers and ensuring no law and order situation arises," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Rajesh S told PTI. Earlier Friday, the Delhi Police too intensified deployment of personnel along border areas in view of the nationwide protest call given by various farmer associations. Opposition parties and farmers in some states have been opposing the farm Bills passed by the Lok Sabha as well as the Rajya Sabha citing apprehension over its impact, even as the government assured that the legislation would benefit the crop-growers. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, now await presidential assent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-beefed-up-at-delhi-uttar-pradesh-border-amid-protests-against-farm-bills-892763.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||BJP workers stage dharna to protest filing of case against party office bearers||BJP workers staged a dharna at a police station in the old city area here to protest lodging of a case of sexual harassment against office-bearers of the party's Minority and Mahila Morcha, a police official said on Friday. Heated exchanges took place between the BJP workers and policemen posted at the station but senior police officers prevented the situation from escalating, the official said. "The incident took place late on Thursday night when news trickled in that a former lady office-bearer of the  BJP Mahila Morcha had filed a case of sexual harassment against some party office bearers at the Delhi Gate police station," the official said. Shortly afterwards, BJP workers in large numbers led by former Mayor Shakuntla Bharti and city BJP president Vivek Saraswat and a host of other senior city BJP leaders arrived at the spot and asked why the office bearers have been booked "without any verification," the police official said. They alleged that the complainant had filed the case with mala fide intentions and "instead she should be booked for defamation."  Police officers on duty said further action would be taken only after verification. However, protesters held a sit-in at the police station for over two hours, the official said.  Senior police officers assured protestors that no one will be arrested unless the "charges are substantiated."  Circle officer (City), Sudesh Gupta, told newspersons that senior city BJP officials have alleged that the woman in question has filed the case with an ulterior motive. If this allegation is true and the woman has filed a bogus complaint then the "FIR will be withdrawn and a case will be filed against the complainant instead," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-workers-stage-dharna-to-protest-filing-of-case-against-party-office-bearers-892771.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||DNA samples of trio killed in Shopian on July 18 match with families: Jammu & Kashmir Police||Days after the Army initiated disciplinary proceedings against its men, involved in an alleged fake encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on July 18, the DNA sample reports of the three slain persons have matched with that of their parents. “We have received the DNA sample results of three families of Rajouri and they have matched with those killed in Amshipora, Shopian,” Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said, while addressing a press conference here. He said they will now take the further course of action and complete the remaining formalities. On July 18, the Army had claimed that three unidentified militants were killed in Amshipora village in the higher reaches of south Kashmir’s Shopian. A day after the encounter, police said that the process of identification of the slain militants is underway while “the bodies were sent to Baramulla for last rites after conducting medico-legal formalities.” Since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, security forces are not handing over the bodies of the militants to families for last rites, instead burying them discreetly at faraway places. However, the Amshipora encounter came under scrutiny after three families from the Rajouri district of Jammu region claimed that the three killed were their kin and labourers by profession. Following these claims, the Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police ordered separate inquiries into the matter. The DNA samples of the families were lifted on August 13 and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination and comparison with the “three unidentified slain militants”. A police team from Kashmir had visited Rajouri and collected DNA samples of the parents of three youth. It is after a gap of 40 days that the DNA samples matched between the families and the slain youth. On September 18, the Army said it has found “prima facie” evidence that its troops “exceeded” powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act and has initiated disciplinary proceedings. Soon after the Army’s statement, the families of slain youth had demanded immediate exhumation of the bodies of their loved ones for proper burial at Rajouri. The three families from Rajouri had identified their sons through pictures that went viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dna-samples-of-trio-killed-in-shopian-on-july-18-match-with-families-jammu-kashmir-police-892773.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Farmers protest at Delhi-Noida border in Uttar Pradesh||Scores of farmers gathered on a key road in Noida in Uttar Pradesh in a protest demonstration on Friday, prompting deployment of police in riot gear that kept them from proceeding towards Delhi. Around 150-200 farmers were at the Noida Gate in Sector 14A near Chilla, at the UP-Delhi border, where they were stopped by the Gautam Buddh Nagar police around 12 noon, officials said. The farmers under the Bharatiya Kisan Union banner are protesting the farm sector Bills that were passed by the Parliament during the just-concluded Monsoon Session, alleging they were "anti-farmer" legislations. "Police personnel have been deployed at the Noida Gate to check the movement of protesters. The situation is under control. We are talking to the farmers and ensuring no law and order situation arises," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Rajesh S told PTI. Earlier Friday, the Delhi Police too intensified deployment of personnel along border areas in view of a nationwide protest call given by various farmer associations. Opposition parties and farmers in some states have been opposing the farm Bills passed by the Lok Sabha as well as the Rajya Sabha citing apprehension over its impact, even as the government assured that the legislation would benefit the crop-growers. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, now await presidential assent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-at-delhi-noida-border-in-uttar-pradesh-892800.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi court directs police to lodge FIR on complaint over morphed video of Arvind Kejriwal||A court has directed Delhi Police to register an FIR on a complaint over a morphed video of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal allegedly singing an obscene song, saying its tone and manner lowers his reputation and addresses the public in an abusive manner. Metropolitan Magistrate Kishor Kumar directed the Station House Officer (SHO) of Paschim Vihar Police Station to lodge an FIR on the basis of the complaint filed by an advocate within one week. It further directed the police to file a compliance report by December 2. The complaint filed by advocate Amit Sahni, claimed that after the result of Delhi Vidhan Sabha Election on February 12, 2020, a video was uploaded on Youtube in which Kejriwal has been shown singing an obscene song. The court said in its order passed on September 24, "In the video in question, the tone and manner of the song was not only lowering the reputation of a constitutionally elected Chief Minister but it was also addressing public/voters in abusive manner who have exercised their constitutional/electoral rights while voting for Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for the purpose of electing Arvind Kejriwal as the Chief Minister of Delhi." "I find there is prima facie cognisable case having been disclosed by the complainant on the basis of the CD in question in which Arvind Kejriwal as the Chief Minister of Delhi is shown singing...under section 294 (obscene acts and songs) of IPC (Indian Penal Code) read with 67 (lascivious content) of Information Technology Act," the judge said. An Action Taken Report was filed by the police stating that the video in question does not attract any cognisable offence as there was nothing obscene. According to the complaint, offences under section 294 IPC and under section 67 of Information Technology Act are made out. Sahni said that the alleged abusive content was degrading constitutionally elected Chief Minister and such content was being circulated further to public at large which would create a negative impact on kids, who were unable to understand the manner in which it was morphed and shown that the Chief Minister was using abusive content, while addressing public. "The video was uploaded on February 12,2020, and the result of Delhi Vidhan Sabha Election was announced on January 11, 2020, with the sole object of degrading the constitutionally elected Chief Minister in a manner which is detrimental for the kids, who cannot understand that it is not the Chief Minister but the video is morphed ulterior motives," he claimed in his complaint||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-directs-police-to-lodge-fir-on-complaint-over-morphed-video-of-arvind-kejriwal-892832.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Man dies after bullet hits him during clash in Uttar Pradesh||A man was killed and a child injured in an alleged firing incident during a clash between a group of people in the Nakhasa area here, police said on Friday. Mehmood (55) was returning home from a mosque when a bullet fired by someone from a group of people clashing against each other hit him at Anjuman crossing on Thursday, they said. He was rushed to the district hospital where he succumbed during the night, Circle Officer Arun Kumar said. A child also suffered minor injuries in the incident and has been admitted to a hospital, he said. The family members of the deceased have alleged laxity on the part of the doctors in extending immediate medical treatment leading to his death, Kumar said, adding the charges are being investigated. An FIR has been lodged against four people in connection with the firing incident, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-dies-after-bullet-hits-him-during-clash-in-uttar-pradesh-892833.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Man held for using fake papers to secure Army job||A man has been arrested in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district for allegedly using forged documents to get a job in the Army, police said on Friday. The accused, Prashant, was arrested along with his friend on Thursday evening on the charges of cheating, Station House Officer, Kandhla, Karmvir Singh said. Prashant had managed to get a posting in Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh. However, his address details and documents were found to be fake during verification, the SHO said. He had falsely claimed that he was a resident of Mimla village in Shamli district but he actually belonged to another place in Saharanpur district, police said. The accused had gone absconding from the training centre in Fatehpur after the incident came to light, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-using-fake-papers-to-secure-army-job-892847.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Mixed response to 'Bharat Bandh' by farmers in Uttar Pradesh||The call for 'Bharat Bandh' on Friday by the farmers' outfits in protest against the new agriculture reform Bills evoked a mixed response in Uttar Pradesh. The effect of the 'bandh' was felt more in the western UP districts of Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Noida, Baghpat, and others, where a large number of farmers, led by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) blocked traffic on several highways. The opposition parties, including the Congress, Samajwadi Party (SP), and Aam Admi Party (AAP), also lent support to the 'bandh' and their workers came out in large numbers to hold demonstrations against the Bills. According to the reports, traffic on the busy Delhi-Dehradun highway was affected after hundreds of BKU workers and farmers squatted on the road. Demonstrations were also held in Varanasi, Barabanki, Raebareli, Gorakhpur, and Basti divisions, reports said. The farmers blocked the Lucknow-Faizabad highway for several hours in protest against the Farm Bills. BKU president Naresh Tikait said that the protest of the farmers would continue until the government withdrew the Bills. ''The reforms will make the farmers slaves of the corporate houses...we will not rest till our demands are met,'' he told a gathering of farmers in Muzaffarnagar. There were reports of a scuffle between the farmers and the police at some places when the cops tried to evict the farmers from the highways. At some places, the police arrested the farmers after they refused to lift the blockade of the highways, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mixed-response-to-bharat-bandh-by-farmers-in-uttar-pradesh-892848.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Farmers protest to affect movement of trains in Punjab, Haryana: Railways||Train services were disrupted in Punjab and some areas in Haryana on Friday due to the 'Rail Roko' agitation over Farm Bills. The Indian Railways cancelled, short terminated or diverted several special passengers trains, parcel and freight trains in Punjab and Haryana. In Punjab and Haryana, several farmers organisations called for a three-day protest from Thursday against the three Farm Bills that were passed by the Parliament - The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020. As many as 20 trains have been partially cancelled while five have been short terminated and two diverted. Due to the protest, the Ferozepur Railway division suspended the operation of special trains and rescheduled freight and parcel trains. The Indian Railways had earlier said that "Punjab Rail Agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens and fast recovering Rail Freight and economy." The Railways officials said Food Corporation of India ( FCI ) has been loading more than 35 rakes of food grains daily from Punjab. Besides, Punjab also loads 9-10 rakes daily of fertilizer, cement, auto, mixed goods in containers. The state receives around 20 rakes daily of coal, food grain, farm products, machinery petroleum products and imported fertilizer, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-to-affect-movement-of-trains-in-punjab-haryana-railways-892872.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||CAG rejects Gujarat govt's claim about water contamination||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) on Friday said the Gujarat government's claim that there was no chemical contamination of drinking water anywhere in the state was "not correct". In its report tabled in the state Assembly, the CAG cited laboratory reports and mentioned that over 20,000 out of 1.30 lakh samples, that is 15 per cent, "failed the chemical examination conducted by government laboratories in 2015-16". The report further stated that a similar trend of contamination was found in tests conducted in subsequent years. The CAG's performance audit report on 'Rural drinking water supply programme in Gujarat' for the financial year 2017-18 was tabled on Friday, the last day of the state Assembly's Monsoon session. The CAG noted that the presence of certain chemicals in drinking water above the prescribed limit causes major diseases. Arsenic causes cancer, fluoride causes fluorosis, nitrate hampers the blood's capacity to transport oxygen resulting in brain damage, iron causes hemochromatosis. The CAG further said the Gujarat government in March 2016 told the Centre that "the state was not water quality affected". However, citing government lab reports, the CAG noted that "out of 6.29 lakh water samples tested in the state during 2013-18, around 1.15 lakh samples, that is 18.30 per cent, were found chemically unfit, having excess content of fluoride, nitrate and TDS". Overall contamination with regard to nitrate and fluoride as per samples tested during 2013-18 in the state was 11.89 per cent and 4.33 per cent respectively, the report said. According to the report, Chhotaudepur, Dahod, Banaskantha, Panchmahal and Vadodara had high contamination of nitrate. While worst affected by fluoride contamination were Dahod, Chhotaudepur, Banaskantha and Kheda, it was stated. As per the audit, 54 samples were found unfit from 188 samples collected during joint physical verification. Though the water was contaminated, people were found using it for "drinking and cooking purposes from these sources, as these habitations had no alternate source", the CAG noted. In a clear rebuttal, the CAG said the state government's claim that "not a single habitation was quality affected was not correct", the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cag-rejects-gujarat-govts-claim-about-water-contamination-892876.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||More than 50% of nearly 2.25 lakh Covid-19 recoveries in Delhi achieved under home isolation: Data||Over 50 per cent of the total 2,24,375 Covid-19 recoveries in the national capital so far have been achieved under home isolation, according to Delhi government data. Since the first week of May till September 23, a total of 1,34,113 people, having mild Covid-19 symptoms, underwent home isolation out of which 1,13,374 were released as per protocol from quarantine, official figures showed. "Delhi government lays much emphasis on home isolation as a salient feature of Delhi model of Covid-19 management devised by it. With the surge in number of positive cases, home isolation has emerged as a very useful tool under test, track and isolate strategy, to handle growing patient load," a senior government official said. Currently, there are 17,995 active Covid-19 patients (up to September 23) in 11 districts across Delhi. As per government data, the highest number of home-isolated active Covid-19 patients - 3, 077 - were in west district, followed by 2,261 in northwest district, 1,844 in southwest district, 1,808 in south district and 1,710 in east district. The lowest number of 759 home-isolated Covid-19 patients were in northeast district, and 989 in New Delhi, while in remaining districts the numbers were between 1,000-2,000. Figures also showed that till September 23, 41 deaths due to Covid-19 occurred in home isolation. Over 2,700 patients who developed moderate or severe symptoms were shifted to hospitals, it showed. Under home isolation strategy, a person who tests positive for Covid-19 is approached by a medical officer from the district administration who prescribes home isolation after ascertaining suitable quarantine conditions like availability of adequate residential space. The patients in home isolation are regularly monitored through phone calls and home visits by health officials for follow up and to provide help in case he or she develops symptoms or faces problems like low oxygen level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-than-50-of-nearly-225-lakh-covid-19-recoveries-in-delhi-achieved-under-home-isolation-data-892940.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Corruption 'flourished like cancer' during previous Cong regime: Khattar||Corruption flourished like cancer in the previous Congress regime and favouritism existed in giving jobs, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday, claiming that it is his government that set the things right. He claimed that his government has given 85,000 jobs on merit. In the previous Congress-led regime, there was favouritism in giving jobs and “corruption flourished like cancer”, he claimed during a webinar organised by the Haryana State Higher Education Council and Swadeshi Swavlamban Nyas. “During our time, jobs are being given on merit. Earlier, jobs used to be on sale. We set the system right and deserving get jobs on merit. We ended the system of 'parchi-kharchi' (favouritism and corruption),” he claimed. Speaking on the topic "Self-Reliant Development Model of Haryana", he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a call for an 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' and the country responded positively to it. Amid the coronavirus pandemic, many companies have risen to the challenge and now manufacturing PPE kits and ventilators, bulk of which were imported earlier, Khattar said. Countries like Japan and Israel are best examples of self-reliance and we can learn from them, the CM stressed. In his address, Principal Economic Adviser Sanjeev Sanyal said the farm Bills passed by Parliament were examples of self-reliance. “These reforms are meant to help a farmer become self-reliant. It gives him independence to sell his produce anywhere he wants and not be limited to sell it in just the mandis within a set pattern,” said Sanyal. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh's joint general secretary Dattareya Hosabale said it was praiseworthy the way country responded to the coronavirus challenge. He said when we talk of self-reliance, it does not mean isolating ourselves from rest of the world. “We will do trade and have relations with rest of the world but on our terms,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corruption-flourished-like-cancer-during-previous-cong-regime-khattar-892948.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Two medium-intensity quakes hit Ladakh: NCS||Two medium-intensity earthquakes of magnitude 5.4 and 3.6 hit the Ladakh region on Friday, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said.     The first quake of magnitude 5.4 occurred at 4.27 pm at a depth of 10 kms and the second quake of magnitude 3.6 at a depth of 10 kms hit the region at 5.29 pm, it said. The Himalayan region is known for high seismic activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-medium-intensity-quakes-hit-ladakh-ncs-892981.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality predicted to turn 'poor' by September 30: SAFAR||The national capital's air quality is likely to slip into the "poor” category by Wednesday, SAFAR said. Dust from arid regions in the southwest has started affecting Delhi. Farm fires have begun in Amritsar, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions and are likely to influence the city's air quality, it said. The farm fire count on Friday was around 40, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). "Deterioration in air quality index (AQI) is expected on Saturday. Further deterioration -- from the higher end of the moderate category to poor category -- is expected on September 27 and September 28," it said. On Friday, Delhi recorded an AQI of 134, which falls in the moderate category. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Pawan Gupta, a senior scientist at Universities Space Research Association, NASA, said the forecast shows high PM2.5 levels across the Indo-Gangetic plains over the next 2-3 days. "It appears a combination of smoke, dust and weather playing a role," he posted on Twitter. The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control Authority) had written to Punjab and Haryana, asking them to "urgently" implement measures to reduce stubble burning -- one of the major reasons behind high levels of air pollution in Delhi during winter. "It has been brought to our notice that early burning of crop residue is taking place in Punjab… We recognise that we have lost time because of COVID-19, but given that the winter season is now approaching, we need to tackle this with urgency and ensure compliance," EPCA head Bhure Lal had told the two agrarian states. Chief Secretary of Punjab, Vini Mahajan, in a letter to the EPCA chief on Friday said the administration took serious note of early incidents of crop residue burning, and the deputy commissioners concerned were asked to send a report after field verification. Sub-divisional magistrates in Amritsar, where maximum fire incidents have occurred, have been directed to collect environmental compensation through challans, she said. Revenue officials have also been directed to make entries in revenue record of non-conforming farmers. The administration has been focusing on the hotspot villages, where maximum farm fire incidents took place last year, the senior official said. The Tarn Taran administration has also issued challan to the defaulting farmer. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, stubble burning contributed significantly to air pollution in Delhi last year with the share of farm fire smoke in particulate matter peaking to 44 per cent in November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-predicted-to-turn-poor-by-september-30-safar-893003.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Four Delhi policemen seize nearly 160kg marijuana, report 1kg; peddler let go after taking bribe||Four Delhi policemen, including two sub-inspectors, have been suspended for allegedly taking a bribe from a drug peddler to let him off the hook and selling the nearly 160 kg marijuana seized from him in the black market, officials said Friday. An inquiry is underway to ascertain the actual quantity of marijuana seized from the peddler, identified as Anil, during a raid at a house in northwest Delhi on September 11. The four policemen from Jahangirpuri police station reported the seized quantity of marijuana as nearly 1 kg and sold the remaining psychoactive drug, they said. Anil, who had procured the marijuana from Odisha, was arrested during the raid but allowed to go scot-free after he paid a bribe to policemen, a police official said. When the matter came to light, Anil was questioned and he disclosed the names of the policemen involved in the raid, the official said. Vijayanta Arya, the deputy commissioner of police (northwest), said the inquiry is being conducted by the ACP (Operations) and the two sub-inspectors and the two head constables have been placed under suspension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-delhi-policemen-seize-nearly-160kg-marijuana-report-1kg-peddler-let-go-after-taking-bribe-893020.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||'I can't believe this': UP man after 'Baywatch' star reacts to their photoshopped pic||When a 24-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh's Allahabad posted a photoshopped picture of Alexandra Daddario on Twitter, little did he know that the Hollywood actress would respond. But she did, leaving the man, who has less than 500 followers on Twitter, flabbergasted. On Thursday, Akash Barnabas posted on Twitter a picture of himself with his face covered by a mask and had the "Baywatch" star in the background, standing in the middle of paddy fields. The picture was evidently photoshopped. "Haters will say this is photoshopped #couplechallenge (sic)," Akash captioned the picture, suggesting being a couple with the actress in a humourous post. The social media post attracted hundreds of retweets and thousands of 'likes' besides setting off a chain of funny comments. But the most important response came from the 34-year-old Los Angeles-based film star herself. "This was such a fun weekend (sic)," Daddario said, retweeting Akash's post. Akash, a content creator, said he was amazed that the Hollywood actress responded to his tweet. "I still can't believe that she replied. Literally vishwaas nahi ho raha (I cannot believe this). We Indians do not get replies from foreign artists," he told PTI. Akash admitted that he is a fan of Daddario and that was the reason why he put out that photoshopped of them together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-cant-believe-this-up-man-after-baywatch-star-reacts-to-their-photoshopped-pic-893026.html
25-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Miffed over unfavourable inquiry report, SDM sits on dharna outside DM's house||A Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) sat on a dharna outside the residence of the District Magistrate's (DM) here on Friday as he was allegedly miffed over an unfavourable inquiry report. "SDM Vineet Upadhyay sat on a dharna... he has made some allegations against the DM and me," ADM Shatrohan Vaish said, adding that DM Rupesh Kumar has sent a report to the government in this regard. According to Vaish, in 2019, Upadhyay had an argument with some lawyers and snatched the rifle of a guard and pointed it towards the group. "The lawyers had made a complaint in this regard and a probe was done by me on directions of the DM. I had submitted my report to the DM in which there is a line against the SDM," he said. "A peon had gone to give a copy of the report to him on September 22 after which he was upset," the ADM said. The government is likely to suspended the SDM for the act as it amounts to indiscipline, a senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-miffed-over-unfavourable-inquiry-report-sdm-sits-on-dharna-outside-dms-house-893053.html
25-09-2020||Opinion||Donald Trump wants you to think you can’t get rid of him||Living under a president who daily defiles his office and glories in transgressing the norms holding democracy together is numbing and enervating. It’s not emotionally or physiologically possible to maintain appropriate levels of shock and fury indefinitely; eventually exhaustion and cynical despair kick in. But every once in a while Donald Trump outpaces the baseline of corruption, disloyalty and sadism we’ve been forced to get used to. Outrage builds and the weary political world stirs. Sometimes even a few Republican officeholders feel the need to distance themselves from things the president says or does. Child separation caused this kind of clarifying horror. There was a moment of it when Trump tweeted that four congresswomen of color should go back to the “totally broken and crime-infested places from which they came.” And now, thanks to Trump’s latest attack on democracy, we’re seeing it again. At a Wednesday evening news conference, Trump was asked whether he would commit to a peaceful transfer of power after the November election. “We’re going to have to see what happens,” said the president. He then complained about “the ballots,” apparently meaning mail-in ballots, which he’s been trying to discredit: “Get rid of the ballots and you’ll have a very peaceful — there won’t be a transfer, frankly. There will be a continuation.” His words — the demand to discard ballots, the dismissal of a possible transfer — were a naked declaration of autocratic intent. Looking at the BBC’s website, where a blaring headline said, “Trump Won’t Commit to Peaceful Transfer of Power,” you could see America being covered like a failing state. Trump’s words were all the scarier for coming on the same day as Barton Gellman’s blockbuster Atlantic article about how Trump could subvert the election. The chairman of Pennsylvania’s Republican Party told Gellman, on the record, that he’d spoken to the campaign about bypassing a messy vote count and having the Republican-controlled legislature appoint its own slate of electors. A legal adviser to the Trump campaign said, “There will be a count on election night, that count will shift over time, and the results when the final count is given will be challenged as being inaccurate, fraudulent — pick your word.” As terrifying as all this is, it’s important to remember that Trump and his campaign are trying to undermine the election because right now they appear to be losing it. Trump is down in most swing state polls, tied in Georgia and barely ahead in Texas. His most sycophantic enabler, Lindsey Graham, is neck-and-neck in South Carolina. The president is counting on his new Supreme Court nominee to save his presidency, and she may, if the vote count gets to the Supreme Court. But a rushed confirmation is unlikely to help Trump electorally, because in polls a majority of Americans say the winner of the election should make the appointment. Trump may be behaving like a strongman, but he is weaker than he’d like us all to believe. Autocrats who actually have the power to fix elections don’t announce their plans to do it; they just pretend to have gotten 99% of the vote. It’s crucial that Trump’s opponents emphasize this, because unlike rage, excessive fear can be demobilizing. There’s a reason TV villains like to say, “Resistance is futile.” “We cannot allow Trump’s constant threats to undermine voters’ confidence that their ballots will be counted or discredit the outcome in advance,” Michael Podhorzer of the AFL-CIO recently wrote in a memo to allies. Podhorzer said that the organization’s polling suggests that “this close to the election, we do Trump’s work for him when we respond to his threats rather than remind voters that they will decide who the next president will be if they vote.” This doesn’t mean people shouldn’t be alarmed. I’m alarmed every minute of every day. Trump is an aspiring fascist who would burn democracy to the ground to salve his diseased ego. His willingness to break the rules that bind others gives him power out of proportion to his dismal approval ratings. He blithely incites violence by his supporters, some of whom have already tried to intimidate voters in Virginia. Yet part of the reason he won in 2016 is that so few of his opponents thought it possible. That is no longer a problem. Since then, when voters have had the chance to render a verdict on Trump and his allies, they’ve often rejected them overwhelmingly. Under Trump, Democrats have made inroads into Texas, Arizona, even Oklahoma. They won a Senate seat in Alabama. (Granted, the Republican was accused of being a child molester.) Much attention is paid to Trump’s fanatical supporters, but far more people hate him than love him. In the run-up to the 2018 election, many people had the same fears they have now. Analyzing its survey results, Pew found that “voters approached the 2018 midterm elections with some trepidation about the voting process and many had concerns that US election systems may be hacked.” After 2016 it was hard to believe polls showing Democrats with a lead of more than 8 points. But the polls were right. Certainly, things are different now than they were even two years ago. A pandemic is disrupting normal campaigning and changing the way a lot of people vote. Trump has much more at stake. Investigations in New York mean that if he’s not reelected, he could be arrested. It’s also true that by floating the idea of refusing to concede, Trump begins to normalize the notion. The nationwide uproar over family separation has worn off, even though family separations continue. A House resolution condemned Trump’s initial racist attack on Ilhan Omar, Rashida Tlaib, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ayanna Pressley. Now he says similar things at his rallies and it barely makes news. One of the most oft-used metaphors for the Trump years has been that of the slowly boiling frog. (The frog, in this case, being democracy.) By threatening what is essentially a coup, Trump may have turned the heat up too quickly, forcing some elected Republicans to implicitly rebuke him by restating their fealty to a constitutional transfer of power. But if history is any guide, those Republicans will adjust to the temperature. The next time Trump says something equally outrageous, expect them to make excuses for him or play some insulting game of whataboutism by likening Biden’s determination to count ballots past Nov. 3 to Trump’s refusal to recognize the possibility of defeat. Still, Trump can be defeated, along with the rotten and squalid party that is enabling him. Doing so will require being clear-eyed about the danger Trump poses, but also hopeful about the fact that we could soon be rid of him. Trump would like to turn America into a dictatorship, but he hasn’t yet. For over four years he has waged a sort of psychological warfare on the populace, colonizing our consciousness so thoroughly that it can be hard to imagine him gone. That’s part of the reason he says he won’t leave if he’s beaten in November, or even after 2024. It’s to make us forget that it’s not up to him. Shortly after Trump was elected, Russian-born journalist Masha Gessen published an important essay called “Autocracy: Rules for Survival.” Gessen laid out six such rules, each incredibly prescient. The one I most often hear repeated is the first, “Believe the autocrat,” which said, “Whenever you find yourself thinking, or hear others claiming, that he is exaggerating, that is our innate tendency to reach for a rationalization.” Right now, though, I find myself thinking about the last of Gessen’s rules: “Remember the future.” There is a world after Trump. A plurality of Americans, if not an outright majority, want that world to start in January. And whatever he says, if enough of us stand up to him, it can.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/donald-trump-wants-you-to-think-you-can-t-get-rid-of-him-892656.html
25-09-2020||Opinion||When Parliament showcases India's institutional rot||"The Speaker has to abstain from active participation in all controversial topics of politics... He has not to become a partisan so as to avoid unconscious bias for or against a particular view and thus inspire confidence in all sections of the House about his integrity and impartiality." These were the remarks of GV Mavlankar, the first Speaker of the Lok Sabha, made at a conference of presiding officers in Srinagar in 1954. We do not know if Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who also officiates as Chairman, Rajya Sabha and his deputy in the House, Harivansh Narayan Singh, are acquainted with these words. Even if they are, it appears as though the spirit of the dictum has completely bypassed them. Some in the government may argue that they are not only ones to whom this applies –  their recent predecessors too have been accused of the same. But that noted, the events in the Upper House on September 20, especially the conduct of Harivansh, and subsequent decisions taken next day by House Chairman, Naidu, to first reject the Opposition motion expressing no-confidence in the Deputy Chairman and thereafter suspending eight Opposition members for one week have undoubtedly desecrated the “shrine” where Prime Minister Modi's "only holy book" was conceived and adopted. On his first visit to Parliament House after election as leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party in May 2014, Modi called the institution India's temple of democracy. If this was not enough, we witnessed the Deputy Chairman’s visit to the lawns of the Parliament House complex where the suspended members sat in protest. Harivansh even carried a hamper containing tea and snacks. The result of his act was a reduction of the display of  their dissent into a farce. This is the way the powers-that-be reduce an act of political protestation into a picnic. While this was coming since 2014, and has been seen in various episodes when disagreement was silenced, this was the first instance of the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman so completely abandoning the role that Mavlankar laid out for House presiding officers. But then, this is a sign of how values have altered. Harivansh after all often presides over a House that has a former Chief Justice of India as member. Not many decades ago, Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, was Mohammed Hidayatullah, by virtue of being Vice President. He too had been a former Chief Justice, but accepted the position nine years after his retirement. In complete contrast, Ranjan Gogoi did not even have to wait for four months before being nominated to the Upper House. Symptoms of institutional decline   Mentioning this is not a digression. These instances serve as mere symptoms of the rot that has set in within the country's institutions. What makes the handling of the Farm Bills and its aftermath worse is that the Opposition members were not even protesting in the first instance. They were merely exercising their parliamentary right to ask for division of votes in the House after the debate on the contested farm Bills and to demand that the legislations be referred to a Select Committee for further scrutiny. There are clear guidelines in the manual, Rajya Sabha at Work, first brought out in 1996, under the tutelage of V S Rama Devi, former Secretary-General of the House, which, "elaborately and comprehensively documented the procedures and practices relating to the functioning of the Rajya Sabha since its first sitting on 13 May 1952." This book specifies: "In theory the Chair judges by the loudness of the respective cries [during voice vote as was used on September 20] whether the ayes or the noes are the more in number. In practice his decision is based on his knowledge of the balance of opinion in the House." But further it notes: "If, however, the minority or any individual member challenges his decision, he directs the lobby to be cleared (for Division)." The Deputy Chairman, on basis of information available, was guided solely by the government in forming his understanding of the "balance of opinion". Furthermore, Opposition members, including the Akali Dal and Biju Janata Dal – the former a coalition partner till recently and the other a frequent backer of government legislative business – were categorical in demanding an electronic division of votes. The farm Bills are not routine legislations that can be forced through Parliament violating democratic processes. The laws will impact lives of India's farmers at a time when uncertainty about personal futures is at an unprecedented high due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the way it has crippled the economy. This regime has for too long publicised its narrative that the Opposition has undermined parliamentary functioning despite which the government and presiding officers succeeded in notching several records when it comes to the business transacted. But the government too must reach out to secure cooperation and for this its leaders have to stop portraying anyone disagreeing with the government agenda as an enemy of the people. Opposing government policies does not mean being anti-national or anti-people. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-parliament-showcases-indias-institutional-rot-892721.html
25-09-2020||South||Karnataka student stitches masks for jawans, earns praise from Defence Minister Rajnath Singh||A symbolic effort of a class eight student in sending 300 two-layered cotton face masks to army jawans has earned praise from Defence Minister Rajnanth Singh. Ishita Achar, a student of Madhava Kripa school in Udupi had sent the parcel containing masks to the army personnel through the Defence Ministry a month back. On Thursday, her mother Nandita Achar received a letter of appreciation from Defence Minister Rajnanth Singh. In the letter dated September 16, Rajnanth Singh said he appreciated the sentiments of her daughter for the army jawans. "Thank you for preparing face masks for our army personnel. I appreciate the sentiments of your daughter Ishita Achar towards our jawans and her awareness of the safety measures during the Covid-19. I wish your daughter all the best for her future endeavours," the letter said. Ishita Achar told the media that she was extremely happy and excited to have received a personal letter of appreciation from the Defence Minister himself. Ishita Achar had stitched the masks during the lockdown period, responding to a call from Bharat Scouts and Guides state commissioner and former Minister P G R Sindhia asking its members to prepare face masks for Class 10 students appearing for the SSLC examination. The masks were sent to the jawans as suggested by a family friend as there was enough stock for students, Ishita's mother said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-student-stitches-masks-for-jawans-earns-praise-from-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-892729.html
25-09-2020||South||Government relief cushions Covid-19 lockdown, fishing ban restrictions in Tamil Nadu||The impact of the lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of coronavirus and local restriction on fishing were to some extent cushioned by Tamil Nadu government's relief measures, efforts of fisher organisations, and individual vessel owners. Around Rs 96 crore was extended as relief to 4.8 lakh members through the Tamil Nadu Fishermen Welfare Board, which gave away Rs 2,000 per head for two months for the lockdown period for fishermen, fisherwomen, allied workers and crew members, a senior official in the fisheries department said. An additional breeding season allowance of Rs 5,000 was given to each family for the ban (on fishing) period. This sum was disbursed to about 1.6 lakh families, the senior official, who did not want to be named told PTI. "Chief minister K Palaniswami's decision to extend free ration to the fishermen having family ration cards, who were entitled to the Rs 1,000 relief amount given by Tamil Nadu government, helped to mitigate the harsh conditions imposed by the pandemic," the official claimed. "Some of us who owned small boats went out to fish but unfortunately could not sell due to the lockdown. The local panchayats and our organisations asked us to prioritise supply of fish to local households first." "Vessel owners provided essential commodities to the fishermen engaged on board their huge crafts", Mohan Kumar, a fisherman from Royapuram, here said. Although the state government did not restrict fishing, the ban on mechanised boats due to the breeding season from mid-April to mid-June allowed only small boats on a rotation basis from April 14. The mechanised boats couldn't ply for an additional time period of 20 days (from March 25 to 14 April) due to the lockdown and after that the annual ban period started. The state government permitted the small boats to venture into the sea on a rotational basis from April 14, ensuring that only 50 per cent of the boats left from each village on alternate days and the boats were allowed to sail up to 12 nautical miles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/government-relief-cushions-covid-19-lockdown-fishing-ban-restrictions-in-tamil-nadu-892754.html
25-09-2020||South||21-year-old man held for impregnating minor girl in TN||A 21-year-old man was on Friday arrested on the charge of impregnating a minor girl in Annamalai rural limits, over 100 km from here, police said. The 17-year-old girl complained of stomach ache and her parents took her to a hospital where tests showed her to be seven months pregnant, the police said. Following this, the parents lodged a complaint and the man was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/21-year-old-man-held-for-impregnating-minor-girl-in-tn-892787.html
25-09-2020||South||Indian national trained by ISIS in Iraq found guilty by special NIA court||A Malayali who joined ISIS in 2015 and was held by the NIA in 2016 has been found guilty of waging war against India and the Iraq government. Subahani Haja Moideen, a native of Thodupuzha in Idukki district, joined the ISIS in 2015 and had even traveled to Iraq. He was held by the NIA from Tamil Nadu in 2016. The NIA special court in Kochi on Friday found him guilty under IPC section 125 for waging war against Asiatic power in alliance with India and section 20 of UAPA for joining a terrorist organisation, apart from criminal conspiracy and supporting a terrorist organisation. His punishment will be pronounced on Monday. The NIA's charge against him was that he joined the ISIS in 2015 April and went to Iraq. He was trained in using weapons at Mosul in Iraq and waged war against Iraq. Later he left ISIS and he was allowed to return to India by 2015 September. But he continued to be an ISIS follower and was even suspected to be planning terror strikes. He conspired with ISIS operatives through online platforms. Around 100 Malayalis, including women, were so far reported to have joined the ISIS from Kerala. Many of them were also reported killed in encounters. Subahani, who is aged around 35, was earlier quizzed by the French anti-terrorism agency in connection with the probe into the 2015 Paris terrorist attack that claimed around 130 lives. He was suspected to have links with the Paris terror strike accused. He was lured to ISIS through various social media groups. Several digital pieces of evidence of his association with ISIS were recovered by NIA. Moideen worked at his father's cloth shop at Idukki for many years. He was held from Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. There were reports that he was trying to procure explosives from Sivakasi while he was held. He came under NIA's radar during a probe into another case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indian-national-trained-by-isis-in-iraq-found-guilty-by-special-nia-court-892801.html
25-09-2020||South||Farmers hold protests in Kerala against new agriculture reforms bills||Farmers under the aegis of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) staged widespread protests in Kerala on Friday against the Farm Bills passed recently in Parliament, alleging that the new legislations will hand over the country's agriculture sector to corporate giants. Senior CPI(M) leader and Vice President of AIKS, S Ramachandran Pillai launched the protest in front of the Raj Bhavan here and said the new agri bills will turn farmers into labourers of corporate giants. "The central government has passed laws that will turn all farmers into labourers dependent on giant corporates. Their aim is to hand over the agriculture sector to the corporates. Through this move, our agricultural land, the production and sale of farm produce will be taken over by corporates. We are selling our agriculture sector to corporate giants," Pillai alleged. Noting that over 60 per cent population in the country were farmers, he said the Centre was not ready to take proactive steps to protect the majority. Hitting out at the central government, the AIKS leader said it was 'privatising' everything in the country, including the Defense and Space sectors besides the Public Sector Undertakings. AIKS is the peasants front of the ruling CPI(M). Meanwhile, CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan in a tweet claimed that the newly introduced farm bills would "destroy" the Indian agriculture and farmers. "The three Bills - Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce Bill, 2020; and The Farmers Agreement on Prices Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 - will destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers," he said in the tweet. The CPI(M) also said the Narendra Modi government "bulldozed 3 Farm bills through the Parliament, violating all parliamentary procedures". "These new laws handover Indian agriculture, our produce and our markets to foreign and domestic agribusiness corporations," it said The left party alleged that thehandover of the entire sector to corporates will lead to the abolishing of Minimum Support Price, the complete destruction of PDS, promote unscrupulous traders & corporates to hoard food, sending prices up astronomically. It further alleged that the Bills will finish off price support given to ryots as well as subsidies given for supply of cheap food grain to people and will drastically change the agrarian sector into a corporate controlled sector with scant concern either for farmers or consumers. Protests are being held by over 350 farmers' organisations under the umbrella of All India Kisan Sangharsh (AIKS) Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). The three farm bills were passed by Parliament earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farmers-hold-protests-in-kerala-against-new-agriculture-reforms-bills-892829.html
25-09-2020||South||TN CM says Farm Bills will not affect Tamil Nadu ryots||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday sought to assert that the three Farm Bills passed in Parliament recently will not affect farmers, saying Chief Minister K Palaniswami will not allow any legislation detrimental to their interests. The farmers in the state will not be affected by the Central legilsations, Agriculture Minister R Doraikannu said. The government's assertion came on a day when farmers staged protests in different parts of the state against the agri-related bills that are being strongly opposed to by ryots across the country, besides opposition parties including the Congress and the DMK. Doraikannu said being a farmer himself, Chief Minister K Palaniswami will not accept any legislation that went against the state farmers' interests. Reacting sharply to DMK president M K Stalin who has been targeting Palaniswami and the ruling AIADMK for backing the bills, alleging it was "an unpardonable betrayal of farmers' welfare", Doraikannu said the chief minister has supported the bills to facilitate improvement in farmers' lives. As a farmer, the chief minister knew what was beneficial for the farmers and he would not accept any legislation against the interests of farmers in the state, he added. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, were aimed at enabling corporates to hoard agricultural products and would destroy the livelihood of farmers, Stalin had claimed. He had lashed out at Palaniswami and his AIADMK for supporting the BJP in Parliament on the matter and has said the CM should stop claiming himself to be a farmer. Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said Tamil Nadu was the first state in the country to have passed a Bill in the state Legislative Assembly on contract farming last year, even before the Centre passed the legislation in Parliament recently. The state legislation on contract farming would help ryots get a fair price for their produce through contracts with companies buying their produce. "For instance, because of the Contract Farming Act, a tomato farmer can sign an agreement with a tomato sauce company to buy his/her produce in the next few months at a rate, quantity and quality agreed upon by both parties." "And the company has to buy it as per the agreement, irrespective of fluctuation in market prices at a later date," Bedi said. Meanwhile, farmers staged protests in the state against the Central bills. A large number of them staged a protest in front of the Tiruchirappalli Collectorate with their hands chained and nooses around their necks. They even displayed human skulls, apparently to indicate that the farm bills were detrimental to them. At Kovilpatti in the southern Tuticorin district, about 180 farmers were arrested for staging a picketing agitation demanding the withdrawal of the bills. The farm bills and the AIADMK's support to them have become a point of debate between the ruling dispensation and the DMK. Stalin, while insisting that the bills will "enslave" the farmers to the corporates, had hit out at Palaniswami for supporting it. The chief minister has said his party supported the farm bills as they benefited them and lashed out at Stalin saying though he could not pick holes even with a magnifying glass, he has still announced a protest against it, on September 28. "Since the three bills benefited the farmers, we supported it. We will support any initiative aimed at benefiting the farmers and at the same time oppose any scheme that would affect them and this is our stand and we have made this clear," he had said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-says-farm-bills-will-not-affect-tamil-nadu-ryots-892862.html
25-09-2020||South||CBI to probe Kerala govt's deal with UAE agency||The Left Front government in Kerala was left embarrassed on Friday after the CBI registered a case and launched a probe into a Rs. 20 crore UAE agency-funded housing scheme for the homeless. The Opposition, the Congress and the BJP, has stepped up their demand for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's resignation, especially since the allegation pertained to LIFE Mission, a flagship programme of the government aimed at housing for all. The allegations levelled against the deal with UAE-based Emirates Red Crescent came to light after former employee of the UAE consulate Swapana Suresh, who was held for in a gold smuggling case, revealed about the commission she received. The CBI is learnt to have initiated its probe after it received several complaints of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act violations in the deal that was made without the Centre's nod. A case was registered by the CBI's Kochi unit. The state government on Wednesday announced a probe by the state vigilance into the deal but the Opposition alleged that it was an attempt to scuttle a fair probe as both the state vigilance and the LIFE Mission come under the chief minister. Emirates Red Crescent's Rs 20-crore offer for a housing project at Vadakkencherry in Thrissur district for those who lost their homes in the 2018 floods came subsequent to a visit to the UAE by a CM-led delegation seeking support for rebuilding Kerala after the floods. With allegations pertaining to the deal coming up, the government initially maintained that it was not part of the deal and that the deal was between the private firms entrusted with the construction of the project. Later, many documents showing government's link to the deal with the UAE agency surfaced. While Swapna Suresh has stated to various investigation agencies that she received Rs 1 crore as commission, the Opposition alleged that the deal involved a commission close to Rs 8 crore. Chief minister's media advisor John Brittas even said during a media discussion that the project involved kickbacks worth Rs. 4.5 crore. The Enforcement Directorate, the Customs Department and the NIA are also learnt to have shared the information regarding the deal with the CBI. While Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress said that it was high time that the Chief Minister stepped down, BJP state president K Surendran said that all the shady deals made during the Chief Minister and other Ministers' foreign trips might be probed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-to-probe-kerala-govts-deal-with-uae-agency-892934.html
25-09-2020||South||Telangana permits reopening bars, clubs, tourism bars||As part of the 'unlock' phase, the Telangana government on Friday permitted reopening bars, clubs and tourism bars with immediate effect and prescribed conditions to be followed which include provision of thermal screening at entrance of bar and hand sanitizers. "After careful examination of the matter, Government hereby permits to reopen all the Bars, Clubs & Tourism Bars with immediate effect, duly following conditions," a Memo issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said. The conditions include provision of Non-touch infrared Thermometers/ Thermal screening at entrance of bar, maitaining proper queue management and hygiene conditions, crowd management in parking lots and provision for hand sanitizer. The other conditions are wearing of masks by Bar staff and crew, ban on gatherings, musical events, dance floors, maintaining proper ventilation in the premises. The memo also said "deep cleaning" and sanitization of entire Bar premises should be done in the morning and evening every day. Sanitization should be done before a new customer occupies a seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-permits-reopening-bars-clubs-tourism-bars-892961.html
25-09-2020||South||Hyderabad: Man killed by in-laws for inter-caste marriage||A young man was kidnapped and killed in Hyderabad at the behest of his wife's father, maternal uncle, and other relatives for allegedly marrying outside their caste. Chintha Yoga Hemanth Kumar (28) who was abducted on Thursday afternoon was reported dead at Sangareddy near the city on Friday morning. The killing reminded the 2018 murder of one Pranay from a Scheduled Caste community in Miryalaguda town of Telangana by goons hired by businessman Maruthi Rao, father of Pranay’s wife Amrutha.    Hemanth Kumar and Avanthi (23), belonging to different forward castes, got married in June and were living separately in Gachibowli, away from both their families.  The Cyberabad police, who claimed to have solved the case, have arrested 14 accused persons including the father, mother, and several close relatives of Avanthi. Four more accused are absconding. In her complaint to the police, Avanthi said that on Thursday afternoon, several of her close relatives including three women came in three cars, stormed their house, and manhandled the couple.   “Later A-8 Ranjith Reddy and others took them in a car of A-9 Rakesh Reddy driven by their driver A-15 Saheb Patel. They asked them to come to their house at Lingampally to discuss the matter. But on the way they turned towards the Outer Ring Road. Suspecting some foul play, we jumped out from the car and started running towards Lingampally. A-1 Yugender Reddy and others following in another car, caught hold of them, beat Hemanth and abducted him in their car,” Avanthi, who managed to escape, said. Avanthi’s relatives including Ranjith Reddy, Rakesh Reddy, A-7 Vijayender Reddy, A-10 Rajitha, A-13 Spandana, A-14 Swapna and A-11 Santosh Reddy who arrived in two cars tried to grab her. They filthily abused Hemanth’s father and mother who also came there, and also threatened to kill them. In her statement, Avanthi contended that her relatives were involved in the gruesome crime at the behest of her father. Cyberabad police revealed to the media that the accused relatives had conspired to kill the deceased by engaging hired killers as he had married Avanthi against their wish. “The deceased Hemanth was abducted by Yugender Reddy (A-1) and others who murdered him by strangulation at about 7.30 PM on Thursday on the outskirts of Kistaigudem village in Sanga Reddy district,” the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-man-killed-by-in-laws-for-inter-caste-marriage-892967.html
25-09-2020||South||BJP leaders slam DMK chief Stalin for criticising farm Bills||Senior Tamil Nadu BJP leaders including former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan on Friday flayed the DMK for criticising the Centre's farm bills adopted by Parliament recently, wondering what more than Prime Minister Narendra Modi's assurance on MSP was required. Another leader, H Raja, took a dig at DMK president M K Stalin on his "basic knowledge on agriculture will suffice" remark. DMK has strongly opposed the three bills, saying they will lead to farmers being "enslaved" to corporte houses. The party and its allies will stage state-wide protests against the bills on Monday. Lashing out at the opposition parties for their scheduled protests, Radhakrishnan accused the DMK and Congress of "attempting to derail development." "The Congress could not deliver upon its promise to farmers while its ally the DMK needlessly opposes the farmer-friendly legislations," Radhakrishnan told PTI. He claimed only the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the Congress-ruled states were opposed to the three Bills on agriculture reforms. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 were introduced in the Parliament on September 14 to replace the ordinances issued during the lockdown. Radhakrishnan further said the Prime Minister has already assured that the MSP will be ensured. "What more does the DMK and Congress want than the Prime Minister's assurance on MSP " he asked. Modi had earlier asserted that the farm sector reform bills passed by Parliament were the need of 21st century India and reassured farmers that the government purchase of their produce coupled with minimum support price (MSP) mechanism will continue. On the DMK leader pointing to Punjab and north Indian states opposing the legislations, Radhakrishnan shot back, "who is ruling Punjab," where the Congress is in power. These legislations, the former minister argued, were brought by the Modi government as part of the PM's vision to double farmers' income by 2022. "These are central to farmer's welfare and would reduce agrarian distress and bring parity between income of farmers and those working in non-agriculture professions," Radhakrishnan said. H Raja, another senior leader, pointed out Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said farmers will be freed from the restrictions of having to sell their produce at designated places only, and the procurement at MSP will continue and mandis established under state laws will also continue to operate. Referring to Stalin's remark that one need not be a farmer to comment on the bills but basic knowledge on agriculture and concern for farmers will suffice, Raja stated it only reminded him of the parable of "five visually impaired men who describe an elephant." During the course of exchange of words on the matter, Chief Minister K Palaniswami had remarked that the DMK leader lacked knowledge on agriculture and hence his opposition to the bills. Unlike Stalin, he was a farmer, the chief minister had said recently. Retorting, the DMK chief had said one need not be a farmer to express opinion on the bills but basic knowledge on agriculture and concern for farmers would suffice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-leaders-slam-dmk-chief-stalin-for-criticising-farm-bills-892969.html
25-09-2020||South||Kerala CM, singer K S Chithra condole S P Balasubrahmanyam's demise||An era is over. Music will never be the same. Words are not enough to thank him for guiding me to be a better singer, noted singer K S Chithra said in a message condoling the death of S P Balasubrahmanyam. Actors Mohanlal and Mammootty are among other noted personalities from the Malayalam film industry who condoled SPB's death. Mohanlal said that it was a true loss to the world of music and it was heartbreaking. Mammootty quoted the lyrics of the song 'Sangeetha Swarangal' that SPB sang for the Tamil film 'Azhagan' in which Mammootty played the lead role. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Balasubrahmanyam was never a person from another state for Malayalis, but one among them only. He took the south Indian music lovers to a new level of musical sensibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-singer-k-s-chithra-condole-s-p-balasubrahmanyams-demise-892970.html
25-09-2020||South||Covid-19 testing samples in Tamil Nadu hit new high||Single day Covid-19 tests in Tamil Nadu hit a new high on Friday with 94,877 samples, while 5,679 cases took the tally to 5,69,370, the state health department said. Seventy two more fatalities pushed the toll to 9,148 The record samples tested today took the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 69,10,521. As many as 5,626 people were discharged from various facilities after getting cured, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,13,836. The number of active cases stood at 46,386, the bulletin said. Four more private labs received the nod for Covid-19 tests, taking the total number of such facilities in the state to 182 (of which 66 were run by state government). The state does not use Rapid Antigen Diagnostic Tests and all tests are RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction based. Among the 72 deceased 68, including two men in their nineties, had comorbidities, while four had none, it said. Chennai topped in the number of new cases today with 1,193 infections, followed by Coimbatore 661, Salem 297, Chengalpet 277, Cuddalore 235, Thiruvallur 229. Twelve districts also reported over 100 cases each. Chennai also came out on top in the number of cases recording 1,60,926 till date out of 5.69 lakh in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-testing-samples-in-tamil-nadu-hit-new-high-892989.html
25-09-2020||South||S P Balasubrahmanyam's funeral will have police honours: CM K Palaniswami||Renowned singer S P Balasubrahmanyam would be laid to rest with police honours, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said here on Friday. As a mark of respect to Balasubrahmanyam, who has "earned a perpetual place in the hearts of people" not only from Tamil Nadu but across the country, the singer "would be laid to rest" with honours from the police department, the Chief Minister announced in an official release. The body would be taken to Tamaraipakkam in Thiruvallur district, about 40 km from here. The legendary playback singer died on Friday after fighting Covid-19 at MGM Healthcare here since August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/s-p-balasubrahmanyams-funeral-will-have-police-honours-cm-k-palaniswami-893006.html
25-09-2020||State||Last rites of Narayan Rao performed||The last rites of Congress' Basavakalyan legislator B Narayan Rao, who died of Covid-19, on Thursday were performed with full state honours at Autonagar near Mudabi Cross on the outskirts of Basavakalyan town on Friday afternoon. The family members of the deceased were inconsolable as the medical staff, geared in their PPE kit, carried the mortal remains of the legislator to the cremation site. The last rites were conducted in the presence of Mallamma, the deceased wife, and sons Gowtham and Rahul. KPCC Working President Eshwar Khandre, MLAs Rajashekhar Patil, Bandeppa Kashempur and U T Khader, MLCs Vijay Singh and Dr Chandrashekhar Patil, Kalaburagi MP Dr Umesh Kadhav, former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba and Harakod Channaveera Shivacharya Swamiji took part in the last rites. Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran, Superintendent of Police D L Nagesh, Basavakalyan tahsildar Savitri Salagar were present and made all arrangements for the cremation. Thousands of supporters of the deceased MLA, who had assembled in groves on either side of the Hyderabad-Solapur National Highway, could not pay their last respect to the departed soul due to the Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/last-rites-of-narayan-rao-performed-892791.html
25-09-2020||State||S P Balasubrahmanyam had a heart for Hemophilic patients||Renowned playback singer the late S P Balasubrahmanyam is widely known for his melodious voice. But many people are not aware of his humane side. His association with Karnataka Hemophilia Society which runs a care centre for people suffering from Hemophilia, a genetic life-long disorder, at SS Layout in Davangere is the best example for it. The singer not only performed in music concerts organised by the society to raise funds for its welfare activities for Hemophilia patients but also spent quality time with children suffering from it in the centre and sang songs for them. He visited Davangere six times and he not only laid the foundation stone for the building of the Karnataka Hemophilia Society in 2001 but also inaugurated the same in 2010. Dr. Suresh Hanagawadi, a professor in the Pathology department of JJM Medical College in Davangere, founded the society in 1989, to provide treatment and rehabilitation facility and create awareness among people about the rare genetic disorder as he himself is suffering from it. Speaking to DH, Dr. Suresh Hanagawadi said a team of his students went to Chennai and met SPB in 1999 and shared the initiatives of the society in treating people with such rare bleeding disorder and appealed to him to join hands with the society in its welfare activities. He readily accepted and performed in music concert on April 17 in Davangere on the occasion of World Hemophilia Day. Similarly, he participated in music concerts held in Hubballi in 2005, Davangere in 2010 and Chitradurga in 2015. The programme was titled as Kusuma. (name of the disease in Kannada). SPB told that though he is not a doctor in medicine he is ready to heal all those suffering from the rare disorder through songs. He had a commitment and urge to do something for the welfare of the patients. He was the patron chief and part of all the welfare activities carried out by the society. He contributed to the construction of an exclusive Hemophilia treatment centre in Davangere. So, his death is a huge loss not only to the organisation but to society.  Furnishing more details about the disease, he said Karnataka has six thousand Hemophilia patients and one lakh in the country. "We are focusing mainly on patients in north Karnataka. As many as 850 patients are registered with the society. Around 150 patients are undergoing treatment in society at present in Davangere. It is a life-long bleeding disorder and only men are affected by it. The treatment facilities available for it are less in the country. So, we started it and SPB was an integral part of all welfare activities of the society."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/s-p-balasubrahmanyam-had-a-heart-for-hemophilic-patients-892898.html
25-09-2020||State||Drugs case: ED gets 5-day custody of Kannada actresses Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani||A special court here has granted the Enforcement Directorate five days custody of Kannada film actresses Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani and three others, who were arrested in a drugs case. Dwivedi, Galrani, Rahul Thonse, party organiser Viren Khanna and B K Ravishankar, whose custody ED has sought, are accused of not only consuming drugs but also supplying them in parties through the drug peddlers. In its submission to the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Special Court, the ED said the preliminary inquiry of the money laundering investigation revealed a huge amount of proceeds of crime in money laundering activities. "If such proceeds of crime involved in money laundering are not attached or confiscated immediately, the objects of the Act shall be defeated," the ED said in its submission. The ED said to unearth or trace the properties, which are acquired by the accused "by way of extortion, killing, dealing of drugs etc, recording written statements from the accused person is essential to know the details of properties purchased and investments made out of the proceeds of crime." Meanwhile, a Nigerian drug peddler Ossy, who was reportedly supplying drugs to bigwigs involved in the drugs case, has been arrested, a Central crime branch official said. According to police, he is allegedly an associate of Simon, another Nigerian drug peddler already arrested. Police seized some synthetic drugs from his possession, the police said. The police have arrested 15 people in connection with the case while many others are at large.PTI GMS A report from Mangaluru said dancer-choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty and his aide Aqeel Nausheel, charged with drug consumption and peddling, were on Friday remanded to judicial custody till October 9. They were produced before the special sessions court by the narcotics crime police through video conference on expiry of their seven days police custody today. The two were arrested by central crime branch (CCB) police on September 19 on charges of possession, consumption and peddling of drugs. Aska, a woman from Manipur who partied with Shetty and Tarun, his close friend, have also been arrested in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/drugs-case-ed-gets-5-day-custody-of-kannada-actresses-ragini-dwivedi-sanjjanaa-galrani-892942.html
25-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||In Covid-hit academic year, PU dept mulls 40% cut in syllabus||The prolonged delay in the resumption of the academic session has prompted the Pre-University Education Department to consider a 40% reduction in II PUC syllabus for the current academic year. The department, which has already cut the syllabus by 30% as per the recommendations of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, is now planning to reduce it by another 10%. Sources in the department told DH that the continuing uncertainty over the opening of campuses for regular classes and also the loss of academic days due to the Covid-19 pandemic have forced the officials to consider a further cut. “The discussion is on. An official order about the total reduction in the syllabus will be issued soon,” a department official told DH. Previously, as recommended by the HRD Ministry, the syllabus was reduced by 30% owing to the crisis situation up to the month of August. “Keeping in mind the spike in Covid-19 cases, the department is considering a second cut in the syllabus," said another official. The department officials clarified that till date, there is no clarity on the reopening of PU colleges. “Perhaps it would take two more months to resume physical classes. Students cannot prepare for exams by studying the entire syllabus. It will also be difficult for teachers to cover the entire syllabus in the remaining academic period,” officials said.  BU mulls cut in syllabus The Bangalore University is also considering a reduction in the syllabus for the current academic year for all semesters of both undergraduate and postgraduate courses. As per the UGC’s latest guidelines, which had tentatively directed colleges to resume classes for the first semesters from November 1, the BU has convened a meeting of the Board of Studies to discuss the reduction of syllabus without losing out on content.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-covid-hit-academic-year-pu-dept-mulls-40-cut-in-syllabus-892624.html
25-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Former PM Deve Gowda, CM Yediyurappa condole death of S P Balasubrahmanyam||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa led the people of the state in condoling the death of celebrated playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who passed away in Chennai on Friday. Former Chief Ministers S M Krishna, H D Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah also condoled his death. "Reaching the pinnacle of music in Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam and Hindi is an unassailable achievement. This is a great loss to our nation, especially to the field of music," Gowda said in his message. Yediyurappa said S P Balasubrahmanyam had gained immense popularity through his film songs and that his achievements in music composition, acting and anchoring musical programmes are noteworthy. He noted that SPB had sung over 40,000 songs in many languages, including Hindi. "He had a special bonding towards Kannada and Kannadigas. The legendary singer was honoured with Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and numerous other awards for his contribution to the music industry. His songs will remain in the hearts of music lovers," Yediyurappa said, adding that his demise has left a void in the world of music. Krishna, in his message, said SPB was a legend in his lifetime. "A legend in his own lifetime, SPB's service to the cause of music is phenomenal. By singing more than 45,000 songs in many languages, he is credited to have influenced as well as inspired an entire generation to take up music as a career." Krishna said the singer sowed the seeds of 'Bhakti' in the hearts of millions and thus contributed to strengthen spirituality, as well as culture. A versatile personality, who had a stint in a few movies as actor, SPB scaled great heights and had come across global giants in the field of music, but remained humble, simple, unassuming and modest. In his death, the country and the music world have lost a colossus, he said. Siddaramaiah said "We have lost a great human being and I am deeply saddened by the loss. He will be alive with us through his songs." Kumaraswamy, in his message, said he was deeply pained to learn about the death of SPB. "The simplicity and gentleness of SPB, who sang more than 40,000 songs, is worth emulating," he said. Others who condoled SPB's death were Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Health Minister B Sriramulu and medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-pm-deve-gowda-cm-yediyurappa-condole-death-of-s-p-balasubrahmanyam-892835.html
25-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt appoints private firm to offer telemonitoring services to Covid-19 patients under home isolation||To monitor Covid-19 patients under home isolation in Bengaluru and other parts of the state, the Karnataka government has roped in a private firm to offer telemonitoring services. With more and more people opting to remain under home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19, the Health and Family Welfare Department has awarded a contract to Portea Medical run by the Health Vista India Private Limited that will call up the home-isolated patients on a day-to-day basis to monitor their health conditions. In the initial days of the pandemic, the health department, on an ad-hoc basis, had hired an NGO called Swasth which was paid Rs 95 per call per patient for five to six days, starting from 17 July to 10 September. A total of 5,204 patients were monitored by the NGO. Subsequently, after incurring a cost of Rs 24.71 lakh for nearly two months of teleconsultation, the health department floated a tender on September 10 to finalise an agency that can take care of Covid-19 patients under home isolation. Dr Prabhudev Gowda, Deputy Director, Health and Family Welfare Department and member of the Home Isolation Committee constituted by the Chief Secretary said, "The government has fixed the rate at Rs. 69 per call and estimates that a maximum of five phone calls will be made to the patient in home isolation over six to eight days. Approximately, the government will be spending Rs. 310 per patient and Rs. 7.75 lakh per day on 2,500 patients. It has fixed a three-month duration for the contract. The department estimates that every day, it will have at least 2,500 new Covid-19 patients requiring home isolation out of over 6,000-odd new infections reported." Initially, the telemonitoring was started in Bengaluru Urban and later extended to other districts as well. Surprisingly, out of 9,339 patients onboarded for monitoring, 668 dropped out during monitoring, two died, 5,204 were discharged and 3,465 patients are currently being watched. As on September 23, there were 4,92,101 home-isolated patients across the state.  "The agency has to call the home-isolated patient on the first and fourth day and the rest of the days. the staff nurse has to call. We have given them a checklist of questions to monitor as per the guidelines," said Dr. Gowda. He further added, "The patients will be given an 'escalation number' for medical and non-medical emergencies. On getting such a call, we will connect to the zonal officer wherein they will be further guided to the quarantine teams." Digital thermometer, pulse oximeter, a sufficient number of masks, two bedrooms and a caregiver are some of the requirements to be eligible for home isolation. Portea has to do the physical triage and the tele-triage but during the onboarding, it has to ask these questions again and check for co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-appoints-private-firm-to-offer-telemonitoring-services-to-covid-19-patients-under-home-isolation-892850.html
25-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No objection to Congress' no-confidence motion against my government: B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said he has no objection to the Congress moving a no-confidence motion against the government led by him, and that it should be moved every six months as it will keep the government strong and going. The no-confidence motion and discussion in this regard is likely to be taken up in the Karnataka legislative assembly on Saturday. "I have no objection to it (no-confidence motion). Let them (opposition) bring it...," Yediyurappa said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters here, he said "Every six months once they must move the no-confidence motion, so that I'm safe for the next six months." Signalling another political bout, a notice by opposition Congress expressing no-confidence in the Yediyurappa-led government was admitted by Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Thursday. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, who has given the notice for no-confidence motion, has claimed the government has failed on all fronts and the people of the state and the assembly has lost confidence in it as corruption was rampant, development was stunted, and the financial condition of the state has deteriorated. The ruling BJP has termed the Congress' move as a "political gimmick" and said the opposition party lacks numbers. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said the Congress has not consulted his party about bringing a no-confidence motion against the government, and expressed doubts regarding the seriousness behind such a move. The former Chief Minister even suggested that it could well be for publicity. With the numbers on its side, there is no threat to the stability of the BJP government because of this no-confidence motion. The Congress is likely to use the debate to bring out the alleged failures of the government. In the 225-member assembly, the ruling BJP has 116 members, Congress 67, JD(S) 33, BSP and nominated 1, independents 2, and Speaker (he has a casting vote). Four seats-- Sira, Basavakalyan, RR Nagar and Maski are vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-objection-to-congress-no-confidence-motion-against-my-government-b-s-yediyurappa-892994.html
25-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly raises fiscal deficit ceiling as Opposition walks out||Amidst a walkout by Opposition Congress, the Legislative Assembly on Friday passed a Bill allowing a one-time relaxation to raise fiscal deficit (FD) to five percentage points of the GSDP. At present, the law requires the government to keep the fiscal deficit within 3% of GSDP. During a discussion on the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged the BJP government to restrict the fiscal deficit to 3.5% of GSDP, adding that he was "strictly opposed" to increasing the ceiling beyond that. "We can't increase the limit for a year, as it is still uncertain when the pandemic will end," Siddaramaiah said, adding that additional borrowing that the amendment would allow could push the state to bankruptcy. As the Centre will stop providing GST compensation from the 2022-23 fiscal, revenue deficit will surge by over Rs 30,000 crore, the Congress leader said. "Rather than additional borrowing, drastic measures should be taken to cut down wasteful expenditure and increase non-tax revenue," he said, asking the government to do away with unwanted posts and merge departments to save costs. "For example, why should there be a joint director and a deputy director in the agriculture department?" Former Congress minister Krishna Byre Gowda highlighted the long-term effects of the amendment, saying that the borrowings would add to the government's committed expenditure leaving little funds for development activity. Noting that the government had planned to borrow based on 2020-21 budget estimates of GSDP, Gowda said: "Borrowings should be on actuals and not the notional projection of Rs 18 lakh crore GSDP." He also sought to know why the government had not moved for an amendment of the ratio of liabilities to GSDP, adding that it was certain that the government's liabilities would exceed the 25% GSDP limit set under the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Law Minister JC Madhuswamy, who piloted the Bill in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's stead, said that the amendment was necessitated by "extraneous circumstances" due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "Liabilities-to-GSDP ratio will be within 23.5% of GSDP," he assured the House.  Madhusway said reducing committed expenditure - salaries, pensions, and so on - was easier said than done.  In the 2020-21 fiscal, Karnataka could face a revenue shortfall of Rs 65,288 crore, Madhuswamy said.  Siddaramaiah said the government should fight for Rs 5,495 crore special grant recommended for the state by the 15th Finance Commission, but "rejected" by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. "We'll make sure we get it," Madhuswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-raises-fiscal-deficit-ceiling-as-opposition-walks-out-893007.html
25-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly passes labour amendments without Opposition resistance||The Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Friday passed 16 Bills, including the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, which tweaks labour-related laws in an industry-friendly manner. The labour-related Bill was passed with little opposition from the Congress, except former minister Priyank Kharge who called it "anti-labour."  According to Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, who piloted the Bill, the amendments would make only those establishments that employ 300 or more persons seek the government's permission for closure, retrenchment or layoff. Similarly, worker thresholds will be increased from 10 to 20 in units which use power and from 20 to 40 in factories that do not use power. "Also, we're increasing the overtime work of any quarter from 75 to 125 hours," Hebbar said.  Kharge said the Bill would amount to exploitation of labourers in the name of ease of doing business. Hebbar defended the Bill citing the Covid-19 pandemic. "It's inevitable for factories to run and those willing to work for longer in shifts, we're allowing that," he said. The labour-related Bill will replace an ordinance the government had promulgated in July. The  Assembly also passed a Bill that will allow the government to free up locked ‘B’ kharab (non-cultivable) lands at twice the guidance value. While 'B' kharab lands can be put to public, in several cases, they are stuck between private properties, making them landlocked. “There are small 1-10 guntas of lands that are locked in between properties. For example, Infosys approached us saying there were 5-10 guntas of ‘B’ kharab on their land that we couldn’t touch. Now, we will give such locked ‘B’ kharab lands at twice the guidance value so that they can be put to use,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said, while piloting the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill.  'Deemed forest' area to be reduced Forest Minister Anand Singh told the Assembly that the quantum of 'deemed forest' lands will be brought down from 9.84 lakh hectares to 3.30 lakh hectares. “We will drop 6.54 lakh hectares from the ‘deemed forest’ category,” he said.  Singh said this during a discussion on the Karnataka Land Revenue (Second Amendment) Bill that extends the deadline for regularizing unauthorized cultivation. Many MLAs complained that the ‘deemed forest’ issue came in the way of disposing of applications seeking regularization. Former speaker KR Ramesh Kumar hailed Singh for taking a decision on this issue. “You’ve given relief to lakhs of people who’ve been troubled.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-labour-amendments-without-opposition-resistance-893027.html
25-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mass death of trees due to insects in evergreen forests prompts study||In a first-of-its-kind incident in the Western Ghats, more than 500 ‘Jala’ (Shorea talura) trees have died due to insect attack in the natural forests of Sirsi in Uttara Kannada district.  The tree, which entered the red list (vulnerable) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in 2017, is seen in patches in the Western Ghats, especially in pockets of its evergreen forests. Due to its high timber value, the tree is ranked next to rose wood and has been overexploited. However, the mass death of the trees in Belale, Golikoppa, Malenahalli, Hosalli and the surrounding villages of Sirsi taluk due to the attack of stem heartwood borer is seen as a strange phenomenon, with experts unable to pinpoint the exact reason. Farmers who noticed the trees drying up in quick succession had requested officials to visit the area. Karnataka Biodiversity Board chief Anant Hegde Ashisar, who led a team of forest officials, entomologists and others, said that apart from the 500 trees which have already died, another 600 were drying up. “Had it not been for the alert farmers of the village, we would not have known the extent of damage. I have recommended a detailed study to understand this phenomenon as well as for quick mitigation measures to save the trees,” he said. S G Hegde, Deputy Conservator of Forest, Sirsi, said prima facie it looked like the heartwood borers attacked weak trees. “We have not come across an attack of this magnitude in the ghats. Jala trees are already endangered. Some of those that died were over 200-years-old. We will consult experts to understand whether biotic disturbance in forests has added to the problem,” he said. Conservation biologist Keshava H Korse said the death of trees was a symptom of a larger problem. “Such mass deaths have taken place in plantations but not in natural forests which have a balancing mechanism that helps in containing the insects. The death of trees is a symptom of a larger problem of ecological imbalance and may also be linked to climate change. We urgently need an ecosystem management plan,” he said. Entomologists Javare Gowda and Roopa Patil said the incident is similar to the sal heartwood borer attack in Madhya Pradesh where hundreds of sal trees have been killed. Roopa said a study was required to come up with a containment measure.  “We need to conduct a survey to ascertain the prevalence of the insect. The insect that attacked sal and the one killing trees in Sirsi are different. We don’t know how or when it has entered our forests,” Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mass-death-of-trees-due-to-insects-in-evergreen-forests-prompts-study-893070.html
25-09-2020||West||No second coronavirus wave in Mumbai, assures municipal commissioner||There is "no second wave" of Covid-19 in Mumbai and the infections are rising due to increased testing, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Thursday. He also said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was in discussion with gyms and restaurant owners, and looking to allow them to reopen with one-third patrons. The city reported 2,163 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 54 fresh fatalities. "I would like to reassure that there is absolutely no second wave at all," Chahal asserted at an event organized by industry lobby CII. Mumbai is now witnessing over 15,000 tests a day against the earlier 7,000, he said. The civic body took a conscious call of more than doubling the testing and go for a "stimulated spike" from September 1 because it is confident that its health infrastructure can take care of new patients, Chahal said. Earlier, there used to be 1,100 positive patients among 7,000 tests carried out per day, which has now gone up to around 2,000 positive patients with the testing more than doubling, he said. The BMC is planning to take the number of tests to over 20,000 a day, he added. Even if the tests were to go up to 32,000 a day, which will take the daily spike in cases to nearly 4,000, the health infrastructure will be able cope up, he said. Drawing a cricket analogy, he said what is important is not the number of deliveries a batsman faces, but not losing the wicket, and added that mortality among COVID-19 patients needs to come down. The death rate presently stands at over 4.5 per cent which the city wants to get down to 2.2 per cent, he said. He also rued that people still continue roaming without masks. "We are talking to gyms and restaurants and how we can start with one-third capacity of gyms and restaurants. We are slowly moving forward. Maybe next will be religious places," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-second-coronavirus-wave-in-mumbai-assures-municipal-commissioner-892629.html
25-09-2020||West||Bollywood's Rakul Preet Singh appears before NCB||Actress and model Rakul Preet Singh on Friday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that is investigating the larger Bollywood-drug mafia nexus that emerged during investigations into the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. Rakul Preet is among the four A-listers whose name has figured during the probe – the others being Deepika Padukone, Shradhha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan. Rakul Preet (29) has acted in several Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Hindi films. In 2011, she competed the Femina Miss India pageant, in which she was placed fifth and won five pageant titles including People's Choice Miss Indiatimes, Pantaloons Femina Miss Fresh Face, Femina Miss Talented, Femina Miss Beautiful Smile and Femina Miss Beautiful Eyes. Some of her popular films are like Venkatadri Express (2013), Current Theega (2014), Rough (2014), Loukyam (2014), Yaariyan (2014), Kick 2 (2015), Sarrainodu (2016), Nannaku Prematho (2016), Dhruva (2016), Spyder (2017) and Theeran Adhigaaram Ondru (2017). In 2017, she was appointed the brand ambassador for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao programme by Telangana. Deepika’s business manager Karishma Prakash will also appear before NCB on Friday. On Thursday evening, Rakul Preet arrived from Hyderabad while Deepika Padukone and Sara Ali Khan arrived separately from Goa. Deepika, Sara and Shraddha will be grilled over Saturday and Sunday, NCB sources said. Rakul Preet's name came up  during during the investigations of Sushant Singh Rajput's live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, house manager Samuel Miranda and domestic help Dipesh Sawant and dozen-odd drug peddlers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bollywoods-rakul-preet-singh-appears-before-ncb-892710.html
25-09-2020||West||Ajit Pawar pays tribute to Hindutva icon Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, deletes tweet||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday paid tribute to Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS) ideologue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay on his birth anniversary, but later deleted the tweet on the late leader. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also paid tribute to Upadhyay, a Hindutva icon and a revered figure for the BJP, his former ally. The BJS was the predecessor of the BJP. Taking to Twitter, Pawar, a senior NCP leader, wrote, "Tributes to the founder of JanaSanghand senior leader Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay on his birth anniversary." However, the tweet by Pawar, who had briefly joined hands with the BJP before the MVA government was formed in November last year,was later deleted. Asked about his deleted tweet, Pawar said, "We speak good about people who are no more and that is why I had tweeted. But in politics, we have to listen to our seniors." The NCP leader, however, did not elaborate. Thackeray, who is also the Shiv Sena president, offered floral tribute to Upadhyay at his private residence 'Matoshree' in suburban suburban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-pays-tribute-to-hindutva-icon-pandit-deendayal-upadhyay-deletes-tweet-892795.html
25-09-2020||West||Shiv Sena feels Sushant Singh Rajput issue would be politicised in Bihar polls||Hours after the Election Commission declared elections for Bihar, the Shiv Sena on Friday felt that the Sushant Singh Rajput case would be politicised during the polls. "The government did not have development or governance issues to speak on,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member said. He was responding to questions about whether Sushant Singh Rajput’s death would be politicised during the Bihar elections. "What has happened to the CBI probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput case,” Raut wanted to know. He pointed out that Bihar’s Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey has resigned and is set to contest the elections. When asked about the proposed Filmcity in Uttar Pradesh, Raut said, “It's a good proposal. Uttar Pradesh is an important state in the country and the entertainment business offers employment opportunities." Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that Filmcities should come up in all states. "With the abrogation of Article 370, a Filmcity should also be set up in Kashmir valley,” he said. On the declaration of elections, he said: “The Covid-19 pandemic had given rise to an unprecedented situation in the country….is the situation right to conduct polls?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-feels-sushant-singh-rajput-issue-would-be-politicised-in-bihar-polls-892815.html
25-09-2020||West||CAG disputes Gujarat govt's claim about no water contamination in the state||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) on Friday said the Gujarat government's claim that there was no chemical contamination of drinking water anywhere in the state was "not correct". In its report tabled in the state Assembly, the CAG cited laboratory reports and mentioned that over 20,000 out of 1.30 lakh samples, that is 15 per cent, "failed the chemical examination conducted by government laboratories in 2015-16". The report further stated that a similar trend of contamination was found in tests conducted in subsequent years. The CAG's performance audit report on 'Rural drinking water supply programme in Gujarat' for the financial year 2017-18 was tabled on Friday, the last day of the state Assembly's Monsoon session. The CAG noted that the presence of certain chemicals in drinking water above prescribed limit causes major diseases. Arsenic causes cancer, fluoride causes fluorosis, nitrate hampers the blood's capacity to transport oxygen resulting in brain damage, iron causes hemochromatosis. The CAG further said the Gujarat government in March 2016 told the Centre that "the state was not water quality affected". However, citing government lab reports, the CAG noted that "out of 6.29 lakh water samples tested in the state during 2013-18, around 1.15 lakh samples, that is 18.30 per cent, were found chemically unfit, having excess content of fluoride, nitrate and TDS". Overall contamination with regard to nitrate and fluoride as per samples tested during 2013-18 in the state was 11.89 per cent and 4.33 per cent respectively, the report said. According to the report, Chhotaudepur, Dahod, Banaskantha, Panchmahal and Vadodara had high contamination of nitrate. While worst affected by fluoride contamination were Dahod, Chhotaudepur, Banaskantha and Kheda, it was stated. As per the audit, 54 samples were found unfit from 188 samples collected during joint physical verification. Though the water was contaminated, people were found using it for "drinking and cooking purposes from these sources, as these habitations had no alternate source", the CAG noted. In a clear rebuttal, the CAG said the state government's claim that "not a single habitation was quality affected was not correct", the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cag-disputes-gujarat-govts-claim-about-no-water-contamination-in-the-state-892826.html
25-09-2020||West||Maharashtra lecturer turns farm labourer to support family due to Covid-19 lockdown||Till March, Navnath Gore was a lecturer in a college in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra, but the Covid-19-induced lockdown took away his contract job and reduced him to a farm labourer. Gore (32), a resident of a small village, Nigdi, in Jat tehsil of Sangli district, is also a recipient of a literary award, 'Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar', but that is hardly a consolation for a man who has fallen on hard times due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Coming to terms with the reality of losing job, a situation faced by millions worldwide, he decided to work as a farm labourer in his home district to support his family. Gore now earns a meagre income of Rs 400 per day. A post-graduate in Marathi from the Shivaji University in Kolhapur district, Gore started writing his maiden novel Fesati during his post-graduation days. The book got published in 2017 and in 2018 he won the Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar. "After I won the award, I received an offer from a college in Ahmednagar district where I started working as a lecturer on a clock hour basis and used to get Rs 10,000 per month. "In February this year, my father passed away and the responsibility of my mother and a 50-year-old brother, who is physically challenged, came on my shoulders," said Gore. After the death of his father, Gore went home in February, but could not go back to his teaching job as the lockdown was imposed in March-end to curb the Covid-19 spread. "I came back to my village in February. Since my job was contractual, the income from the college also stopped. "With no income, it was difficult for us to make the ends meet. I then started taking up odd-jobs and also started working as a farm labourer in the region," he added. Gore, who travels long distances in the region for work, said he earns around Rs 400 if he works full day. Gore recalled his student days in Kolhapur, where, while pursuing his post-graduation, he used to work as a security guard at an ATM centre to support his family. 'Fesati' is a story of a youth, who against all odds, completes his education. The book also depicts the plight of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-lecturer-turns-farm-labourer-to-support-family-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-892839.html
25-09-2020||West||Devendra Fadnavis slams Congress for opposing Farm Bills ||Maharashtra BJP leader Fadnavis on Friday hit out at the Congress and other opposition parties at the Centre for opposing the farm sector bills that were passed in the Parliament. He said the Congress's stand on the issue was nothing but "double standards" as it was "out of power". Talking to reporters in Navi Mumbai, Fadnavis said the opposition parties were against the bills just for the sake of politics. "The same Congress had promised to introduce similar changes (in the laws) when it was in power. They are opposing it just for their politics and nothing else. In fact, not implementing these laws will be anti-farmer," the former Maharashtra chief minister said. "Congress had even mentioned the same promises during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Hence, its current stand is full of double standards," Fadnavis said. The Congress along with many other opposition parties has claimed that the new agriculture laws will harm the interest of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted the bills will be beneficial for farmers and increase their income. Various farmer groups have called for a nationwide shutdown on Friday against the three bills, which were passed by both houses of Parliament during the Monsoon session and await presidential assent. The three bills are the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/devendra-fadnavis-slams-congress-for-opposing-farm-bills-892851.html
25-09-2020||West||Maharashtra govt to issue circular for rational use of remdesivir||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the state government will issue circular within 24 hours to all doctors and Covid-19 hospitals for rational use of remdesivir injections in the treatment of coronavirus infection. Apart from this, FDA minister Dr Rajendra Shingne said a special campaign will be launched against the black marketing of the anti-viral injection in the state. The ministers were addressing the media after a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in East Vidarbha. Tope visited government hospitals in Bhandara, Gondia and Nagpur to take stock of the situation and steps taken by the administration. When asked about excess use and shortage of remdesivir in Covid-19 hospitals, Tope said, "Rational use of the injection is important and it should not be administered as soon as a patient is admitted." Doctors and Covid-19 hospitals will be given directions on how to use remdesivir and a circular will be issued within 24 hours, he said. Meanwhile, speaking about the supply of the drug, Shingne said, "By September 30, around 1.10 lakh remdesivir injections will be available in Maharashtra from five to six pharmaceutical companies that are producing the drug." The FDA along with the home department will launch a special campaign against black marketing of remdesivir across the state and the initiative has already started in Mumbai, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-issue-circular-for-rational-use-of-remdesivir-892866.html
25-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Suburban railway services increased in Mumbai||With demand growing for trains during the morning and evening peak hours, more than 200 services have been added this week to Mumbai’s suburban rail network – considered to be the lifeline of the financial capital. The train services were shut down on March 22 when the day-long 'janata curfew' was imposed. They remained suspended during the subsequent lockdown period in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On July 15, skeletal services resumed for people engaged in essential services, state and central governments, banks, etc. However, with the Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again gaining pace and Unlock -4 underway, the demand for local trains has increased. The Central Railway (CR) and the Western Railway (WR) restarted the train services with 450-odd services in total which was gradually increased. On Monday, the WR scaled up its services from 350 to 500, while on Thursday, the CR increased services from 355 to 423. Out of these 68 additional CR services, 46 will be on the main line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and Kasara, Khopoli and Karjat, and 22 on the harbour line between CSMT and Panvel and Goregaon. More than 80 lakh people use Mumbai's suburban network, spread across six lines covering 390-odd kms and 157 stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, daily. The CR and WR collectively run over 3,000 services daily which have now been scaled down. Some videos of overcrowded trains went viral on social media recently but those were from Tuesday and Wednesday when heavy rains had paralysed the services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-suburban-railway-services-increased-in-mumbai-892871.html
25-09-2020||West||Coronavirus mortality rate dips in Mumbai||Notwithstanding the rise in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, the mortality rate has reduced, a top official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday. “Although Mumbai has been reporting a higher number of Covid-19 cases, the mortality rate in the city has come down over the last two months.  The Case Fatality Rate, i.e. death due to Covid-19 as a percentage of total reported cases, has come down to 4.5% as against 5.8% during June,” BMC’s Additional Municipal Commissioner (Health)  Suresh Kakani said. He has attributed this dip to better monitoring as a part of ‘Mission Save Lives’  that the BMC is implementing. Kakani elaborated that under Mission Save Lives, a separate list of critical patients in every hospital was prepared and their treatment was monitored continuously. “Every day, consultations were held with doctors twice through video conference, expert advice was made available through Task Force members and continuous video surveillance of serious cases was carried out. As part of the project, advanced ventilators were made available, along with the services of trained technicians, which played a key role in bringing down the mortality rate” he added. Kakani further said that although Mumbai is reporting a higher number of Covid-19 cases, the situation in the city is under control.  He said that with the unlocking process now on, most of the service and business establishments except cinema halls, restaurants as well as schools and colleges have opened up and there is increased movement of people. He further informed that BMC has increased testing by 90% and they are in the process of scaling it up even further. Kakani assured that bed availability in Mumbai is satisfactory as nearly 5,500 out of 17,500 Covid-19 beds are vacant. He further said that nearly 10% of 8,800 oxygen beds and 1,100 ventilator beds are vacant in Mumbai. He asserted that BMC has successfully brought down the curve in slums of Mumbai, which had posed serious challenges in the starting months.  “Presently 70% of all the reported cases are coming from apartment residents,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-mortality-rate-dips-in-mumbai-892880.html
25-09-2020||West||Farm Bills won't be implemented in Maharashtra, says govt||The Congress, which is part of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, on Friday said it would work towards ensuring that the farm sector Bills passed by the Parliament are not implemented in the state. The party said it has decided to hold a protest on October 2 against the new laws and a month-long awareness campaign. "We will work together and make a decision on non- implementation of the new farm laws in Maharashtra, "state Congress president and minister Balasaheb Thorat said during a press conference. The party's state leaders will meet Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on September 28 over the issue, while on October 2, a state-wide 'dharna' agitation will be held, he added. "Signature campaign of farmers will be organised between October 2 and 31. Similarly, farmers' conventions will be held during the period," Thorat said. The party's demand is to scrap the anti-farmer and anti-labor laws, the Revenue Minister said. "The new laws aim to scrap the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs). The government wants to demolish the APMC system and hand over the marketing system to traders. Due to this, farmers will not get the minimum support price (MSP). Even the labor protection laws are being scrapped," he alleged. Maharashtra PWD Minister Ashok Chavan said the provisions of the new laws will benefit only the rich and the corporates. "Not just the Congress, but even BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal has opposed and quit the government," he said. The bills were passed without taking anyone into confidence and without discussion, he alleged. New AICC in-charge of the state, H K Patil, alleged, "Taking advantage of the prevailing coronavirus situation, the bills were passed for the benefit of corporates." "The government claims that the new laws give freedom to farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country. But farmers need support from the government. The bills were passed without consultations with even the farmers," he said. Various farmer groups have called for a nationwide shutdown on Friday against the three bills, which were passed by both houses of Parliament during the Monsoon session and awaiting presidential assent. The three bills are the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farm-bills-wont-be-implemented-in-maharashtra-says-govt-892882.html
25-09-2020||West||CAG finds deficiencies in Gujarat mid-day meal implementation||From incorrect data about beneficiary students to non-utilisation of kitchen equipment, the CAG has found a host of gaps in the implementation of the centrally-sponsored mid-day meal scheme in Gujarat. In its report tabled in the Assembly here on Friday, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) noted that "there was higher reporting in respect of coverage of students to the Centre." As the state government showed more students against an actual number of students covered under the scheme, "food grains and cooking cost were being allocated more than the actual ground-level requirement, leading to increase in the closing stock of food grains", the CAG noted. The compliance audit report for 2017-18 on Mid-Day Meal (MDM) scheme implementation in Gujarat was tabled on the last day of monsoon session of the Assembly. One of the components of the MDM in Gujarat is "Doodh Sanjivani Scheme", started in 2014-15 to address the issue of malnutrition among school children, who are given Amul milk as part of the scheme. In Banaskantha, one of the test-checked district, the CAG observed that "the daily average number of students covered under the scheme decreased from 1.25 lakh to 91,489 students between 2016 and 2018." A similar drop in beneficiary students was recorded in tribal-dominated Panchmahal district, the national auditor said. During a field visit in Sehra taluka of Panchmahal district, the report observed, out of 270 milk pouches delivered to five schools, 142 pouches were found lying unused "and schools had no facility to store the same so that it can be used next day". As per Union government norms, food delivered to schools from centralised kitchens run by NGOs "should have a minimum temperature of 65 degrees centigrade at the time of serving". However, during field visits in Valsad and Vadodara, audit teams observed that "food was not hot", the watchdog said. Moreover, a report by "Joint Review Mission which visited schools of Vadodara in March 2018 pointed out that the food served by the NGO did not meet the nutritional value prescribed under MDM", the CAG noted. To upgrade kitchens, the state education department provided equipment worth Rs 53.42 crore to 756 schools during 2014-15 and to 500 schools in 2015-16. However, the CAG observed that cooking equipment provided to "64 schools in seven test-checked talukas were not put to use and were lying idle since their supply". The scheme was started by the Centre with a view to enhance enrolment, retention and attendance, and simultaneously improving nutritional levels among children. It is implemented at every government and government-aided primary school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cag-finds-deficiencies-in-gujarat-mid-day-meal-implementation-892910.html
25-09-2020||West||Gujarat Assembly passes bill to stop fishermen from entering Pak waters||The Gujarat Assembly on Friday passed a bill to discourage local fishermen from straying into Pakistani waters near the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) in the Arabian Sea. The bill, which replaced an ordinance issued in July and seeks to amend certain provisions of the Gujarat Fisheries Act, 2003, was passed unanimously on the last day of the monsoon session of the state Assembly. Introducing the Bill in the House, Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja said it was necessary to take strict action against erring fishermen and boat owners who stray into Pakistani waters for 'Lalpari' fish and eventually get caught by the authorities there. Jadeja said not just IMBL, the fishermen are now barred from entering a 'no fishing zone' which is an area 10 nautical miles from the IMBL. To keep a check on fishermen and stop them from indulging in such activities, the bill gave "search and seizure" powers to sub-inspectors or officials above that rank at any marine police station in the state, Jadeja said. Such provisions will also keep a check on drug smuggling through the sea, he said. "We know how RDX that landed on the Gozabara coast was used in the Mumbai blast. In 2008, terrorists captured Kuber fishing boat near IMBL and reached Mumbai. We aim to stop such activities by introducing this bill" said Jadeja. As per the Bill, a fine of Rs 1 lakh will be imposed on boats from other states entering Gujarat's marine boundary, something the present Act did not have, he said. Apart from the Rs 1 lakh fine, the bill also has provisions allowing authorities to sell catch brought in by such boats, and then impose another penalty which will be five times the sale amount of the catch, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-assembly-passes-bill-to-stop-fishermen-from-entering-pak-waters-892920.html
25-09-2020||West||NCB reaches doorstep of Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, and other Bollywood players||Investigating two cases parallelly, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has reached the doorsteps of Bollywood’s bigwigs. During the next couple of weeks, several big people from the Hindi entertainment industry will be called. There are two sets of cases that were registered by NCB – FIR 15/20 and FIR 16/20 – and there seems to be a common thread, according to the investigations conducted so far by the federal anti-drug agency. While 15/20 deals with the drug angle vis-à-vis Sushant Singh Rajput case, 16/20 involves a probe of the larger Bollywood-drug cartel nexus. The 15/20 investigations are being carried out at the Exchange Building at Ballard Estate where the NCB’s zonal office is located and 16/20 at Evelyn House, the guesthouse of the Mumbai Port Trust near the Taj Mahal Palace. On Friday, the NCB sleuths zeroed in on an executive producer & director Kshitij Ravi Prasad, who is said to be associated with a top filmmaker. Incidentally, Kshitij has good relations with top stars and has in the past worked with a superstar’s company. NCB officials took him to the Exchange Building even as actor Rakul Preet Singh, who has acted in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, and Hindi films, and Karishma Prakash, the business manager of actor Deepika Padukone, who is associated with KWAN talent management agency. On Saturday and Sunday, Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, and Sara Ali Khan are expected to be grilled by the NCB. Deepika Padukone, the daughter of badminton legend Prakash Padukone, is married to actor Ranveer Singh. Shraddha is the daughter of actor Shakti Kapoor and Sara is the daughter of actor Saif Ali Khan and his first wife Amrita Singh and granddaughter of an aristocrat and cricketing legend late MAK Pataudi and actor and ex-Censor Board chief Sharmila Tagore. Earlier this week, the NCB examined business managers Jayanti Saha, Shruti Modi, producer Madhu Mantena Varma, designer Simone Khambatta.  Several Bollywood party organisers too have come under the scanner  - following the interrogation of the dozen off-peddlers. As far as Sushant's live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik are concerned, a top NCB official said, "Rhea was arrested due to her linkages with the drug trafficking network. In her statement, she dwelled into other aspects, wherein violations of provisions of the NDPS Act were noted."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-reaches-doorstep-of-deepika-padukone-shraddha-kapoor-and-other-bollywood-players-892923.html
25-09-2020||West||Congress only paid lip service to farmers during its rule: Goa BJP||The BJP's Goa unit on Friday accused the Congress of paying lip service to the cause of farmers in the country during its rule at the Centre for decades. Speaking to reporters, BJP state spokesman and former Member of Parliament Narendra Sawaikar said the Congress had failed to provide relief to farmers during its entire tenure. Farmers' welfare was never at the core of the politics played by the Congress, which has only paid lip service over the years, he said. The three new farm reform bills passed by the Narendra Modi-led government will go a long way in giving freedom to farmers to sell their produce to anyone they want, Sawaikar said. Farmers can even have an agreement with companies to sell their produce, and there is also an inbuilt redressal system in the bills in case of disputes, he said. In its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, the Congress had assured to bring a law on par with what has been done by the Central government now, the BJP leader said, adding that the opposition parties were protesting for the sake of it. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed in both the houses of Parliament amid protests from the opposition parties. On Wednesday, 18 opposition parties urged President Ram Nath Kovind not to sign the contentious bills and alleged that they were passed "unconstitutionally" in "complete disregard" of parliamentary norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-only-paid-lip-service-to-farmers-during-its-rule-goa-bjp-892924.html
25-09-2020||West||Kangana Ranaut's bungalow: Bombay High Court asks if BMC demolished only ongoing construction||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) if it showed the "same swiftness" in other cases of unauthorised construction as it showed in demolishing parts of Kangana Ranaut's bungalow. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla was hearing Ranaut's petition against the demolition carried out at her Pali Hill bungalow here by the BMC on September 9. The Bollywood actor's lawyer, senior counsel Birendra Saraf, told the court that the BMC gave her just 24 hours to respond to its stop-work notice. The civic body started demolition without giving her adequate time to respond, he said, adding that it also did not make any entry about alleged illegalities at Ranaut's bungalow in its detection report, as is mandatory. The lawyer also questioned the "timing of the demolition," and claimed that Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had said in an interview to a news channel on September 8 that "what is law? we need to teach Kangana a lesson". Ranaut had crossed swords with the Sena, which controls the BMC, earlier with her critical comments. "Effectively on the same day at 3.30 pm, the BMC officials reached the bungalow for inspection," Saraf said. On September 9, the order of demolition was passed and pasted at the property's entrance at 10.34 am, but "the officials of the Corporation along with the requisite machinery were present at the site in full force at 10.19 am," Saraf said. At this the bench asked senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, who appeared for the BMC, if alleged illegalities had been recorded in the detection register. When the BMC lawyer replied in the affirmative, the bench asked, "We want to know if the demolition has taken place in those cases (other entries in the detection register) with the same swiftness." Justice Kathawalla then also remarked in jest whether the demolition happened "in the way Advocate Pradeep Thorat's client (Sanjay Raut) wanted". On September 9 too, when Ranaut first approached Bombay HC and the court stayed the demolition, Justice Kathawalla had questioned the BMC's speedy action. It had said if the civic body showed the same swiftness in other cases, the city would be a very different place. The court on Friday asked Ranaut's lawyer to submit photos and other material to show if the portions demolished by the BMC existed prior to January 2020. The bench said it wanted to find out if the demolished part -- whether legal or not -- was under construction, or if it had been constructed in the past. This is a key point as the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act's section 354 A empowers the civic body and its officials to stop any "ongoing" illegal construction. Ranaut has already stated in her amended petition that she had photos from a pooja ceremony conducted in January 2020 and photos from Elle Dcor magazine issue of April-May 2020 which show that demolished portions existed back then. Therefore, the BMC's allegation that illegal work was going on was false, her plea said. Advocate Saraf told the bench on Friday that when the civic body served a demolition notice, only some waterproofing work was going on and she had the requisite permissions. He also pointed out that the photos of `ongoing work' submitted in court by the BMC on Friday did not have any digital time stamp but only a note dating them to September 5. The court asked Chinoy to instruct the BMC officer who took the photos to submit his phone to the court, so that it can be ascertained when the photos were taken. The court also noted that the BMC in its affidavit had said that Ranaut had changed the position of the entrance of the ground floor, but many more things on the ground floor were demolished. "What we are thinking is, how was the ground floor demolished if there is no ongoing work there," it said. "Whatever they have alleged in the affidavit regarding the ground floor, is all already done (in the past). So how was the ground floor demolished," it asked. The arguments will continue on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranauts-bungalow-bombay-high-court-asks-if-bmc-demolished-only-ongoing-construction-892925.html
25-09-2020||West||Maharashtra preparing health map: Uddhav Thackeray||During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video-conference, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray elaborated on ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign involving a door-to-door survey covering 2.25 crore families twice during September-October. “The survey and campaign will help create a health map of Maharashtra, which will help create a healthier and happier state,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday while undertaking a review of the Covid-19 situation. “Besides those who are Covid-19 infected, cured, post-recovery status, people are also providing information about other ailments and their general health status, and getting taught about the preventive triad of ‘wearing masks, physical distancing and clean hands’… We want to make it a people's movement,” Thackeray said.  With the active involvement of several NGOs and people’s representatives to effectively control the pandemic and provide health education to all in the state, volunteers will aim to reach 2.25 crore households twice a month to check their fever and oxygen levels, provide health education and important health messages. The officials would also check on co-morbidities such as diabetes, heart and kidney ailments, and obesity, and would guide them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-preparing-health-map-uddhav-thackeray-892955.html
25-09-2020||West||Drugs case: Actor Rakul Preet Singh questioned by NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday questioned actor Rakul Preet Singh, Deepika Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash, and Dharma Productions' executive producer Kshitij Ravi in the drugs probe linked to Sushant Singh Rajput's death. The NCB has asked Karishma Prakash to appear before it again on Saturday, when it would also be recording Deepika's statement, an official said. Prakash was questioned for about seven hours. Ravi, who was taken to the NCB guest house from his residence in Versova in the morning after he returned to the city, had not come out till late in the evening. Rakul (29) was seen entering the NCB guest house in Colaba around 10.30 am and left after four hours. She had been summoned by the NCB as part of its probe into alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus. Her name had cropped up during the interrogation of actress Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput's girlfriend who has been arrested along with over a dozen others, the official said. An NCB team had raided Ravi's residence in Versova in the western suburbs on Thursday, but he was out of town. The NCB, which began the inquiry after a drugs angle came to light in connection with Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation and asked a clutch of Bollywood celebrities to "join the probe". Padukone, alongwith fellow actors Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan are slated to record statements at NCB office on Saturday. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-case-actor-rakul-preet-singh-questioned-by-ncb-893057.html
