26-09-2020||Comment||Trump's power grab and the peaceful transfer of power||“There won’t be a transfer, frankly. There will be a continuation.” That’s President Vladimir Putin — I’m sorry, I mean President Donald Trump — declining to assure Americans of a peaceful transfer of power after the November election. Does it get any clearer than that? Trump, in the fog of a pandemic, has opted for chaos. If he can generate enough, he figures, the election results can be disputed, and a post-Ginsburg Supreme Court will hand him victory. “The only way we’re going to lose this election is if the election is rigged,” he says. If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck and quacks like a duck, then it probably is a duck. The duck is called a Trump power grab. Oh, we’ve heard it all these past 44 months, Trump is a harmless buffoon, he is inconsequential, the adults in the room have him by the cojones. Yes, and we know from 20th-century history that raving loudmouths, lunatic clowns and cunning actors never do real damage, right? Wake up! It’s not easy. My city, New York, feels semi-anesthetized. Madison Avenue, midmorning on a Monday, is ghostly. People are dazed. They’re so done with the virus. What they would most like to know is what they can’t know, which is how far through this nightmare are we. Halfway? More? Or, God help us, less? And what exactly is the nightmare? Trump tramples on science, turns it into a political tool, and so the plague becomes a double one in which the death of more than 200,000 Americans and the death of reason fuse. A terrible foreboding takes hold. Meaning has succumbed to fever. We are trapped in a Zoom box inside four walls in cities with moats around them and the drawbridges pulled up. The Great Calamity is upon us. The calamity has many elements. Trump makes repeated and baseless claims that mail-in balloting will result in rampant voter fraud and an election stolen by the Democrats. He offers hymns to violence. Predicts “citizen militias,” calls an assault on a journalist “a beautiful sight,” condemns protesters as “domestic terrorists.” He explores using the Insurrection Act and the military to suppress disorder. To an impossible defeat, the Great Leader intimates, the only response is violent resistance in the name of his continuation. Trump’s Republican Party is servile. It is conspiratorial. Sen Mitch McConnell, his zealous functionary of indecent hypocrisy, reacts to the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg by racing to install a conservative replacement. “O most wicked speed,” as Hamlet put it. No need even to attempt to disguise the purpose. Vice President Mike Pence suggests a new justice must be seated to decide “election issues” that may arise “in the days following the election.” Hamlet again: “The time is out of joint.” What is the scream gathering in tightened lungs? It is the death of language. Trump’s incessant lies do that, strip words of sense. The virus does that, too, creating hideous neologisms. To see someone is now to have an “in-person” or “live” meeting. This has become a privilege. Think about it. Look at children, now in “pods” or “cohorts,” subject to “synchronous” classes that involve a teacher being there in real time (either in person or on video), and the less desirable “asynchronous” classes, meaning a prerecorded video or some posted assignment. This is Orwell territory. “Coronavirus,” all 11 letters of it, rolls off any child’s tongue. Or look at the skid rows forming as businesses close and tourism dies, and try to consider a terrible thought — that a tribal America is so incapable of constructive debate that even a coherent response to a pandemic became impossible and masks are turned into a political statement. And still the scream will not be released from lungs under constant scrutiny because it is all too much to bear. The pathogen hyper-inflates anxiety, 1930s style. A friend, a naturalized American like me, writes from Austria: “I am baffled. I am shattered. I question my entire belief system, my trust in America, my darling adoptive country: Was I too naive? Too idealistic? Too young? Too stupid? The hardest part for me to understand is not the one lunatic, not the one certifiably, wickedly twisted mind, but all of his enablers, all of his supporters. Who are they? How are so many of them even possible?” They are possible because America-First nationalism is a heady drug for a nation past the zenith of its power, battered by forever wars and economic precariousness. They are possible because the Great Leader says your ugliest demons are in fact your greatest assets. Just look at me! “It’s a rigged election. It’s the only way we’re going to lose,” Trump says. A pliant judiciary, a press he calls the “enemy of the people” tamed, a personal militia, a miraculous vaccine by November: He wants it all for his continuation. He’s got his son Donald Trump Jr claiming Democrats “will add millions of fraudulent votes that can cancel your vote and overturn the election.” The disease runs in the family, you see. They want a corona coronation. The time is out of joint. Wake up! See the duck for what it is. Vote. Register and vote. The Great Calamity is upon us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/trumps-power-grab-and-the-peaceful-transfer-of-power-893175.html
26-09-2020||First Edit||Centre hogging, mismanaging revenues||The latest report of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India (CAG) has made some relevant and uncomfortable disclosures about the central government’s increasing tendency to raise revenue through the cess route and the misallocation of such revenues. This has an unhealthy impact on states’ finances. The Centre has levied more and more cesses of different kinds to raise revenues, instead of raising or imposing taxes. Cesses need not be shared with the states while taxes have to be shared to the extent of 41%. Two years ago, cesses made up about 14% of the Centre’s non-GST revenues. They are set to rise to 18% this financial year. It is estimated that the cesses imposed in the budget this year have robbed the states of Rs 1.25 lakh crore. This is against the idea of federalism, which envisages a fair sharing of revenues between the Centre and the states. The report has also pointed out that the central government retained in the Consolidated Fund of India (CFI) more than Rs 1.1 lakh crore out of the almost Rs 2.75 lakh crore collected in 2018-19 through various cesses, instead of transferring them to the specified reserve funds that Parliament had approved for such levies. This amounts to misallocation of funds. A cess is meant for a particular purpose. When it is used for other purposes, it amounts to misuse. A social welfare cess of Rs 8,871 crore was not used for that purpose. A GST Compensation cess of Rs 40,806 crore was not fully credited to the related fund, and Rs 10,157 crore of the road and infrastructure cess was also not transferred to the concerned fund. Similarly, Rs 2,123 crore of universal service levy and Rs 79 crore collected as national mineral trust levy were not transferred to the relevant funds. There are other instances, too. They show a cavalier and unprincipled approach to taxation, resource raising and revenue utilisation. A cess is a short-cut which is to be used only rarely. Since the states have only limited power to raise resources, the Centre should minimise its revenue mobilisation through cesses which need not be shared with them. It is not healthy public finance management if the resources are appropriated by one authority. It is worse when the revenue thus raised is not used for the propose specified for it. The CAG has pointed out this wrong trend in the past also. The latest report has said that the wrong practice has continued even after it has been pointed out in successive CAG reports. Cesses are best avoided, and when they are imposed, they should only be used for the purpose for which they are approved by Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/centre-hogging-mismanaging-revenues-893147.html
26-09-2020||In Perspective||How a tragedy gave birth to a classic||Mysore Narasimhachar Srinivas, popularly known as M N Srinivas, was a pioneering anthropologist and sociologist. Srinivas coined phrases like “dominant caste”, “vote bank” and “Sanskritization,” phrases that almost everyone knows and hears constantly during election season. Fifty years ago, in April 1970, a fire tragedy took place at the Centre for Advanced Study in Behavioural Sciences (CASBS), Stanford University, USA. Anti-Vietnam war protesters set fire to CASBS buildings, partially destroying two buildings and the works of several scholars at the centre. One of them lost everything, it was none other than M N Srinivas. He was doing a one-year fellowship at the CASBS at the time. Srinivas was then working on his seminal work ‘The Remembered Village’, which delved into caste and the social system in India. All three copies he had of the draft monograph, including notes and other research materials that he had collected over a span of 18 years, were all destroyed in the fire. Books, charts, maps, photographs and correspondence relating to ethnography and 5,000 cards of handwritten, processed filed notes also perished. Srinivas recounts the story in the first pages of ‘The Remembered Village.’ The book also contains an acknowledgment of the part played by the arsonists in the making of the book into a sort of ‘memoir.’ Srinivas was shattered upon finding his years of hardwork reduced to ashes. He contemplated dropping this work altogether. However, Sol Tax, an American anthropologist and a friend of Srinivas, motivated him to work on it again by suggesting that he recollect memories of his field work and interactions he had with people as a part of his extensive research. At first, it appeared to be a daunting task, indeed a terrifying prospect for a deeply devoted researcher like Srinivas, in the absence of the vast inputs and findings he had collected over the years. The only solace was that the raw field notes of his study were kept in Delhi. The Ford Foundation in Delhi microfilmed these raw field notes and airmailed the film rolls to CASBS. A grant from the Wenner-Gren Foundation to CASBS supported Srinivas. However, the raw field notes were related to Srinivas’ first visit to Rampura and it did not contain corrections and addenda Srinivas had recorded on cards on subsequent visits there. Despite all the obstacles and uncertainties, Srinivas, like a phoenix rising from the ashes, recreated his work ‘The Remembered Village’, relying solely on his sharp memory and raw field notes. The title of the book also does justice in such a scenario. The book was first published in 1976 by University of California Press. As a result, the book was not so much an academic book, and was rather written in the form of a novel. One can even see the influence of R K Narayan, the celebrated writer and literary figure, who was also a close friend of Srinivas. However, ‘The Remembered Village’ is not just lucid English prose or a lucid account of a village field study, but a piece of ethnographic literature filled with an anthropologist’s point of view on caste and class. It also provides a portrait of the lives and practices in an Indian village in post-Independence India. The book showcases the complexities of inter- and intra-caste relations in the Rampura community. It also offers insight into the nature of ethnographic research. The book is set in Rampura (now known as Kodagahalli), a village about 34 kilometres from Mysore (now Mysuru). Till 2007, many thought of Rampura as a mystical village. But studies and researches by anthropologists from Mysore University and the Anthropological Survey of India led to the finding that Kodagahalli was actually the ‘Rampura’ of Srinivas. The field study undertaken by Srinivas in 1948 is also worth remembering. He visited Rampura a few days after the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi. He went to the village to study the social structure and caste system of the village. The villagers, then mourning the death of Gandhi, asked him to return after the thirteenth day of mourning. Srinivas returned after the period, this time taking along with him a cook and 26 pieces of luggage and stayed in the village for 11 months to familiarise himself with the social set-up and culture and customs. He made frequent visits to the villages till 1970, after which he returned to CASBS at Stanford University to complete his work. The fire tragedy struck when he was all set to finalize his monograph. It took another six years for Srinivas to finish ‘The Remembered Village,’ and when it was published in 1976, it went on to become an all-time classic in ethnographic studies. Through ‘The Remembered Village’, Srinivas highlighted the importance of caste loyalties in electoral politics, apart from the influence of ‘dominant caste groups.’ Srinivas laid the foundations of research into Indian village society in the post–Independence years. In 1972, Prof VKRV Rao and Srinivas co-founded the Institute of Social and Economic Change (ISEC) in Bengaluru. A Chair has been instituted at ISEC in the name of Prof M N Srinivas, who died in November 1999. (The writer formerly held the Ramakrishna Hegde Chair on Decentralization and Development, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/how-a-tragedy-gave-birth-to-a-classic-893144.html
26-09-2020||Kalaburagi||25kg ganja seized from agricultural field in Kalaburagi, 2 arrested||Kalaburagi Police Commissioner N Satheesh Kumar said a total of 25 kg of ganja was seized from an agricultural field on the outskirts of Herur (B) village of the taluk on Friday. Two persons have been arrested in this regard. The arrested have been identified as Shivappa Bakari( 42) and Devendrappa Bakari (48). Acting on a definite tip-off that ganja was being grown in the middle of tur crop farm on agriculture land, a police team under the guidance of Deputy Commissioner of Police Dekka Kishore Babu and Deputy Commissioner of Police(Crime) Srikanth Kattimani carried out the operation. A complaint has been registered at Farhatabad police station and the arrested have been remanded to judicial custody||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/25kg-ganja-seized-from-agricultural-field-in-kalaburagi-2-arrested-893517.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||After brief lull, heavy rains return to north Karnataka districts||Heavy showers on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday hampered normal life in Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Raichur districts. Bagalkot district is also experiencing heavy showers since Friday night. Kalaburagi city and parts of the district, including Chincholi, Kalagi and Sedam, bore the maximum brunt of the overnight rains. The district received an average rainfall of 58 mm in the last 24 hours (ending at 8 am on Saturday). The city recorded 84.9 mm (8.4 cm) of rain while Mudhol in Sedam taluk registered the highest rainfall with 147 mm. The overnight showers have left more than 80 houses and 60 shops inundated in Kalaburagi city. Traffic on Kalaburagi-Udanuru/Jewargi and Mudhol-Kothapalli roads have come to a standstill due to waterlogging. Rainwater has gushed into the historic Ramalingeshwar temple in Kalagi. Chandrampalli dam and Kodli lake in Chincholi taluk are full to the brim following incessant showers. Parts of Yadgir and Raichur and Hosapete in Ballari district also received bountiful rain in the last 24 hours. Relentless showers have flooded over 20 acres of banana plantations near Hampi. Banker washed away A 30-year-old man was swept away, along with his bike, in an overflowing stream at Vontagodi in Mudhol Taluk, Bagalkot district, on Saturday. The incident occurred when Santosh Adavi, a bank employee, tried to cross the flooded bridge in his bike. His body has been recovered a while later. More than 250 bags of sugar were washed away in a stream near Koujalagi in Belagavi district after a lorry turned turtle on a narrow bridge. The driver of the lorry escaped with minor injuries in the accident. Kudalasangama received 10.03 cm of rain while Hungund and Amingad recorded 9 cm and 9.6 cm, respectively. Badami and Guledgud also received sharp showers. Several parts of Dharwad, Vijayapura, Belagavi, Karwar, Haveri and Shivamogga district also received good showers in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/after-brief-lull-heavy-rains-return-to-north-karnataka-districts-893445.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Marijuana worth Rs 24 lakh seized, 1 arrested in Belagavi||District Crime Intelligence Bureau (DCIB) of the District Police arrested a person accused to be an interstate marijuana peddler from Miraj town in Sangli district in Maharashtra and seized contraband worth Rs 24 lakh from his possession. Manhunt has been launched to nab two persons from Warangal and Hyderabad in Telangana who had been supplying the stocks to the accused. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi informed on Saturday that Chikkodi police on September 22, had arrested accused identified as Washim Shaikh resident of Miraj and had seized marijuana weighing 2 kg from his possession, while his accomplice and main accused Ashpak Mainuddin Mulla resident of Miraj had escaped. DCIB team led by Police Inspector Ningangouda Patil investigating the case succeeded in nabbing Mulla from Miraj on September 23. During interrogation, Mulla informed that two persons from Warangal and Hyderabad had been supplying him marijuana and he had been selling in Miraj and Sangli in Maharashtra and in Chikkodi, Belagavi and Dharwad in the state, he said. Police seized marijuana weighing 40 kg which he had stocked in packets in rear portion of a car parked at Mahishal village in Miraj taluk and 78 kg packets in farmhouse in agricultural lands in the same village. A total of 60 packets of marijuana each containing 2 kg worth Rs 24 lakh were recovered. Car and scooter were worth Rs 4.80 lakh were also seized. Two more accused who supplied the contraband were being searched, he informed. Nimbargi complimented the team led by Patil in investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/marijuana-worth-rs-24-lakh-seized-1-arrested-in-belagavi-893451.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Controversial APMC, Land Reforms Bills passed amid din||The BJP government on Saturday stuck to its stand of freeing up agricultural trading, but it was forced to hit the brakes on its plans to double how much farmland a family can own. Amid high drama, the BS Yediyurappa administration got the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill and the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill passed in the Legislative Assembly on Saturday. The Opposition Congress walked out while the Bills were passed. The APMC Bill removes restrictions on the sale of agricultural produce, thereby allowing private individuals to set up trade markets where farmers can sell.“The government’s intention is that the farmer should not face any trouble. It is the farmer’s right to sell his produce wherever he wants based on the price he gets,” Cooperation Minister ST Somashekhar said, piloting the APMC Bill. The Bill curtails the powers of local Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) and private individuals can start agricultural trading - buying and selling - if they hold a permanent account number (PAN). “We’re not closing down APMCs. The only power we’ve withdrawn from them is to issue notices,” Somashekhar said. The Land Reforms Bill allows non-agriculturists to buy agricultural land and removes the income limit for purchase of land. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the government would withdraw the proposed amendment to increase the ceiling on land holding from 10 units to 20 units for an individual without family or a family up to four people, and from 20 units to 40 units for large families above five people. Each unit of land is 5.4 acres. Soon after the two Bills were passed, the Raitha-Dalita-Karmikara Ikya Horata forum called for Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to be “gheraoed wherever he goes” and called his government “dictatorial and anti-poor.” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah cautioned the government that the APMC Bill would be a “death knell” for farmers. “APMC is a body elected by farmers. What will be the job of the committees? If they can't give licences or take action, then no one will sell there. Even if we assume that the farmer will get a good price from the private sector, APMCs will have to be closed in a couple of years,” he said. On the Land Reforms Bill, Siddaramaiah said the government's move stemmed from an ulterior motive to help housing societies and corporate bodies. "The government is acting under pressure from corporate lobbyists."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-controversial-apmc-land-reforms-bills-passed-amid-din-893453.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kuvempu University postpones exams over bandh call||Following the state-wide bandh called by farmers organisations on September 28 in protest against amendments to APMC and Land Reforms Acts, Kuvempu University has postponed the undergraduate and post-graduate examinations slated to be held on that day. In a press note issued, here on Saturday, Kuvempu University Registrar (Evaluation) P Kannan said the date of the examinations that have been postponed would be announced later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kuvempu-university-postpones-exams-over-bandh-call-893458.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Fundraising for Ram Mandir hit by Covid-19’||Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swami of Pejawar Mutt said that Covid-19 obstructed fund collection for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and a special campaign will be organised to raise funds soon. The Swami was speaking to reporters, at Raghavendra Mutt on MG Road here, on Saturday. The construction of Ram Mandir is under progress. An account is opened at State Bank of India and the devotees can directly deposit the amount to the bank, he said. "E-banking is adopted to avoid misuse of funds. I heard about misuse of funds through fake cheque books. No irregularities will be reported from now,” he said. The seer said, "As Covid cases are on the rise, he was not able to visit Ayodhya. The works are delaying due to Covid. A special drive will be launched to raise funds for the construction."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fundraising-for-ram-mandir-hit-by-covid-19-893504.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Cops stop fake doctorate ceremony||City Police, led by Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda, conducted a raid on a ceremony organised to distribute fake honorary doctorate degrees and took two persons into custody here, on Saturday. It is alleged that the honorary doctorate degrees are sold to people for money. Gangamma Devi Shakti Preetham Trust, National Human Rights Peace Council and International Global Peace University had organised the ceremony at ‘Ruchi The Prince’ hotel on Hunsur Road. Harihara MLA Ramappa was the chief guest for the ceremony. According to the police, the MLA returned without attending the function as the organisers did not follow Covid-19 guidelines and did not obtain permission to organise the event. A police officer said, "The MLA was also a candidate for the degree. A total of 142 candidates from across the state and from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh had gathered to obtain the degrees." A majority of the candidates had paid from Rs 20,000 to Rs 1 lakh for the degrees. The police have obtained all details from them. A few candidates urged the police to give their degree certificates, which the police turned down. Vijayanagar Police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cops-stop-fake-doctorate-ceremony-893506.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mounted police to gallop for Mysuru Dasara||Dasara is all about royalty, heritage and grandeur despite it being celebrated in a democratic set up. It cannot be imagined without elephants and horses despite cries of animal rights. With less than a month left for Navaratri and Dasara festivities, scheduled to begin on October 17, Mounted Police, a wing of Karnataka Armed Reserve Mounted Police (KARP) force, is preparing for 'Naada Habba' -- Mysuru Dasara. The relationship of Mounted Company and ‘Naada Habba’ is since the period of the Wadiyars kings, the erstwhile rulers of Mysuru State. The horses attached to the Company, which commissioned in 1951, play a major role in the Dasara procession, from the beginning of Dasara procession up to the end of torchlight parade. Though the state government has decided for a simple Dasara, 35 horses are preparing for the Dasara procession -- Jamboo savari. Apart from policemen, Mysuru Mayor and Mysuru Zilla Panchayat president ride the horses, during the procession. The Mounted Company is headed by a Commandant, a Superintendent of Police (SP) rank officer. He gives the command for the Dasara cavalcade and torchlight parade. Now, M G Nagaraj heads the Mounted Company. During normal years, Jamboo Savari is launched by the Commandant, after obtaining permission from the Chief Minister at Mysuru Palace and the procession concludes after guard of honour to the deity of Chamundeshwari at Bannimantap Grounds. Later, he obtains permission of Karnataka Governor at Bannimantap for the Torchlight Parade. The horses of the Company are part of the parade. The horses are familiarised to the sound of cannons before the Jamboo Savari. Canon firing rehearsal will be held to familiarise the horses and elephants with the sound. The practice session will be conducted for three days outside the palace. As many as 21 rounds of fire, using cannons, is performed before the commencement of the Jamboo Savari on Vijayadashami, the final leg of Dasara, on October 26. Nagaraj said, "Preparation for the Dasara procession has commenced and the horses are participating in practice sessions. Besides routine rides, the horses are taken to public places to acclimatise them with the crowd on Saturday." "The horses will be taken inside the Palace and also inside the city once the Dasara programmes are fixed. Morning walk, trot-moving and parade practice will start soon. Once the elephants reach Mysuru Palace, the horses will be taken for practice sessions with them," he said. Out of 48 horses in the company, 35 will be used for the Dasara procession and six of them are in Bengaluru. One each are reserved for Mayor and ZP president. The people's representatives have to undergo horse riding training for at least 15 days, the Commandant said. In addition, the City Police Commissioner is likely to ride a horse during this Dasara procession. This Dasara, the procession is restricted to Mysuru Palace due to outbreak of Covid-19, he said. As the Forest department has decided to subject Dasara elephants to Covid test, the horses will also be subject to the tests. The staff members will also be subject to Covid test, Nagaraj said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mounted-police-to-gallop-for-mysuru-dasara-893507.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Teacher pleads for mercy killing, citing lack of pension||A retired school teacher in the city has written a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa seeking permission for death through mercy killing as he is literally struggling to lead his life in the absence of pension. M Shivanna, served as physical education teacher in Ramakrishna un-aided high school at Murugharajendranagar in the city, without taking salary for 17 years. Later, the school received grant-in-aid from the government in 2010 and he received salary from the government for about ten years. He retired in 2020 but received no pension benefits. In the letter, he said he is unable to lead his life due to the absence of pension. He appealed to the government to provide either the pension of permission for death through mercy killing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/teacher-pleads-for-mercy-killing-citing-lack-of-pension-893516.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP issues whip for possible no-confidence vote||The ruling BJP has issued a whip to all its legislators to be present on the floor of the Legislative Assembly anticipating a no-confidence motion moved by the Opposition Congress, which may be put to vote on Saturday. The whip was issued during the BJP Legislature Party meeting held late on Friday night. BJP general secretary N Ravikumar told DH that a whip was issued to all MLAs, including “17-18” legislators who are positive for Covid-19. "We have numbers as many in the opposition are Covid-19 positive, too," he said. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel attended the legislature party meeting. On Thursday, the Congress moved a notice for a no-confidence motion to be taken up against the year-old Yediyurappa administration. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri admitted the notice, which is yet to be discussed in the Assembly. Saturday is the last day of the session. Yediyurappa told reporters Friday that he had no problem with the Congress seeking a no-trust vote. In the 225-member Assembly, the ruling BJP has 116 members, Congress 67, JD(S) 33, BSP one, two Independents, one nominated member and the Speaker (who has a casting vote in case of a tie). Four seats -- Sira, Basavakalyan, Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Maski -- are vacant. The JD(S) has kept away from no-trust vote. HD Kumaraswamy has said that the Congress did not consult him on moving a no confidence motion against the BJP government and suggested that it could well be just a publicity stunt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-issues-whip-for-possible-no-confidence-vote-893197.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Center attempted to 'cover up' shortfall through illegal transfer of GST compensation cess, says Siddaramaiah||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday alleged that the illegal transfer of Rs 47,272 crore of GST compensation cess to Consolidated Fund of India was an attempt by the Centre to 'cover up' the shortfall in other collections. Citing the Comptroller and Auditor General's recent report, Siddaramaiah in a tweet charged the central government with betraying the states' trust on federalism and asked Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to initiate legal proceedings for the violation. "The CAG report reveals that @BJP4India govt has transferred 47,272 Cr of the GST compensation cess collected to Consolidated Fund of India, instead of retaining in the dedicated account to repay the compensation gap. The Central govt has betrayed States' trust on federalism," he said in the tweet. Pointing out that the cess collected was non-lapsable, which means it should be carried over to the next financial year, the former chief minister said it cannot be transferred to purposes other than the notified purpose. The CAG has found that the Union government in the very first two years of the GST implementation wrongly retained Rs 47,272 crore of GST compensation cess that was meant to be used specifically to compensate states for loss of revenue. In its audit report of government accounts, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) flagged that the amount was to be credited to the non-lapsable GST Compensation Cess collection fund for payment to states for loss of revenue due to implementation of GST since 2017, but the government did not do so, and thus violated the GST law. Targetting the Narendra Modi government over the matter, Siddaramaiah said it has violated terms of GST Compensation Act and should be made liable for the offence. "The illegal transfer of GST cess to consolidated fund is an attempt of Narendra Modi & Nirmala Sitharaman (Finance Minister) to cover up the shortfall in other collections, which arose due to economic slowdown induced by govt's gross mismanagement," the Congress leader alleged. According to Siddaramaiah, GST cess that was transferred to CFI, could have been used now to transfer to the states when there was a deficit in cess collection. "B S Yediyurappa should initiate legal proceedings for the violation of the act and should reject both the options given to compensate for the GST gap," he advised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/center-attempted-to-cover-up-shortfall-through-illegal-transfer-of-gst-compensation-cess-says-siddaramaiah-893304.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Amendments to Land Reforms Act were Congress' idea: R Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Saturday said the controversial amendments to the Land Reforms Act were originally the idea of Congress. "This was first discussed in a Cabinet sub-committee in 2014 that recommended repealing Sections 79 (a) and (b), claiming that they were only making way for corruption. They had pointed out that despite restrictions on landholding, people were converting lands through illegal means and purchasing the same. Today, they are blaming BJP," Ashoka said in the Assembly, where high drama prevailed during the discussion of the Bill. Further, pulling out old Assembly records, Ashoka said some senior Congress leaders who are today terming the amendment "anti-farmer," had then spoken about the futility of some of the provisions of the Act. Meanwhile, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy added to the debate by narrating his own experience on how Sections 79 (a) and (b) of the Act were indeed being misused for vested interests. "In my own case, I had purchased a piece of land in Ramanagara in 1983. Even though the revenue official who cleared the process said the purchase was lawful, someone filed a politically-motivated complaint against me, claiming that I had purchased the land in violation of these sections. A complaint was also filed in Lokayukta, which was cleared later. However, in the end, the revenue office concerned had lost documents pertaining to my land," he said. Cong MLAs tear paper Demanding that the government withdraw the Karnataka Land Reforms Act (Amendment) Bill 2020, Congress leaders tore up papers in a symbolic rejection of the Bill and staged a walkout from the Legislative Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/amendments-to-land-reforms-act-were-congress-idea-r-ashoka-893438.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP selects 4 Karnataka leaders for national office; C T Ravi becomes national general secretary||Four leaders from Karnataka become  office bearers in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s new national team in New Delhi on Saturday, as announced by the party. The BJP on Saturday announced the long-awaited list of its national office-bearers as the party effected a major reshuffle in key organisational positions, gave the team a more pan-India look and brought in new faces, including some seen to be strongly associated with its core ideology. The state's Tourism Minister C T Ravi will be the national general secretary while Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya will be the national president of the BJP Yuva Morcha. Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrasekhar included in the team of national spokesperson. B L Santhosh continues to remain a national general secretary of the organisation. Muralidhara Rao from Telangana, who, earlier, was part of the Karnataka office, was dropped as national general secretary in the reshuffle. There are five new general secretaries among the total eight including Ravi: Dalit leader Dushyant Kumar Gautam, D Purandareshwari of Andhra Pradesh, Tarun Chugh of Punjab, a state where the BJP's ties with ally Akali Dal have nosedived over farm bills, and Dilip Saikia from Assam. Bhupender Yadav, Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arun Singh have retained their position as general secretaries, who occupy a critical position in the organisation as they are often put in charge of states and serve as a link between the regional and central leaderships. The new spokespersons include former minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Rajiv Chandrashekhar, Tom Vadakkan, and young Dalit leader Guru Prakash. Amit Malviya remains in charge of the party's IT wing.  The new list of spokespersons is more representative of social, caste, regional and religious diversity, a source noted. However, the party has not filled vacancies in its parliamentary board, its highest decision-making body. Some vacancies in other positions also remain. (WIth inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-selects-4-karnataka-leaders-for-national-office-c-t-ravi-becomes-national-general-secretary-893444.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||What’s the road ahead for the JD(S) in Karnataka's politics?||"What wrong have I done to the people of this state?" a tearful H D Kumaraswamy asked voters in Mandya, campaigning ahead of the Assembly bypolls in November 2019. The former Chief Minister broke down, bemoaning that the people of Mandya had deserted him by defeating his son Nikhil in the Lok Sabha election. He pleaded for support to win the KR Pet bypoll. The regional party went on to lose this seat to the BJP, its first victory in Mandya - a JD(S) bastion. Within a year, the JD(S) has found itself in a similar quandary as it gears up for the by-election to the Sira Assembly constituency in the Tumakuru district. The bypoll is necessitated due to the death of JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana. "This election is a challenge for us. We need to win this bypoll in view of the party’s future," Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) legislature party leader, told DH. "Our cadre is good here. We are making efforts in taking everyone along." Kumaraswamy’s optimism will traverse a rocky path. The Sira bypoll is but one of the many challenges the JD(S) faces. The party has been losing electoral ground over years - from having won 58 seats in 2004, the party now has 33. The party’s supremo H D Deve Gowda lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Tumkur. "Owing to his age and health, Satyanarayana was not very active in the constituency. The Congress has fielded T B Jayachandra, who has a strong presence in the constituency. This leaves the BJP and JD(S) contesting for second and third place," a former JD(S) leader said.  Increasing its tally or even retaining what it has is proving to be tricky with a rebellion within the ranks. Three legislators - A H Vishwanath, K C Narayana Gowda and K Gopalaiah, jumped ship to BJP last year. Plus, former MLC Ramesh Babu joined the Congress recently. Others such as Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda have distanced themselves from the party. There are at least 10 to 15 more legislators keen on quitting the party at the next available opportunity, sources said.  The party banks on the support of the dominant Vokkaliga community, but the emergence of Congress’ D K Shivakumar, also a Vokkaliga, is seen to have made JD(S) jittery. Also, the JD(S) is facing the BJP’s aggressive moves to expand in the old Mysuru region.   Shivakumar was not a threat, Kumaraswamy said. "Our original support base cannot be divided. These are people with whom the party has stood in their everyday struggles," Kumaraswamy maintained.  Kumaraswamy saw a way ahead for the party in approaching people with welfare initiatives. "We want to bring back youth into our fold. We want to address the problems of unemployment and farmers’ woes."  Political analyst Sandeep Shastri said the JD(S) needed to go beyond the family, broaden its decision-making base within and focus on its core areas of influence. "The Janata Dal seems to face an existential crisis. Given the fact that the BJP is seeking to deepen its presence in Tumakuru, the JD(S) seems to be pushed out of what is increasingly becoming a contest between the Congress and the BJP," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-s-the-road-ahead-for-the-jds-in-karnatakas-politics-893486.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||CM Yediyurappa says he would resign from politics if corruption charges against his son are proved||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said he would resign from politics if there is any iota of truth in the corruption allegations levelled against his son B Y Vijayendra, who is also BJP state vice president. Yediyurappas outburst was against leader of opposition Siddaramaiah's allegation during the no-confidence motion, moved by the Congress veteran against the BJP government, that Vijayendra took bribe from a Bangalore development authority contractor. The charge was based on a sting operation by a Kannada news channel alleging that the contractor who bagged a Rs 666 crore project had paid crores of rupees through RTGS to Vijayendra. "If there is an iota of truth that my family is involved, then I will resign from politics. If it is wrong then you resign.You should be ashamed of making baseless allegations," Yediyurappa said. He challenged Siddaramaiah to prove the charge and lodge a complaint with the Lokayukta and the Anti-Corruption Bureau. The Chief Minister said that Siddaramaiah was referring to an individual who was not a member of the House. Pandemonium broke out following the allegation with BJP members slamming Siddaramaiah for his accusation. Soon Congress MLAs jumped to Siddaramaiah's defence. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy intervened and said the contractor, whom Siddaramaiah accused of paying bribe, has registered a case against the television channel. Not convinced with the reply, Siddaramaiah said he referred to the individual's name because it was in the public domain put up by the television channel. "Let there be a fair inquiry," Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-yediyurappa-says-he-would-resign-from-politics-if-corruption-charges-against-his-son-are-proved-893501.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa loses cool in verbal duel with Siddaramaiah||Worried BJP ministers rushed to calm down Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa when he lost his cool and started shouting at Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah during a discussion on the no-confidence motion in the Legislative Assembly on Saturday. Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah engaged in a duel over corruption charges against the government. Siddaramaiah demanded Yediyurappa’s resignation, which enraged him. “Prove it and I’ll retire from politics. Otherwise, you resign. Should I accept whatever you say or read here?” Yediyurappa thundered, addressing Siddaramaiah in the singular. Siddaramaiah said corruption allegations should be probed by a sitting Supreme Court judge or a special investigation team supervised by the Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka. “If the allegations are proven wrong, I will resign from my post,” Siddaramaiah said. Housing Minister V Somanna, Tourism Minister CT Ravi and others rushed to Yediyurappa and asked him to sit down. “We will talk. You sit,” they were heard telling Yediyurappa, who was also seen coughing. The corruption allegations raised by Siddaramaiah resulted in a din with BJP and Congress members locking horns. Later, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said he grew concerned watching Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah engage in a shouting match as both of them recovered from Covid-19 recently. “My heart wanted to reach out to them. They like a father to me. As someone who had Covid-19, I know that it’s not good to speak aloud as it affects the lungs. This shouldn’t have happened,” Shivakumar said. The no-confidence motion is still underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-loses-cool-in-verbal-duel-with-siddaramaiah-893511.html
26-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP will win 135-140 seats in the next Assembly elections, BSY vows||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday vowed to make the BJP win 135-140 seats in the next Assembly elections and keep the Congress in the Opposition for the next ten years. Speaking during a discussion on the no-confidence motion moved by the Congress against his government in the Legislative Assembly, Yediyurappa made a political wager with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and state Congress president DK Shivakumar. “There are bypolls coming up, which the BJP will win. In the next (Assembly) election, the BJP will win 135-140 seats and make Congress sit in the Opposition for the next ten years. This is my resolve and I will do it,” Yediyurappa said. During the discussion, Siddaramaiah raised corruption allegations involving Yediyurappa’s family members. “It’s your responsibility to prove the allegations you’ve made against my family. If proven, I will retire from politics,” Yediyurappa told Siddaramaiah. Expressing confidence that the BJP enjoyed the trust of people, Yediyurappa pointed out that the Congress lost badly in the 2019 Lok Sabha and bypolls. “We won 25 out of 28 seats in the Lok Sabha polls. It means people trust us. In the bypolls, we won 12 out of 15 seats. Was that possible without people’s trust?” the CM said.“It’s God’s will that the state’s reservoirs are full, there’s 99% sowing and we’re expecting good yield. Good times have started,” he said. “Farmers, labourers, SC/STs and others are with us. That’s why we were able to win (polls),” Yediyurappa said. He told the Assembly that it is unfortunate that the state witnessed floods and the Covid-19 pandemic during his tenure. “Still, we haven't gone back on our responsibility and we're doing our best,” he said, giving out details of the financial assistance provided to flood victims and those affected by the Covid-19 lockdowns. Attacking the previous Congress government, Yediyurappa said only Rs 3,000 crore was earmarked for 15 lakh homes that were ordered for construction costing Rs 29,000 crore. “For irrigation, you gave only Rs 9,000 crore, but works worth Rs 1.3 lakh crore were cleared. It’ll need ten years to complete what you’ve promised,” he said. “You forgot the welfare of the people and enjoyed power. That’s why people curse you and you lost the elections,” he said. Discussion on the no-confidence motion is still underway in the Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-will-win-135-140-seats-in-the-next-assembly-elections-bsy-vows-893538.html
26-09-2020||Main Article||Farm Bills revolutionise agriculture, opens farmers up to sell produce outside of APMCs||Controversy dogs the farm bills just passed by Parliament. The bills aim to revolutionise the farm sector. The new legislations are farmer-friendly and free agriculturists from selling produce through the state-run Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) platforms. Earlier, the purchase/sale of coffee through the Coffee Board, Ministry of Commerce, was deregulated in the mid-1990s and selling coffee in the open market has been a success story. Similarly, after these legislations, farmers will no longer be subjected to the stranglehold of merchants who dominate the APMCs. Like a citizen can choose to avail of services of a private or a government hospital, the farmer should also be free to sell outside the APMC. The APMC as an institution was born in the 1950s to create price awareness at nodal points across the country. The prevalent illiteracy among the farmer community, coupled with the lack of communication infrastructure to figure out price levels, necessitated the need for government intervention and infrastructure in terms of market spaces. It was established in response to the institution of the merchant-money lender in villages across the country who lent money to farmers for seeds, cattle, education or marriage in their hour of need. Thereafter, he would exploit the borrowers through arbitrary purchase of their crops. Therefore, the APMC was a marketing board by state governments across the country to ensure that farmers are safeguarded from exploitation by large retailers. The objective was to check the farm to retail price spread from reaching excessive levels. However, over the years, the APMC merchants, who were registered as traders, also played a dual role as money lenders for farmers. Many farmers therefore view the APMC as an informal money-lending channel and fear that it would become defunct, which is worrisome for them. Their sources of informal borrowing would dry up and disrupt farmers’ finance. Today, the fears implanted in the agitated farmers’ minds by their association leaders are mainly based on speculation about the probable onslaught of market forces outside the APMC forum against them. This refers to the rumours that the minimum support prices (MSP) would cease to exist, which is not true. Similarly, the APMCs will continue to exist and those farmers who are keen to sell their produce through these platforms can continue to do so. This legislation frees the farmer to choose between the APMC and the private trader. Most farmers are ignorant about the nuances of the legislation, and their leaders mislead them about the need to protest. Their large numbers are attractive for the opposition parties to drum up support against the government. Clearly, the brains behind the farmers’ protests are the ones who have lost their ability to make easy money illegally through the farmers’ efforts. Earlier, large-scale sales of farmers’ produce were done while evading payment of APMC cess. For instance, an RTI enquiry revealed that the APMC cess on black pepper was only 30% of the production in Karnataka. Traders and APMC officials shared the rest of the evaded cess amount among themselves. Such evasion of cess was possible only with the connivance of APMC directors which, in turn, allowed them to illegally amass money. Another aspect of the APMC Act is linked to contract farming, which is not legally permitted as the farmer cannot sell his crop to anybody without going through the APMC. Technically, the farmer violates the law by directly selling his product to either the commodity end user/fresh vegetable exporter, food processor or animal feed sector. Over the years, the domestic and multinational corporations have undertaken contract farming in pockets around the country that has benefitted the farmer but remained outside the law. The fact that the new legislation legalises contract farming is advantageous to the farmer because his output is procured at guaranteed prices. Moreover, crop procurement is done at the farmgate, which saves the farmers’ energies and expenditure on logistics to reach the market. This benefits even small growers. The fear that corporations could fix lower prices for contracted crops is unfounded as the farmer has the option to grow other crops of his choice which would fetch higher prices. Other advantages are that the farmer obtains financial assistance, hybrid seeds, fertilizers, fungicides, pesticides, drip irrigation systems and plastic mulch, besides specialised scientific technology and agri-extension services. Such support results in higher crop yields which is beneficial to the agricultural economy. For the agriculturist, the challenge is two-fold – one, to be able to fight the vagaries of nature like untimely rainfall, landslides, floods or drought to grow their crop with high productivity; two, to be able to sell their produce profitably without middlemen eating into it. The new legislations address these concerns. The legislation also attempts to create a national grid for agri-marketing wherein the northern and southern markets are integrated to source from each other, which will benefit farmers across the country. The government needs to provide farmers with an alternative source of finance now that their earlier informal sources are likely to dry up. Also, while the practice of warehousing receipt financing exists in the country, it should be scaled up to generate adequate and easily available funds on stock hypothecation to substitute earlier informal financing. The government needs to increase the number of warehouses at taluk/hobli levels across the country to reduce logistics costs for the farmer and provide him superior support to profitably sell his produce. The reality of the political economy is that market forces tend to work around the regulatory framework to earn profits. The government therefore needs to re-work its regulatory framework from time to time and the recent legislation is a step in that direction in the farm sector. (Gowda is a former Additional Director of Horticulture and Managing Director, HOPCOMS, GoK; Poovayya works with contract farmers and is an agriculture activist based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/farm-bills-revolutionise-agriculture-opens-farmers-up-to-sell-produce-outside-of-apmcs-893145.html
26-09-2020||Mysuru||Man sentenced to prison for life for killing wife in dowry case||The Fifth Additional District Sessions Court Judge sentenced a man to life imprisonment after he was convicted of killing his wife for dowry. The court convicted Shivanna of Suttur village in Nanjangud taluk in Mysuru district. Shivanna had killed his wife Devi, daughter of Ankanayaka of Udbur village.  The couple had married in 2012 and everything was going smoothly but, Shivanna started to torture his wife to bring dowry. Shivanna killed Devi on March 27, 2016 and disposed the corpse. Devi's body was found on April 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/man-sentenced-to-prison-for-life-for-killing-wife-in-dowry-case-893229.html
26-09-2020||Mysuru||Health inspector assaulted in Mysuru||A shopkeeper allegedly assaulted a Health Inspector attached Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) while inspecting his trade licence. Khasim assaulted Health Inspector Yogeesh when he along with others were inspecting trade licences at K T Street. MCC Health Officer Dr Jayanth lodged complaint with Lashkar Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/health-inspector-assaulted-in-mysuru-893242.html
26-09-2020||National||For six decades, S P Balasubrahmanyam was king of happy, boisterous numbers||S P Balasubrahmanyam, who died in Chennai on Friday, ranks among Indian cinema’s greatest singing legends. He was as prolific as any you can name. If the legends reigning in Mumbai---Kishore, Lata and Asha, for instance---were singing at a frenetic pace, he was matching them, hit for hit, here in the south. In a country hungry for songs, his numbers were among the most requested on Vividh Bharati. Called Balu and SPB, he was more versatile than his peers, and was simultaneously active in multiple languages. At about 40,000 songs, he is sure to find a place among the world’s most recorded artistes. A special distinction was that he could switch between languages with ease. He has sung the most number of songs in Kannada, Tamil, Telugu and Hindi. South of the Vindhyas, he had the bounciest voice among all singers of his generation. Balu gave spectacular hits in Tamil and Telugu, but he had a special place in his heart for Kannada, and he did not hesitate to say so on his TV shows. His songs defined the careers of many Kannada heroes, starting with Vishnuvardhan, who made a sensational debut as hero in Puttanna Kanagal’s Nagarahavu (1975). Balu’s Haavina dwesha/hanneradu varusha (music Vijayabhaskar) is a song the youth of the ‘70s remember to this day. It was an unusually dissonant song, throbbing with the rebellious hero’s angst, and standing out from the sweet songs that ruled the day. Voice of many heroes In later years, Balu similarly sang for Shivarajkumar, Ravichandran and Puneeth Rajkumar, giving them hit playlists of their own. No street or wedding orchestra singing Kannada song ever wraps up a show without singing Balu’s Joteyali/jote joteyali, remade later in Tamil, and again for the Amitabh Bachchan-Tabu starrer Cheeni Kum (2007). The Kannada song is from Geetha (1981), a film Shankar Nag directed and acted in. It is a stylish song with Ilaiyaraaja’s trademark violins providing lush interludes. You can count at least two dozen such Balu songs with everlasting appeal. And several hundreds that make it to nostalgic playlists, although he continued to be active till he was hospitalised for a coronavirus infection. Ease of diction Balu handled the varying diction of Kannada, Telugu and Tamil effortlessly. He worked with the best lyrical talent across languages, and no one ever said he had got a linguistic nuance wrong. His Hindi songs were an exception, and many could detect his southerness in them, but thankfully, it didn’t rob him of opportunities. Salman Khan, badshah of the box office even in the ‘90s, had many of his songs sung by Balu. Kishore parallel Balu was 74 when he died on Thursday, and was comparable in many ways to Kishore Kumar, who brought a youthful brashness to film songs in an era dominated by the melancholic Mukesh and the intense Mohammed Rafi. Balu emerged similarly in an era dominated by Ghantasala in Telugu and P B Sreenivas in Kannada, both great singers with soulful styles. Balu’s singing was more cocky and energetic than soulful. He became the consistent screen voice of Vishnuvardhan, Srinath and Ambareesh, Anant Nag and Shankar Nag, while Sreenivas remained the voice of Rajkumar. An engineering student who gravitated to singing, Balu worked with a host of composers. In Kannada, he recorded his first song in 1966, just a few months after he had recorded his debut song in Telugu. He then became a favourite with G K Venkatesh, Upendra Kumar, Vijayabhaskar and Satyam, among others. After the ‘80s, he became a regular for Ilaiyaraja, and his winning streak continued when A R Rahman scored music for Roja. In Kannada, Balu’s songs in Premaloka, for which Hamsalekha made the music, became sensational hits. Known to modulate his voice to suit the idiosyncrasies of each hero, he became Ravichandran’s voice as well. So, while he did get to sing sad songs like Noorondu nenapu (Bandhana, 1984), he was essentially a singer of happy, boisterous love songs. He just didn’t have the heaviness and gravitas of a Mukesh, Manna Dey or PB Sreenivas. Sugama sangeeta In Ede Thumbi Haaduvenu, a widely watched TV music show Balu conducted in Kannada for a decade, he often spoke of his love for the Kannada sugama sangeetha genre, which taps into contemporary poetry and provides a middle path between classical music and film music. It was a living tradition, he believed, that wasn’t easy to find in other languages. A sugama sangeeta LP he recorded in 1984, titled Maavu Bevu, featured lyrics by Doddarangegowda. It had music by C Aswath, whose boatman-style flight of voice and choppy enunciation of words he was fond of. Curiously, Balu won a national award for a traditional Hindustani bandish he sang in the Kannada film Ganayogi Panchakshari Gavai (1995), a blind guru who generously nurtured generations of musicians in northern Karnataka. ‘Umand ghumand’ is not one of Balu’s best songs; it was perhaps a bandish best assigned to Pandit Venkatesh Kumar, a maestro in his own right, and a real-life disciple of Panchakshari Gavai. Without doubt, he would have rendered raga Mia Malhar and its improvisatory spirals better. However, Balu delivered huge hits in the Telugu films Shankarabharanam (K V Mahadevan) and Swathi Muthyam (Ilaiyaraaja), both of which drew on the Karnatak classical tradition. He was able to adapt the southern classical style better to the popular film idiom. Vijayabhaskar, Puttanna Kanagal’s favourite music composer, once told me Yesudas, who had sung Hindustani raga-based songs for films like Chitchor (1976), might have pulled off ‘Umand ghumand’ better. SPB ruled the south Indian film industry with his energy and talent. He occasionally acted and composed music, but he will be remembered best for his singing. With his exit, an era of superstar southern singers has come to an end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-six-decades-s-p-balasubrahmanyam-was-king-of-happy-boisterous-numbers-893072.html
26-09-2020||National||Farm Bills: Farmers' stir success in Punjab, tepid elsewhere||Riding on tractors and marching on foot, farmers turned up in huge numbers in Punjab and Haryana to oppose the agriculture sector reforms initiated by the Modi government. Farmers squatted on railway tracks and highways in the two states, considered the food bowl of the country, demanding a rollback of reforms termed “historic” by the Modi government that allow farmers to sell their produce beyond APMC limits and promote contract farming. The Bharat Bandh call by a group of farmers’ organisations and supported by Opposition parties such as Congress, Left among others, received tepid response across other states, with sporadic protests at some towns and cities. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra likened the Modi government to the ‘East India Company’ and backed farmers’ protests while senior party leaders addressed press conferences demanding rollback of the “so-called agri reforms”. In Delhi, Bharat Kisan Union activists who rode tractors from western Uttar Pradesh villages, were stopped at the Delhi-Noida border, while others protested in Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Baghpat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-bills-farmers-stir-success-in-punjab-tepid-elsewhere-893075.html
26-09-2020||National||India slams Pak for raking up J&K at UNGA, says Islamabad peddled 'litany of vicious falsehood'||India on Friday hit back at Pakistan for raking up Jammu and Kashmir in the UN General Assembly, saying Islamabad peddled “another litany of vicious falsehood, personal attacks, war mongering”. “PM of Pakistan statement a new diplomatic low -- at 75th UN General Assembly. Another litany of vicious falsehood, personal attacks, war mongering and obfuscation of Pakistan’s persecution of its own minorities & of its cross-border terrorism. Befitting Right of Reply awaits," India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted. In his pre-recorded video statement to the General Debate at the 75th session of the UN General Assembly on Friday, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan made references to India's internal affairs, including Jammu and Kashmir. The First Secretary in India's Permanent Mission to the UN, Mijito Vinito, walked out of the general assembly hall when Khan started his usual diatribe about India. India has firmly told Pakistan that the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has been, is, and shall continue to be an integral part of India. New Delhi has maintained that issues related to Jammu and Kashmir are internal matters to India. Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to drum up international support against India for withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir's special status on August 5 last year and bifurcating it into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-pak-for-raking-up-jk-at-unga-says-islamabad-peddled-litany-of-vicious-falsehood-893082.html
26-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 26||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected nearly 59 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  59,79,249 as of September 26 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  94,431 13,996  No. of people discharged: 48,49,584 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-26-893165.html
26-09-2020||National||DH Toon | #StandWithIndianFarmers: 'This jet lag. Uff!'||Riding on tractors and marching on foot, farmers turned up in huge numbers in Punjab and Haryana to oppose the agriculture sector reforms initiated by the Modi government. Farmers squatted on railway tracks and highways in the two states, considered the food bowl of the country, demanding a rollback of reforms termed “historic” by the Modi government that allow farmers to sell their produce beyond APMC limits and promote contract farming.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-standwithindianfarmers-this-jet-lag-uff-893172.html
26-09-2020||National||India feels absence of a PM with the depth of Manmohan Singh: Rahul Gandhi on his birthday||India feels the absence of a PM with the depth of Manmohan Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Saturday as he wished the former prime minister on his birthday. Singh, who headed the UPA coalition government between 2004 and 2014, turned 88 on Saturday. "India feels the absence of a PM with the depth of Dr Manmohan Singh. His honesty, decency and dedication are a source of inspiration for us all," Gandhi said. "Wishing him a very happy birthday and a lovely year ahead," the former Congress chief tweeted with the hashtag 'HappyBirthdayDrMMSingh'. India feels the absence of a PM with the depth of Dr Manmohan Singh. His honesty, decency and dedication are a source of inspiration for us all. The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, said a dedicated leader's primary aim is always to eradicate the worst evils that plague the society in the soonest and surest possible way. "Today, we celebrate former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh's commitment towards the overall well-being of each Indian," the party said. In his journey towards greatness, he took a billion people along, the Congress said in another tweet. "One of the most competent world leaders, Dr Manmohan Singh's vision for our nation is uncompromising. India is forever indebted to this great son for leading her through highs & lows," the party tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-feels-absence-of-a-pm-with-the-depth-of-manmohan-singh-rahul-gandhi-on-his-birthday-893198.html
26-09-2020||National||Deepika Padukone was admin of drug chats group on WhatsApp: Report||The NCB, which is probing the drugs case linked to Rajput's death, is set to record the statements of Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan today. Actors Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh's names cropped up during the questioning of Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput's girlfriend who has been arrested by the NCB in the drugs case along with over a dozen others. Deepika's manager Karishma Prakash, who was questioned by the team on Friday, has also been asked to remain present for further questioning. Prakash's WhatsApp chats included conversations about drugs with one 'D' and the central agency wanted to find out who this person was, the NCB sources had said earlier. The NCB, which began the probe after a drugs angle came to light in connection with Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation and called film celebrities for questioning. Rajput was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. There were reports that Deepika's husband, actor Ranveer Singh has asked the agency whether he can be present during his wife's interrogation. However, the NCB on Friday clarified that they have not received any such request. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deepika-padukone-was-admin-of-drug-chats-group-on-whatsapp-report-893213.html
26-09-2020||National||India registers 85,362 new Covid-19 infections, tally sprints past 59-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past 59 lakh on Saturday with 85,362 fresh cases being recorded in a day, while 93,420 people recuperated from the disease during the same period taking total recoveries to over 48 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed that the coronavirus caseload has risen to 59,03,932 with 85,362 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll mounted to 93,379 after 1,089 people succumbed to the disease in 24 hours. Total recoveries surged to 48,49,584, pushing the country's recovery rate to 82.14 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.58 per cent. There are 9,60,969 active cases in the country which comprise 16.28 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the ICMR, in total 7,02,69,975 samples have been tested up to September 25, with 13,41,535 being tested on Friday. The new fatalities include 416 from Maharashtra, 86 from Karnataka, 84 from Uttar Pradesh, 72 from Tamil Nadu, 68 from Punjab, 59 from West Bengal, 48 from Andhra Pradesh, 30 from Madhya Pradesh, 25 from Chhattisgarh and 24 from Delhi. Total 93,379 deaths reported so far in the country includes 34,761 from Maharashtra followed by 9,148 from Tamil Nadu, 8,417 from Karnataka, 5,606 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,450 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,147 from Delhi, 4,665 from West Bengal, 3,393 from Gujarat, 3,134 from Punjab and 2,152 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that over 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-85362-new-covid-19-infections-tally-sprints-past-59-lakh-mark-893245.html
26-09-2020||National||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee greets Manmohan Singh on his birthday||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday greeted former prime minister Manmohan Singh on his birthday and wished him good health. Singh, who headed the UPA coalition government between 2004 and 2014, turned 88. He had played a key role in ushering in economic reforms as the finance minister in the P V Narasimha Rao government during 1991-96. "Greetings to former Prime Minister and Economist Dr Manmohan Singh ji on his birthday. Wishing him good health and more productive years in public life," Banerjee tweeted. Greetings to former Prime Minister and Economist Dr. Manmohan Singh ji on his birthday. Wishing him good health and more productive years in public life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-greets-manmohan-singh-on-his-birthday-893246.html
26-09-2020||National||PM Modi lauds CSIR on its foundation day for being at the forefront of scientific research||Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) on its foundation day on Saturday, saying it has been at the forefront of furthering scientific research and innovation in India. In a tweet, Modi added the organisation has also been playing a valuable role in fighting Covid-19. "Greetings to all those associated with CSIR on its Foundation Day. CSIR is at the forefront of furthering scientific research and innovation in India. They have also been playing a valuable role in fighting Covid-19. Best wishes to CSIR for its future endeavours," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-csir-on-its-foundation-day-for-being-at-the-forefront-of-scientific-research-893273.html
26-09-2020||National||VP Naidu pays tribute to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on 200th birth anniversary||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday paid tribute to social reformer and educationist Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his 200th birth anniversary and remembered his efforts in abolishing the practice of child marriage. Vidyasagar was born on this day in 1820. "My humble tributes to great social reformer and educationist Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his jayanti (birth anniversary) today. "A multi-faceted genius, he is most widely admired for his crusade against child marriage and initiatives for widow remarriage," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-pays-tribute-to-ishwar-chandra-vidyasagar-on-200th-birth-anniversary-893275.html
26-09-2020||National||Chief Secretary Level Meeting discusses Assam-Nagaland border issues||Assam and Nagaland have stressed on the need for both sides to have regular communication between senior officials of the two states looking into the border matters for a cordial relationship, an official said. A Chief Secretary Level Meeting on Assam-Nagaland border issues was held at Dimapur district of Nagaland on Friday, a release issued by Nagaland government, Principal Secretary, Home Department, Abhijit Sinha said. In the meeting, it was felt that the Superintendent of Police (SPs) of the bordering districts of the two states should further strengthen, the system of coordination and cooperation among themselves so that prompt action can be taken against criminal and anti-social activities in the border areas, he said. It was also decided to encourage frequent sports and cultural exchanges between the people of the two states living in the border areas, he said. Sinha said several important issues pertaining to the inter-state border areas, disputed area belt (DAB), and the provisions of the Special Operating Procedure (SOP) for deployment of CAPFs in DAB along the Assam-Nagaland border were discussed in the meeting. The Assam team was led by Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna and consisted of Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Jishnu Barua, DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta and other senior officials The Nagaland team was led by Chief Secretary Temjen Toy and consisted of DGP T John Longkumer, Principal Secretary (Home) Abhijit Sinha and other senior officials. During the meeting, chief secretary and DGP Nagaland stressed upon the need for maintenance of neutrality by the central forces and other security forces of Assam in the disputed area belt and also for not taking any unilateral action which may create misunderstanding, he said. The matter regarding the constraints existing in the present SOP from the viewpoint of Nagaland was also brought up and it was impressed for taking suitable corrective measures in this regard, he said. The Assam chief secretary and other officials brought up the need for having joint patrolling by the security forces of both the states in the disputed area belt and for holding border meetings on a regular basis between the concerned DCs, SPs, and the border magistrates of the two states so that any issue or situation developing anywhere could be sorted out amicably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chief-secretary-level-meeting-discusses-assam-nagaland-border-issues-893279.html
26-09-2020||National||India putting ‘too positive spin’ on Covid data, says The Lancet||Failure to report negative aspects of the pandemic and perpetuating unrealistic claims may discourage people from taking preventive action, or following public healthcare guidelines seriously, the article conveys, adding that this could create new uncertainties for healthcare professionals. Hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the first nationwide coronavirus lockdown, he told media organisations to tackle the spread of pessimism and negativity, says the magazine quoting news reports.  As the pandemic continues to spread from cities to rural areas and smaller urban areas, disparities in healthcare infrastructure especially in villages, in which facilities are sparse, have become a matter of concern more than ever. The article praises India’s efforts in developing Covid-19 vaccine indigenously and with international organisations, specifically mentioning Serum Institute of India preparing production capacity for internationally-developed vaccine candidates. It also commends the manner in which the nation increased testing limits, improved access to ventilators, among other initiatives.  The magazine says that India has the public health expertise, manufacturing, research and medicine to lead the nation through the pandemic but to capitalise on these attributes, “the country's leaders must respect scientific evidence, expert commentary, and academic freedom, and not provide false optimism.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-putting-too-positive-spin-on-covid-data-says-the-lancet-893287.html
26-09-2020||National||PM Modi holds talks with Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held wide-ranging talks with his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa, covering the entire expanse of bilateral ties and with a focus on further expanding cooperation in key areas. In his opening remarks at a virtual bilateral summit, Modi said he was confident that the massive electoral victory of the ruling party in Sri Lanka backed by the Rajapaksa government's policies will facilitate deeper cooperation between the two countries. "An opportunity has come to begin a new chapter in India-Sri Lanka ties after your party's electoral victory. People from both the countries are looking at us with new hope and expectations," Modi said. Rajapaksa was sworn in as Sri Lankan Prime Minister for a fresh term on August 9 after his party, the Sri Lanka People's Front, secured a two-thirds majority in the parliamentary polls. Modi said India gives priority to its relations with Sri Lanka as he mentioned his government's neighbourhood-first policy as well as SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region) doctrine. It was Prime Minister Modi's first such virtual bilateral engagement with a leader of a neighbouring country. For Rajapaksa, it was the first diplomatic engagement with a leader of a foreign country after he was sworn in as Prime Minister. It was learnt that the two leaders deliberated on a host of issues like ways to further deepen overall defence and trade ties as well as the expansion of existing cooperation in several key areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-talks-with-sri-lankan-counterpart-mahinda-rajapaksa-893294.html
26-09-2020||National||India's total Covid-19 recoveries reach over 48.4 lakh with 93,420 cured in a day; recovery rate at 82.14%||The total number of recoveries from Covid-19 surged to 48,49,584 on Saturday with 93,420 patients recuperating from the disease in a day which is more than the number of fresh cases recorded during the same period, the union health ministry said. With the recovery rate rising to 82.14 per cent, the ministry said India has maintained its top global ranking in total recoveries with such high successive single-day numbers. "As India records more recoveries than new cases, the gap between recovered and active cases is continuously widening. The recoveries are more than five times the active cases of coronavirus infection," it said.  The recovered cases exceed the active cases (9,60,969) by nearly 39 lakh. "This has also ensured that active cases account for merely 16.28 per cent of the total caseload. This has sustained on its steady declining path," the ministry said. Following the national lead, 24 states and Union Territories are also reporting higher number of new recoveries than new cases. The ministry said 10 states and UTs account for nearly 73 per cent of the new recovered cases. Maharashtra has maintained this lead with 19,592 new recoveries. "These sustained encouraging results have been made possible with the Centre-led proactive and calibrated strategy of 'test, track and treat' with a sharp focus on 'Chase the Virus' approach," the ministry said. States and Union Territories have effectively identified positive cases at an early stage through high and aggressive levels of countrywide testing. This has been supplemented with prompt surveillance and tracking to identify the contacts to curb spread of the infection, it said. The Centre has issued a Standard of Care protocol to ensure uniform and high-quality medical care for those in home and facility isolation, and hospitals. These have been upgraded periodically drawing from the emerging global and national evidences. The Government is supporting the efforts of the states and UTs through technical, financial, material and other resources, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past 59 lakh on Saturday with 85,362 fresh cases being recorded in a day, while the death toll mounted to 93,379 after 1,089 people succumbed to the disease in 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-total-covid-19-recoveries-reach-over-484-lakh-with-93420-cured-in-a-day-recovery-rate-at-8214-893310.html
26-09-2020||National||Bollywood drugs case: NCB arrests Dharma Productions executive producer||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested Dharma Productions' executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad after questioning in a drugs case linked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an official said. Prasad was picked up by a team of NCB sleuths, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, from his residence in suburban Versova on Friday. He was questioned at the Ballard Estate office of the NCB, the official said. "After his arrest on Saturday, he was taken for medical tests, including for COVID-19, at hospital," the official added. Prasad's name cropped up during the NCB's wider probe. On Friday, NCB had also questioned Dharma Productions' Anubhav Chopra in relation with the drug-nexus in the Hindi film industry. In a statement issued on Friday, director-producer Karan Johar said Prasad had joined Dharmatic Entertainment, sister concern of Dharma Productions, in November 2019 as one of the executive producers on a contract basis for a project, which eventually did not materialise. Johar added that Chopra was briefly associated with his banner as an assistant director and worked only on two projects. "He was briefly associated with us for only two months in the capacity of 2nd assistant director for a film, between November 2011 and January 2012 and as assistant director for the short film in January 2013. He has thereafter never been associated with Dharma Productions for any other project," the director had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bollywood-drugs-case-ncb-arrests-dharma-productions-executive-producer-893316.html
26-09-2020||National||10 states, UTs account for 75% of new Covid-19 cases, total tests cross 7 crore: Centre||Of the 85,362 new coronavirus cases reported in India in a day, 75 per cent are found concentrated in 10 states and Union Territories, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. It also said India has conducted a total of seven crore tests for the detection of coronavirus infection till now with the country's testing capacity having crossed 14 lakh tests daily. The 10 states and Union Territories from where 75 per cent of the new cases have been reported are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra continues to top this list by accounting for more than 17,000 cases. Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh reported more than 8,000 and 7,000 cases respectively, the ministry said. Also, Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh account for 83 per cent of the 1,089 deaths due to Covid-19 registered in a day. Maharashtra reported 416 deaths in a 24-hour period, followed by Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh with 86 and 84 fatalities, respectively. "Seventeen states and UTs have cases per million lower than the national average (4,278) while 23 are reporting deaths per million lower than the national average (68)," the health ministry said. Asserting that India has substantially ramped up its testing infrastructure, it said as on date, there are 1,823 laboratories, including 1,086 government and 737 private ones. India's testing capacity has surged to cross 14 lakhs per day, the ministry said. A total of 7,02,69,975 Covid-19 tests have been conducted across the country so far, with 13,41,535 of them were carried out on Friday, showed the data provided by the Centre. "A high level of testing leads to early identification of positive cases. As evidence has revealed, eventually the positivity rate will fall when combined with higher testing. "The national cumulative positivity rate is 8.40 per cent and tests per million are presently positioned at 50,920," the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past 59 lakh on Saturday with 85,362 fresh cases being recorded in a day, while the death toll mounted to 93,379 after 1,089 people succumbed to the disease in 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-uts-account-for-75-of-new-covid-19-cases-total-tests-cross-7-crore-centre-893325.html
26-09-2020||National||8 states account for over 70% children in care homes, NCPCR wants their return to families||The country's apex child rights body NCPCR has directed eight states that account for over 70 per cent of children in care homes to ensure their return to their families, noting that it is the right of every child to grow up in a familial environment. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) said the decision was taken also keeping in view the alarming concerns over the safety and security of children residing in these institutions as well. The eight states -- Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Mizoram, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Meghalaya -- have 1.84 lakh (or nearly 72 per cent) children in child care homes out of a total of 2.56 lakh in the country. The NCPCR has directed the district magistrates and collectors of these states to ensure that the children living in these care homes return to their families, preferably within a 100-day period. Those who could not be sent back to their families must be placed for adoption or in foster home, it added. Speaking about the direction, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said this exercise will be carried out in a phased manner beginning with these eight states and it will be then executed in the rest of the country. "The principle of the Juvenile Justice Act is to keep children with families, and keeping children in child care homes must be the last resort till all attempts are made to give them an atmosphere of home," he said. "It was observed in south India that some CWCs (child welfare committees) are ordering to keep children in children homes due to the poverty of the family. You cannot take away the right to family from a child because of poverty. It is the failure of the state if due to poverty the child is forced to reside in child care homes. It is the duty of the state to strengthen the family so that they could take care of their children," he told PTI. He further said that the commission will sit with each district and discuss the plan of how each and every child can be sent back to their families. "We have kept a 100-day target...by the end of it we aim that the children will be back with their families," he said. In a letter to these states, the NCPCR said upon completion of the social audit reports analysis of these child care homes, it was observed that maximum number of child care institutions (CCIs) and children in need of care and protection (CNCP) placed in these homes are located in five southern states of the country, "which paints an unsettling picture indicating a pitiable condition of children in these CCIs". "Further in a few northeastern states, the number of children placed in the CCIs in ratio to the total population that each such state has...it was observed by the Commission that the number of CNCP residing in these CCIs are in excess which pose a potential risk to the rights and protection of these children. Such a vast number of children being deprived of their natural homes and parents is a matter of grave concern," the commission observed in the letter to these states issued on September 24. "Keeping in view these alarming concerns to the safety and security of these CNCP, the Commission has initiated the exercise of monitoring the repatriation and restoration of the CNCPs placed in various CCIs, except SAA (specialised adoption agency) and Observation Homes," it said. The NCPCR said it will monitor this entire exercise until its thorough implementation and till every child in need of care and protection placed in these CCIs is sent back to his or her family or be placed for adoption and foster care. The states have been asked to immediately produce all the children in need of care and protection staying in these CCIs before the Child Welfare Committee concerned (CWC) for their immediate return to family, and apprise the commission of the progress. Further, the commission recommended that the repatriation and restoration of these children shall be conducted while ensuring strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the government to contain the spread of COVID-19. The safety and security of child care homes have been a matter of concern ever since sexual assaults were reported in child care institutions in Deoria in Uttar Pradesh and Muzaffarpur in Bihar in 2018. In Muzaffarpur in 2018, about 34 minor girls were allegedly sexually abused at a shelter home. Sexual assault against girls in Deoria in Uttar Pradesh also came to light last year when a 10-year-old girl managed to flee from the shelter home and reported about the plight of the inmates, who were reportedly sexually abused by the couple running the shelter, after which police conducted a raid and 24 girls were rescued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-states-account-for-over-70-children-in-care-homes-ncpcr-wants-their-return-to-families-893326.html
26-09-2020||National||NPPA caps price of liquid medical oxygen, medical oxygen cylinders||With the demand for oxygen rising due to a surge in the Covid-19 cases, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority on Saturday put a cap on the price of oxygen so that the life-saving gas is available to everyone at a reasonable price. India’s daily oxygen demand has gone up from 750 metric tonnes to 2,800 MT due to the pandemic. Currently, 50% of the liquid oxygen produced is being used for medicinal purposes due to Covid-19 as against 15% in the pre-pandemic days. Similarly due to excess demand, delivery through cylinders has increased from 11% pre-Covid to 50% of current oxygen supply. Notwithstanding the government’s repeated assurances on oxygen availability because of adequate production, there are reports of oxygen prices going north. The issue was flagged by several chief ministers during their review meeting with the Prime Minister earlier this week. The NPPA has now put a cap both on liquid medical oxygen (LMO) that is carried in tankers and supplies to the hospitals as well as oxygen that is available in stand-alone cylinders. For the LMO, the prices have been fixed at Rs 15.22 per cubic metre whereas, for oxygen cylinders, the price cap is Rs 25.71 per CM. Both prices are exclusive of the GST. Sources said the capping price was determined after taking into account the expenses involved in refilling a cylinder and transportation charges. The pharmaceutical price regulator clarified that the existing rate contracts of state governments for oxygen purchase will continue in consumer interest and the ex-factory price cap of LMO and oxygen gas cylinders will be applicable to domestic production. “The measures taken by the NPPA will ensure availability of medical oxygen at consumer end at a reasonable price both at hospital level and through oxygen cylinders, especially to distant and interior districts,” the Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizer said in a statement.  Since regular oxygen manufacturers produce 6400 MT of oxygen every day. Another 550 MT comes from the steel manufacturers, there is enough headroom even after taking the excess demand into account. The need, the officials said, was better inventory management for uninterrupted supply of oxygen to Covid-19 and non-Covid patients. With more than 85,000 new cases in the last 24 hours, the total number of active corona cases stands at 9.60 lakh. The death toll is 93,379 out of which 1089 were added in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nppa-caps-price-of-liquid-medical-oxygen-medical-oxygen-cylinders-893328.html
26-09-2020||National||PIL in Supreme Court seeks equal protection of law to transgenders in sexual offence cases||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Union government to make modification and interpretation of sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to deal with sexual assaults against transgenders, transsexuals and eunuchs. The petition filed by lawyer Reepak Kansal asked the court to direct the Union government to make the sexual harassment mechanisms gender-neutral. "In cases of sexual assault of transgender, the law enforcement agencies are often at loss to ascertain applicable provisions of law as there is no provision in Indian Penal Code," he contended. "In spite of declaring transgender people to be a 'third gender' by this court, there is no provision/section in the Indian Penal Code which may protect the third gender from the sexual assault by male/ female or another transgender," it said. He asked the court to frame guidelines to protect the fundamental rights of the third gender by giving them equal protection before law till such time the law is passed to protect them from sexual assault etc. He said Section 354 A of IPC should be declared as ultra vires of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution to the extent that they are interpreted to exclude victims of sexual harassment who are transgenders. The petitioner cited the path-breaking judgement by the Supreme Court in 2014 in the matter of National Legal Services Authority vs Union of India granting recognition to the transgenders as the third gender, falling under the ambit of Article 14 of the Constitution. "The petitioner is filing this petition...with respect to equal protection of law to the third gender/transgender from the sexual assault /offences as there is no provision/section in the IPC which may protect the third gender from the sexual assault by male/ female or another transgender, therefore, anti-discrimination laws are needed to safeguard the basic citizenship rights of transgender persons," the plea said. The plea, which may come up for hearing in few days, has sought a direction to the Centre to "make appropriate modification/ interpretation of sections/ provisions of IPC dealing with sexual assault to include transgender/ transsexuals/ kinnar and eunuchs in the definitions accordingly". He said the court should also direct the Union government to pass an Anti-Discrimination Bill that penalises discrimination and harassment based on gender. The plea urged the top court "to issue an appropriate order... directing the respondents to pass an Anti-Discrimination Bill that penalises discrimination and harassment on the basis of gender". It also sought a direction to the Centre to adopt and implement the Universal Declaration of Human Rights being a signatory of it. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-supreme-court-seeks-equal-protection-of-law-to-transgenders-in-sexual-offence-cases-893337.html
26-09-2020||National||Sri Lanka seeks fresh currency swap facility, deferment of debt payments from India||Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa sought an additional currency swap facility and deferment of debt payments from India during an online bilateral summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Indian officials said. Sri Lanka owes about $960 million to India and earlier this year India agreed to a $400 million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka until November 2022. "An additional request for a bilateral currency swap arrangement worth around $1 billion by the Sri Lankan side remains under discussion," said the Indian foreign ministry in a statement. Modi told his Sri Lankan counterpart that under the country's "Neighbourhood First" policy, India will continue to "give special priority to relations between the two countries", said the officials. Sri Lanka, located off the southern tip of India, has become an arena of competing influence between India and China, which has built ports, power stations and highways as part of President Xi Jinping's signature "Belt and Road Initiative", designed to boost trade and transport links across Asia. But the terms of some of these projects have drawn domestic criticism in Sri Lanka and opened the way for countries such as India, the United States and Japan to rebuild ties in the Indian Ocean country that lies near key shipping lanes. Rajapaksa, who won a general election last year after promising to pull the country out of its deepest economic slump, has to service mounting external debt amidst the coronavirus pandemic. He told Modi that the Sri Lankan government's policies will facilitate deeper economic and strategic cooperation between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-seeks-fresh-currency-swap-facility-deferment-of-debt-payments-from-india-893349.html
26-09-2020||National||Now, suit filed in Mathura court to reclaim Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi land||Nearly two months after the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ayodhya Ram Temple, a civil suit was filed in a Mathura court on Saturday claiming ownership of the entire land on which the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple and the Shahi Idgah Mosque are situated.  The civil suit was filed by 'Bhagwan Shrikrishna Virajman' to claim the entire birthplace of Lord Krishna and remove encroachment and 'illegal' superstructure built in the form of the Shahi Idgah Mosque. The plaint, filed on behalf of the Deity, considered minor, and eight followers of the Vedic Sanatan Dharam, sought complete control of the 13.73-acre land in Mathura with the temple complex area at Katra Keshav Dev.  The UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, Committee of Management Trust of Idgah Masjid, Shri Krishna Jamnabhoomi Trust and Shri Krishna Janmasthan Sewa Sansthan are the defendants in the suit. The plaintiffs claimed that the Shri Krishna Janmasthan Sewa Sansthan worked against the interest of the Deity and the devotees and had fraudulently entered into a compromise with the Committee of Management Trust Masjid Idgah on October 12, 1968, conceding a considerable portion of the property to the trust. They sought to exercise their right to worship under Article 25 and manage the temple under Article 26 of the Constitution. Bhagwan Shrikrishna Virajman, represented by next friend Ranjana Agnihotri and the devotees, including advocate Karunesh Kumar Shukla through their advocates Hari Shankar Jain and Vishnu Shankar Jain, claimed that the army of Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb, who ruled over the region between 1658 and 1707, partly succeeded in the demolition of the Keshav Dev temple and a construction was raised as Idgah masjid. They quoted late historian Jadunath Sarkar who had written about the Keshav Dev temple being razed to the ground in 1670 and a mosque being built there. The All India Akhara Parishad (AIAP), an apex body of the seers in the country, had made it clear that the fight for the Ram Temple had ended and now it was the turn of Kashi and Mathura. ''We have got Ram Temple.....now we will liberate the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi and Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura,'' AIAP President Mahant Narendra Giri had then said. ''Kashi and Mathura are also blots for the Hindus....they must also be freed,'' he had said, appealing to the seers and saints to launch a ''peaceful movement'' to 'free' Kashi and Mathura.  The AIAP had recently held a meeting at Prayagraj (formerly Allahabad) and discussed the strategy to launch a mass movement to 'liberate' the twin temples at Kashi and Mathura. At the brick-laying ceremony for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, the chief priest, who had performed the rituals in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wanted 'liberation' of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi and the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple in Mathura in 'dakshina' (a gift in cash or kind or promise given to the priests by the person for whom he performs the puja) from Modi. Though priest Gangadhar Pathak wanted to ask the prime minister to 'liberate' Kashi and Mathura, he had then been stopped by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust, which will be overseeing the construction of the Ram temple. Although both, the BJP and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), have said that Kashi and Mathura are not on their agenda, according to sources, the seers affiliated with the VHP were elated by the civil suit filed in Mathura and have vowed their support for the same. The filing of this case comes at a time when a petition by an organisation of Hindu priests challenging the validity of a 1991 law which prohibits the filing of a suit to reclaim a place of worship or seek a change in its character from what prevailed on August 15, 1947 is pending before the Supreme Court. Notably, the Ayodhya dispute was excluded from the ambit of this 1991 law due to the pendency of the dispute before the cut-off date of August 15, 1947. The top court's five-judge bench had on November 9, 2019, unanimously ruled in the favour of Hindus by allowing the building of a Ram temple at Ayodhya, recognising it as the birth place of Lord Ram. It had then said that the 1991 law was a legislative intervention that preserved non-retrogression as an essential feature of our secular values. It had also pointed out courts cannot correct historical wrongs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-suit-filed-in-mathura-court-to-reclaim-shri-krishna-janmabhoomi-land-893366.html
26-09-2020||National||SPB 'singing moon' who shed radiance over India: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has condoled the demise of celebrated playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam and hailed him as the "singing moon" who shed his special radiance over the country. The versatile singer, actor and music composer was laid to rest at his farmhouse near Chennai on Saturday with a 24-gun salute by the Tamil Nadu Police. In a letter to his son S P B Charan, Gandhi said she was deeply saddened by the death of Balasubrahmanyam, "who so bravely fought the cruel Covid-19 virus for over six weeks before succumbing to it". Gandhi said Balasubrahmanyam was a shining symbol of India's rich musical and linguistic culture, singing with equal melodious and emotional power in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi. He brought joy and solace to millions of his fans, and the artistic and cultural world is much poorer and darker for his loss, the Congress chief said. "He was indeed the Paadum Nila -- the Singing Moon -- who shed his special radiance over our country," Gandhi said in the letter. Balasubrahmanyam, who held sway over millions of fans with his golden voice rendering a record 40,000 plus songs over five decades, died on Friday at a hospital in Chennai, plunging music lovers in grief. After waging 52 days of grim battle for life following Covid-19 infection, the 74-year old singer suffered a cardio-respiratory arrest and the end came in the afternoon, a day after his condition turned extremely critical. A six-time national award winner, Balasubrahmanyam was honoured with Padma Shri in 2001 and Padma Bhushan in 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spb-singing-moon-who-shed-radiance-over-india-sonia-893371.html
26-09-2020||National||India pitches for devolution of powers by Sri Lankan govt to minority Tamils||India on Saturday pitched for devolution of powers by the Sri Lankan government to the minority Tamils in the island to realise their expectations of equality, justice, peace and dignity and take forward the process of peace and reconciliation. The issue figured prominently in a virtual bilateral summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa. In the talks, Modi emphasised on full implementation of the 13th amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution, saying it is essential for the peace and reconciliation process, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The 13th amendment provides for devolution of power to the Tamil community in the neighbouring country. India has been pressing Sri Lanka to implement the 13th amendment which was brought in after the Indo-Sri Lankan agreement of 1987 which envisaged devolution of powers to the Tamils. The two leaders also deliberated on a range of key issues including on ways to deepen defence and security ties as well as trade and investment cooperation. "The outcomes of the summit are substantial, forward looking and will help in setting an ambitious agenda to deepen ties," Joint Secretary in the Indian Ocean division in the MEA Amit Narang said at a media briefing. The two leaders also exchanged views on the fishermen issue and agreed to continue and strengthen the ongoing "constructive and humanitarian" approach to deal with it, Narang added. In the talks, Modi also announced a grant assistance of USD 15 million for promotion of Buddhist ties with Sri Lanka. In his opening remarks, Modi said he was confident that the massive electoral victory by the ruling party in Sri Lanka backed by Rajapaksa government's policies will facilitate deeper cooperation between the two countries. "An opportunity has come to begin a new chapter in India-Sri Lanka ties after your parties massive electoral victory. People from both countries are looking at us with new hope and expectations," Modi said. Rajapaksa was sworn in as Sri Lankan prime minister for a fresh term on August 9 after his party, Sri Lanka People's Front, secured a two-thirds majority in the parliamentary polls. Modi said India gives priority to its relations with Sri Lanka as he mentioned his government's neighbourhood first policy as well as SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region) doctrine. It was Prime Minister Modi's first such virtual bilateral engagement with a leader of a neighbouring country. For Rajapaksa, it was the first diplomatic engagement with a leader of a foreign country after he was sworn in as prime minister. On the Tamil issue, Narang said both the leaders exchanged views on the reconciliation process. "Prime Minister Modi called on the new government in Sri Lanka to work towards realising the expectations of Tamils for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka by achieving reconciliation," he said. He said Modi and Rajapaksa expressed satisfaction over robustness of defence cooperation and agreed to further strengthen maritime security ties. Narang said the technical discussions on Sri Lanka's request for deferment of debt repayments are going on: MEA after Modi-Rajapaksa talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pitches-for-devolution-of-powers-by-sri-lankan-govt-to-minority-tamils-893378.html
26-09-2020||National||Indian expat gets over $130,000 fine waiver; to return home after 14 years||An Indian expat in the UAE will return home after 14 years after he got a fine waiver of over Dh 511,200 (USD 139,177), according to a media report. Baskari Raghavlu, who hails from Andhra Pradesh, got help from lawyer and social worker Sheela Thomas, who also bought a ticket for him to fly back home, the Gulf news reported on Friday. “He was struggling for accommodation. He was living off the generosity of some other blue collar workers. He just wanted to return home and see his daughter for the first time in his life. I then took up his case,” Thomas was quoted as saying in the report. Thomas said Raghavlu’s overstay fines have been cleared and he is set to fly home. Raghavlu, 41, came to the UAE in 2006 and was injured in a road accident while travelling in his company vehicle. He tried to get compensation from the company where he worked through a lawyer who took his passport, the report said. Raghavlu said he did some odd jobs to sustain himself and his family back home. During one of the amnesty programmes by the UAE government, he even managed to secure an outpass to leave the country but did not have money for his flight ticket, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-expat-gets-over-130000-fine-waiver-to-return-home-after-14-years-893382.html
26-09-2020||National||We’ll be controlling weapon systems aboard the helicopter, say Navy’s first women airborne tacticians from shipborne helicopters||They are young women who have broken all glass ceilings and recently, crossed an important nautical milestone.  Indian Navy’s officers Sub Lieutenants Kumudini Tyagi and Riti Singh, who would be the first women airborne tacticians in India to operate from a warship, in an interview with Deccan Herald, have said that once they complete their training, they would be deploying sonar, sonobuoys, radars to detect enemy ships and submarines and employing tactics to eliminate them. SLT Kumudini, who hails from Ghaziabad, and SLT Riti, who is from Hyderabad, received their ‘Wings’ after graduation last week and were selected to join as airborne tacticians in the helicopter stream.  “There is excitement but, it comes with a sense of responsibility, says Kumudini. Echoing her thoughts, Riti adds, “At a very young age, we got an opportunity that no one before us has got. With this opportunity comes a lot of responsibility -- to put in the effort to qualify and understand our aircraft well, go ahead and perform our duty as per the requirements of the Navy.”  Kumudini and Tyagi are a part of a group of 17 officers of the Indian Navy who were awarded ‘Wings’ after they graduated as ‘Observers’ recently. They will be part of the Multi-Role-Helicopters crew. “We are now being trained as observers who are also known as airborne tacticians,” explains Kumudini. “We will be deployed onboard helicopters. Our role would be in the helicopters – controlling the radar, sonar, missiles and all the weapon systems. The tactical control lies with the observers,” she says. In the naval aviation, for a successful mission completion, there is a set of airborne tacticians who are in charge of the mission with their sensors, weapons, tactics etc. The pilot fly as their directions. They are mission controllers but are termed as observers. “It is the responsibility of the observer to recognise if the ship or aircraft in our surrounding is our friend or our enemy,” informs SLT Riti. “Specifically, we do not know what our role in our helicopters would be. We will be trained in due course -- within next year or so,” she adds. “The helicopter we have in the Navy are used for anti-submarine operations and are also used for early air warning operations. The capabilities of the helicopter are known to everybody. They are highly-armed helicopters with very advanced sensors on board. Basically, all the sensors and weapons will be in our control,” Riti said.  What they have achieved is a historic first. Asked on the challenges that prevented women from being part of this earlier, she says, “this opportunity has been given to us by the Navy and we are performing the duty that they have bestowed on us.”  “It’s not our decision to see the merits and demerits and why women were there earlier or not. We are very happy to get this opportunity today. We are excited that we will be going out and putting out all our efforts and after that, you will see many women coming into this,’’ adds Riti. SLT Kumudini was always interested in being part of the armed forces. Although she did not make it in the first attempt, she says that her attempts have taught her patience and helped her in learning more.  Patience, says Kumudini, is a skill, that is very vital if one wants to be where she is now. “I did not give up. I was optimistic that I will clear it,” she says. Riti was brought up in an environment amidst a lot of officers as her father was a naval officer. Seeing the men and women in white from a very young age and having interacted with them at large, she realised that there is something very different in each of them.  “They are all leaders in themselves, each one of them with experiences and lot of knowledge in their specific field of work. I decided if I want to do something exciting and different in life, I definitely have to join the Indian Navy,” she says. When Riti told her father that she wants to be in the Armed Forces, her father was not surprised. He had seen it coming. “My family and friends have been supportive from the very beginning. Instructors in the Southern Naval Command and the officers too were very encouraging,” she says.  Elaborating on the training, she says, “We will be trained on the Dornier aircraft. We first have to familiarise ourselves with the basic intricacies. It’s one step at a time. That is a lot of effort. We take it as it comes,” she says. With this giant step, gender barriers are being broken opening out vistas for many young women to guard our high seas.  “In case if there are those who want to apply but have any doubts and apprehensions about joining the Navy, they should get it cleared with somebody through the Indian Navy website.” Further, she says, “I don’t think people are aware about the number of opportunities that are in the Navy. I was also browsing through the Navy website two years ago before I got here. And when you have cleared it, there is nothing like wearing a uniform and no job like what we do.’’  “So many hours are going into our training and finally when we get operational, we will apply all the knowledge that we have gained. It will make us feel a lot older and more responsible than we are today,” adds Riti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-ll-be-controlling-weapon-systems-aboard-the-helicopter-say-navy-s-first-women-airborne-tacticians-from-shipborne-helicopters-893383.html
26-09-2020||National||How polls will be held in Bihar amid pandemic, asks Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday sought to know how elections would be conducted in Bihar amid the coronavirus pandemic. Assembly elections will be held in Bihar in three phases -- October 28, November 3 and 7. Speaking to reporters here, Raut said though the poll dates were duly announced as the term of the Bihar assembly is about to end, "the question is, has COVID-19 ended". "How will elections be held in such atmosphere? The country must know. How will the election campaign and rallies be held? Voting can not be online. You have to stand ina queue," the Rajya Sabha member said. As people are not venturing out due to the fear of the pandemic, voting percentage should not come down, he added. To the question whether the newly passed farm bills would be a poll issue, Raut said Bihar is important in national politics, and elections should be fought on the issues of development, law and order, and governance. "If these issues are exhausted, some can be shipped from Mumbai," he said, in an apparent dig at parties in the northern state making actor Sushant Singh Rajput's alleged suicide a political issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-polls-will-be-held-in-bihar-amid-pandemic-asks-shiv-senas-sanjay-raut-893401.html
26-09-2020||National||Temporary retention of GST cess pending reconciliation not diversion: Finance Ministry||Finance ministry sources have countered CAG audit finding of central government wrongly retaining Rs 47,272 crore of GST compensation cess meant for states, saying temporary retention cannot be termed as diversion. Days after the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) flagged that the Centre in first two years of the GST implementation wrongly retained GST compensation cess that was meant to be used specifically to compensate states for loss of revenue, ministry sources said compensation due for the year 2017-18 and 2018-19 was fully paid to states. Time taken in reconciliation of compensation receipts can't be termed as diversion of GST cess fund when the dues to states were fully released by the central government, they said. Sources said that in 2017-18, Rs 62,611 crore was collected, out of which the government released full compensation dues of Rs 41,146 crore to the states and union territories (UTs). In 2018-19, an amount of Rs 95,081 crore was collected, out of which Rs 69,275 crore was paid as full compensation dues to states and UTs. They said an amount of Rs 47,271 crore collected in the 2017-18 and 2018-19 had remained unutilised for reconciliation post full payment of GST compensation dues. For the year 2019-20, the central government released Rs 1,65,302 crore as GST compensation against a cess collection of Rs 95,444 crore which it could do so with the unutilised cess of Rs 47,271 crore. The GST (Compensation to States) Act guarantees all states an annual growth rate of 14 per cent in their GST revenue in the first five years of implementation of GST beginning July 2017. It was introduced as a relief for states for the loss of revenues arising from the implementation of GST. If a state's revenue grows slower than 14 per cent, it is supposed to be compensated by the Centre using the funds specifically collected as compensation cess. To provide these grants, a GST compensation cess is levied on certain luxury and sin goods. The collected compensation cess flows into the consolidated fund of India (CFI), and is then transferred to the Public Account of India, where a GST compensation cess account has been created. States are compensated bi-monthly from the accumulated funds in this account. However, instead of transferring the entire GST cess amount to the GST compensation fund during 2017-18 and 2018-19, the CAG found that the Centre retained these funds in the CFI and used it for other purposes. The finance ministry sources said the compensation receipt in the CFI was subject to reconciliation in the coming months, as usual, in the forthcoming financial year. If for that reason the amount remained in the CFI, how can that be treated as diversion, they asked adding even the CAG in its report has not said so. The amount collected under compensation cess fund has been regularly and fully distributed to states as per their dues and budgetary provisions and by the end of July 2020, everything has been accounted for and released, source added. The CAG in its report tabled in Parliament earlier this week said out of the Rs 62,612 crore GST Compensation Cess collected in 2017-18, Rs 56,146 crore was transferred to the non-lapsable fund. In the following year (2018-19), Rs 54,275 crore out of Rs 95,081 crore collected was transferred to the fund. The short transfer in 2017-18 was Rs 6,466 crore and in 2018-19 it was Rs 40,806 crore, the CAG said adding the Centre used this money for "other purposes" which "led to an overstatement of revenue receipts and understatement of fiscal deficit for the year". Sources explained that all amounts including taxes and cess that are collected by the Centre should, under the Article 266 of the Constitution, get credited first to the CFI and then only it could be transferred to any other fund through a budget head in Union Budget. The government makes all efforts to transfer all amounts collected by the end of every financial year into the fund by making necessary budget provisions, they said. In case of compensation cess, since the final accounts of amounts collected are known only after the end of financial year, any amount collected over and above the estimate will remain in the CFI temporarily, they said adding after reconciliation, the amount is transferred to Compensation Fund and from that fund to states as per their compensation formula. Therefore, such temporary retention of GST cess in CFI pending reconciliation cannot be treated as diversion by any stretch of imagination, sources said. Since the cess collected by the Government has been used for full payment of due compensation, then it cannot be alleged that unutilized cess amount has been diverted for other purposes, they insisted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/temporary-retention-of-gst-cess-pending-reconciliation-not-diversion-finance-ministry-893404.html
26-09-2020||National||Will Centre have Rs 80,000 crore to provide everyone in India Covid-19 vaccine, asks Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla said that it could well be a whopping Rs 80,000 crore to purchase and distribute Covid-19 vaccine for every Indian, highlighting the challenge and indicating the tough road ahead for the government. “Quick question; will the government of India have 80,000 crores available, over the next one year? Because that's what the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare needs, to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India. This is the next concerning challenge we need to tackle,” Poonawalla tweeted. In the social media post, the SII chief tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. “I ask this question, because we need to plan and guide, vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution,” said Poonawalla, who heads the world’s largest vaccine maker. I ask this question, because we need to plan and guide, vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution. The SII has partnered with biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the University of Oxford. It has registered for Phase II/III clinical trials on the Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covishield, being developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca, with the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI) – and trials are underway across the country. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is following up on the process. Serum Institute of India said on Sept 12 will resume clinical trials of AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine candidate after getting the permission from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the Pune-based vaccine maker.  "Once DCGI will give us the permission to restart the trials in India, we will resume the trials," Serum Institute of India (SII) said in a statement. In a tweet, Poonawalla said: "As I'd mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events is a clear example why we should not bias the process and should respect the process till the end. Good news, @UniofOxford." The human trials resumed days after a pause had been announced in the trials after an adverse reaction in one of the participants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-centre-have-rs-80000-crore-to-provide-everyone-in-india-covid-19-vaccine-asks-adar-poonawalla-893408.html
26-09-2020||National||Farmers exempted from taking NOC to extract groundwater||The Centre has exempted 5 categories of water users including farmers, individual domestic consumers from taking No Objection Certificate (NOC) for extracting groundwater. As per latest guidelines issued by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) under the Jal Shakti Ministry to regulate the withdrawal of groundwater, five categories of users need not take NOC, which are-individual domestic consumers in both rural and urban areas for drinking water and domestic uses, rural drinking water supply schemes, agricultural activities,  Armed Forces offices and Central Armed Police Forces establishments in both rural and urban areas,  and micro and small enterprises drawing groundwater less than 10 cubic metre/day. However, NOC will be required for groundwater extraction for drinking and domestic use for residential apartments or group housing societies in urban areas where “local government water supply agency is unable to supply the requisite amount of water”. The entities will also have to pay charges. The NOC, which will be issued online by the Central Ground Water Authority or, the concerned State/ UT Ground Water Authority and will be valid for 2-5 years depending on the entity. The government issued new guidelines after the National Green Tribunal struck down earlier notification issued in 2018 citing a number of loopholes. The guidelines issued on September 24, came into force immediately. The guideline also said all new/existing industries, industries seeking expansion, infrastructure projects and mining projects abstracting groundwater, unless specifically exempted will be required to seek NOC. Non-compliance of NOC conditions may attract a penalty between Rs 50,000 and Rs 10 lakh, the guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-exempted-from-taking-noc-to-extract-groundwater-893414.html
26-09-2020||National||Amit Shah to inaugurate 'Destination North East-2020' event on September 27||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will inaugurate a four-day event here on Sunday to highlight the Northeast region's various potentials like eco-tourism, culture, heritage and business. The 'Destination North East-2020' is a calendar event of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region conceptualised with the objective of taking the northeastern region to other parts of the country and bringing them closer together in order to strengthen national integration, an official statement said. The home minister will inaugurate the event through video conference while Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) Jitendra Singh will be the guest of honour. For 'Destination North East 2020', the theme is 'The Emerging Delightful Destinations', which speaks of the tourism destinations emerging stronger and more attractive when the sector picks up momentum. The programme focuses mostly on tourism and coincides with World Tourism Day which falls on September 27. The four-day programme will feature audio visual presentation of the tourist spots of the states and the region, messages from state icons and achievers, introduction to prominent local entrepreneurs and virtual exhibition of handicraft, traditional fashion, and local products, the statement said. Earlier, this week unveiling the logo and theme song of the festival, Singh said the 'Destination North East' event has been travelling across the country -- from Varanasi to New Delhi or to Chandigarh. He said the festival is not just about tourism, but it's an invitation to the organisations and specially to the young entrepreneurs who would like to avail the advantage of unexplored potentials of the region. Singh said the northeastern region will be one of the favourite tourist and business destinations of India post-Covid-19 and will be an important engine for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's clarion call of Atmanirbhar Bharat by focussing on "Vocal for Local". He said the event is also an effort to make everyone explore the local destinations rather than going anywhere abroad. The minister said people should take a pledge to 'visit local, travel local and explore local', thus giving a boost to the local tourism and hospitality industry. Moreover, he said, by remaining coronavirus-free mostly, the Northeast offers a very safe and attractive tourist destination in the entire World. What the Northeastern region has to offer: Eco-tourism: Northeastern region is ideal for both passive and adventure forms of eco-tourism with wildlife sanctuary, parks, good scenic beauty, waterfalls, forests etc. The region has much to offer for the active adventure segment including river rafting among others, trekking of various grades and levels, rock climbing, hang gliding etc, the statement said. Culture: Culture is an important aspect and has the potential to attract selective culture tourists to Northeastern region. The diverse and rich tribal heritage and culture is what differentiates Northeast with the rest of India. Another major differentiator is the rich and varying arts and crafts across the eight Northeastern states. Here unlike most places, handicrafts are part of everyday life. One significant aspect is the local community's active participation towards increasing tourist-community cultural interfaces. Heritage: Heritage tourism has picked up considerably in the Region with a participatory approach where tourists also get to actively participate than just seeing the monuments, old tea estates etc. Religious pilgrimage: The region has many famous and old religious spots, which have been integrated with national tourism circuits for the benefit of the pilgrims. Business: In view of attractive natural environment and growing trends of outbound business meets, the NER also offers ample opportunities for business tourism segment. Domestic and international connectivity, High-end hotels, Convention Centres, resort based convention facilities etc. have all contributed to the expansion of this sector, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-destination-north-east-2020-event-on-september-27-893425.html
26-09-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Tejasvi Surya made BJP youth wing president; NCB grills Deepika Padukone for 5 hours||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, BJP in a rejig of its core team, have elevated Lok Sabha MP Tejasvi Surya to the position of president of BJP’s youth wing, replacing Poonam Mahajan; Bollywood actors Shraddha Kapoor, Deepika Padukone and Sara Ali Khan are being grilled at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB); Legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam was on Saturday laid to rest at his farmhouse in Thamaraipakkam near Chennai. BJP in a rejig of its core team, have elevated Lok Sabha MP Tejasvi Surya to the position of president of BJP’s youth wing, replacing Poonam Mahajan. Karnataka Tourism Minister, and Kannada and Culture Minister C T Ravi has been made national general secretary. The party replaced Ram Madhav, P Muralidhar Rao, Anil Jain, Saroj Pandey as general secretaries with new faces. Uma Bharti, Shivraj Singh Chouhan have been dropped from the list of office bearers. Bollywood actors Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan are being grilled at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Deepika Padukone was interrogated for about five hours on matter The federal anti-narcotics organisation is investigating two cases - the drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput case and the larger Bollywood-drug cartel nexus. Deepika's business manager Karishma Prakash was also questioned for a second day. Investment firm Silver Lake Partners has invested Rs 7,500 crore in Indian oil-telecom giant Reliance Industries Limited. The investment firm has picked up 1.75 per cent stake in its retail arm. Earlier, on September 9, RIL had announced that Silver Lake would invest Rs 7,500 crore into its arm Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. AAP councillor Tahir Hussain converted his own Rs 1.5 crore in white money into black for funding the riots in February -- Delhi Police made this curious claim in its charge sheet on the larger conspiracy behind the communal violence that claimed 53 lives. The charge sheet filed on September 16 claimed that Hussain, a high school dropout, was "enamoured and taken in by the aura" of the intelligentsia, like Umar Khalid and others who were "key conspirators" of the riots. Legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam was on Saturday laid to rest at his farmhouse in Thamaraipakkam near Chennai as thousands of his fans, friends and family members bid a teary farewell to the man whose voice mesmerized millions of people for over five decades. Thousands of his fans queued up outside the sprawling farmhouse in Tiruvallur district early Saturday morning to pay their last respects to the legend. At 10.20 am, Balasubrahmanyam’s son S P Charan began conducting the last rites of his father in the presence of close friends and family members. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-tejasvi-surya-made-bjp-youth-wing-president-ncb-grills-deepika-padukone-for-5-hours-893428.html
26-09-2020||National||Former ICRIER chairperson Isher Judge Ahluwalia dies at 74||Eminent economist Isher Judge Ahluwalia, a recipient of India's third-highest civilian award Padma Bhushan, passed away on Saturday. She was 74. An associate who worked with Ahluwalia said that she passed away on Saturday. Last month, she had stepped down as chairman of Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) due to her declining health. Ahluwalia was married to former deputy chairperson of Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia and is survived by her husband and two sons. She had completed her PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), an MA from the Delhi School of Economics, and a BA (Eco Hons) from Presidency College, Kolkata. Her research was focused on urban development, macro-economic reforms, industrial development, and social sector development issues in India. "Isher Ahluwalia who just passed away was one of India's distinguished economists, an MIT PhD, and author of an influential book 'Industrial Growth in India'. She built up ICRIER, a fine economic think tank. She had her own distinctive identity apart from being Montek's wife," former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted. Biocon Chairperson and Managing Director Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw twitted,"Isher Ahluwalia, my dear dear friend and a brilliant remarkable intellectual economist passed away after a brave battle with cancer. My deepest condolences to Montek Singh Ahluwalia n his sons Pavan & Aman n the family. She will be hugely missed RIP." "Deeply grieved by the passing of a dear friend of many years, the brilliant #IsherAhluwalia after a brave battle with cancer. Isher, I shall miss your presence so much. Your life story is an inspiration to all women who dare to dream of a better world. RIP, dear friend. @ICRIER," Nirupama Menon Rao, India's former foreign secretary tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-icrier-chairperson-isher-judge-ahluwalia-dies-at-74-893436.html
26-09-2020||National||Key takeaways from PM Narendra Modi's speech at UN General Assembly||Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered a virtual address at the 75th annual UN General Assembly on Saturday. The UN General Assembly this year is largely being held online due to the coronavirus pandemic. Majority of the world leaders have delivered pre-recorded speeches at the summit in New York. From Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the fight against coronavirus, women empowerment to India's ties with neighbouring countries, PM Modi touched upon a wide range of topics in the almost 30-minute long speech. At the beginning of the speech, he opined that the United Nations is in need of retrospection and a change in the structures. He said, "If we were to make an objective assessment of the performance of the UN over the last 75 years, we see several stellar achievements. But at the same time, there are also several instances that point to the need for a serious introspection of the work of the United Nations," before adding, "Over the last 8 to 9 months, the whole world has been battling the pandemic of the coronavirus. Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response." He said that reform in the responses, in the processes and in the very character of the UN was the need of the hour. PM Modi went on to explain India's important role in the development of the United Nations. "India is that country which, in the course of maintaining peace, has lost the maximum number of its brave soldiers. Today, every Indian, while seeing the contribution of India in the UN, aspires for India’s expanded role in the United Nations," the prime minister said. He also spoke on the subject of India's relationships with its neighbouring countries, possibly taking a dig at China. "From India’s Neighbourhood First Policy to our Act East Policy, as well as the idea of security and growth for all in the region, or our views towards the Indo-Pacific region, we have always worked for the interests of humankind and not driven by our self-interests," PM Modi said. He asserted that in the changed circumstances of the post-pandemic era, India is moving forward with the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, and the country will not hesitate in raising its voice against the enemies of humanity, the human race and human values. These include terrorism, smuggling of illegal weapons, drugs and money-laundering. PM Modi also said that as the largest vaccine-producing country in the world, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all of humanity in fighting the coronavirus crisis. Regarding the role of women, he said, "Large-scale efforts are being made in India to promote women entrepreneurship & leadership. Indian women, today, are the biggest beneficiaries of the world's largest micro-financing scheme. India is one of those countries where women are provided paid maternity leave of 26 weeks." He concluded by saying that in its journey towards progress, India wants to learn from the world as well as share its own experiences with the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-pm-narendra-modis-speech-at-un-general-assembly-893437.html
26-09-2020||National||Relaxation for divorced daughters in claiming family pension||A divorced daughter will also now be entitled to receive family pension even if the divorce process has not been completed. The Department of Pension and Pensioners' Welfare under the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions has made changes to the existing rules that would benefit the divorced women. The rules surrounding family pension for divorced daughters have been relaxed and now a daughter will be entitled to receive it even if the divorce had not finally taken place but the divorce petition had been filed by her during the lifetime of her deceased parent who was an employee or pensioner. Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said, till now, a divorced daughter could get family pension only if the divorce had taken place during the lifetime of the deceased parent pensioner or his spouse. "The new circular will not only bring ease in the life of pension-receiving individuals but also ensure respectable and equitable rights for the divorced daughters in the society," he told reporters. Similarly, orders have also been issued to grant family pension to a disabled child even if the disability certificate is produced after the death of the pensioner parent but the disability had occurred before the death of the parents. "To bring ease of living for the disabled pensioners, the Attendant Allowance for the helper has been increased from Rs 4,500 per month to Rs 6,700 per month," Singh said. Referring to Digital Life Certificates, he said in view of the difficulty faced by senior citizens who have settled abroad with their children after retirement, a circular has been brought out on Consolidated Instructions on Life Certificate and commencement of family pension for those living abroad vide which the concerned bank branch abroad. The Indian Embassy/Consulate/High Commission have been instructed to provide Life Certificate and commencement of family pension there itself. At the same time, Singh said, all pension disbursing banks have been instructed to provide doorstep Life Certificate to those pensioners who are unable to visit the bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/relaxation-for-divorced-daughters-in-claiming-family-pension-893462.html
26-09-2020||National||At United Nations, India asks Pakistan to vacate illegally occupied areas of Jammu and Kashmir||India has accused Pakistan of not only persecuting minority Hindus, Sikhs and Christians, but also of killing Muslims – countering neighbouring country’s Prime Minister Imran Khan’s allegation of Islamophobia after staging a walk-out during his speech at the United Nations General Assembly. After Khan accused the Government of India of sponsoring Islamophobia, New Delhi deployed a young diplomat to exercise its “Right to Reply” and respond to the Prime Minister of Pakistan. “This (Pakistan) is the country that has systematically cleansed its minorities including Hindus, Christians, Sikhs and others, through the abuse of its blasphemy laws and through forced religious conversions,” said Mijito Vinito, the First Secretary at the Permanent Mission of India at the headquarters of the United Nations in New York. Vinito, earlier staged a walkout as soon as Khan started addressing the UN General Assembly virtually. “For someone who professes to be a champion of Islam, this is also a country that has encouraged killing of fellow Muslims merely because they belonged to a different sect, or to a different region in Pakistan, and through sponsoring terrorist attacks against its neighbours,” said the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of the 2010 batch. He took a dig at Khan and reminded the General Assembly that Pakistan Prime Minister had referred to the Al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden as a “martyr” in the Parliament of his country in July. He also pointed out that Khan had in 2019 admitted in public in the US that Pakistan still had about 30,000-40,000 terrorists who had been trained and fought in Afghanistan and in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) of India. He also referred to Pakistan Army’s genocide in Bangladesh in 1971. Khan earlier targeted the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) – the mentor of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party of India. “While the Nazis hate was directed at the Jews, the RSS directs it towards the Muslims and to a lesser extent towards the Christians. They believe that India is exclusive for Hindus and others are not equal citizens,” said the Prime Minister of Pakistan. “The secularism of (Mahatma) Gandhi and (Jawaharlal) Nehru has been replaced by the dream of creating a Hindu Rashtra by subjugating, even cleansing India’s 200 million Muslims and other minorities”. He referred to the process of upgrading the National Register of Citizens in Assam and the violent clash in Delhi in February to allege growing Islamophobia in India. He also said that Muslims had been blamed for the spread of coronavirus in India. Khan also raised the issue of J&K, just as he did in his speech to the UNGA last year. He said that India must rescind its August 5, 2019 decision to strip J&K of its special status and reorganise the state into two Union Territories. He said that India must end its military siege and human rights violation in J&K and settle the dispute with Pakistan in accordance with the UN Security Council resolutions and the will of the people of Kashmir. Vinito, in his response said that J&K was an integral and inalienable part of India. The rules and legislation brought in J&K were strictly internal affairs of India, he said, adding, The only dispute left in Kashmir relates to that part of Kashmir that is still under illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to vacate all those areas that it is in illegal occupation of it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-united-nations-india-asks-pakistan-to-vacate-illegally-occupied-areas-of-jammu-and-kashmir-893463.html
26-09-2020||National||Maintenance of vehicle documents, e-challans through IT portal from October 1||Drivers can use mobile phones while driving only for the purpose of route navigation, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said on Saturday. While making provisions for maintaining vehicle documents on any online portal established by the Central government, the Ministry said if the driver has the all documents in the digital format, they need not show the physical ones to the concerned authorities. The ministry has notified amendments to the Central Motor Vehicle Rules facilitating the implementation of electronic enforcement, maintenance of vehicular documents through information technology portals like DigiLocker or m-Parivahan, with effect from October 1 this year. The new rules come as part of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 that was passed in August 2019. "It has been provided that the use of handheld communications devices while driving shall solely be used for route navigation in such a manner that shall not disturb the concentration of the driver while driving," a statement from the Ministry said. “If the details of the documents are found validated through the electronic means by the enforcement officer then physical forms of such documents shall not be demanded for inspection, including in cases where there is an offence made out necessitating seizure of any such documents,” the ministry said. Details of driving licenses disqualified or revoked by the licensing authority shall be recorded chronologically in the portal and such record shall be reflected on a regular basis on the portal. Thus, the record shall be maintained electronically and further, the driver behavior would be monitored, the statement added. Provisions have been made for the procedure for Production and Obtaining Certificates in physical as well as electronic form, the validity, issuance of such documents and further the date and time stamping of inspection and identity of the Officer to be recorded, the statement said. Further upon demanding or inspecting any documents, the date and time stamp of inspection and identity of the police officer in uniform or any other officer authorized by the state government, shall be recorded on the Portal. This would help in unnecessary re-checking or inspection of vehicles and further would remove harassment to the drivers, the Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maintenance-of-vehicle-documents-e-challans-through-it-portal-from-october-1-893496.html
26-09-2020||National||India seeks to connect with Sinhala Buddhist nationalism in Lanka, announces $15 million grant||India on Saturday moved to connect with the Sinhala Buddhist nationalism in Sri Lanka, even as it nudged the island nation to implement the 13th Amendment of its constitution to ensure devolution of power to the local governments in its Northern and Eastern provinces inhabited by minority Tamils. Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveyed to his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa during a virtual summit that New Delhi would provide a grant assistance of $15 million to develop Buddhist ties between India and the Indian Ocean nation. Though Modi stressed on implementation of the 13th Amendment of the Sri Lankan constitution for meeting the aspirations of the minority Tamils, Mahinda remained non-committal and said that reconciliation would be guided by mandate of the people of his country. The grant will assist in deepening people-to-people linkages between the two countries in the sphere of Buddhism, including through construction and renovation of monasteries, capacity development, cultural exchanges, archaeological cooperation, reciprocal exposition of Lord Buddha’s relics and strengthening engagement of scholars and clergy, according to a joint statement issued after the summit. New Delhi’s move is apparently aimed at connecting with the Sinhala Buddhist nationalism, which has regained momentum after the April 21, 2019 terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka. It helped Rajapaksa Clan to return to the helm of the government in Colombo. Gotabaya Rajapaksa won the presidential elections in November 2019 and his brother Mahinda Rajapaksa led the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) to a landslide victory in the parliamentary elections last August. Modi, however, also called on Mahinda to address the aspirations of Sri Lanka’s minority Tamils for equality, justice, peace and respect, including by carrying forward the process of reconciliation with the implementation of the 13th Amendment to the constitution of the island nation. Mahinda said that Sri Lanka would work towards realizing the expectations of all ethnic groups, including Tamils, by achieving reconciliation nurtured as per the mandate of the people of Sri Lanka and implementation of the constitutional provisions. New Delhi’s nudge to Colombo for implementation of the 13th Amendment of the Sri Lankan constitution came amid speculation that the Rajapaksa Clan might make a move to scrap it or dilute it taking advantage of the ruling SLPP’s majority in Parliament. Mahinda, whom his brother appointed as Prime Minister in November 2019 itself, commenced his new term in the top office on August 9 last. Modi had in March 2015 visited Sri Lanka’s ancient capital Anuradhapura and offered prayers at the sacred Jaya Sri Mahabodhi Tree during his maiden visit to the southern neighbour after taking over as Prime Minister of India. He had also visited Sri Lanka in May 2017 to take part in the 14th International Vesak Day celebration – marking the birth, enlightenment and death anniversary of Lord Buddha. Sri Lanka is one of the Indian Ocean nations where China is trying to outsmart India to spread its geo-strategic influence. The tiny island nation had to lease out the Hambantota Port to China for 99 years after its construction by a company based in the communist country resulted in a huge debt burden for it. The second of Mahinda Rajapaksa's two consecutive terms (2005-2015) in the office of Sri Lankan President had seen China expanding its footprints in the Indian Ocean island nation, causing much unease to India. He had ignored the security interests of India and allowed China to develop strategic assets, like Hambantota Port, in the island. He had also allowed two nuclear submarines of the People Liberation Army Navy of China to dock at the Colombo Port, raising hackles in New Delhi. Soon after the SLPP’s victory in parliamentary elections, Rajapaksa Government constituted a committee comprising five senior officials to review the agreement Sri Lanka inked with India and Japan in May 2019 for development of the East Container Terminal (ECT) of the Colombo Port. Modi and Mahinda however on Saturday agreed to work towards early realization of infrastructure and connectivity projects including in the sectors of Ports and Energy through close consultations as per the bilateral agreements and MoUs, and strong commitment towards a mutually beneficial development cooperation partnership between the two countries, according to the joint statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-to-connect-with-sinhala-buddhist-nationalism-in-lanka-announces-15-million-grant-893497.html
26-09-2020||National||Need to radically reform health sector, says Venkaiah Naidu||The disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic must be seen as an opportunity to radically reform the health sector by effectively harnessing the power of technology and artificial intelligence powered tools, Vice President M Venkaiah said on Saturday. Addressing an event of American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI) online, he called for digitisation of health records and creation of a national platform to facilitate collection of comprehensive healthcare data across the country. This, Naidu said, will ensure that all stakeholders in the health sector are digitally connected. He felt that the analysis of data collected can produce valuable information, which can be used to improve the effectiveness of the health system. "Disruption caused by the pandemic must be seen as an opportunity to radically reform our health sector," Naidu said. The vice president opined that as the world's second most-populous country with a track record of rapid economic growth, India faces both unique challenges and unprecedented opportunities in the sphere of public health. Asserting the need to deliver quality healthcare to all irrespective of where one is living, Naidu said that healthcare and medical facilities should be accessible and affordable for all. He cautioned that these challenges are not simple enough to be tackled by the government alone and called for concerted and coordinated efforts from both the private and public sectors. Naidu asked private sector players to strengthen the hands of the government in its quest to deliver quality healthcare to the last citizen. Observing that countries with strong primary healthcare systems have better health outcomes, the vice president emphasised the need to strengthen India's primary healthcare system. "The private sector must collaborate with various state governments in establishing state-of-the-art primary healthcare facilities in each district”, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-radically-reform-health-sector-says-venkaiah-naidu-893500.html
26-09-2020||National||We need to have trust in our armed forces' ability to secure our interests: Jaishankar||Amid the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said it was an ongoing issue and "we need to have trust in our armed forces and their ability to secure our interests". Jaishankar said there is also a need to have trust in the ability of the system -- both military commanders and the diplomatic channels -- in negotiating with the Chinese. Asked about the situation at the border in eastern Ladakh, Jaishankar told Times Now in an interview: "You know this is going to play out. There will be things which China has done. There will be responses that India has made...There are actually negotiations on the way." "I understand the compulsions on media to know everything yesterday, unfortunately, real life is a little bit different. So, this is about national security. This is a very complicated ground situation out there," he said. "We need to have trust in our armed forces and their ability to secure our interests, and frankly in the ability of the system, I mean both military commanders and the diplomatic channels, in negotiating with the Chinese," he said. "Don't call out a match… before it is halfway through," the external affairs minister added. During the interview, Jaishankar also extensively discussed his recently released book 'The India Way'. The situation in eastern Ladakh escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in clashes in the Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side acknowledged suffering casualties, but it is yet to divulge details. The situation further deteriorated following at least three attempts by soldiers of the People's Liberation Army (PLA) to "intimidate" Indian troops along the northern and southern banks of the Pangong lake area in the last three weeks where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in 45 years. As the tensions escalated further, Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi held talks on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meet in Moscow on September 10 where they reached a five-point agreement to defuse the situation in eastern Ladakh. The agreement was the basis for the sixth round of Corps commander-level talks on Monday which was also attended for the first time by a joint secretary from the Ministry of External Affairs. The agreement that aimed at ending the tense standoff included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-need-to-have-trust-in-our-armed-forces-ability-to-secure-our-interests-jaishankar-893518.html
26-09-2020||National||BJP doubles number of spokespersons, more women in office-bearers' list||Increasing its focus on messaging and communication, the BJP on Saturday doubled its number of spokespersons in the newly formed team of party chief J P Nadda, with inclusion of leaders from all sections of society, religions and regions of the country. The number of women in the team of national office-bearers has also increased from eight to 13, with five appointed vice-presidents and three national secretaries. The BJP on Saturday announced the long-awaited list of its national office-bearers as the party effected a major reshuffle in key organisational positions, gave the team a more pan-India look and brought in new faces, including some seen to be strongly associated with its core ideology. There are 23 spokespersons, including three women as against one last time, in the newly formed team of BJP president Nadda. Former cabinet ministers and leaders from Nagaland to Punjab, and those with diverse backgrounds and representing different religions, are among those in the spokespersons' team. For injecting fresh blood and new energy, heads of almost all the party's wings –- Yuva Morcha, SC Morcha, ST Morcha, Kisan Morcha -- are new and relatively younger faces. The political observers' team has representation from all religions and sections of society. Besides balancing social equations, equal emphasis has been given on domain expertise with inclusion of former bankers, bureaucrats and leaders with expertise in various fields, including defence and economics. The spokespersons' team will be led by Anil Baluni who has been elevated as chief spokesperson besides being national media in-charge. Only two spokespersons -- Bizay Sonkar Shastri and Meenakshi Lekhi -- have been replaced while the rest have been retained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-doubles-number-of-spokespersons-more-women-in-office-bearers-list-893539.html
26-09-2020||National||I didn't give birth to him, still Modiji is my son: Shaheen Bagh's Bilkis 'Dadi'||Bilkis Dadi from Delhi's Shaheen Bagh said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is "like her son" and also that she would be happy to meet him, if invited. The 82-year-old woman, was enlisted in TIME magazine's 100 "Most Influential People of 2020", along with PM Modi and Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana. She became the face of a women-led anti-citizenship law protest at Shaheen Bagh in New Delhi. As per a report by NDTV, on being asked if she would go to meet the Prime Minister, if invited, she said: "Why not? I would go. What's there to be scared about?" As the reporter asked her if she would like to share her grievances with PM Modi, she said: "Modiji is my son. I am like his mother. I didn't give birth to him... my sister did. (But) he is my child." "I am very happy that I have been honoured with such respect. Although I did not expect this but who knows whom God gives recognition?" she said, according to IANS. "I have only read the Quran and never went to school. But today I am happy, congratulations to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too," she added. "God bless him with a long life and give him happiness," she said. Earlier, Bilkis, who on Thursday said she was happy to have been recognised by the TIME magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020, but would have been happier had her demand been met. Bilkis, one of the feisty 'dadis' who was demonstrating against the CAA since it began, in February had declared that they wouldn't move an inch even if someone fires a gun. The wizened elderly woman had said the main tent where the podium has been erected covers only 100 to 150 metres of the road, earlier this year. As the protests continued till late March, she told news agency ANI: "We continued our sit-in even as it rained or mercury dropped or temperature shot up. We had been sitting ever since our kids were thrashed in Jamia. Shots were fired in front of us, yet nothing deterred us." The Shaheen Bagh protest site was cleared up on March 24 after New Delhi reported its first few Covid-19 cases and lockdown restrictions were announced. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-didnt-give-birth-to-him-still-modiji-is-my-son-shaheen-baghs-bilkis-dadi-893553.html
26-09-2020||National||India's friendship with any nation not directed against a third, says PM Narendra Modi at UNGA||India’s gesture of friendship towards any country is not directed against any third country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on Saturday – sending out a subtle message to China. “Any gesture of friendship by India towards one country is not against someone else,” the Prime Minister said in his virtual address to the UNGA, apparently in order to dispel the perception that India’s growing relations with the United States was aimed at containing China. His comment was also apparently intended to deny any move by India to move closer into the orbit of influence of the United States in the wake of the four-and-a-half-month-long stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh. “India has always cared about the interests of the whole humankind and not about its own vested interests,” Modi said, adding, “This philosophy has always been the driving force of India's policies. One can see the glimpses of this philosophy in India’s Neighbourhood First Policy to our Act East Policy, in the thought of Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR), and in our approach towards the Indo Pacific region.” He said that India’s partnerships with other nations were also guided by “this very principle”. His comment came even as India joined Japan, Australia and the US to add a military heft to the ‘Quad’ – a four-nation coalition relaunched in November 2017 to counter expansionist moves of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The Prime Minister, however, also underlined the distinction between the ways India and China supported development projects in other countries – albeit without directly referring to the communist country. “When India strengthens its development partnership, it is not with any malafide intent of making the partner country dependent or hapless. We have never hesitated from sharing experiences of our development,” he said. Beijing has been bankrolling a large number of infrastructure projects in several countries in South Asia and Indian Ocean region as well as in Africa, as part of its Belt-and-Road Initiative (BRI), thus building strategic assets across the continents. But Chinese President Xi Jinping’s ambitious cross-continental connectivity initiative also came under criticism from around the world – for exposing the smaller participating nations to the risks of being caught in debt-traps. “When we were strong, we did not trouble the world; when we were weak, we did not become a burden on the world,” said the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-friendship-with-any-nation-not-directed-against-a-third-says-pm-narendra-modi-at-unga-893564.html
26-09-2020||National||No chase sequences, cops warn mediapersons covering NCB probe in SSR's case||Mediapersons should not endanger their own and others' lives while chasing the vehicles of Bollywood stars who are being questioned in a drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, the Mumbai police warned on Saturday. The media frenzy surrounding the case reached a peak on Saturday when three major stars -- Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor -- arrived for recording statements before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). As the Bollywood divas set out from their residences, media vehicles tried to chase them to catch elusive photographs and video footage up close. While Deepika and Shraddha Kapoor managed to evade media vehicles in the morning, Sara Ali Khan was followed closely. Deepika was followed by media when she left after recording her statement in the afternoon. This finally prompted the Mumbai police to issue a warning. Sangramsingh Nishandar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone -I), requested media persons not to chase the actors' vehicles as it could endanger their own lives as well as common people on the road. If the police found any media vehicle chasing the stars in a rash manner, the vehicle will be seized and stern action will be taken against the driver, he said. This seemed to have had some effect, as no 'chase sequences' unfolded when the other two stars left the NCB office in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-chase-sequences-cops-warn-mediapersons-covering-ncb-probe-in-ssrs-case-893571.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||PM Modi has prolific 10 days as Opposition shuns Parliament||India’s latest parliament session ended in 10 days but it was one of the most productive in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s six year stint, as his administration managed to push through a stalled reform agenda to try and reverse the worst economic downturn in decades. The legislative reforms, including overhauling labour laws to farm regulation and finance, were pushed through by a voice vote with very little discussion or debate. Angry opposition lawmakers protested vociferously and eight were even suspended for “unruly behavior” amid angry scenes in both houses. As the pandemic gripped the world’s fifth largest economy, India has been announcing reform measures since May -- opening up its space facilities, defense manufacturing, mineral blocks and power distribution to private companies -- to kick start activity and retain investor interest. The economy’s 23.9% contraction last quarter was the worst on record and the most of all the major economies tracked by Bloomberg. That’s beginning to impact financial markets as well which had so far cheered Modi’s every reform move. Foreign investors favored Indian equities above every other Asian market barring China last month, pouring in $6 billion dollars, but are now set to pull out the biggest weekly amount since May as a gloomy economic outlook and vanishing risk appetite sparks a global flight to safety. India stocks are headed for around a 5% decline this week. Sovereign bonds gained during the 10-day period of the parliament session that ended Wednesday, with the yield on benchmark 10-year notes falling by five basis points, while the rupee was little changed. Members in the lower house of parliament worked overtime, 145% of the alloted time, while upper house functioned 99%, according to PRS Legislative Research, a New Delhi-based think-tank. About 25 bills were passed by parliament in the session that ended this week. But the recent steps -- involving changes to how India’s powerful farmers bloc sells its produce and the the hiring and firing practices of companies -- carry some political risk for Modi in However, the acrimony won’t impact the government as Modi’s popularity remains high. Here are the legislative reforms enacted: Labour The labor reforms attempt to scrap archaic laws and untangle complex federal and local regulations that used to prompt companies to either remain small or use capital-intensive methods of production. It includes three bills. The Industrial Relations Code will allow companies with as many as 300 workers to fire them or shut plants without seeking prior government approval, a three-fold jump from the current threshold. The code also restricts worker from going on a strike without a stipulated notice period and discourages multiple employee unions in a single business establishment. It allows for fixed term employment provided such employees get the same benefits as permanent workers. The Code on Social Security provides social security for both organized and informal workers. It empowers the federal government to formulate welfare measures such as retirement and pension funds and gratuity and maternity benefits. The Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code creates new laws regulating the safety, health and working conditions of workers in factories and other workplaces. It has provisions for registration and licensing for factories, working hours, paid leave and working conditions. Agriculture The new legislation will completely change how farm produce is cultivated and sold and impacts about 800 million of India’s 1.3 billion people who depend on agriculture directly or indirectly for their livelihood. For decades, farmers sold their output mostly through state-run wholesale markets. Now companies can buy directly from farmers outside the state-run markets that charge fees. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill will give farmers freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country, such as farm gates, factory premises, warehouses and cold storages. Currently, the produce is sold at a designated regional market where levies are collected by provincial governments and middlemen who facilitate trades. The bill prohibits states from levying any market fee. It also provides for sales on electronic trading platforms. Farmers fear the new law may end state-sponsored guaranteed price for some crops while states are protesting loss of revenues. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill creates a framework for contract farming. Farmers can sign sale contracts with processors, wholesalers, retailers and exporters at mutually agreed prices. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill empowers the federal government to control the production, supply, distribution, storage, and trade of certain essential commodities. It allows the government to regulate the stock of an essential commodity that a producer can hold. Finance The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill temporarily suspends the initiation of corporate insolvency resolution proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code for a specified period of six months to a year in order to protect coronavirus hit companies from being pushed into insolvency. The Taxation and Other Laws Amendment Bill relaxes tax compliance norms by extending the time limit and waiving penalties for several tax laws as a virus relief measure. The Companies (Amendment) Bill aims to make life easier for businesses by removing certain penalties, including imprisonment, for some offenses and reduces the amount of fine payable for others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-has-prolific-10-days-as-opposition-shuns-parliament-893177.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||Nearly 31% want Nitish Kumar to be re-elected as Bihar CM: Survey||As the countdown for the Bihar Assembly elections begins, a new survey reveals that nearly 31 per cent of the people want Nitish Kumar to be re-elected as the Bihar Chief Minister. According to IANS C-Voter Bihar opinion poll results, 30.9 per cent of the people interviewed backed JD(U) leader Kumar. The incumbent chief minister has managed to retain his post since 2005. He has also served as the Union Cabinet Minister of Railways, Minister of Surface Transport and Minister of Agriculture.  The second preferred candidate for the post is Tejashwi Yadav, with a vote share of 15.4 per cent. Yadav is a member of the Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) and holds the Deputy Chief Minister post in Bihar. BJP leader Sushil Modi ranked third most favourite, securing 9.2 per cent. Former chief minister and RJD President Lalu Prasad Yadav followed Modi with a vote share of 8.3 per cent. Lalu Prasad Yadav, who has been barred from contesting in the 2020 polls, was convicted in the fodder scam. He is also involved in the alleged Patna zoo soil scam.  The other preferable candidates include Lok Janshakti Party leader Ram Vilas Paswan (6.5 per cent) and Congress leader Tariq Anwar coming last with a minimal 2.1 per cent. The sample size of the survey was 25,789 and the time period was from September 1 to September 25. The error margin is +/- 3 per cent at the state level and +/- 5 per cent at the regional level. The three-phase Bihar Assembly polls will be the first of its kind across the country, as eligible citizens will step outside to cast their votes amid the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nearly-31-want-nitish-kumar-to-be-re-elected-as-bihar-cm-survey-893224.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi greets Manmohan Singh on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted his predecessor Manmohan Singh on his birthday on Saturday, wishing him a long and healthy life. Singh, who headed the UPA coalition government between 2004 and 2014, turned 88 on Saturday. He is credited with playing a key role in ushering in economic reforms as the finance minister in the P V Narasimha Rao government during 1991-96. Wishing Singh, the prime minister tweeted, "Birthday greetings to Dr Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray to Almighty that he is blessed with a long and healthy life."  Birthday greetings to Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray to Almighty that he is blessed with a long and healthy life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-greets-manmohan-singh-on-his-birthday-893259.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||Raise voice in support of farmers: Rahul Gandhi on Farm Bills||The Congress on Saturday launched a 'Speak up for farmers' campaign on social media protesting the Farm Bills, with Rahul Gandhi urging people to raise their voice against what he described was the Narendra Modi government's "exploitation" of farmers. The three Bills were passed by both houses of Parliament during the Monsoon session and are awaiting presidential assent. "Let us raise our voices together against the atrocities and exploitation of farmers by the Modi government," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Join the Speak Up For Farmers campaign through your video," he said, tagging a video in which the party called for the withdrawal of the Bills. The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, alleged that the agriculture Bills passed by the government in a "highly undemocratic manner are nothing but an attack on our farmers and an attempt to transform agriculture into another revenue stream for their crony capitalist friends". Along with many other opposition parties, it has claimed that the Bills will harm the interest of farmers and benefit the corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted the Bills will be beneficial for farmers and increase their income.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raise-voice-in-support-of-farmers-rahul-gandhi-on-farm-bills-893260.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||BJP president JP Nadda announces new team of party office bearers; Tejasvi Surya appointed youth wing president||Setting eyes on the future, BJP on Saturday went in for a major organisational reshuffle bringing in nearly 50 per cent new faces in its national team drawn from diverse backgrounds and promoting leaders committed to its core ideology. Firebrand young MP Tejasvi Surya, who was recently in a row over his tweet, has been given a leg up and appointed as National President of Yuva Morcha while MLA CT Ravi has been made BJP general secretary. Party general secretary (Organisation) B L Santosh has been retained while another state MP Rajiv Chandrashekhar finds his place in the panel of spokespersons. Surya, a strong votary of Hindutva politics replaces Poonam Mahajan, daughter of BJP’s master strategist late Pramod Mahajan, who had replaced Anurag Thakur (now a Union Minister) in December 2016.  In the first comprehensive rejig in the after J P Nadda took over as Party President from Amit Shah in January this year, Shah’s stamp is also visible.  Among the general secretaries---Bhupendra Yadav (in-charge of Bihar going to polls this year), Kailash Vijayvargiya (in-charge of West Bengal going to polls next year) and Arun  Singh (Rajya Sabha MP) have been retained while the high profile Ram Madhav along with P Muralidhar Rao (in-charge of Karnataka),  Anil Jain and Saroj Pandey have been dropped. Party sources some of the leaders dropped could be accommodated as a reshuffle of Union Cabinet is on the anvil, besides the re-constitution of the party’s apex decision-making body BJP Parliamentary Board. But in case of many, performance has been a factor to show them the door, besides some of their actions irking the top leadership.  Among the eight general secretaries, there are five new faces--- Dushyant Kumar Gautam, D Purandeswari, C T Ravi, Tarun Chugh and Dilip Saikia. Social and regional representation has been taken into account and the number of women office bearers has been increased from eight to 13 in sync with BJP’s focus on cultivating women voters across the communities on gender justice plank. The new list of BJP’s Vice President has party’s former Chief Ministers from states it lost in last two years—Raman Singh (Chhattisgarh), Vasundhara Raje Scindia  (Rajasthan) and Raghubar Das (Jharkhand), besides former Agriculture Minister Radhamohan Singh who was not included in Modi 2:0 cabinet. With three former CMs retained as Vice President in the party, the party has given a clear indication of its plan for propping up new leadership in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan (which it lost in 2018) and Jharkhand ( in 2019). As many new faces have been included, the party has also dropped its senior leaders Uma Bharti, Prabhat Jha, OP Mathur, Renu Devi, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Avinash Rai Khanna and Shyam Jaju from the vice-presidents’ list. In Nadda’s new team, there also those who defected from other parties to the BJP and is believed to have contributed to its rise like Baijyant Jay Panda, who switched over from BJD in Odisha, Mukul Roy from TMC in West Bengal and Annapurna Devi from RJD in Jharkhand (all three made Vice President). Kerala BJP Vice President Abdulla Kutty has been made national Vice President while Tom Vadakkan from the state, who had switched over to BJP after a long career in Congress last year, has become a spokesperson. Kutty was MP from CPI-M twice and later represented Congress twice as MLAs before moving to the BJP after having been suspended by both for praising Narendra Modi. He hails from Kannur—a region where RSS and CPI-M are locked in a BJP battle and the region had seen many political killings from both sides. The national in-charge of BJP’s IT and Social Media Amit Malviya has got another stint. The Media in-charge Anil Baluni has now been designated additionally as Chief spokesperson. Rajesh Aggarwal has been named as party treasurer, a post which was vacant since 2014 after Piyush Goyal had moved to Modi cabinet. There is no announcement on the next Mahila Morcha chief.  A former Odisha cadre IAS officer turned BJP MP Aprajita Sarangi figures in the list of spokespersons. Besides Shahnawaz Hussain, another Muslim spokesperson is Syed Zafar Islam, who was made a Rajya Sabha MP a few months back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-president-jp-nadda-announces-new-team-of-party-office-bearers-tejasvi-surya-appointed-youth-wing-president-893339.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||Ram Madhav, Uma Bharti dropped as BJP's national office bearers||The BJP has replaced Ram Madhav, Uma Bharti, P Muralidhar Rao, Anil Jain, Saroj Pandey as national office bearers with new faces.  The new general secretaries include names like Bhupender Yadav, C T Ravi, and Kailash Vijayvargiya, while new national vice presidents include Vasundhara Raje Scindia, Raghubar Das and Mukul Roy. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ram-madhav-uma-bharti-dropped-as-bjps-national-office-bearers-893353.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||Tejasvi Surya appointed as BJP's youth wing president, replaces Poonam Mahajan||MP Tejasvi Surya has been appointed party's youth wing president, replaces Poonam Mahajan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tejasvi-surya-appointed-as-bjps-youth-wing-president-replaces-poonam-mahajan-893356.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||New labour codes have weakened trade unions, removed security net for workers: Congress||After the Farm Bills, Congress has now focused its attention on labour reforms, terming them as “anti-labour” and claiming that it has led to the weakening of trade unions and removal of the security net for workers. The three labour codes, that replace 25 laws related to the labour sector, were passed by Parliament amid a boycott by opposition parties who were protesting against the farm sector reforms. Senior Congress leader and former Labour Minister Mallikarjun Kharge on Saturday justified the boycott of the Rajya Sabha when the House discussed the labour reform measures. “We were not there (in Rajya Sabha) because the government did not give any opportunity to discuss. Since we did not have a say in making laws, we had to boycott Parliament,” Kharge told reporters through a video link. However, a senior Congress leader admitted that the Opposition argument of lack of consultations on the labour codes may not cut any ice as the three bills had been vetted by a parliamentary standing committee and its recommendations were incorporated in bills that were passed by Parliament. Kharge, a Rajya Sabha member, said the Modi government’s claim that the labour laws will increase ease of doing business was “far from the truth”. “They have weakened trade unions and finished the security and safety for the workers,” he said. Congress is in talks with like-minded parties to make concerted efforts to oppose the labour reforms, claiming that the Centre had “usurped” the power of the states. “These codes are anti-worker, anti-labourer and it is important to agitate against them. All parties must oppose these laws. The Modi government only listens to corporates and after these laws it will not listen to trade unions,” Kharge said. Indian National Trade Union Congress president G Sanjeeva Reddy claimed that there was no provision for safety and security of workers in these bills. “These laws have been brought for strengthening and helping the capitalists and corporates not the workers,” he alleged, claiming that under the new provisions, the workers will not be able to go on strike or raise their voice against unjust practices. There was protection for workers earlier as permission was needed to lay off more than 100 workers, but now that “security net” has gone with the increase in threshold to 300, Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-labour-codes-have-weakened-trade-unions-removed-security-net-for-workers-congress-893357.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||Uma Bharti, Ram Madhav among key leaders dropped from BJP's national office-bearers list||With several BJP leaders making way for fresh faces in the new list of the party's national office-bearers announced on Saturday, sources cited a number of reasons, from poor performance to speaking out of turn, need for political balancing and even chances of new responsibility, as likely causes for their departure. Former Union minister Uma Bharti, Ram Madhav and P Muralidhar Rao are among the key faces who have not found a place in the list of office-bearers under party president J P Nadda. Bharti was a vice president while the two other leaders were general secretaries. Madhav was associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the BJP, when he was brought into the party and minded its political affairs in key regions like Jammu and Kashmir, and the North East. The sources said the RSS may have a "different" role in mind for its 'pracharak' whose high profile and proclivity to speak to the media on a variety of topics, including those not seen to fall in his domain, may not have gone down well with a section of the party. However, Madhav's strong defense of the Modi government and the party's policies in the media and other forums, including think tanks, are seen as his strength. "I will not like to speculate on what our leaders may have in their mind about those who have been dropped. But they have a way to surprise people. So one should not see the development from a single perspective," a BJP leader said. Once a fiery Hindutva orator, Bharti, who was a member of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Cabinet in his first term, has generally maintained a low political profile for a long time. Her departure is not being seen as a surprise. Rao like Madhav was earlier associated with the RSS, and it remains to be seen if the Hindutva organisation assigns him some other responsibility. In a tweet, Madhav said, "Congratulations to the newly appointed office-bearers of the BJP. Grateful to the party leadership for providing me the opportunity to serve for one term as Gen Sec." Rao also tweeted his best wishes to the new team. The BJP leadership has from time to time shown its displeasure with outspoken leaders, especially when their comments are seen to be not in line with the party's ideological positions or to be outright embarrassment. This may have cost some people their positions, the sources said. H Raja may have been dropped as secretary for his wont to make provocative comments, a source said. The party has shown its preference for those who maintain a low key and work hard on the ground to stated objectives, the sources said. The rise of Tejasvi Surya, only 29 years of age, in the BJP underscores the party leadership's support to those who articulately champion the saffron agenda without making too many false steps. Surya has been made president of the party's youth wing, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Prabhat Jha and Shyam Jaju are among those dropped as party vice presidents while Anil Jain and Saroj Pandey have been replaced with new faces as general secretary. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is no longer a vice president as well, but this was on expected lines as he was offered the position when he was not heading the state government. Amid possibility of a Union Cabinet reshuffle, probably after results of Bihar assembly polls and other bypolls are announced later this year, the sources said chances of some of these leaders, whose name no longer figure in the list of office-bearers, finding a place in the government should not be ruled out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uma-bharti-ram-madhav-among-key-leaders-dropped-from-bjps-national-office-bearers-list-893489.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||Congress fumes as Shivraj Singh Chouhan's asks voters to clean out 'hand' in Bihar polls||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's hygiene-related advice with words like "haath" and "saaf" to voters ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar and other states riled the opposition Congress on Saturday, prompting it to approach the election commission. Taking umbrage at Chouhan's tweet, the state Congress unit has lodged a complaint with the poll watchdog demanding that it file a criminal case against the CM for "defaming" the name of the Opposition party, an office-bearer told PTI. "'Mere pyare doston, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Karntaka sahit desh bhar me kai jagah chunav hone wale hain. Hamen corona kaal ko dekhte huey chunav aayog ke disha nirdeshon ka poora dhyan rakhna hai. 'Haath' poori tarah 'sanitise' kar 'saaf' kar dena hai'," Chouhan tweeted. The tweet can be translated as: "My dear friends, elections are going to be held in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka along with other places in the country. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, we should adhere to the EC's guidelines. Santise the hand completely and clean it (wipe it out)". Hand is the traditional election symbol of the Indian National Congress (INC). The Congress took objection to the single inverted commas used by the BJP leader for the words 'haath', 'sanitize', and 'saaf' in the tweet. "Chouhan has used these three words in violation of the guidelines of the EC. He has also used the poll body's name in a misleading manner in his tweet," said state Congress spokesperson J P Dhanopia. He said the complaint addressed to the chief election commissioner has been lodged with the state chief electoral officer. Assembly bypolls are due in Madhya Pradesh on 28 seats||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-fumes-as-shivraj-singh-chouhans-asks-voters-to-clean-out-hand-in-bihar-polls-893493.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||BJP's oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal quits NDA over Farm Bills||Shiromani Akali Dal, BJP's key ally in Punjab, on Saturday announced it was parting ways with the National Democratic Alliance, following differences over the farm sector reforms unveiled by the Modi government. The decision to quit the NDA was taken at a meeting of the core committee of the Akali Dal in Chandigarh on Saturday. "Today we have decided to part ways with the NDA," Akali Dal President and former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal said. Badal accused the central government of completely ignoring the sentiments of farmers and pushing the agriculture sector bills with force in Parliament. "What happened in the Rajya Sabha everybody knows that.. Although we were part of the government, but Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit from the post of minister against the bills," Badal said. Akali Dal was under immense pressure from political rivals in Punjab to part ways with the BJP with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh taunting the Badal of keeping their ties with the NDA intact despite pulling out of the Modi government. Initially, the Akali Dal had backed supported the farm sector reforms but had to make a U-turn on the issue as anger among the farmers grew in the state. The Akali Dal was the BJP's second oldest ally after Shiv Sena. Akali Dal's ties with the BJP date back to 1996 when the parties had struck a pre-poll alliance ahead of the 1997 Punjab assembly elections which brought them to power. Shiv Sena, which had been an ally of the BJP since 1984, parted ways with the BJP after the 2019 Maharashtra assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-oldest-ally-shiromani-akali-dal-quits-nda-over-farm-bills-893532.html
26-09-2020||National Politics||Digvijaya Singh held Kamal Nath's remote control: Jyotiraditya Scindia||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Saturday launched a frontal attack on his former Congress colleague Digvijaya Singh and accused the Opposition party of "betraying" farmers by not waiving farm loans promised ahead of the 2018 assembly polls. Addressing a gathering in Indore district, Scindia avoided taking name of then Congress chief Rahul Gandhi who had promised the waiver during electioneering. He also said Digvijaya Singh would become a "proxy chief minister again" if the Congress emerged victorious in the Assembly bypolls due on 28 seats. "During the 2018 MP assembly elections, he (the then Congress chief Rahul Gandhi) had said that the crop loan of farmers would be waived within 10 days if the Congress forms government, but this promise was not kept," said Scindia, who had quit Congress in March this year. He said the Congress had committed 'gaddari' (betrayal) with farmers by not keeping the loan waiver promise. "You all (voters) must remember that a vote cast to Congress would come handy in making Digvijaya the proxy chief minister again," Scindia said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also attended the function. Describing Digvijaya Singh and former CM Kamal Nath as "elder and younger brothers", Scindia said, "Digvijaya Singh remains behind the curtains and had remote control of then chief minister Kamal Nath". "Today, Digvijaya and Kamal Nath are calling me a 'gaddar' (traitor) and Shivraj Singh Chouhan 'nalayak' (worthless). But the fact is that the Congress had betrayed 7.5 crore people of Madhya Pradesh in the last elections," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/digvijaya-singh-held-kamal-naths-remote-control-jyotiraditya-scindia-893550.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt to challenge Farm Bills in SC: Manpreet Singh Badal||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal here on Friday targeted the Centre over the farm Bills and said his government will challenge the legislations in the Supreme Court. The Congress leader told reporters that the Punjab government is "preparing to challenge the Bills in the apex court on two counts". “First, it is a state subject and the Union government has no right to enact a legislation on it. Besides, the federal government cannot destroy the economy of states. Due to the Bills, losses will be too much for a small state like Punjab,” he said. Badal said the legislations will not only result in revenue loss for states but also cause unemployment. He added that the minimum support price (MSP) was the main reason for opposing the Bills. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union agriculture minister have tweeted that the MSP will not be abolished, then why are they not getting this point incorporated in the Bills, he asked. “The reality is that the government wants to get out of the MSP,'' he claimed, adding that the legislations will be opposed till the “last breath”. When reminded that Uttar Pradesh farmers are not protesting against the Bills, he said perhaps they are not as aware but their losses will not be any different. “UP farmers may be simple but not so simple that they will not understand their loss and gain; the difference between a 'chor and chaukidar’ or ‘sharab and sharbat’,” he said, adding that the Bills have exposed the “anti-farmer” face of the Union government. Badal also lashed out at the Union government over the promise of doubling farmers’ income and said it has failed in every respect in the past six years of its rule. “The agriculture growth during the BJP rule is 3.1 per cent. It was 4.3 per cent during the UPA government. Agriculture income is at its lowest in 14 years. Prime Minister had said that the Swaminathan Commission report will be implemented but nothing happened,” he told reporters. Parliament recently passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill. The legislations are yet to get the nod of the president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-to-challenge-farm-bills-in-sc-manpreet-singh-badal-893074.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Ladakh records 56 new Covid-19 cases, tally at 4,025||Ladakh has registered 56 new coronavirus cases and two more fatalities, taking the infection tally to 4,025 and death toll to 56 in the Union Territory, officials said on Saturday. Seventy-eight more patients were discharged after successful treatment, bringing down the number of active cases in the region to 998, the officials said,  quoting a media bulletin released by the directorate of health services, Ladakh. The two new Covid-related fatalities were reported from Kargil, raising the death toll in the district to 33. The rest of 23 patients died in Leh district since the outbreak of the disease in March. Out of total active cases, 601 are in Leh district and 397 in Kargil district, the officials said, adding that so far, 2971 patients have recovered from the infection in the Union Territory. Fifty-six more people tested positive for coronavirus. These included 48 in Leh and eight in Kargil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-records-56-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-4025-893261.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Farm Bills protest: 70 RLD workers booked for holding demonstration without permission||Seventy RLD workers and leaders, including its district president, were booked for holding a protest against new Farm Bills without permission from the administration, police said on Saturday. RLD's district president Ajit Rathi, party spokesman Abhishek Choudhry and former MLC Choudhry Mushtaq are among the 70 people who have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC, SHO DK Tyagi said. A case was registered against them on Friday for holding a protest outside the district magistrate's office against the Centre's Farm Bills without permission from the administration, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-bills-protest-70-rld-workers-booked-for-holding-demonstration-without-permission-893263.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 'moderate' air quality, may turn 'poor' by September 28||The national capital recorded its air quality in the "moderate" category on Saturday morning, while a government forecasting agency predicted that it will turn "poor" by Monday. At 9.30 am, Delhi's air quality index (AQI) was 168, which falls in the "moderate" category. On Friday, it recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 134. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The Ministry of Earth Science's air quality monitor, SAFAR, said dust from arid regions in the southwest has started affecting Delhi.  "Farm fires have begun in Amritsar, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions and are likely to influence the city's air quality," it said. The farm fire count on Friday was around 40, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). "Deterioration in air quality index is expected on Saturday. Further deterioration -- from the higher end of the moderate category to poor category -- is expected on September 27 and September 28," it said. Pawan Gupta, a senior scientist at Universities Space Research Association, NASA, said the forecast shows high PM2.5 levels across the Indo-Gangetic plains over the next 2-3 days. "It appears a combination of smoke, dust and weather is playing a role," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-moderate-air-quality-may-turn-poor-by-september-28-893268.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Lesbian couple in Uttar Pradesh seeks police protection to live together||A lesbian couple in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district has sought police protection after their families opposed their decision to live with each other and allegedly threatened them of dire consequences, police said on Saturday. According to Shamli District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur, the two women, aged 22 and 23, eloped from their villages fearing a threat to their lives. "They are both adults and free to live wherever they want," Kaur said. The duo approached authorities on Friday evening seeking police protection, she said. Their statements have been recorded and on the basis of these, an order will be issued by the sub divisional magistrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lesbian-couple-in-uttar-pradesh-seeks-police-protection-to-live-together-893282.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Farm Bills: Farmers continue to block rail tracks in Punjab||Farmers in Punjab continued their 'rail' roko agitation on Saturday at several places in the state in protest against the three farm Bills passed by Parliament recently. The movement of trains in the state continued to remain suspended in the wake of farmers' stir. Farmers have been protesting on rails tracks at many places in the state since September 24. The call for the 'rail roko' agitation was given by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and later, different farmers' outfits had extended their support to it. Squatting on rails tracks, agitating farmers on Saturday shouted slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre and demanded the rollback of the farm Bills which they described as “black laws”. In Amritsar, a group of protesting farmers went shirtless to express their anger against the farm Bills. “Farmers have taken off their 'kurtas' and shirts to make the government hear our voice,” said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher over the phone. Bare-chested protesters, sitting on Amritsar-Delhi rail track, raised slogans against the BJP-led central government. The Committee on Friday had announced to extend its three-day 'rail roko' agitation from September 26 till September 29. The 'rail roko' agitation had started on Thursday, forcing the railway authorities to suspend the operation of 14 pairs of special passenger trains in the state. Farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) blocked rail tracks in nine districts. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said the rail tracks were blocked at Mansa, Barnala, Nabha (Patiala), Chhahjli (Sangrur), Rampura (Bathinda), Ajitwal (Moga), Kotkapura (Faridkot), Gidderbaha (Muktsar), Jalalabad (Fazilka). He said elders, women, youth and children also participated in protests. Farmers would force the government with a series of protests and agitations to withdraw the farm Bills, he said, adding that these Bills would only “benefit” big corporates. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system and they would be at the "mercy" of big corporates. The farmers said they would continue their fight till the three farm bills were revoked. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 were passed by the Parliament earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-bills-farmers-continue-to-block-rail-tracks-in-punjab-893290.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas along Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||Pakistani troops on Saturday violated ceasefire by resorting to firing and shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said. The shelling and firing from across the border in Nowshera sector was "unprovoked" and drew a befitting retaliation by the Indian Army, the spokesman said. "At about 11.15 am, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Nowshera," the spokesman said. The cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty on the Indian side, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-893298.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||No new incident of violence reported, situation tense in Rajasthan's Dungarpur: Police||The situation remained tense in Rajasthan's Dungarpur as candidates of a teacher recruitment exam confronted police and indulged in arson while a delegation of theirs met Tribal Area Development Minister Arjun Singh Bamniya in Udaipur on Saturday. The authorities on Friday had imposed prohibitory orders besides suspending mobile Internet services in Dungarpur district following a violent protest by the candidates of the 2018 recruitment exam. The protesters are demanding that 1,167 vacant general quota seats be filled from the Scheduled Tribes category. On Saturday, Governor Kalraj Mishra spoke to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot over the phone to discuss the situation. Mishra called Principal Secretary (Home) Abhay Kumar and ADG (Law and Order) Saurabh Srivastava at the Raj Bhawan, directing them to control the situation, according to release. On directions of the chief minister, Tribal Area Development Minister Arjun Singh Bamniya and other public representatives from the district held a meeting with a delegation of the agitators. The meeting, held at the residence of former Udaipur MP and Congress leader Raghuveer Meena, lasted for nearly three hours. “We have appealed to the agitators to end the violence while assuring them that the government will do what is legitimate to meet their demand,” Meena told PTI. Besides Bamniya, Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs Rajkumar Roat and Ramprasad, Congress legislator Ganesh Ghogra, former MP Tarachand Bhagora and some advocates were present in the meeting. BTP MLA Roat claimed that police and administration targeted local villagers, arresting them, which intensified the violence. “Now, it has become villagers verses police and administration there,” Roat said. He said the government's priority is to control the situation first. After the meeting, Roat and Meena left for Kherwara in Dungarpur to convince the agitators. Meanwhile, fresh incidents of stone pelting and arson took place on the Udaipur-Ahmedabad highway, which has been blocked by the protesters. The police control room said two bikes were torched and the protesters indulged in stone pelting. The agitators confronted police again on the highway in Dungarpur. The violence had erupted on Thursday with the protesters blocking the Udaipur-Ahmedabad highway. They pelted police with stones, torched vehicles and damaging property. The violence continued on Friday and Saturday. Udaipur Range IG Binita Thakur said an additional police force has been deployed in the area. Another police official said nearly 25 km of the highway is blocked. “The highway is blocked from Ratanpur to Khariwara. Once the situation is under control, traffic will be resumed,” he said. According to officials, the protesters have torched nearly 25 vehicles besides vandalising a petrol pump, hotel and other properties since Thursday. The vehicle of the Dungarpur SP was also torched on Thursday. Thirty-five policemen, including an ASP and DSP, were injured in stone pelting on Thursday. Police have so far arrested 30 persons in connection of the violence. Earlier, Chief Minister Gehlot had appealed to the protesters to stop violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-new-incident-of-violence-reported-situation-tense-in-rajasthans-dungarpur-police-893308.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Will make water supply as good as in developed countries, says Delhi CM Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said his government would make water supply in Delhi as good as in developed countries and it is hiring a consultant for this purpose. He also dismissed allegations that water supply in Delhi was being privatised. "Some opposition leaders are saying water supply in Delhi is being privatised. It can never happen and I assure you this," the chief minister said. "We are hiring a consultant to tell us how to improve water supply management and ensure that not even a drop of water is wasted," Kejriwal said during a digital press conference. He said that in the capital cities of developed nations, water is available round-the-clock with proper pressure and there is no need for a submersible pump. "We will make it happen in Delhi. The city's water supply will be as good as in developed nations," Kejriwal said, adding that accountability should be fixed for each drop of water and there should not be any wastage. The chief minister also informed the press briefing the Delhi government was in talks with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh for increasing water availability in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-make-water-supply-as-good-as-in-developed-countries-says-delhi-cm-kejriwal-893311.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Police constable shoots self with service rifle in Uttar Pradesh||A police constable allegedly shot himself with his service rifle in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh, officials said on Saturday. The blood-stained body of constable Ashutosh Yadav (24) was found in a barrack on Friday night, Superintendent of Police Anurag Arya said. His service rifle AK-47 was also found lying nearby, the SP said. According to police, it is a case of death by suicide. His colleagues at Lalganj police station said he generally remained detached and appeared to be under some kind of stress, the SP said. Yadav, a native of Gazipur, had joined the police force in 2018 and had returned on duty on September 17 after being on leave for a couple of days. The body has been sent for postmortem, the officials said, adding that the reason behind the suicide was not immediately known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-constable-shoots-self-with-service-rifle-in-uttar-pradesh-893312.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Earthquake of 4.5 magnitude hits Jammu and Kashmir||A medium-intensity earthquake hit Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, but there were no reports of any damage or loss of life, officials said. The earthquake of 4.5 magnitude occurred at 12:02 pm at a depth of 120 km. There were no reports of any damage to property or injury or loss of life, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/earthquake-of-45-magnitude-hits-jammu-and-kashmir-893315.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||MSP procurement of kharif paddy to begin immediately in Punjab and Haryana, says Centre||The Centre on Saturday announced commencement of paddy procurement at the minimum support price (MSP) with immediate effect in Punjab and Haryana in the wake of early arrival of the kharif crop in these two states. Otherwise, paddy procurement for the 2020-21 kharif (summer) marketing season is scheduled to begin from October 1 in all the key growing states, it said. "However, in view of early arrival of paddy in the 'mandies' of Haryana and Punjab, Government of India has approved the commencement of procurement operations for paddy /rice immediately in both these states from today i.e. with effect from September 26, 2020," the Union Food Ministry said in a statement. This is to ensure that farmers are facilitated in selling their produce at the MSP expeditiously, it said. The orders for commencement of procurement operations for paddy/rice from September 26, in Haryana and Punjab, have been issued, it added. According to the ministry, state procuring agencies including Food Corporation of India (FCI) are in a state of readiness for smoothly undertaking procurement operations. The Centre has fixed MSP for 'common variety' paddy at Rs 1,868 per quintal and for 'A' grade variety at Rs 1,888 per quintal for the current year. The government has kept a target to procure 113 lakh tonnes of rice from Punjab and 44 lakh tonnes from Haryana during the kharif marketing season. Otherwise, total rice procurement target is kept at 495.37 lakh tonnes for the entire country for the 2020-21 kharif season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/msp-procurement-of-kharif-paddy-to-begin-immediately-in-punjab-and-haryana-says-centre-893329.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi water supply cannot be privatised: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the AAP government will make water supply in Delhi as good as in developed countries and hire a consultant for better water management ensuring not a drop goes to waste in the city. He said the government will ensure round-the-clock water supply in the next five years and refuted allegations that water supply in the national capital was being privatised. "Water supply cannot be privatised. It can never happen. I assure you this," the Chief Minister said during a digital press conference. Kejriwal said in the capital cities of developed nations, water is available round-the-clock with proper pressure and there is no need for a submersible pump. "We will make it happen in Delhi. The city's water supply will be as good as in developed nations," Kejriwal said. The Chief Minister said a lot of water goes to waste in Delhi. The Delhi Jal Board supplies 930 million gallons of water (MGD) per day to the city -- 176 litres per person. Of this, a lot of water gets stolen and leaked. Accountability should be fixed for every drop of water. There should not be any wastage, Kejriwal asserted. He said, "We are hiring a consultant which will tell us how to improve our water supply management and to ensure that not even a drop of water is wasted. We have started walking in the direction of providing round-the-clock water supply." "The consultant will tell us about the state-of-art technology, such as the SCADA system, with the help of which water supply can be managed from the central control room," he said. The Chief Minister also informed the reporters that his government has been working to increase water availability in Delhi. "We have been working to increase water availability in Delhi. We have been talking to the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and other states, which have more water," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-water-supply-cannot-be-privatised-arvind-kejriwal-893330.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||AAP councillor Tahir Hussain converted Rs 1.5 crore in white money to black to fund riots: Charge sheet||AAP councillor Tahir Hussain converted his own Rs 1.5 crore in white money into black for funding the riots in February -- Delhi Police made this claim in its charge sheet on the larger conspiracy behind the communal violence that claimed 53 lives. The charge sheet filed on September 16 claimed that Hussain, a high school dropout, was "enamoured and taken in by the aura" of the intelligentsia, like Umar Khalid and others who were "key conspirators" of the riots. Suspended from the AAP, Hussain is facing charges for his involvement in the murder of Intelligence Bureau personnel Ankit Sharma during the riots. He is also among 15 people charge sheeted for the larger conspiracy in the riots case. According to the charge sheet, Hussain was drafted in by Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi after realising that the anti-CAA protests in December had little mass presence and no window for mass mobilisation, as all the previous attempts belonged to "elite, intellectual class of activists who did not have any permanent roots". Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi met Hussain on January 8 along the sidelines of the Shaheen Bagh protest in the office of Popular Front of India. Hussain "brought with him money, muscle and community base, much required by the key conspirators...Hussain became the sledge hammer to the conspiracy," the charge sheet claimed. It goes on to claim that Hussain "comes across as a unique case who, for financing the protests and riots, through a complex web of intermediaries converted Rs 1.5 crore approximately of his own while money to black ie. ready cash for the purpose of distribution and use by rioters". Police claimed that it was corroborated by an analysis of relevant bank accounts and supplemented by testimonies of public witnesses. He is also accused of providing money to purchase the pistol which was used to murder Rahul Solanki as well as disbursing cash to a women's group 'Pinjra Tod' through a student activist Gulfisha. He is also charged with financing two persons, who played an important role in the violence at Chand Bagh and murder of Head Constable Rattan Lal. Hussain along with others like former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, Khalid Saifi, Shifa-ur-Rehman and Meeran Haider also received around Rs 1.61 crore through bank or cash transactions between December 1, 2019 and February 26, 2020. Out of the Rs 1.61 crore, around Rs 1.48 crore was withdrawn in cash and spent in managing the protest sites as well to execute the conspiracy. "Apart from whatever Tahir Hussain did on his own account as a highly motivated accused, his real contribution to the wider conspiracy was in providing actual men and women on ground who danced to the tune set by the key conspirators," the charge sheet claimed. Being a "shrewd politician who understood the ground realities of his locality", the charge sheet claimed that Hussain "left no stone unturned to physically prepare for the coming violence" and stock piled stones, glass bottles, acid, petrol and slingshots. He also got his licenced revolver, which was deposited with police, released two days before the riots and 22 spent cartridges were recovered from his house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-converted-rs-15-crore-in-white-money-to-black-to-fund-riots-charge-sheet-893333.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||CAG pulls up JKPCC for poor performance, not finalising accounts||The Jammu and Kashmir Projects Construction Corporation (JKPCC) Limited came up for sharp criticism from the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) for its poor performance and failure to finalise its accounts amid a sharp decline in the value of works from Rs 364.19 crore in 2012-13 to Rs 250.65 crore during 2016-17. The public sector undertaking (PSU) firm was dependent on the state government departments or agencies for works on nomination basis and had failed to secure any work on a competitive tender basis, the CAG said in its report on revenue sector and PSU (social, general and economic sectors) on the government of J&K for the year ending March 31, 2017, which was tabled in Parliament this week. JKPCC was incorporated with the objective of execution of construction works for the state and central governments and PSUs, carry on the business of builders, contractors, engineers, architects, surveyors, estimators and designers in J&K and curb monopoly of private contractors and provide healthy competition between private and public sectors. "The company had finalised its accounts up to 2010-11 only. The value of works done decreased from Rs 364.19 crore during 2012-13 to Rs 250.65 crore during 2016-17. It suffered loss of Rs 3.95 crore and Rs 11.69 crore during 2014-15 and 2015-16, respectively,” the report said. It said the shortfall in achievement of targets of value of works done remained between 29 and 50 per cent. "Funds ranging between 58.52 per cent and 75.55 per cent only were utilised on works during 2012-17". The report said the service tax of Rs 5.14 crore paid in excess had neither been reconciled nor refund thereof received.          "The company had not submitted revised cost offers, to the extent of Rs 22.66 crore, to reflect enhanced rate of service tax and made payment of service tax at the enhanced rate without actual recovery of Rs 3.45 crore from the project authorities," the report said.         It said the company was dependent on the state departments and agencies for works on nomination basis and had failed to secure any work on competitive tender basis.         "The quantum of new works obtained declined during 2012-16 from Rs 349.48 crore to Rs 236.03 crore, but increased during 2016-17 to Rs 696.64 crore. Execution of works in excess of the funds released by the project authorities led to accumulation of outstanding balance of Rs 188 crore as of March 2017 and loss of interest of Rs 26.56 crore," it said. The delay in completion of works led to increase in cost to the extent of Rs 360.87 crore which was mainly due to poor monitoring by company and slow progress.         It said the company had not framed any recruitment and promotion policy and staff had been deployed at different units in an ad hoc manner.         The report said JKPCC did not devise any mechanism for ensuring continuous monitoring and internal control.         "Weak quality control, inadequacy of internal audit and variations amongst performance reports were observed," the report said.          Jammu and Kashmir had 30 working PSUs (27 companies and three statutory corporations) and three non-working PSUs.         The working PSUs recorded a turnover of Rs 8,357.91 crore as per their finalised accounts as of September 30, 2017.          As on March 31, 2017, the investment (paid-up capital, free reserves and long-term loans) in 33 state PSUs and statutory corporations was Rs 7,426.67 crore, the report said adding the power sector accounted for 43.47 per cent (Rs 3,228.68 crore) of the total investment as on March 31, 2017. The total investment consisted of 21.70 per cent towards paid-up capital and 78.30 per cent as long-term loans, it said.          It said the investment has grown by 45.08 per cent from Rs 5,119.04 crore in 2012-13 to Rs 7,426.67 crore in 2016-17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cag-pulls-up-jkpcc-for-poor-performance-not-finalising-accounts-893338.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||5 labourers dead, 7 injured as van collides with truck in Madhya Pradesh||Five labourers were killed and seven of their colleagues injured when the van in which they were travelling collided with a truck early on Saturday near Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh, police said. The incident took place under Narwar police station area around 3.30 am, police said. "Five persons were killed on the spot and seven others injured in the accident," Ujjain's additional superintendent of police (ASP) Rupesh Dwivedi said. The injured have been admitted to a hospital, he added. "The victims were labourers hailing from Katni district. They were heading to Neemuch when the mishap occurred," he said. A case has been registered and investigation is on, the ASP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-labourers-dead-7-injured-as-van-collides-with-truck-in-madhya-pradesh-893347.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Mahoba trader shot with his own pistol: SIT||The Uttar Pradesh Police's Special Investigation Team, which was set up to probe the death of Mahoba-based trader Indrakant Tripathi, has said the bullet which killed him was fired from his own licensed pistol. The probe found that the bullet was fired from the front which had pierced through his neck and got entangled in the seat behind, Allahabad ADG Prem Prakash said on Friday night, citing the SIT's investigation report. Indrakant, 44, who had levelled allegations of corruption against former Mahoba SP Manilal Patidar, now under suspension, was shot at under mysterious circumstances and succumbed to injuries at a hospital in Kanpur on September 13. The two men -- Arjun and Satyam -- who had rushed Indrakant to hospital also said in their statements that the pistol was found lying near his knees which was later handed over to the deceased's brother-in-law Brijesh Shukla by his business partner Ballu Maharaj's brother Asharam. The pistol was given to the SIT by Indrakant's elder brother Ravikant, the ADG said. On September 8, Indrakant had a meeting with his business partners Ballu Maharaj and Purshottam Soni at a hotel after which he left for home. Later, he was found in his car with a bullet injury, the official said. The ADG said investigations are on and clean chit has not been given either to the suspended SP or anyone else. The SIT has sent the preliminary report to the DGP, he added. The trader was attacked days after he had levelled allegations of corruption against the then Mahoba SP. Ravikant had alleged that Patidar had demanded a bribe of Rs 6 lakh from his brother and threatened to kill him or send him to jail in case of non-payment. "My brother uploaded a video on social media on September 7 and 8... after a few hours on Tuesday (September 8), he was found in his car with a bullet injury," he had said. On September 9, Patidar was suspended with immediate effect by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on corruption charges. The chief minister had also ordered a vigilance probe into the properties of Patidar. Ballast transporters had accused the then SP of demanding money from them for allowing transportation of material.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mahoba-trader-shot-with-his-own-pistol-sit-893363.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh: Rohru MLA tests positive for coronavirus||Himachal Pradesh’s Rohru MLA Lal Brakta has become the eighth legislators in the state to have contracted coronavirus. The Congress MLA took to Facebook to share his health status on Saturday. Brakta said he got himself tested on Friday morning and his report came positive in the night. So far, six BJP and two Congress MLAs have tested positive for coronavirus in the state. Brakta in his Facebook post said he had not participated in any public programme in Rohru for the past 12 days so there was no need for people of his constituency to panic. However, he requested all those who came in his contact in Shimla in the past some days to get themselves tested. Besides Brakta, the MLAs who tested positive for coronavirus till now are Power Minister Sukhram Chaudhary; Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur; Vinod Kumar Chauhan (Nachan); Rakesh Jamwal (Sundernagar); Reeta Devi (Indora); Lakhwinder Rana (Nalagarh) and Paramjeet Singh (Doon). Power Minister Sukhram Chaudhary and Doon MLA Paramjeet Singh had recovered from the infection and attended the recently concluded monsoon session of the state assembly. Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur rejoined his office in the State Secretariat on Monday after recovering from the disease. He could not attend the assembly session, which was held from September 7 to 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-rohru-mla-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-893381.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Centre advances paddy procurement in Punjab, Haryana||The Modi government on Saturday announced the procurement of paddy with immediate effect in Punjab and Haryana, the two states worst-hit by farmers’ protests against the farm sector reforms. The Centre issued orders to begin procurement of paddy from Saturday i.e. September 26 as against October 1, when purchases for the Kharif Marketing Season were scheduled to commence. “… in view of early arrival of paddy in the mandis of Haryana and Punjab, Government of India has approved the commencement of procurement operations for paddy/rice immediately in both these states from today i.e. with effect from 26th September, 2020 to ensure that farmers are facilitated in selling their produce at Minimum Support Price expeditiously,” an official statement said here. The two states are witnessing the maximum protests against the farm sector reforms rolled out by the Centre that gives farmers an option to sell their produce beyond the APMC limits. The call for a nationwide shut down against the farm reform Bills received overwhelming support in Punjab and Haryana, which are considered as the food bowl of the nation. The two states also witness maximum procurement at MSP prices through the APMC system. The two states have witnessed protests since the Parliament passed the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. The Centre has set a target to procure 495 lakh tonnes of paddy for the Kharif Marketing Season 2020-21 as against the 420 lakh tonne paddy procured last year. The MSP for paddy for this crop season has been fixed at Rs 1,868 per quintal, an increase of Rs 53 over the previous year. According to the first advance estimates released by the Agriculture Ministry, rice production during the Kharif season of 2020-21 has been pegged at 1,023 lakh tonnes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-advances-paddy-procurement-in-punjab-haryana-893386.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi government looks at converting temporary posts into permanent ones||The Delhi government has asked all its departments to provide details of temporary posts under their jurisdiction, which can be converted into permanent ones, taking into account the nature of work. The AAP government’s finance department has issued a circular to principal secretaries and secretaries and asked them to submit a proposal of their departments concerned in this regard. Details such as nomenclature and number of temporary posts, the purpose of creation and number of temporary posts proposed for conversion to permanent ones have been sought by Joint Secretary (Accounts) L D Joshi. According to the circular, the temporary posts, which were in existence for more than three years, will be considered for conversion to permanent ones. "All the departments are requested to submit the proposal to the finance department in the respective original file wherein the approval of competent authority was obtained for the creation of temporary posts and subsequently wherein the approval of finance department was being obtained for continuation/extension of the said temporary posts till 2019-20..." it stated. Meanwhile, the services department of the Delhi government has also written to the head of departments on the issue of extending engagements of contractual staff. In a letter, the department said Lt Governor Anil Baijal has directed that before the extension of contractual engagements, the departments should also provide information on whether efforts were made to fill up the posts on regular basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-looks-at-converting-temporary-posts-into-permanent-ones-893397.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Industrial Training Institutes in Himachal Pradesh to reopen from October 1||The Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday decided to reopen Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) from October 1, six months after remaining shut due to the coronavirus pandemic, an official spokesperson said The ITIs, along with other educational institutions in the state, were closed in March to slow the spread of the deadly disease. The Cabinet in its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur gave its nod to resume training activities in ITIs with effect from October 1 by strictly following the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), the spokesperson said. Earlier, the state government had ordered the reopening of educational institutions outside the containment zones from September 21. These schools opened with 50 per cent teaching and non-teaching staff in attendance for students from Class 9 to Class 12 with the prior written consent of the parents or guardians. The Cabinet on Saturday also decided to allot the work of setting up the statue of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee at the Ridge in Shimla to famous sculptors Padam Shri and Padam Vibhushan awardee Ram V Sutar and Anil Sutar, the spokesperson said. Further, the Cabinet gave its approval to restore Vidhayak Kshetra Vikas Nidhi Yojana (MLALAD) fund of Rs 50 lakh for the year 2020-21, the announcement of which had already been made by the chief minister in the state assembly during the recently concluded monsoon session, he said. The first installment of Rs 25 lakh per legislative constituency will be released in October and the second installment of the same amount after the elections to the Panchayati Raj Institutions, the spokesperson said. A presentation was made before the Cabinet on the proposed visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang in Lahaul-Spiti district on October 3. The Cabinet gave its nod to the draft of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to be executed and entered between the state government and Temple Trust Chamunda with regard to transfer of land for lower terminal point of Himani-Chamundaji Ropeway Project in Kangra district, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-industrial-training-institutes-in-himachal-pradesh-to-reopen-from-october-1-893398.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||One killed, 6 hurt in explosion at house in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura||A man was killed and six members of his family were injured in an explosion at their house in a Mathura village, police said on Saturday. The injured included three women and a child, police said, adding the incident took place at Surir Kalan village on Friday night. The Mathura chief fire officer has been asked to probe the incident and submit a report at the earliest, SSP Gaurav Grover said. Police said the double-storeyed house collapsed following the explosion on its first floor. All seven people were taken out of debris but not before Jogendra (25), son of house owner Babu Lal, breathed his last, police said. The injured were identified as Sabita, Deepansu, Mahendra, Indravati (55), Sunil (40) and Shivani (22). According to police, Indravati has been shifted to an Agra medical college after her condition deteriorated. Police have registered a case against Indravati as some explosive material and crackers were stored in a room on the first floor of the house without permission. Chief Fire officer Promod Sharma refused to divulge any details about the probe. “I will submit a report to the SSP today,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-killed-6-hurt-in-explosion-at-house-in-uttar-pradeshs-mathura-893399.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Tejashwi, Tej Pratap, Pappu Yadav booked for violating Covid- 19 protocol during protest against farm bills||RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav, Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) leader Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav have been booked in poll-bound Bihar for taking out rallies here to protest against the contentious farm bills without permission and violating the Covid-19 protocol. The three were booked on Friday along with 150 others and an FIR was lodged at the Kotwali police station on the basis of a complaint by the magistrate deputed to oversee the situation, the police said. Several farmers organisations and opposition parties including RJD had held protests against the farm bills here on Friday. RJD heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav rode a tractor to lead the protest against the passage of the three farm bills on Friday. His elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav sat atop its hood. A named FIR has been lodged against five persons including RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav, Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) leader Pappu Yadav while 150 others have been made as unnamed accused. They have been booked for taking out protest march without having permission to do so, Kotwali police station SHO Sunil Kumar told PTI. These leaders and unnamed persons have also been booked for taking out a protest march on Baily road where any kind of protest is prohibited, the SHO said. The FIR has been lodged under various sections of IPC and Disaster Management Act 2005. Tejashwi Yadav, who is also the leader of opposition in Bihar Assembly, had on Friday termed the farm bills as anti farmer and aimed to privatise the agriculture sector". The rally began at the 10 Circular Road residence of RJD leader Rabri Devi, who is Tejashwi Yadav's mother, and culminated at the party's office at Veer Chand Patel Path. It did not follow the social distancing norms. The Information and Public Relations Department Minister and JD(U) leader Neeraj Kumar meanwhile said that the people of the state want to know whether Tejashwi Yadav possesses a valid license for driving a medium goods vehicle. He also took a swipe at Tej Pratap for violating the Motor Vehicle Act by sitting atop the hood of the tractor. The tractor that you (Tejashwi) drove is owned by one Krishna Rai jee. People of the state want to know whether you have a valid license for driving medium goods vehicle. Your brother (Tej Pratap) sat atop the hood of the tractor and committed a crime by violating section 179 of the Motor Vehicle Act .... Committing crimes is your political kusanskar (bad upbringing), Kumar said. The Congress, Left parties, JAP and others had held bandh and protests across Bihar on Friday as part of the oppositions nationwide protest against the passage of farm bills. It was marked by a clash between the BJP and JAP here. The clash took place in front of BJP's state headquarters when JAP workers raised anti-Narendra Modi government slogans outside its gates to protest against the farm bills. The BJP workers came out in large numbers from the party office and started hitting with sticks the JAP activists who were in a open pick up van. The situation was brought under control after the police intervened. Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal condemned the incident and termed the JAP action an "act of cowardice". The opposition leaders, he said, are trying to mislead the farmers by spreading lies about the bills passed by the Parliament which were meant to bring economic prosperity to the farmers. The farmers will give a befitting reply to the opposition parties in the coming state assembly elections, Jaiswal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tejashwi-tej-pratap-pappu-yadav-booked-for-violating-covid-19-protocol-during-protest-against-farm-bills-893405.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Manish Sisodia's condition improves, shifted out of ICU: Official||The condition of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who is suffering from Covid-19 and dengue, has further improved, and he has been shifted from the ICU to a normal ward on Saturday, officials said. He is currently undergoing treatment at Max hospital, Saket, where he was shifted on Thursday evening after a "falling" blood platelet count and low oxygen level and was administered convalescent plasma therapy on Friday. On Saturday, an official from Sisodia's office said, "His vitals have improved following plasma therapy. And, he has was shifted out of the ICU to a normal ward today". Sources at the Max hospital also said the deputy chief minister is fine and doing better. Earlier in the day, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, while interacting with reporters, said that Sisodia's condition "is stable and he is doing fine". The 48-year-old AAP leader had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 and was under home isolation. On Wednesday, he was admitted to the LNJP Hospital for treatment. He tested positive for dengue a day later and was admitted to the ICU of the private facility in south Delhi. "He was administered plasma therapy and his condition is now better," an official from the Deputy Chief Minister's Office had said on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manish-sisodias-condition-improves-shifted-out-of-icu-official-893406.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand: Leopard that killed two declared man-eater||A leopard, which killed two persons in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district within just a few days earlier this week, attacked and injured a man on Saturday, prompting the forest department to declare it a man-eater.        Sayyad Hussain, a professional hunter from Meerut in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, has been hired by the forest department to kill the big cat, Pithoragarh Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Vinay Bhargav said.        The leopard, which had killed a 40-year-old man and an 11-year-old girl on September 22 and September 24 respectively, attacked a resident of Dhara Pani village this afternoon, he said.        The man suffered injuries to his face in the attack and is under treatment at a hospital, the DFO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-leopard-that-killed-two-declared-man-eater-893454.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||College girl shot dead by spurned lover in Jaipur||A woman student was shot dead on Saturday by her lover near a college in Rajapark area of the city where she had gone to appear in graduation final year examination on Saturday, police said. The accused identified as Vishnu Chaudhary first stabbed the girl and then opened fire at her on the road near the college. The girl was immediately rushed to SMS Government Hospital where she died, police said. "She had come from Jhunjhunu to write the exam, scheduled from 7 am to 10 am. The accused attacked her with a knife and then opened fire around 10. 30 am near the college," DCP Rahul Jain told PTI. Another police official informed that the girl was studying in a separate college in Jaipur and had gone to Vedic Kanya college in Rajapark to take the exam. The accused, who is from Dholpur and preparing for competitive exams in Jaipur, tried to flee after the incident but he was caught and handed over to police. Additional DCP Manoj Chaudhary said the accused and the victim were in a love relationship for nearly one year and he was annoyed with the girl for allegedly having an affair with someone else. “During the interrogation, the accused said he and the girl were in a love relationship but she cheated upon him and was having an affair with someone else following which he decided to kill her,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/college-girl-shot-dead-by-spurned-lover-in-jaipur-893468.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Dalit woman struggles for life after gangrape, four accused arrested||A 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly raped by four men in Hathras, is struggling for life in an Aligarh hospital where she has been put on a ventilator, officials said on Saturday. Hathras Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir said that the four accused named in the rape case, which took place on September 14, have been arrested. He said the teenager has been admitted to J N Medical College hospital in Aligarh where she has been put on a ventilator, the SP said. Giving details of the incident, the SP said that the woman had gone to the fields with her mother on the fateful day and had gone missing soon after. She was later found brutally injured, with her tongue having a serious cut as she bit it while the accused attempted to strangulate her, he said. The SP said initially they came to know that Sandip (20) had tried to kill her following which he was arrested the same day. Later in her statement to the magistrate, the victim said that besides Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi had raped her and when she resisted their attempts, they tried to strangulate her, leading to the cut in the tongue, the official said. Later, Luvkush and Ramu were also arrested and the fourth accused was arrested on Saturday, the SP added. Meanwhile, a report from Aligarh said the condition of the girl was "critical". The girl who was gangraped on September 14 was brought to the Aligarh hospital the next day. She has injuries on the neck and is on ventilator, a JN Medical Hospital spokesman said. Hathras Additional Superintendent of Police Prakash Kumar told reporters that originally the accused were charged under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC but after receiving more inputs they were charged under section 376 D (gangrape). He said that the legal process of trying the case under a fast track court has also been initiated. Senior Congress leader Sheoraj Jiwan accused the Hathras police of gross negligence in the case and alleged that the woman was shifted to Aligarh only after her condition turned serious. Jiwan, who met the woman's family members, alleged that the police tried to shield the accused. He demanded that the victim's family be urgently provided security and should be given a sum of Rs 20 lakh as financial assistance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-woman-struggles-for-life-after-gangrape-four-accused-arrested-893477.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Farm Bills: Haryana Congress announces over month-long protest schedule||Describing the agriculture-related bills passed by the Centre recently as "black laws", the Haryana unit of the Congress on Saturday announced an over month-long protest programme against the legislations. The protest schedule from September 28 to October 31 was announced at a joint media interaction by in-charge of the party's Haryana affairs Vivek Bansal, Haryana Pradesh Congress president Kumari Selja, former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, general secretary of All India Congress Committee Randeep Singh Surjewala and secretary AICC Ashish Dua here. The party announced the statewide agitation against the central government's "three black laws", saying the legislations will "ruin" the lives of farmers, commission agents and labourers. On September 28, a "foot march" under the leadership of Kumari Selja will be held from the party office to Haryana Raj Bhavan seeking the repeal of these laws by giving a memorandum to the governor with a request to forward it to the President of India, as per the programme. It stated that the party activists will observe "save farmers and labourers" events at every assembly and district headquarters on October 2. A state-level farmers’ conference will be held on October 10. From October 2 to October 31, the party will launch a "signature campaign" against the bills. Party's Haryana affairs in-charge Bansal said the Congress party, under the leadership of its president Sonia Gandhi and former chief Rahul Gandhi, stands fully united with the farmers to protect their interests. Selja said the BJP government has launched a "brutal attack" on the farmers, labourers and commission agents (arthiyas) through these "black laws''.  She alleged the three agri bills were passed in Parliament by “murdering democracy”. Selja said the BJP government has completely failed to double the income of the farmers and to give the prices of agricultural produce as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee, and now it is determined to completely ruin the farmers, labourers and commission agents through these legislations. She claimed that with the implementation of contract farming, small farmers will become labourers in their own fields and their lives will be ruined. "Due to not getting the least assured price of farm produce, the agricultural economy will be completely destroyed," she claimed. Selja said with the farmers not getting the minimum support price of cotton, maize and paddy, they will be forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices. Speaking on the occasion, Hooda said the demand of the Congress party is that the BJP government should enact another law to ensure that the farmers will get the minimum support price for their produce under all circumstances. Surjewala said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while being the chief minister of Gujarat, had advocated to make the agriculture market system more comprehensive and strong, but now he himself is making a law to abolish the mandis. He said the Modi government after “destroying” shopkeepers and labourers through its “wrong policies” is now hell-bent on “completely eliminating” the farmers. When mandis are finished, who will get the minimum support price and how will the small farmers send their produce to far-flung areas, Surjewala asked. He said there are over 15 crore farmers in the country and when the BJP government is unable to buy agricultural produce from 42,000 farmers at the minimum support price, then how will it be able to give the minimum support price to all the farmers of the country. Surjewala said the grain business is of 25 lakh crore and the government’s intention is “handing it over to the mafia”.  "More than 86 per cent farmers own two acres of land or less. They do not have the ability to sell produce outside the mandis," he said. Meanwhile, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the farmers’ interests are supreme for the state government. "Now, no politics can be done in the name of farmers as  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target of doubling the income of farmers by the year 2022 and implemented several schemes and programmes in this direction," he told the media in Gurgaon. He said bills on agriculture reforms passed by Parliament during the Monsoon Session would prove to be “very effective” towards doubling the income of farmers.  Taking a dig at the opposition, Khattar said the opposition parties are spreading confusion among the farmers on the Agriculture Act under a “political agenda”, which is not appropriate. He said the Congress is “misguiding” the farmers to fulfill its “political interests”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-bills-haryana-congress-announces-over-month-long-protest-schedule-893492.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Man gets 7-year sentence for rape in Jammu & Kashmir's Udhampur||A local court on Saturday awarded seven year sentence to a man for raping a woman on the pretext of marriage in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir, an official said.   Additional session judge Udhampur, S R Gandhi pronounced the judgment after hearing the additional public prosecutor Anil Kumar Magotra for the state, and counsel for the accused and the material on record, the official said. Surinder Singh, a resident of Kotli Jija village of Udhampur, was arrested after the woman lodged a written complaint at Rehmbal Police Station on December 7, 2011, alleging that the accused had called her and when she met him, he outraged her modesty and also threatened her not to tell anyone about the incident. The victim also claimed that Singh afterwards repeatedly made physical relations with her with a promise to marry her, the official said. On the basis of the report, an FIR was registered and the accused was arrested after thorough investigation. Later, the charge sheet was presented in the court of Additional District and session judge court, Udhampur. The court sentenced the accused to seven year imprisonment, observing that a woman's body is not a man's plaything and he cannot take advantage of it in order to satisfy his lust and desires by fooling her into consenting to sexual intercourse simply because he wants to indulge in it, the official said. “Keeping in mind the aggravating and mitigating circumstances of this case, it is ordered that for the commission of offence under Section 376 of the  RPC, the convict shall undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven years and a fine of Rs 5,000," the official said quoting the judgment. "For the commission of offence under Section 417 of the RPC the convict shall further undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year and a fine of Rs 2,000,” the official said. The court said both the sentences would run concurrently. “In default of payment of fine, the convict shall further undergo imprisonment for six months,” the court said. The official said the convict was arrested on December 8, 2011 and later released on bail on January 3, 2012. The period of detention already undergone would be set off from the sentence awarded to the convict, he said, adding the court also ordered a copy of judgment to the Chairman District Legal Service Authority, Udhampur with the request to consider this case for compensation to the victim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-gets-7-year-sentence-for-rape-in-jammu-kashmirs-udhampur-893495.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Where is United Nations in fight against Covid-19, asks PM Narendra Modi||Questioning the lack of effective response from the United Nations in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday stressed that complete reform of the international organization and its way of functioning is the need of the hour. Modi said that India would let the entire humanity benefit from its own vaccine production and delivery capability and would thus help the world come out from the pandemic. He also questioned how long India, the world's largest democracy, would be kept out of the UN Security Council. “The whole world is fighting the global coronavirus pandemic for the last eight-nine months. Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response?” the Prime Minister said, virtually addressing the 75th General Assembly of the United Nations. This is the first time New Delhi has candidly raised questions about the UN’s inadequate response to the pandemic and its social and economic consequences for the world. US President Donald Trump’s administration has been blaming the World Health Organization (WHO), a specialized agency of the UN, for the failure to control the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus around the world after it was first reported in China. New Delhi, however, so far refrained from criticizing the WHO. Modi said that India is moving ahead with Phase III clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine. He also promised that India would help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of the coronavirus vaccines.  The Prime Minister said that the world has significantly changed since the UN had come into existence in 1945. “If century changes and we do not, then strength to bring changes becomes weak. If we assess the last 75 years of the United Nations, we see several achievements. But, at the same time, there are also several instances that point to a serious need for introspection for the United Nations,” said Modi. He said that third world war had been averted so far, but then again, several wars and many civil wars had taken place. Several terrorist attacks had shaken the world causing bloodsheds. “The people who had lost lives in the wars and attacks had been human beings, like you and me. Thousands of children, who would have otherwise enriched this world, left us prematurely. So many people lost their life savings and became homeless refugees,” he said, questioning: Were the efforts of the UN sufficient during those times or are these efforts adequate even today?” he asked. The Prime Minister said that reform in the responses, in the processes and in the character of the UN was the need of the hour. “The faith and respect that the UN enjoys in India are unparalleled. But it is also true that the people of India have been waiting for a long time for the completion of the reforms of the UN,” he said in his virtual address to the General Assembly. He went on to say that people of India are now concerned whether the reform-process would ever reach its logical conclusion. “For how long will India be kept out of the decision-making structures of the United Nations? A country, which is the largest democracy of the world, a country with more than 18% of the world population, a country, which has hundreds of languages, hundreds of dialects, many sects, many ideologies, a country, which was a leading global economy for centuries and also one which has seen hundreds of years of foreign rule,” said the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/where-is-united-nations-in-fight-against-covid-19-asks-pm-narendra-modi-893503.html
26-09-2020||North and Central||Surge in Delhi Covid-19 cases seems to have plateaued: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain Saturday said the surge in Covid-19 cases recorded in September "seems to have plateaued" and should show a "rapid fall". Interacting with reporters, he also said, the next sero-prevalence survey, slated to be conducted from October 1, is likely to be delayed as the report of the September survey is to be put before the Delhi High Court by this month-end. "The overall case fatality rate on Friday was 1.95 per cent, so less than 2 per cent. It used to be 3.5 per cent and above earlier. Also, cases which were coming in excess of over 4,000 per day have come down over the past few days. So, the surge we saw in September seems to have plateaued, and it should see a rapid fall," he said. Asked if the testing will now be scaled down, the minister said, no, it will remain the same. Even, cases which were reported on Friday were from the over 59,000 tests done the previous day, he said. The next round of sero-prevalence survey is slated to begin from October 1. The previous exercise was held in the first week of September and its results have not been shared by the Delhi government. "The results of the last sero-survey are to be put first before the High Court, so, it seems there will be a delay in starting the next round, as it takes time to do preparations, so October 1 starting date it seems highly unlikely," Jain told reporters. Asked if a mayor and a minister contracting Covid-19 sends out a signal that perhaps Covid-19 norms are not being followed properly, Jain countered saying, "They are public representatives, and if they contract Covid-19, it does not mean that they violated norms". "Even healthcare workers who wear full PPE kits, contracted it. So this virus does not discriminate between a minister and the common man. Its behaviour is unpredictable," he added. On chances of double infection of Covid-19 and dengue, he said, it is "too early" to comment on this matter. Asked if symptomatic people who tested negative in a rapid antigen test are to take RT-PCR test, he said, there are "strict orders" mandating that such people have to undergo the more reliable RT-PCR test. On supply of oxygen through equipment, he reiterated , there is stock for 6-7 days. Covid-19 cases have shown a surge since the beginning of this month with 4,473 infections reported on September 16, the highest single-day spike here till date. The daily cases in Delhi had breached the 4000-mark for the first time on September 9 when the death count was 20 (overall 4,638 fatalities) and the caseload had crossed the 2 lakh-mark. From September 9-19, fresh cases have been recorded in excess of 4,000 per day except on September 14 when the figure stood at 3,229 with 26 deaths being recorded that day, taking the toll to 4,770, according to official data. The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing over the past few days. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported, ranged from 24,198 (2,312) on September 1 to 61,973 (4071) on September 19. Since September 20, cases have remained below the 4,000-mark. Delhi recorded 3,827 COVID-19 cases on Friday, as the tally in the city mounted to over 2.64 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 5147. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/surge-in-delhi-covid-19-cases-seems-to-have-plateaued-satyendar-jain-893526.html
26-09-2020||Opinion||India needs to copy China's wildly successful SEZ reforms better||If India only reforms when under pressure, then now should be a moment for big changes: Gross domestic product contracted nearly 24% in the second quarter, more than any other large economy; tens of millions have lost jobs in the formal and informal sectors; and the country is adding over 85,000 confirmed coronavirus cases each day. There’s an obvious place for the government to start, too: fixing India’s failed special economic zones. China, of course, pioneered the idea of testing politically difficult economic and legal reforms in a few such areas before rolling them out more widely. The experiment proved wildly successful. Shenzhen, one of the mainland’s first SEZs, grew from a population of 310,000 and a GDP of $160 million in 1981 to a population of 12.5 million, a GDP of $388 billion and per capita income in excess of $30,000 by 2019 — surely the fastest-ever increase in human prosperity. The model is even more appealing in a messy democracy such as India, where vested interests and a risk-averse bureaucracy have stymied previous attempts at radical economic reforms. Not surprisingly, the country is home to 238 such zones. The results have been underwhelming, however, for several reasons. For one thing, there are simply too many SEZs. Indian state capacity is already limited. Asking the government to provide even a basic suite of services in so many places is futile. (India is running into similar problems in trying to develop a multitude of “smart cities.”) China’s experiment began with just four such zones in Shenzhen, Shantou, Xiamen and Zhuhai. India should do the same. Moreover, whereas the Shenzhen agglomeration alone sprawls across 2,000 square kilometers, all of India’s SEZs put together occupy less than 500 square kilometers. Larger zones benefit from several spillover effects: They attract clusters of businesses, encourage knowledge transfers from foreign to domestic companies, and spread employment, infrastructure and development to neighboring regions. India’s zones are too small to do the same. Most important, the supposed “reforms” India has implemented in its SEZs have been anything but. They’ve largely centered around concessions to favored businesses — tax sops and cheap real estate — rather than a fundamental reset of India’s convoluted and restrictive rules for doing business. If low taxes were all that mattered for attracting investment, any poor country could entice global manufacturers by slashing taxes. Clearly, good governance and strong rule of law matter a great deal more to such businesses. The government, which is reportedly mulling a $23 billion package of incentives to attract global manufacturers to India, wisely sees an opportunity. The pandemic has exposed the fragility of critical global supply chains. No country wants to concentrate risks in any one jurisdiction, especially given rising trade and geopolitical tensions between China and the West. To lure manufacturers away from the mainland, though, India is going to have to convince them that they’ll be able to operate just as easily and efficiently as they can in China. A few big zones should be located either near deepwater ports or around large airports. They can be greenfield or brownfield sites, depending on whether the focus is on manufacturing or services. The latter could exploit underutilized public lands, such as the eastern waterfront of Mumbai. Of course, they all need to offer reliable water and power, affordable housing, and excellent transport connectivity. Above all, these zones must provide the kind of governance and clarity that’s in short supply across the rest of India. Local administrators must be empowered to make radical changes to labor laws, for instance. Fast-track courts to resolve disputes are critical, as is eliminating most restrictions on foreign investment. The point is not just to make production cheaper, but also to create a fundamentally different atmosphere for doing business than companies would find elsewhere on the subcontinent. Of course, success will create its own political headaches, as a few regions get richer than others. But compared to the alternative — a future in which India never embeds itself fully into global supply chains and can’t create the millions of salaried jobs its young and growing population demands — that’s a problem the government should welcome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-needs-to-copy-chinas-wildly-successful-sez-reforms-better-893189.html
26-09-2020||Opinion||The rising tide of climate disasters in Pakistan||Karachi is home. My bustling, chaotic city of about 20 million people on the Arabian Sea is an ethnically and religiously diverse metropolis and the commercial capital of Pakistan, generating more than half of the country’s revenue. Over the decades, Karachi has survived violent sectarian strife, political violence between warring groups claiming the city and terrorism. Karachi has survived its gangsters sparring with rocket launchers; its police force, more feared than common criminals; its rulers and bureaucrats committed to rapacious, bottomless corruption. Now Karachi faces its most terrifying adversary: Climate change. In August, Karachi’s stifling summer heat was heavy and pregnant. The sapodilla trees and frangipani leaves were lush and green; the Arabian Sea, quiet and distant, had grown muddy. When the palm fronds started to sway, slowly, the city knew the winds had picked up and rain would follow. Every year the monsoons come — angrier and wilder — lashing the unprepared city. Studies show that climate change is causing monsoons to be more intense and less predictable, and cover larger areas of land for longer periods of time. On August 27, Karachi received nearly nine inches of monsoon rain, the highest amount of rainfall ever in a single day. Nineteen inches of rain fell in August, according to the meteorological officials. It is enough to drown a city that has no functioning drainage, no emergency systems and no reliable health care (except for those who can pay). Thousands of homes and settlements of the poor were subsumed and destroyed, and more than 100 people were killed. A traders association estimated that the submerging of markets and warehouses damaged goods worth 25 billion Pakistani rupees, or about $150 million. Local papers estimated that with Karachi at a standstill for a week, in some congested areas for longer, Pakistan’s gross domestic product suffered daily losses of $449 million — a number that didn’t include the enormous informal economy. The World Bank estimates that 15 per cent of gross domestic product of the Sindh province (Karachi is its capital) is lost every year to environmental damage and climate change. Pakistan is the fifth most climate vulnerable nation in the world. Between 1998 and 2018, according to the Global Climate Risk Index, the country is estimated to have lost nearly 10,000 lives to climate-related disasters and suffered losses amounting to about $4 billion from 152 extreme weather events in that period. Analysts have estimated Pakistan’s climate migrants over the past decade at around 30 million people. There is no end to the catalog of climate disasters affecting my country. The glaciers in the Hindu Kush, the Himalayas and the Karakoram in northern Pakistan are melting at an accelerated pace. If the emission trends and temperature rises continue unabated, these mountains could lose between a third to two-thirds of their ice fields by 2100. The result will be catastrophic: By 2050, the increased melting will result in landslides, heavy flooding, dam bursts and soil erosion. After the glaciers have melted away, drought and famine will follow. The terror of our coming era will be born of heat and fire and ice. Some years ago, I was in a village in Sindh after a massive flood had devastated it. Thousands were displaced overnight. The blistering heat soaked the faces of displaced young women in sweat thick like glycerin. I was unsure what would be more lethal — the drowning or the heat. Not far from that drowned village in Sindh is the city of Jacobabad, where temperatures in the summer run as high as 124 degrees Fahrenheit. It is the hottest city in Asia, if not the world. Jacobabad has long electricity blackouts. Its poor die as they toil in the fields. Temperature increases have brought plague after plague in rural areas. This year has brought Pakistan the most devastating locust infestations in nearly 30 years. The insects destroyed entire harvests, causing the government to call a national emergency as winter crops were decimated, resulting in losses of $2.5 billion. The locusts descend like a haze, so thick that from a distance it looked like a soft pink fog. Because of heavy rains and cyclones, there has been unprecedented breeding of locusts in the United Arab Emirates. They traveled to us from the Arabian Peninsula. This is a climate war between the large industrial superpowers, financial predators that have polluted and poisoned our planet for profit, and the poor, who have done the least damage but will pay all of the consequences. Pakistan is responsible for less than one per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions, but its people will bear the burden of the world’s deadliest polluters. If nothing is done to mitigate global greenhouse gas emissions, according to the World Bank, 800 million people in South Asia will be at risk of amplified poverty, homelessness and hunger. The World Bank has identified Karachi as one the planet’s climate hot spots. Temperatures across South Asia are estimated to rise by 3.9 degrees Fahrenheit in the next 30 years. Karachi is already struggling with poor road connectivity, dire educational facilities and limited market access. Its already pathetic public health system will plummet. The rich might buy generators for electricity, pay for water tanks and rely on expensive hospitals, but the poor will continue to be devastated. Pakistan’s current government is speaking about climate change, but it is a conversation that has come too late, unaccompanied by serious action. In 1947, Pakistan was 33 per cent forest. Today, we have tree cover of just about four per cent, all because of deforestation. This destruction, largely caused by the illegal logging by timber mafias, has silted up our waterways and left us undefended against floods and storms. The country can easily be whipped into hysteria over supposed religious infractions committed by minorities and can debate women’s modesty and honour inexhaustibly, but it has little attention for the ferocious and imminent dangers of climate change. Karachi’s rainfall, like the rising temperatures, is a consequence of the raging climate war. We have sat by and watched how cities die: slowly. We didn’t watch closely enough when the villages sank and struggled. But it is clear now that this is how a planet burns, one fire at a time, one degree hotter until eventually all that remains will be the chalky bones of Karachi’s ancient saints, buried on disappeared cliffs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-rising-tide-of-climate-disasters-in-pakistan-893234.html
26-09-2020||Opinion||If we can’t ban nukes, let’s stigmatize them||By Andreas Kluth There are potential catastrophes so dire, only an approach that blurs the realist and the utopian seems appropriate. Take for example the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Adopted by the United Nations in 2017, it seeks to completely get rid of the most satanic arms ever created.  The treaty’s already been signed by 84 states and ratified by 45. To take effect — that is, to be binding on its signatories — it needs only another handful of ratifications. And this week a group of 56 international bigwigs signed an open letter to nudge that along. They include former presidents and prime, foreign and defense ministers from 20 NATO member states plus Japan and South Korea, as well as one former secretary-general of the UN and two of NATO. One of their stated objectives is to get the current leaders of their countries to sign the treaty. That’s cheeky, since all of the nations in question are presently under the U.S. “nuclear umbrella,” which they’d have to leave or disavow. Unlikely. Several, like Germany, even have American nukes stationed on their own territory.  And then remember that, strictly speaking, none of the signatories so far, nor any of the countries represented by the authors of the letter, even matters. Only nine nations have nukes today: the US, Russia, China, the UK, France, Israel, Pakistan, India and North Korea. And all of them demonstratively boycotted even the talks leading up to the treaty. The chance they’d ever sign is that of a snowball in a fission event. Does all this make the treaty and the letter a futile indulgence? Quite the contrary. To me, these short texts join a long list of idealist treatises that were never acted upon but nonetheless changed world history. Thomas More’s “Utopia” of 1516 springs to mind, or Immanuel Kant’s “Perpetual Peace” of 1795. Both wanted, among other things, to abolish armies; neither could yet imagine nuclear annihilation, of course. Neither More, who was being partly satirical, nor Kant, in his realm of pure reason, expected the powers that be to come around to their point of view overnight, or ever. But rather like Martin Luther King when he orated “I have a dream,” they simply confronted us with an ideal state so intuitively compelling, so morally incontrovertible, that the diversions from it in our lived reality began appearing grotesque and unacceptable. The same goals motivate this treaty. The first is to shake humanity, currently distracted by a pandemic, out of its complacency about the risks of nuclear war. The second is to gradually build a global consensus that eventually makes any military plans built on nukes so shameful that they won’t even be considered. A similar evolution once led to treaties against chemical and biological weapons and land mines.   The first goal, in seeking to correct our flawed risk assessment, is already hard. Since the end of the Cold War, most people have become much less afraid of nuclear war, when instead they should worry more. As I’ve argued before, both game theory and geopolitics suggest that the danger of nuclear conflagration has increased. The incumbent powers are “modernizing” their arsenals and incorporating nukes into “tactical” scenarios that defy simple deterrence models such as the Cold War’s “mutual assured destruction” (MAD). Upstart powers like Iran want to join the club. Space and cyberspace have been added to land, sea and air as potential battlefields. And then there are imponderables such as artificial intelligence, which makes algorithmic decisions on strikes and counter-strikes in seconds, and all-too-human folly. The bigger goal is, of course, shaming the nations and leaders that keep their nukes. For instance, stigma could, in time, turn domestic opinion in China and dissuade its leaders from their all-out effort to “catch up” with stockpiles in the US and Russia. It could even sway public attitudes in Russia, India and elsewhere. It could bring the U.S. back to the arms-control negotiating table — the last remaining treaty between it and Russia expires only weeks after the next presidential inauguration. Two American presidents embodied the imperative to temper nuclear realism with idealism. One was Ronald Reagan, who negotiated with the Soviet Union’s Mikhail Gorbachev to limit their arms race, but who also hewed publicly to this principle: “A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.” The other was Harry Truman, the only leader whoever ordered nuclear bombs to be dropped in war, but who then helped launch the UN to prevent any such thing from happening again. In his wallet, he kept what could be interpreted as a poetic version of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. They’re these lines by Alfred Tennyson: Till the war-drum throbb'd no longer, and the battle-flags were furl'd,In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world.There the common sense of most shall hold a fretful realm in awe,And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in universal law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/if-we-can-t-ban-nukes-let-s-stigmatize-them-893286.html
26-09-2020||Right in the Middle||The menace of the social media||In his essay ‘My Gentle Readers’ P G Wodehouse says, “I have often felt a little sorry for writers like Cicero who operated in the days before the post office came into existence. For, as everybody knows, an author’s success can be estimated by the number of letters he receives from readers.” If Wodehouse was alive today, would he be sorry for the writers who operated in the days before the advent of the e-mail and social media? In the days of the post office, a letter addressed to you would not reach you the same day. Wodehouse couldn’t have even imagined that a day would come when letters would be delivered the moment it is sent. But the problem in this era of social media is that of belief. Social media is awash with fake, flawed and skewed news. It seems that social media killed in-depth reading and desecrated reading into ‘browsing’. Many people on social media browse superfluous content and get accurate knowledge about nothing and propagate half-truths. On social media, the creator, editor, printer and publisher are the same. Hence, social media has virtually become a social menace. Social media is not only flooded with fake news and skewed views but also with outright lies. I have seen a black and white photograph of a temple with the caption ‘Guruvayur Sreekrishna Temple in 1730’ being widely shared on FB. The person who posted it and those who share it forgot that the first photograph was taken in 1827. The camera was perfected only by 1839. The lockdown forces us to practice social distancing. But social media had already pushed us into an era of social distancing. We are far away from people who live around us. We lost the social intimacy of the pre-social media era as social media has turned us into islands. In the family, each member is an island separate from the other. Social media deleted from our minds the feeling of missing. If we are online, we miss nothing. Can we spend even a single day offline in this day? We are always online. Social media consumes a major chunk of our time, day or night. Social media has made us aliens. As Alice goes to the (unreal) wonderland through the rabbit hole, we go to the unreal world of lies and gossip and self-boasting through the hole of social media and get lost there forever. I don’t think Wodehouse would be sorry for the writers including him who operated in the pre-social media era.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-menace-of-the-social-media-893146.html
26-09-2020||Second Edit||Donald Trump alarms the United States, and the world||US President Donald Trump’s refusal to commit himself to a peaceful transfer of power after the November presidential election is alarming. Instead of assuring Americans that he would respect the people’s mandate, whatever it is, he has equivocated on the matter. Not only did he not explicitly express commitment to the democratic process and its outcome, he even undermined it by raising doubts about postal ballots and describing them as a “whole big scam.” Opinion polls indicate that Trump is trailing his Democratic challenger Joe Biden by several points. The Trump camp is growing increasingly nervous. An incumbent President’s reluctance to commit himself to a peaceful transition of power should not be taken lightly. This is not the first time that Trump has displayed his contempt for democratic processes and verdicts. In the run-up to the 2016 presidential election, too, he had refused to commit to accepting the results. Only then, he won the election -- though through the electoral college and not the popular vote -- and did not need to challenge the verdict. Still, he showed his contempt for voters by refusing to accept that he had indeed lost the popular vote. Should Trump lose the upcoming election, he can be expected to challenge the verdict by questioning the postal ballots. Hence, his repeated undermining of the postal voting process in preparation of that. His strategy appears to be to challenge the verdict in the courts, and it is to ensure that the judicial verdict goes in his favour that he is racing ahead to appoint a loyalist judge to replace Ruth Ginsberg, the recently deceased progressive judge in the Supreme Court. There is also fear that he could resort to using federal troops to break up protests post-results. Respecting the outcome of an election and allowing a smooth transition of power is one of the basic tenets of democracy. The 2000 presidential election result was also disputed, but Democratic candidate and former vice president Al Gore, who won the popular vote, conceded to his Republican rival George W Bush “for the sake of our unity as a people and the strength of our democracy.” Trump has indicated he is willing to destroy this principle. That the threat to America’s democracy is real is underscored by the fact that even Republican leaders are worried. The party must assure Americans of a peaceful transition of power if Trump loses. What’s the hope for democracy elsewhere if it is imperilled, or seen to be so, in the oldest modern democracy?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/donald-trump-alarms-the-united-states-and-the-world-893143.html
26-09-2020||South||Telangana records 2,239 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths||Telangana recorded 2,239 new Covid-19 cases and 11 related deaths, taking the tally of infections in the state to 1.83 lakh. The toll rose to 1,091 with 11 more people succumbing to the virus. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 316, followed by Rangareddy 192 and Medchal Malkajgiri 164 districts, a government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 PM on September 25. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.52 lakh,while 30,334 are under treatment. As many as 58,925 samples were tested on September 25. Cumulatively, 28 lakh samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 75,438, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.59 per cent, while it was 1.58 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 82.90 per cent, while it was 81.98 per cent in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-records-2239-new-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-893216.html
26-09-2020||South||Six more die of coronavirus in Puducherry, toll touches 500||Six more people, including an 89-year old woman, succumbed to Covid-19 in Puducherry on Saturday taking the toll to 500. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that 555 fresh cases were reported after examination of 5,032 samples during last 24 hours. He said 424 patients recovered and were discharged during last 24 hours from hospitals. The fatality rate was 1.92 percent while the recovery rate was 77.62 percent here. Kumar said 1.66 lakh samples have been tested so far and it was found that 1.37 lakh out of them were negative and results of examination of remaining samples was awaited. The addition of 555 new cases took the overall tally to 26,032 (after transfer of 12 cases to Tamil Nadu). While there were 5,327 active cases, the number of patients who recovered and were discharged were 20,205 while the fatalities were 500. The six people who died of infection were in the age group ranging between 47 and 89 years and most of them had co-morbidities such as diabetes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-more-die-of-coronavirus-in-puducherry-toll-touches-500-893274.html
26-09-2020||South||S P Balasubrahmanyam laid to rest at his farmhouse near Chennai||Legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam was on Saturday laid to rest at his farmhouse in Thamaraipakkam, 50 km from Chennai, as thousands of his fans, friends and family members bid a teary farewell to the man whose voice mesmerized millions of people for over five decades. The mortal remains of Balasubrahmanyam, who took his last breath at 1.04 pm on Friday at the MGM Healthcare where he was admitted on August 5 after testing positive for the novel Coronavirus, was taken to his farmhouse on Friday night from his residence in upscale Nungambakkam here. Thousands of his fans queued up outside the sprawling farmhouse in Tiruvallur district early Saturday morning to pay their last respects to the legend. At 10.20 am, Balasubrahmanyam’s son S P Charan began conducting the last rites of his father in the presence of close friends and family members that went on for nearly two hours. A composed Charan, who is also a playback singer, recited Vedic slogans and performed the last rites of his father according to Hindu traditions before he was laid to rest inside the premises of the farmhouse. As the family members paid their respects one last time, the mortal remains of the playback singer was carried by a group of people on their shoulders for burial with full state honours.   Before the body was placed in the pit, the City Armed Reserve Police Personnel gave a gun salute and 26 personnel fired three rounds in the air as part of the state honours. As the body was lowered down the pit, chants of SPB Pugazh Onguga (Long Live SPB’s fame) rented the air. Besides thousands of fans, SPB’s long-time friend in the tinsel town, Bharathiraaja, popular actor Vijay, playback singer Mano and other celebrities also paid respects to SPB. Mano, who is SPB’s contemporary, broke down after seeing his senior colleague inside a glass casket.   While the Tamil Nadu government was represented by Tamil Development Minister ‘MaFoi’ K Pandiarajan, governments of Andhra Pradesh and Kerala had also sent their representatives as a mark of respect to SPB.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/s-p-balasubrahmanyam-laid-to-rest-at-his-farmhouse-near-chennai-893281.html
26-09-2020||South||Telangana gets heavy rainfall; Collectors told be on alert||Heavy rains lashed the city and several parts of the state of Telangana on Saturday prompting the state Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to issue an alert to all district Collectors to take necessary measures. Water stagnation was witnessed at several low-lying areas across the state due to overflowing of tanks and canals, according to reports. "In light of the forecast of heavy rains, the entire district administration should be on high alert. All officers (are) to maintain headquarters and take measures to ensure no loss of life and properties. No leave and permission for public holidays. Special vigil should be maintained in low- lying and vulnerable areas," the Chief Secretary told the Collectors. Heavy to very heavy rains are likely at isolated places across several districts on Saturday resulting in massive flooding and water-logging in low-lying areas. Massive falling of trees and electric poles are leading to disruption of transport in the some areas of the districts, a bulletin from the India Meteorological Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-gets-heavy-rainfall-collectors-told-be-on-alert-893334.html
26-09-2020||South||Father-son duo died due to torture in police custody: CBI||61-year-old P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix (31) were “tortured” by police personnel at the Sathankulam Police Station in Tamil Nadu on June 19 and June 20 leading to their deaths a few days later, an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has found. CBI has filed a charge sheet naming nine policemen, including the then inspector of the police station, for arresting the father-son duo under a false charge and torturing them. A case was filed against 10 policemen, but one sub-inspector died during the investigation after being infected with Covid-19. Bennix and Jeyaraj were arrested on June 19 for allegedly obstructing the police from doing their work but they died on June 22 and June 23 respectively due to injuries inflicted upon them during the police custody. The custodial deaths led to a national outrage prompting the Tamil Nadu government to order a CBI inquiry – the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court had ordered the CB-CID wing to take over the investigation till the time CBI began its work. Inspector and SHO S Sridhar, Sub Inspectors K. Balakrishnan, P Raghuganesh, Head Constables S Murugan, A Samadurai, and Constables M Muthuraja, S Chelladurai, X Thomas Francis and, S Veilumuthu who were working in the police station at Sathankulam, 635 km from here, in Thoothukudi district have been named in the charge sheet. CBI Investigation revealed that the father-son duo were arrested in the evening of 19.06.2020 and allegedly tortured at the Sathankulam Police Station by the accused in the evening as well as in the intervening night, consequent to which both of them succumbed to the injuries and died in the intervening night of 22.06.2020 and 23.06.2020,” a statement from CBI said. The statement said further investigation is continuing to look into the role of other persons in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/father-son-duo-died-due-to-torture-in-police-custody-cbi-893435.html
26-09-2020||South||Kerala adds over 7,000 new Covid-19 cases, 50,000 people under treatment||Kerala's daily Covid-19 graph continues to surge with 7,006 new cases being reported on Saturday, taking the infection count to 1,66,939 and over 50,000 people are presently under treatment, state Health Minister K K Shailaja said. In the last 24 hours, 58,799 samples have been tested. The southern state has been witnessing a massive spike in daily cases since the past few days. While 6,477 cases were detected on Friday, it was 6,324 on Thursday and 5,376 on Wednesday. The toll has climbed to656 with 21more fatalities, the minister said in a press release here. As many as 3,199 people have recovered from the infection while 1,14,530 have been discharged so far after treatment. In Thiruvananthapuram district, 1,050 cases were reported, followed by Malappuram (826), Ernakulam (729) and Kozhikode (684), while three districts recorded over 500 cases and two over 400 cases on Saturday. Of the positive cases, 68 had returned from abroad and 177 from other states and 6,668 were infected through contact. As many as 93 health workers tested positive today, the highest from Thiruvananthapuram. At least, 2,22,330 people are under observation, including 27,883 who are in hospitals, including3,446 admitted today. So far 27,17,040 samples have been sent for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-adds-over-7000-new-covid-19-cases-50000-people-under-treatment-893459.html
26-09-2020||South||ED probes assets of Kerala CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri||The Enforcement Directorate is learnt to be collecting details of assets of Kerala CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri. Bineesh was earlier quizzed by the agency in connection with a case registered against the accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case. He was also found to have links with Anoop Mohammed, a Kerala man held by the NCB from Bengaluru. Bineesh also said that Mohammed borrowed Rs 6 lakh from him for the latter's hotel business. According to sources, as part of the investigation, the ED has sought the details of Bineesh's immovable assets. A letter in this regard was also learnt to have been written to the state registration department. A decision on implicating Bineesh in the case would be taken only after verifying the details. Meanwhile, the CPM leadership in Kerala alleged that the CBI case into a housing scheme with the UAE agency's financial support was politically motivated. The CBI was acting as per the interest of the BJP. The agency did not follow the due process while registering this case based on an MLA's petition, the party maintained. After a meeting of the CPM leadership on Saturday, Balakrishnan said that the CPM would politically face such moves by the BJP and the Congress that were aimed at sabotaging the Left Front government. He also accused the Congress, which earlier accused the BJP of misusing central agencies, of not opposing the misuse of the agencies in Kerala. The CBI, which registered a case on Friday in connection with alleged irregularities in Rs 20 crore housing scheme funded by Emirates Red Crescent, already conducted searches at a couple of locations in connection with the investigation. There were reports that the state vigilance took files on the controversial housing scheme from the state secretariat on Friday as the state government ordered a vigilance inquiry into the matter. The Opposition parties earlier alleged that the vigilance probe was an attempt by the government to scuttle a fair probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-probes-assets-of-kerala-cpm-state-secretary-kodiyeri-balakrishnans-son-bineesh-kodiyeri-893470.html
26-09-2020||South||Do not threaten us with CBI probe, says Kodiyeri as Congress slams ruling front||A day after the CBI registered an FIR over allegations relating to the Life Mission housing project at Wadakancherry in Thrissur, the ruling CPI(M) and Opposition Congress locked horns on Saturday with the Marxist party describing the decision as "politically motivated" and that it would not be threatened. "Do not threaten us with CBI. Neither the CPI(M) nor the LDF government will surrender before the BJP", Party state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan told reporters here after a state committee meeting this evening. The decision to order a probe into Life Mission project was "politically motivated"and "unusual", he said. Pointing out that the party was not scared of the central agency, he recalled that the CBI had probed the Lavalin case against Pinarayi Vijayan. "What happened? Did not the CBI court and High Court dismiss the case? Did not the HC say that the case was a trap against Vijayan?", he asked. The Lavalin case relates to the award of contracts for renovation and modernisation of three hydel projects to Canadian firm SNC-Lavalin in 1995 when Vijayan was the state electricity minister. An audit by the Principal Accountant General of Audit in Kerala later pegged the loss to the exchequer due to the deal at over Rs 350 crore. Opposition leader in the assembly Ramesh Chennithala said with the CBI deciding to conduct the probe, it was clear that serious irregularities had taken place in the project, which envisages construction of homes for the homeless. "This is the biggest corruption which Kerala has ever seen," Chennithala said. The CBI had filed an FIR in a Kochi court in the case under Section 120 B of the IPC and Section 35 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 on a complaint by Wadakancherry Congress MLA Anil Akkakara, listing Santosh Eappen, Managing Director of Unitac Builder, Kochi, as the first accused and Sane Ventures as the second accused. Akkakara alleged that there has been violation of the FCRA act by the Life Mission, an agency under the state of Kerala, private companies and others. KPCC President Mullapally Ramachandran also hit out, alleging that as soon as the CBI probe was announced, some important files relating to the project had been "seized" by Vigilance, which is also probing the matter. "There are doubts that the Vigilance move was part of destroying evidence", he told reporters here. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan alleged that an attempt was being made to 'destroy' the LDF government and CPI(M), for which central agencies were being used. "After the BJP government came to power at the Centre, they have tried destabilise non-BJP governments in various states, he alleged. In the Life Mission project, on the basis of a complaint by an MLA, CBI probe has been ordered. The state committee felt this was "unusual" and "politically motivated", Kodiyeri told reporters. Normally, when the CBI takes over investigation, it is under the recommendation of the High Court or the state government, he said. However, in the Titanium corruption case, the LDF government had sought a CBI probe a year ago and no decision had been taken so far. "When a state government recommends a CBI probe, no action is taken. Now on an MLA's complaint, a CBI investigation has been launched", he said. Asked about the Enforcement Directorate (ED) directing the state registration department to provide details of transactions of properties belonging to his son Binesh Kodiyeri, the Marxist veteran said he had made it clear earlier itself that he would not intervene in any probe. "Let the investigation be held. If he has done any wrong, he should face the action also", he said. The ED probing the money trail in the gold smuggle case had questioned Bineesh for over 11 hours on September 9 in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/do-not-threaten-us-with-cbi-probe-says-kodiyeri-as-congress-slams-ruling-front-893476.html
26-09-2020||South||Karnataka reports 8,811 new Covid-19 cases, 86 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 8,811 new Covid-19 cases and 86 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 5,66,023 and the death toll to 8,503, the Health department said. The day also saw 5,417 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 8,811 fresh cases reported on Saturday, 4,083 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of September 26 evening, cumulatively 5,66,023 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 8,503 deaths and 4,55,719 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 1,01,782 active cases,1,00,950 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 832 are in ICU. As many as 27 of the 86 deaths reported on Saturday were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga (8), Ballari (7), Mysuru (6), Dharwad (4), Bengaluru Rural and Haveri (3), Chikkaballapura, Davangere, Hassan, Koppal, Ramanagara, Tumakuru and Vijayapura (2), and Bagalkote, Chikkamagaluru, Gadag, Kalaburagi, Kolar and Mandya (1). Most of the dead were either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 4,083, followed by Ballari (462), Dakshina Kannada (420), Koppal (352), Mandya (255), Kalaburagi (249), Bengaluru Rural (241), Hassan (239), Dharwad (232), followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 2,16,630 infections, followed by Mysuru (32,348) and Ballari (30,633). Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 1,70,430 discharges, followed by Mysuru with 26,081 and Ballari (25,925). A total of 45,86,780 samples were tested so far, out of which 67,857 were tested on Saturday alone. Among the samples tested today 26,049 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-reports-8811-new-covid-19-cases-86-deaths-893509.html
26-09-2020||South||Union Health Minister has assured Rs 700 crore to manage Covid-19 situation: Puducherry CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Saturday said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had assured that an amount of Rs 700 crore would be allocated to the union territory to manage the ongoing Covid-19 situation. The assurance was given during a meeting in Delhi on Friday, the chief minister said at a virtual meeting on his return from the capital. "We made out a strong case for the allocation of Rs 700 crore to Puducherry for managing the ongoing pandemic situation here," said Narayanasamy, who met Vardhan along with territorial Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao and Puducherry MP V Vaithilingam. "The Health Minister had conceded our plea and also assured to make the allocation soon," the chief minister said, adding the money was needed to ramp up infrastructure in hospitals treating coronavirus patients. "We also need to strengthen manpower by posting doctors and nursing staff in the hospital," he said. He said the Centre had earmarked only Rs 3 crore for Puducherry in April. "But we need more funds to meet the present commitments," Narayanasamy added. He further said he met representatives of government employees outfits on his return from Delhi and requested that government employees contribute one day salary to the COVID fund which they had agreed. Narayanasamy also appealed to legislators, Ministers and MPs to contribute their one month salary to the Covid Fund. "I would contribute my one month pension available to me for having been Member of Parliament to the fund," he added. Narayanasamy said the agitation planned by the Secular Democratic Alliance here on September 28 to protest against the three agri Bills passed in Parliament would take place as scheduled, adding it would be a peaceful stir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-health-minister-has-assured-rs-700-crore-to-manage-covid-19-situation-puducherry-cm-893540.html
26-09-2020||State||'We have lost a member of our family'||Families of late actors Dr Rajkumar, Vishnuvardhan and Ambareesh have said that the void, left behind by S P Balasubhramanyam, cannot be filled easily.  “It’s like we have lost a member of our family. He was a brother, friend and a close member of the family,” they said in one voice.  Actor Puneeth Rajkumar, son of thespian Rajkumar, said SPB will be remembered and revered forever as far as songs in Indian cinema are concerned. “As children, we were so used to hearing three people sing-- SPB, my father, and P B Sreenivas. We thought they were all from our state because they sang so proficiently. As we grew up, we came to know that SPB sir’s speciality was that he sang in all languages. When you hear the voice, you know it is SPB,” Puneeth told DH. He also felt SPB had an unmistakable style. “He sang a slew of beautiful songs for ‘Anand’ when my brother Shivarajkumar was introduced in it in 1986. He also sang for our home production’ Sri Srinivasa Kalyana. I was fortunate to share my voice with him for ‘Bettada Hoovu’. “I have never performed for any of his songs. But we were lucky to have him sing for us in ‘Maya Bazar.’ I am honoured that his last song in Kannada was for my film --- a thought that I can cherish for as long as I can remember,” Puneeth said. Sumalatha, actor-turned-MP and late actor Ambareesh’s wife, said she was praying for a miracle to save SPB. “He was a very dear friend of Ambareesh. He once cancelled a US tour to be here to sing for Ambareesh’s 60th birthday. He would always call on us whenever he was in Bengaluru. I feel like we have lost a big part of our lives. The film industry has lost a precious soul,” Sumalatha said. “Whenever I saw Ambareesh or Vishnuvardhan sing on screen, I felt like they were singing. He made sure he sang in the style of the actor that he was singing for. That was a rare talent,” she added.  Sumalatha also felt that he never wore his popularity on his sleeves. “Humility was his stand-out quality,” he adds.  Actor Bharathi Vishnuvardhan said it is painful to digest the news that SPB is no more. “His achievement was no ordinary one. There is nobody, across the globe, who doesn’t know him. Vishnuvardhan and SPB were like two bodies and one voice.”  “Whenever SPB came home, he and Vishunuvardhan,  would never part ways without singing a couple of songs together. The house came alive when he was around us. I also remember that SPB would enjoy every meal he had in our home, however simple, it was,” Bharathi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/we-have-lost-a-member-of-our-family-893087.html
26-09-2020||State||‘There won’t be another SPB’||The first song SPB sang for me was recorded even before I was cast in the film. The movie was ‘Devara Kannu’ (1975). The song ‘Ninna Neenu Maretharenu’ became a super hit. It was a semi-classical song with ‘alapanas’. He was next called to sing in ‘Bayalu Dari’ (1977), directed by Dorai-Bhagavan. By then, he had seen my performances. He started bringing an inflection in his voice that sounded just like mine! That spoke volumes of the man’s talent. Thereafter, he was on a roll. In ‘Naa Ninna Bidalaare’ (1979), ‘Chandanada Gombe’ (1979), ‘Narada Vijaya’ (1980), ‘Baadada Hoo’ (1982), ‘Nanna Devaru’ (1982), ‘Benkiya Bale’ (1983) and ‘Bidugadeya Bedi’ (1985), you couldn’t miss his stamp. He has given voice to more than 100 songs of mine. To be honest, many of my films received a major boost because of his songs. My performance would be enhanced by his voice.  He was capable of changing his voice to suit a particular actor. He did it in my case, time after time again. Sometimes, he would make spontaneous changes to the songs while singing and I would have to enact it later. I had to do it because what he would do was special. SPB watched my performance in ‘Hamsageethe’ (1975) and embraced me in happiness. He was one of the busiest singers of those times, singing more than 50 songs during his visits to different Southern cities. He was a humble person and never had animosity towards anyone. I never saw him hurt anyone. He has sung over 40,000 songs and I am sure many among those were sung for free. He was generous. In a memorable incident in Mangaluru, he invited me to the popular musical concert called ‘Rasamanjari Sanje’. To my surprise, he asked me to sing one of our hit numbers. Pointing towards SPB, I told the audience that ‘he is my voice and nobody can do justice to my film songs apart from him’.    He was a cheerful, humble, and loving man. Perhaps, our prayers to save him didn’t reach the almighty. There won’t be another SPB.   (As told to Vivek M V, DHNS)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/there-won-t-be-another-spb-893107.html
26-09-2020||State||Karnataka Land Reforms Bill: Govt drops move to up land ceiling||The controversial Bill that frees up agricultural landholdings was passed by the Karnataka Assembly on Saturday, with the BJP government deciding to drop a clause that doubled how much land a family can own. The Karnataka Land Reforms Act (Amendment) Bill 2020 was passed amidst protest by the Opposition Congress, which staged a walkout. Piloting the Bill, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the government would withdraw the proposed amendment to Section 63 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, to double the landholding ceiling. The government had proposed to increase the ceiling from 10 units to 20 units for an individual without family or a family up to four people, and from 20 units to 40 units for large families above five people. Each unit of land is 5.4 acres. "We will retain this provision as it was in the original Act, without any amendment," Ashoka said. Farmers associations and opposition parties had expressed concerns that any increase in the ceiling would enable large corporates to buy land in bulk, leaving small and marginal farmers vulnerable. The government's decision is only a partial victory to farmers' organisations that have called for a statewide bandh on September 28 demanding that the Bill be dropped entirely.In a Cabinet decision in June this year, the government had proposed to amend the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, on three aspects: Allowing non-agriculturists to buy agricultural land, removing the income limit for the purchase of land and doubling the ceiling on landholding. While farmer representatives want the entire amendment to be withdrawn, the government has not budged from its stand on liberalising land ownership. Even as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa reiterated that the government would ensure that no small and marginal farmers will be affected and that the SC/ST lands will remain untouched by this amendment, a ruckus ensued in the Assembly, with opposition leaders demanding the amendment Bill be withdrawn altogether. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah claimed that the government's move stemmed from an ulterior motive to help housing societies and corporate bodies. "The government is acting under pressure from corporate lobbyists," he said. JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy said the government's move had caused anxiety among the farming community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-land-reforms-bill-govt-drops-move-to-up-land-ceiling-893369.html
26-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||TV anchor Anushree appears before police in Sandalwood drug case||Popular television anchor and actor Anushree on Saturday appeared before the police here for questioning in connection with allegations of drug use. She was summoned for questioning on her reported links with Kishore Aman Shetty, dancer-choreographer, who is in judicial custody on charges of consumption and peddling of drugs. Tarun, a close friend of Shetty, who has been arrested on the charge of drug consumption, had revealed to the police that Anushree had also attended Shetty's party, after which she was summoned to record her statement. Police sources said Anushree presented herself before the police at 9 am and is being questioned at the Panambur police station on the outskirts of the city. The state CCB police is investigating drug abuse among bigwigs, including those in the film industry, after the Narcotics Control Bureau arrested three people from Bengaluru with a drug haul. They were allegedly supplying drugs to Kannada film actors and singers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tv-anchor-anushree-appears-before-police-in-sandalwood-drug-case-893309.html
26-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sandalwood drug case: TV anchor Anushree quizzed by police||A team led by deputy commissioner of police Vinay Gaonkar, on Saturday grilled actor and TV anchor Anushree for nearly three-and-a-half hours on her role in the drugs racket in the city.  Anushree, a native of Mangaluru, responding to the notice served on her by CCB sleuths, had left Bengaluru on Friday. As media persons were waiting for her at Bunder CCB office, she has whisked away to Panambur police station for a detailed interrogation on her role in the drugs racket in the city. She told reporters that she came to know about choreographer Kishor Aman and his friend Tarun Raj while choreographing a dance 12 years ago. She said she visited Mangaluru with Tarun to inaugurate Western dance classes. Apart from this, she said she has told that police she had no other relationship with Tarun or drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sandalwood-drug-case-tv-anchor-anushree-quizzed-by-police-893379.html
26-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||668 prisoners tested positive for coronavirus, 585 fully recovered: Karnataka government tells High Court||The state government on Saturday informed the High Court of Karnataka that at present 83 inmates across the 47 prisons in the state were being treated at Covid hospitals/Covid Care Centers (CCC) for the infection. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka had directed the state government to submit in detail the facilities in the prison in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The government said that out of the 668 prisoners who had tested positive for Covid-19 (till September 18), 585 have fully recovered. The statement of objections was filed by Additional Government Advocate Vikram Huilgol in response to a PIL filed by Amol Kale, an accused in the Gauri Lankesh murder case. According to the statement, the prisoners tested positive were not treated at the prisons. Isolation wards have been set up inside the prisons and the prisoners were sent to the designated Covid-19 hospitals or CCCs after receiving the test results. The state submitted that the undertrials were admitted in the prisons only after they test negative for Covid. The statement also said that measures were taken to decongest the prisons and population which stood at 110% as on March 23 has been bought down to 97.7%. The chart provided by the state government shows that prisons located in big cities have recorded more number of Covid-19 cases. The Parappana Agrahara central prison, which has 5,203 inmates, recorded 320 positive cases of which 17 were still undergoing treatment. The other prisons with more number of Covid-19 cases were, Mysuru central prison (64 cases), Kalaburagi (43), Belagavi (37) Ballari (29) and Vijayapura prison (19). The petitioner Amol Kale has been in judicial custody since June 2018. He was in Central Prison in Bengaluru before being shifted to Central Jail in Mysuru on March 28, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/668-prisoners-tested-positive-for-coronavirus-585-fully-recovered-karnataka-government-tells-high-court-893447.html
26-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PIL challenges EIA exemption to National Highway widening projects||A PIL has been filed in Karnataka High Court challenging the exemption of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for all national highway widening projects up to 100 km. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka issued notice to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate (MoEF and CC) and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). The petition filed by United Conservation Movement and Charitable and Welfare Trust, Bengaluru, contended that as per the office memorandum issued by the MoEF and CC dated August 28, 2013, expansion of national highways up to 100 km, involving additional right of way or land acquisition up to 40 meters on existing alignments and 60 meters on re-alignments or bypasses are exempted from the purview of EIA. The petition stated that the amendment issued by the central government was in violation of the provisions under the Environment (Protection) Act and Environment (Protection) Rules. The implication is that a National Highway, up to a length of 100 km, widening can be established irrespective of the ecological sensitivity of the area. Such an exemption is not only contrary to law, but has serious adverse impact on the environment in general and specifically on ecologically sensitive areas, the petition stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pil-challenges-eia-exemption-to-national-highway-widening-projects-893452.html
26-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka likely to see total bandh on Monday as protests against farm, labour bills intensify||Monday's Karnataka bandh called to protest anti-farmer and anti-labour bills is expected to be total as farmers associations, trade unions, various rights groups and organisations have come together. All the associations passed a resolution under the banner of the 'Raita, Karmika, Dalit Aikya Horata' forum, condemning the state government's move to pass the Land Reforms Bill, which they said, would hand over the farmers' rights to the rich and the real estate, and establishes power of corporates over the APMC markets.  The forum said that Monday's bandh will be the beginning of its fight to prevent the government from implementing the amended laws. The forum also said that in the coming days, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would be gheraoed wherever he is seen. Farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, whose faction stayed away from Friday’s road blockage protests, said there was no difference among the factions on Monday's bandh. "Hundreds of organisations will join hands on Monday to stage the biggest protest. The state will go under voluntary shut down from 6 am to 6 pm. This is a collective decision," he said. Goods transporters, taxi and auto rickshaw drivers have already announced their support to the bandh. The government will try to keep its services, including banking and transport, running despite the bandh. However, the protest is likely to disrupt them during the course of the day. What's available: Vegetable, milk, medicine, petrol and diesel and other essential services, including Namma Metro. Services to be affected: Taxi, auto-rickshaw, BMTC, KSRTC and other transport services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-likely-to-see-total-bandh-on-monday-as-protests-against-farm-labour-bills-intensify-893487.html
26-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Combined opposition defeats Karnataka govt's move to amend labour laws||A day after successfully piloting the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill in the lower house, the state government on Saturday suffered a major setback with the combined opposition of Congress-JDS defeating the bill in the Legislative Council. Only 14 MLCs voted in favour of the bill while 26 MLCs voted against the bill. Further, much to the embarrassment of the state government, some of the BJP leaders also opposed the bill. Tabling the bill in Council, Labour minister A Shivaram Hebbar highlighted the provisions under the new amendment and sought support from the members. However, the opposition Congress and JD(S) opposed the bill citing anti-labour stand and demanded that the bill be withdrawn. The new amendment would only make those establishment which employ 300 or more persons seek the government's nod for closure, retrenchment or layoff. Further, worker thresholds will be increased from 10 to 20 in units which use power and from 20 to 40 in factories that do not use power. Even as the opposition was rallying against the provisions of the bill, BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath also opposed the government's move. Several opposition leaders led by SR Patil demanded that the bill be either withdrawn or referred to the Joint Selection Committee. But when the state government refused to heed to the demand, the opposition demanded for the division of votes. At one point, Chief Whip of the opposition M Narayanaswamy tore the bill and demanded the Chairperson to allow division of votes. The government, caught in the pincer, had not alternative than to accept the demand. Accordingly, only 14 MLCs voted in favour of the bill while 26 MLCs voted against the bill and thereby defeating a major move of the state government. Fuming at the opposition, leader of the House and Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary accused the opposition leaders of setting a bad precedence by asking for division of votes due to the combined opposition of Congress and JD(S) in the 75 member Legislative Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/combined-opposition-defeats-karnataka-govts-move-to-amend-labour-laws-893530.html
26-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka slashes rates for RTPCR testing||With the prices of RTPCR reagents coming down, the task force committee has slashed the prices of RTPCR tests. The government in an order dated September 24, slashed the price of Covid-19 samples sent by the government to private labs from Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,200. Samples of patients who directly approach private laboratories can be priced at a maximum of Rs 1,600. Earlier it was Rs 2,500. The cost is inclusive of PPE kits, screening and confirmatory tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-slashes-rates-for-rtpcr-testing-893565.html
26-09-2020||West||4th Indo-Japan naval exercise take place off west coast||The 4th edition of India - Japan Maritime bilateral exercise JIMEX, which is conducted biennially between the Indian Navy and Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) is being conducted in the North Arabian Sea from September 26 to 28. The JIMEX series of exercises commenced in January 2012 with special focus on maritime security cooperation. The last edition of JIMEX was conducted in October 2018 off Visakhapatnam. Naval cooperation between India and Japan has increased in scope and complexity over the years. Advanced level of operations and exercises planned during JIMEX-20 are indicative of the continued upswing in Indo-Japanese defence relations and continued efforts by both Governments to work closely for a more secure, open and inclusive global commons, in accordance with international regulations. JIMEX 20 will showcase a high degree of interoperability and joint operational skills through conduct of a multitude of advanced exercises, across the spectrum of maritime operations. "Multi-faceted tactical exercises involving weapon firings, cross deck helicopter operations and complex surface, anti-submarine and air warfare drills will consolidate coordination developed by the two navies," Indian Navy officials said. JIMEX 20 will be spread over three days and is being conducted in a ‘non-contact at-sea-only format’, in view of Covid-19 restrictions. Indigenously built stealth destroyer 'Chennai', Teg Class stealth frigate 'Tarkash' and Fleet Tanker 'Deepak', under the command of Rear Admiral Krishna Swaminathan, Flag Officer Commanding Western Fleet, will represent the Indian Navy. The Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force will be represented by JMSDF Ships Kaga, an Izumo Class Helicopter Destroyer and Ikazuchi, a Guided Missile Destroyer, led by Rear Admiral Konno Yasushige, Commander Escort Flotilla – 2 (CCF - 2). In addition to ships, P8I Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft, integral helicopters and fighter aircraft will also participate in the exercise. JIMEX 20 will further enhance the cooperation and mutual confidence between the two navies and fortify the long standing bond of friendship between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4th-indo-japan-naval-exercise-take-place-off-west-coast-893208.html
26-09-2020||West||NCB grills Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor in drugs case||Three Bollywood actors - Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan -- were grilled by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday. The federal anti-narcotics organisation is investigating two cases - the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput case and the larger Bollywood-drug cartel nexus.  Deepika, who arrived at the NCB SIT office on Saturday morning, was grilled as part of the larger case involving the use of narcotics by people in the Hindi film industry. The questioning of Shraddha and Sara assumed significance as they have acted in films alongside Sushant. All of them were grilled for nearly six hours. It is not yet known whether they have been summoned again. Sara and Sushant had acted in 'Kedarnath', a romantic drama film written, directed and co-produced by Abhishek Kapoor. After the success of the film, which was released in 2018, a team of the film went to Bangkok to celebrate. Sara and Sushant are said to have travelled together. Sara has also visited Sushant’s Pavna bungalow in Pune for parties. Shraddha and Sushant had featured in 'Chhichhore', a coming-of-age comedy-drama film directed by Nitesh Tiwari, which was released in 2019. The trio was grilled in Evelyn House, the guesthouse of the Mumbai Port Trust near the Taj Mahal Palace, which is the camp office of the NCB’s Special Investigation Team (SIT). On Friday, Deepika's business manager Karishma Prakash was questioned by NCB's Special Investigation Team (NCB). She was also questioned for the second day. Karishma Prakash's WhatsApp chats included conversations about drugs with one 'D' and the central agency wanted to find out who this person was, the NCB sources had said earlier. Meanwhile, at NCB’s zonal office at Ballard Estate, production executive and director Kshitij Ravi Prasad was questioned. Prasad was later arrested and would be produced in court on September 27, said Ashok Mutha Jain, Dy DG, NCB. However, filmmaker Karan Johar clarified that Kshitij has nothing to do with him or his company Dharma Productions. "I would like to further state that several media/news channels have been airing news reports that Kshitij Prasad and Anubhav Chopra are my ‘aides’/’close aides’. I would like to place on record that I don’t know these individuals personally and neither of these two individuals are ‘aides’ or ‘close aides’," his statement read. "Kshitij Ravi Prasad joined Dharmatic Entertainment (sister concern of Dharma Productions) in November 2019 as one of the executive producers on contract basis for a project which eventually did not materialise," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-grills-deepika-padukone-sara-ali-khan-shraddha-kapoor-in-drugs-case-893211.html
26-09-2020||West||Actor Shraddha Kapoor arrives at NCB office in Mumbai for questioning in drug case||Bollywood actor Shraddha Kapoor reached the NCB office here on Saturday to record her statement in drugs probe linked to film star Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an official said. She arrived at the NCB's zonal office in Ballard Estate in south Mumbai around noon. The NCB probe team will record her statement regarding the drugs case related to Rajput's death and Bollywood-drugs nexus as well, the official said. Shraddha's name cropped up during the interrogation of some persons who were earlier summoned by the probe team, sources said. Shraddha had worked with Rajput, who was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. Earlier, actor Deepika Padukone reached the NCB guest house in Colaba around 9.50 am to record her statement. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/actor-shraddha-kapoor-arrives-at-ncb-office-in-mumbai-for-questioning-in-drug-case-893262.html
26-09-2020||West||Thane's Covid-19 tally crosses 1.67 lakh with 1,670 new cases||The coronavirus tally in Thane district of Maharashtra has reached 1,67,013 with the addition of 1,670 cases, an official said on Saturday. The new cases were reported on Friday. The death toll in the district grew to 4,302 as 33 persons succumbed to the infection on Friday, he said. Bhiwandi, Ambarnath and Badlapur civic bodies in the district did not report a single death on Friday, the official said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district is 86.60 per cent and the mortality rate is 2.58 per cent. There are 18,080 active patients in Thane district at present, the official said. In neighbouring Palghar district, the tally of positive cases has gone up to 33,545 and death toll to 641, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thanes-covid-19-tally-crosses-167-lakh-with-1670-new-cases-893284.html
26-09-2020||West||Deepika's manager Karishma Prakash appears before NCB again in drug case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput's death||Soon after actor Deepika Padukone reached the NCB guest house in south Mumbai on Saturday to record her statement in drugs probe linked to film star Sushant Singh Rajput's death, her manager Karishma Prakash also arrived there for questioning, an official said. On Friday, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had questioned Prakash for around seven hours, he said. "Prakash reached the NCB guest house just before 11 am," he said, adding that Deepika had arrived there at 9.50 am. The NCB sources had earlier said that Prakash's WhatsApp chats included conversations about drugs with one 'D' and the central agency wanted to find out who this person was. Officials had said that the probe agency would confront Deepika and her manager to get more information. The NCB began the inquiry after a drugs angle came to light in connection with Rajput's alleged suicide. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deepikas-manager-karishma-prakash-appears-before-ncb-again-in-drug-case-linked-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-893293.html
26-09-2020||West||Wedding photographers struggle to make ends meet amid coronavirus pandemic||The raging coronavirus pandemic and resulting restrictions in place since March have hit the professional photographers hard as they have been struggling to make ends meet due to lack of social events. Fear about the virus and state's curbs on gathering of people have snatched the livelihood of such photographers, who used to earn through events like marriages, political rallies, religious functions before the Covid-19 outbreak. In Maharashtra's Jalna district, over 250 such professional photographers have fallen on hard times. "It is becoming difficult to manage the expenses of our families," president of Jalna District Photographers' Association, Anil Vyawahare, said. "Ban on gatherings means lack of livelihood for us," he said. According to another photographer, the outbreak has dealt a severe blow to the business that was already facing tough times due to smartphone photography. "People use smartphones to take snaps of individuals and other things. Hence, our profession now mostly depends on social gatherings. But due to the pandemic, we have lost even that," photographer Sharad Khanapure said. According to the photographers, the outbreak started when the three-month long wedding season generally begins in April. According to astrologers, during the three months, there were 20 'muhurt' (auspicious dates) for marriages. However, due to the restrictions, this wedding season went blank for the professional photographers, they aid. "On every muhurt, about 100-200 marriages take place across the district and photographers are generally very busy during this season. But the pandemic forced us to remain at home this year," photographer Mazhar Saudagar said. The businesses linked to the marriage photography have also been affected. Photographers use around three drones, several still cameras, video cameras and other equipment during big weddings. However, due to the pandemic, the suppliers of this equipment have also been affected. "Majority of photographers are reeling under debt and it is getting difficult for them now. Therefore, we want the government to provide relief," Vyawahare said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wedding-photographers-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-893302.html
26-09-2020||West||Bombay High Court orders release of three women sex workers detained in Mumbai||Observing that prostitution was not a criminal offence under the law, and that an adult woman had the right to choose her vocation, the Bombay High Court has ordered immediate release of three women sex workers detained at a state corrective institution in Mumbai. In an order passed on Thursday, a bench of Justice Prithviraj Chavan said that prostitution had not been considered a criminal offence under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. He said that prostitution by itself was not an offence and did not entail a punishment. Instead, its public solicitation was the offence defined under the Act. Justice Chavan was hearing a plea filed by the three women challenging an order passed by the Metropolitan Magistrate, Mazgaon, that had upheld their detention at a local correctional facility against their will. As per the HC order, the women, all in their twenties, were picked up by the police in September last year following a raid at a guest house. The middleman was arrested and booked under the Act. The three women were held as "victims" and sent to the correctional facility. Subsequently, the mothers and other legal guardians of the three women approached the magistrate's court seeking their custody. The magistrate however, declined to give their custody to their guardians. Justice Chavan, however, set aside the magistrate's order. He said that the women were "adults," and "entitled to their fundamental right to move freely and choose their own vocation". The high court held that since the womenwere not being prosecuted under the law, there was no question of continuing their detention at the correctional home. "Even otherwise, the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 does not empower the Magistrate to hold the custody of the victims beyond the period of three weeks without there being any final order to that effect after following due process of law," the HC said. It further said that there was nothing on record to show that the petitioners were seducing any person for the purpose of prostitution or that they were running a brothel. "There is no provision under the law, which makes prostitution per se a criminal offence or punishes a person because he indulges in prostitution," it said. "What is punishable under the Act is sexual exploitation or abuse of a person for commercial purpose and to earn the bread thereby. And where a person is carrying on prostitution in a public place or when a person is found soliciting or seducing another person as defined under the Act," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-orders-release-of-three-women-sex-workers-detained-in-mumbai-893303.html
26-09-2020||West||Goa BJP asks party cadres to gear up for 2022 Assembly polls||The BJP's Goa unit on Saturday appealed to its cadres to start working towards winning majority of seats in the 2022 legislative Assembly elections. During a party meeting held in Mapusa in the presence of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, Goa BJP president Sadanand Tanavade told members of the state executive committee to enthuse cadres to strengthen the organisation at booth level. Party workers were in touch with people through virtual mediums in light of the pandemic, but now they should come out and establish contacts, Tanavade said. "We should aim to win majority of the seats in 2022 Goa legislative Assembly election by working in all constituencies. We have booth-level committees in all 40 Assembly constituencies," Tanavade said, while addressing the first state executive committee meet after his appointment as president. BJP leaders and workers have been on the field during the pandemic and 68 party cadres had contracted the coronavirus infection so far, he said. "Our chief minister also got infected because he was fighting the situation from the front," Tanavade said. Party workers should respond to allegations levelled by opposition parties and encourage the state government to work better to tackle the pandemic, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bjp-asks-party-cadres-to-gear-up-for-2022-assembly-polls-893331.html
26-09-2020||West||Opposition stalling Farm Bills fearing PM Modi's popularity: Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal||Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal on Saturday said the Farm Bills passed by the Parliament were in the interest of farmers, but the opposition parties were trying to stall them as they were "worried" about the rising popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also said that although the opposition parties were crying foul over the Parliament's monsoon session getting curtailed, they themselves had demanded it. The minister of state for parliamentary affairs was addressing the BJP's state-level executive meeting in Goa virtually. "The opposition is trying to stall the Farm Bills drafted in the interest of country's farmers, because they are worried about the increasing popularity of PM Modi," he said. "The opposition is criticising the government on the Farm Bills saying that they were passed in a hurried manner during the short session of the Parliament. But they are indulging in false propoganda," Meghwal added. "We wanted to have an 18-day long session of Parliament, but due to Covid-19 outbreak there was a demand by the opposition to curtail it," he said. Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were adjourned sine die on Wednesday, bringing the Monsoon Session of Parliament to an end eight days ahead of schedule. The minister also said that the Farm Bills were long- pending, which the Modi government brought. "You cannot say that they were passed hurriedly. They were pending for decades," Meghwal said. He said these Bills will go a long way in increasing the income of farmers. "The agriculture and labour reforms will work as a growth engine for the country," he added. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, state BJP chief Sadanand Tanavade also attended the meeting, which was held at Mapusa city, around nine kms away from here. The three Bills passed by the parliament are the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-stalling-farm-bills-fearing-pm-modis-popularity-minister-arjun-ram-meghwal-893340.html
26-09-2020||West||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pays tribute to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on 200th birth anniversary||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday paid tribute to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his bicentenary birth anniversary and seized the occasion to hit out at "certain outsiders", who, according to her, had desecrated a bust of the polymath last year. She also said that the social reformer will be remembered for his crusade against child marriage and polygamy, and his teachings will continue to inspire all. "Remembering great social reformer & educationist Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his 200th birth anniversary. He was a pioneer for Bangla language & drafted primer Barnaparichay. Also known as 'Dayar Sagar', he fought for widow remarriage, banning child marriage & polygamy," Banerjee tweeted. A bust of Vidyasagar was vandalised at a college here in May 2019, when clashes broke out during a roadshow led by the then BJP president Amit Shah, ahead of the last phase of Lok Sabha elections. Both the TMC and the saffron party had blamed each other for the incident. "Vidyasagar truly represents the pride of Bengal & serves as an inspiration to us till date. His bust was unfortunately desecrated in 2019 by certain outsiders, which only shows their disregard for Bengal's legacy. However, his teachings are deeply inculcated in our values," the CM wrote on Twitter Vidyasagar truly represents the pride of Bengal & serves as an inspiration to us till date. His bust was unfortunately desecrated in 2019 by certain outsiders, which only shows their disregard for Bengal’s legacy. However, his teachings are deeply inculcated in our values. (2/2) Banerjee had, on several occasions, referred to the BJP as a "party of outsiders". Prime Minister Narendra Modi, following the desecration of the bust in May 2019 and ensuing protests, had promised to install a grand statue of Vidyasagar at the same spot in the college. The chief minister, however, went ahead and unveiled a new bust of the noted reformer within a month of the incident. Meanwhile, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also remembered the 19th-century polymath on Saturday, describing him as "one of the greatest reformers of all times". "Today marks the 200th birth anniversary of late Sanskrit scholar, writer, educationist, social reformer and philanthropist Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. He was one of the greatest reformers of all times. His contributions to the upliftment & betterment of the society is immense," he added. Born on this day in 1820 at Birsingha village in Medinipur, Vidyasagar is widely known for his social reform movements during the mid-19th century. He had also worked for the emancipation of women and made significant contributions to simplify and modernise the Bengali language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-pays-tribute-to-ishwar-chandra-vidyasagar-on-200th-birth-anniversary-893345.html
26-09-2020||West||Western India witnesses first successful bilateral hand transplant at Global Hospital||Mumbai girl Monika More, who had successfully undergone a double hand transplant procedure, the first in Western India, is back at home. There was a spark in her eyes and smile in the face of the 24-year-old Monika, a resident of Kurla in Mumbai. She underwent a 16-hour double hand transplant procedure successfully on 28 August, has recovered very well and is excited to get a new lease of life and will attempt to become independent after a gap of almost six years. “I became emotional after the transplant as I strongly believed that I will get new hands and can fulfil my dream,” said Monika. Monika lost both her hands in 2014 after falling into a deadly platform gap at Ghatkopar station on the Central Railway. She tried to use prosthetic limbs for a few months but soon realized that they are practically useless and more of a burden. “Earlier, I would avoid attending functions or weddings as I couldn’t apply mehndi on my hands. But, after my hands get functional, I will apply mehndi, paint, and do activities such as eating, bathing, combing hair, and cooking on my own. I always wanted to become independent and I am happy that I will be able to do so,” she added. Two years back, she was registered for Bilateral Hand Transplantation at Global Hospital, Mumbai. On several occasions, there were potential organ donors who could have donated hands for Monika. But she missed the opportunities, as the donor families did not agree for hand donation. Finally, a suitable donor was identified in Chennai. A young man was brain-dead and his family generously agreed for hand donation. The donor's hands were flown in from Chennai to Mumbai by a chartered flight, and bilateral hand transplant surgery was successfully performed. Dr. Nilesh G Satbhai, Consultant Plastic, Aesthetic, Hand & Reconstructive Microsurgeon, Global Hospitals, Mumbai, said, “After performing the complex procedure successfully, Monika was put on immunosuppressant medication. She was kept in the transplant ICU in a separate room, with a dedicated nurse as strict care and isolation was needed. Regular dressings were done for both the hands.” According to him, Monika was able to sit up and walk with support for her arms on the third day itself. “She was given physiotherapy twice a day along with breathing and shoulder exercises. She initially had a plaster slab above the elbow till the hand to support the bones, and will need splints for more than a month,” he said. Dr. Satbhai added: “In the next couple of weeks, she will be asked to move her elbow as well. Her hand and fingers are expected to start moving after 3-4 months as the nerve healing and recovery happens. The muscles, tendons, and bones would also heal by then. The patient will need help with her day-to-day-activities until then. But, once the hands start functioning, and exercise and physiotherapy progress, she will be more independent. Her functional recovery will continue over the next year and a half.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/western-india-witnesses-first-successful-bilateral-hand-transplant-at-global-hospital-893355.html
26-09-2020||West||Over 900 Covid-19 cases detected in private offices of Ahmedabad||As many as 966 persons have so far tested positive for coronavirus in 7,810 offices in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city, under the civic body's "COVID-19 coordinator" initiative, a senior official said on Saturday. As part of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation's (AMC) drive 67,845 tests were conducted in 7,810 offices, in which 966 persons have tested positive so far, said Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary and in-charge for Covid-19 management in the city. The AMC is the only civic body in the country to carry out a massive Covid-19 drive in private establishments, the official said on Twitter. Earlier in August, the civic body had asked large establishments, with over 30 employees, to appoint a "COVID coordinator" at their premises for effective implementation of social distancing and other norms to prevent the spread of the infection. In units having less than 30 staffers, owners or managers were made responsible for implementing guidelines and SOPs, it had directed. The coordinator is required to ensure that any employee who has symptoms such as fever, cough, cold and breathing trouble, among others is not allowed entry. He is also required to get suspected patients from the office tested for coronavirus and inform zonal offices of the AMC about it. As per the AMC's latest COVID-19 bulletin, the city has so far reported a total of 33,516 COVID-19 cases, of which 3,794 patients are undergoing treatment, 1,754 have died and 27,968 have recovered so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-900-covid-19-cases-detected-in-private-offices-of-ahmedabad-893387.html
26-09-2020||West||Gujarat town tense after 50-year-old Dalit lawyer's murder||Rapar town in Kutch district on Saturday remained tense after a 50-year-old lawyer and Dalit leader was murdered allegedly by an upper-caste youth for reasons not yet revealed. However, the victim's family has alleged that the lawyer was killed for taking up a case related to a property dispute between two other communities. Late on Saturday evening, police caught the suspected killer identified as Bharat Raval, 22, from Mumbai with the help of Mumbai Crime Branch. Police said that Devji Maheshwari was stabbed while entering his office at Rapar town on Friday early evening. A CCTV grab showed a youth walking behind the lawyer in his office and running back. Maheshwari can be also seen coming out of the office with his shirt soaked in blood. He was declared brought dead in the hospital. Police said that the incident occurred between 5:30 PM to 6 PM on Friday. As the word spread, hundreds of people in Rapar and neighbouring towns blocked highways, burnt tyre to lodge their protest. The family members refused to accept the dead body for cremation demanding arrest of responsible people. The family members have given nine names who are reportedly behind the murder. "We are looking into the complaint. As on today, we have identified the suspect and set up a team to arrest him. We are not yet sure of the motive," said J R Mothaliiya, range inspector general, Bhuj range, told DH. He added that the "law and order situation has been brought under control." In the FIR, the family members have reported that Maheshwari recently chose to take up a case related to a property dispute between two different communities in the town as no other lawyer was reportedly willing to represent any of the two communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-town-tense-after-50-year-old-dalit-lawyers-murder-893391.html
26-09-2020||West||India can be next global manufacturing hub: US Counsel at IACC COVID Crusaders Awards||India can become the next supply chain manufacturing hub, provides it acts right now, said David Ranz, the US Counsel at the American Embassy in Mumbai. Ranz was speaking to an assorted online audience at the IACC COVID Crusaders Awards 2020. "India has a once-in-a-generation opportunity to evolve into a supply chain manufacturing hub for the world, especially as foreign investment is leaving China and looking for a new home", said Ranz at the event. The IACC COVID Crusaders Awards 2020 honoured Indian and American individuals, corporates, NGOs, MSMEs and others, who had devoted themselves to serving humanity at this stage. These included honours for exemplary work by individuals, foundations, NGOs, MSMEs, startups and bureaucrats.  Kader Shaikh, a Gujarat-based businessman, was acknowledged for converting his 30,000 sq feet office into an 85-bed COVID care facility. On the other end, celebrity Chef Vikas Khanna received the honour for the Feed India campaign, which has delivered over 40 million meals so far. The chosen Crusaders included bureaucrats who had done much as well - Iqbal Singh Chahal, Municipal Commissioner, BMC and Sylvester Turner, Mayor of Houston.  The list of awardees included NGOs Akshaya Patra, Goonj and Heifer International, companies like Godrej, Mahindra & Mahindra and Wallis Bank and MSMEs MyLab Discovery Solutions, Perennials and Sutherland LLC and Sevatec Inc.  "The pandemic, which has seen frontline warriors rise to the occasion to save lives, has also inspired all of us to step forward and do our bit for humanity. With their actions, these awardees from India and America, have become examples of purpose and philanthropy too. I hope that IACC will take the lead in opening the philanthropic corridor between India and US to foster better bilateral relations between our two countries", said Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-can-be-next-global-manufacturing-hub-us-counsel-at-iacc-covid-crusaders-awards-893407.html
26-09-2020||West||Tree cover in Gujarat shrank between 2006 and 2017: CAG||Forest cover in Gujarat increased between 2006 and 2017 but the tree cover decreased, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has noted in a report. "Tree cover" comprises tree patches outside recorded forest area, exclusive of forest cover, the report, tabled in the state Assembly on Friday, explained. The tree cover in the state was 8,390 sq km in 2006 but it shrank to 6,910 sq km in 2017, the CAG report said. While the forest cover in the country is 21.67 per cent of the total area, in Gujarat it is 7.57 per cent, it noted. The National Forest Policy of 1988 envisaged that the goal should be to have one-third of the total land area of the country under forest or tree cover, the report said. "Forest cover" includes all lands more than one hectare with a tree canopy density of more than 10 per cent, irrespective of ownership and legal status. Out of the 1,96,000 sq km area of Gujarat, 14,620 sq km area was under forest cover in 2006, which increased to 14,860 sq km in 2017, the CAG report said, quoting the India State of Forest Report of the Forest Survey of India. During the same period, tree cover decreased from 8,390 sq km in 2006 to 6,910 sq km in 2017. At the national level, the forest cover grew from 690.90 thousand sq km to 712.25 thousand sq km, while tree cover grew from 92.77 thousand sq km to 95.03 thousand sq km during the same period, it said. The aggregate forest and tree cover of India rose from 783.67 thousand sq km in 2006 to 807.28 thousand sq km in 2017. In Gujarat, meanwhile, it decreased from 23.01 thousand sq km to 21.77 thousand sq km, the CAG said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tree-cover-in-gujarat-shrank-between-2006-and-2017-cag-893461.html
26-09-2020||West||Sanjay Raut meets Devendra Fadnavis for 'Saamana' interview||In a surprising development that has raised many eyebrows in political circles, Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut met Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis in Mumbai on Saturday. Later, it emerged that Raut, the Executive Editor of Saamana, met Fadnavis to discuss the proposed interview of the latter for the newspaper. It needs to be mentioned here that Raut’s personal relationship with leaders cutting across the political spectrum is excellent. Raut, the close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, discussed the interview with Fadnavis, a senior BJP leader, in a five-star hotel. After intense speculations, Fadnavis’s counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar clarified that the meeting was held to discuss the interview. “Sanjay Raut had expressed his desire to conduct an interview with Fadnavis. The meeting was to discuss that. Devendra Fadnavis had conveyed that the interview should go unedited,” Darekar said, adding that the interview would be conducted after the Bihar polls are over. However, state BJP President Chandrakant Patil said that he was not aware of the meeting. “It is not something unnatural for people of different parties and ideologies meeting each other,” he said. It may be recalled, Saamana had carried out a three-part interview with NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Raut and Pawar are considered the chief architects of the Maha Vikas Aghadi led by Thackeray. The Shiv Sena broke ranks with the BJP to form the government along with NCP and Congress. Since then, the relationship between Thackeray and Fadnavis is not the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-meets-devendra-fadnavis-for-saamana-interview-893471.html
26-09-2020||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery tally crosses 10-lakh mark||Amid rising Covid-19 cases this comes as a silver lining - the total number of patients who have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra has crossed the 10 lakh-mark. On Saturday, 23,644 persons were discharged taking the total to 10,16,450. "The per cent of discharged patients in the state is over 76 per cent," Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. He also said the first two patients were diagnosed in Maharashtra on 9 March and  the first two discharge were reported on 25 March. Meanwhile,  20,419 new cases have been reported in the state taking the total to 13,21,176. The death toll in the state has crossed the 35,000-mark. With 430 new deaths reported, the toll now stands at 35,191. The case fatality rate in the state stands at 2.66 per cent. Out of 63,76,676 laboratory samples, 13,21,176 have been tested positive (20.74%) for Covid-19 till date. Currently 19,45,758 people are in home quarantine and 30,571 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-recovery-tally-crosses-10-lakh-mark-893474.html
26-09-2020||West||CM Pramod Sawant to lead Goa BJP into 2022 Assembly polls||The Goa BJP on Saturday sounded the bugle for the forthcoming 2022 state assembly polls, with state president of the ruling party announcing Chief Minister Pramod Sawant as the party's face for the elections. Tanavade made the announcement after a meeting of the BJP's state executive held near Panaji, in his interaction with media persons. "An election is the objective of any political party. With the support of the people and hard work of the party workers, BJP in 2022 under the leadership of Pramod Sawant will win with an absolute majority. I can say this confidently," Tanavade told reporters. The party will begin its process for training its party workers for the assembly polls which are scheduled to be held in 2022, next month. Sawant took charge as Chief Minister of Goa after the demise of Manohar Parrikar in office in March 2019. Ever since he was appointed Chief Minister, Sawant's leadership came under severe criticism from the Opposition as well as BJP leaders who were considered close to the Manohar Parrikar camp, including the deceased politician's son Utpal, who is also a member of the party's state executive. Responding to criticism from the Opposition, however, Tanavade said that the rhetoric by the Opposition, who have repeatedly maintained that the BJP would be reduced to single digits in the 2022 polls, thanks to poor administration, especially the mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic, would have to regret their words. "Those who claim that the BJP will be reduced to single digits in the coming election, I want to tell them that those who criticise without stepping out of their homes will instead be reduced to single digits come elections," Tanavade said. After winning an unprecedented simple majority of 21 seats in the 2012 state assembly polls, the party managed to win only 13 seats in 2017, only managing to scramble to power amid accusations of horse-trading by the Opposition. At the meeting of the state executive, its members also passed a unanimous resolution backing Sawant and the manner in which his administration had tackled the Covid-19 crisis. "This state executive congratulates Dr. Pramod Sawant-led government for being proactive and committed to the welfare and well-being of Goans. This state executive also congratulates all the frontline Covid-warriors, doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, police and other administrative workers for their relentless efforts in fighting the global pandemic," the resolution states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-pramod-sawant-to-lead-goa-bjp-into-2022-assembly-polls-893485.html
26-09-2020||West||Gujarat govt to not organise state Navratri festival due to Covid-19||The Gujarat government- organised Navratri festival will not be celebrated this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Saturday. However, the government has not yet clarified its stand on whether Navratri celebrations, marked by 'garba' dance, will be allowed to be organised by individuals. "The nine-day traditional state-level Navratri festival, organised by the state government every year will not be celebrated in the larger public interest due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation this year," a release quoted Chief Minister Vijay Rupani as saying. The festival was supposed to be held between October 17 and October 25. The government's decision comes at a time when the state has reported over 1.3 lakh confirmed coronavirus cases and more than 3,400 deaths. The state-level garba function, held at GMDC Ground in Ahmedabad every year, was started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was chief minister of Gujarat. The PM had participated in the festival last year and performed 'aarti' at the GMDC ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-to-not-organise-state-navratri-festival-due-to-covid-19-893505.html
26-09-2020||West||Goa govt to lift ban on new jobs from January 2021, says CM Pramod Sawant||The Goa government will lift its ban on new recruitments from next January, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday. The government had banned fresh hiring till December 2020 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sawant told reporters the proposed move would make a large number of employment opportunities available in private as well as government sectors. Sawant said his government had attracted investment in the form of a maritime cluster and medical device park, which will provide employment opportunities to the youth. He conceded that the financial situation of the state has taken a hit due to a decrease in the revenue by 35-40 per cent. The CM said the New Educational Policy would be implemented from the next academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-to-lift-ban-on-new-jobs-from-january-2021-says-cm-pramod-sawant-893528.html
