27-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tourism Day: Visitors welcomed with roses at Mysuru Palace||The visitors to Mysuru Palace were welcomed by offering roses and 'Mysore Pak', by the members of Mysuru Travels Association, as a mark of World Tourism Day, in Mysuru city, on Sunday. The celebrations were a simple affair this year, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The visitors were offered roses at Jayamarthanda and Balarama Gate, by the members, who were dressed in traditional attire, complete with Mysuru peta. They assured the visitors that Mysuru is open and is safe to visit. Association honorary president B S Prasanth said that the city is opened for tourists and standard operating procedure followed, as per the government guidelines. The people can visit Mysuru without any fear, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourism-day-visitors-welcomed-with-roses-at-mysuru-palace-893824.html
27-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Bandh called for political gains: Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Sunday said the Karnataka bandh called by various organisations to oppose amendments to Land Reforms Act and APMC Act was politically motivated. Speaking to reporters, the minister said, only a score of farmers and associations are opposing the amendments. "The farmers will have several benefits from the amendments. They will be freed from middlemen to sell their produce," Somashekar said, hailing the Farm Bills. The Minister said he visited 27 districts and the farmers were happy with the new initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bandh-called-for-political-gains-somashekar-893710.html
27-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress backs bandh, plans campaign against Karnataka govt||The state Congress has decided to extend its support to the statewide bandh announced by farmer organisations, protesting the  amendments to APMC and Land Reforms Acts. AICC general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Randeep Surjewala on Sunday charged the Narendra Modi-led Centre and Yediyurappa’s state government of launching a “diabolical and debilitating attack” on the lives of farmers. “Congress is committed to defeat the anti-farmer forces,” he said, accusing the government of compromising the interests of farmers for the benefit of a handful of corporates and builder lobby. KPCC president D K Shivakumar lashed out at the government for the amendments, alleging that the legislation would reduce farmers to bonded labourers of few corporates. “The party has decided to completely back the bandh call given by farmer organisations,” he said. During an event to felicitate Surjewala for being appointed Karnataka in-charge, he chalked out a campaign to corner the Yediyurappa government over corruption charges and Covid failures. In a meeting attended by the Congress leaders from various district units, he said that grassroots workers should highlight the widespread corruption by members of Yediyurappa family. “There are two types of taxes in Karnataka - GST and VST,” he said, taking a dig at CM’s second son and BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra, expanding VST as Vijayendra Service Tax. KPCC will campaign against the corrupt practices of the government, he added. In support of the bandh call by farmer organisations, protests will be held by Congress units across the state, Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-backs-bandh-plans-campaign-against-karnataka-govt-893948.html
27-09-2020||National||Being self-sufficient in defence sector linked to 'self-respect', 'sovereignty' of country: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said a country that depends on imports for its military equipment can never be strong and asserted that being self-sufficient in the defence sector is linked to "self-respect" and "sovereignty". India is one of the most lucrative markets for global defence giants and the country has figured among the top three global importers of military hardware for the last eight years. Singh also mentioned the government's decision to put restrictions on import of 101 weapon and military platforms, including light combat helicopters, conventional submarines and cruise missiles, under a staggered time-line till 2024. "This single decision has created an opportunity to manufacture defence equipment worth Rs 52,000 crore per year in India," he said at an event. Singh also said that "a country that depends on imports for its defence equipment can never be strong". "Therefore, being self-sufficient in the defence sector is very important and it is linked to the 'self-respect' and 'sovereignty' of our country," he said. The government's decision to make India "self-reliant" does not mean that doors are being closed, but signifies that more doors are being opened for companies to do manufacturing in the country, Singh said. The Indian armed forces are projected to spend around USD 130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years, according to estimates. The central government will soon bring a new Defence Production and Procurement Policy, he said online during the event titled "Deendayal Smriti Vakhyayan". Bhartiya Jan Sangh co-founder Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay's 104th birth anniversary was on Friday. "What is the point of importing things that are being manufactured in India or that can be manufactured in India easily? When we would become 'vocal for local', we would not only be getting things that can be manufactured in India easily, but we would also be encouraged to manufacture those products that are currently not being made in the country," Singh said. Speaking on the farm bills, which were recently passed by Parliament, the minister said that the commitment towards welfare of farmers dates back to the days of Deen Dayal Upadhyay. "No one can deter us from this path. For the first time after Independence, Atalji had made the country's villages, poor people and farmers the centre of his policies. Now, Modiji is working on the same path and in a big way," Singh said. He said that Prime Minister Modi has taken such steps that will help farmers get a better price for their produce. Several opposition parties, including the Congress, have claimed that the bills -- Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- will harm the interest of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted the bills will be beneficial for farmers and increase their income. "The farmer of this country is not forced to mortgage his hard work in mandis now. After the passage of these bills, every farmer of the country will be free to sell his crop anywhere in the country, where he gets a better price," Singh said. The minister also spoke on the three key labour reform bills which were passed by Parliament on Wednesday "In this country, there were so many laws for the workers that it became almost impossible for the labourers to get their rights. Now, the government has passed the new Labour Bill in Parliament and laid the foundation for new labour reforms in the country," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/being-self-sufficient-in-defence-sector-linked-to-self-respect-sovereignty-of-country-rajnath-singh-893580.html
27-09-2020||National||When should schools reopen? Amid Covid-19, futures, lives at stake||With children either stuck to their screens or at risk of enduring a lost year, the question on everybody's lips is: When should schools open? Covid has altered everybody's life, but the closure of schools has meant the impact on the very young could be long-lasting and difficult to predict. Direct effects range from insecurity, isolation from peers and depression to malnutrition from missing out on midday meals for the poor and obesity due to lack of activity for the affluent. There's worse: Reports of physical and mental abuse, and even child suicides. Kids with special scholastic or physical needs aren't getting the personalised attention they need. So the pressure to open up is intense, counterbalanced by a fear of an explosion in cases, and children carrying the virus home to vulnerable grandparents. Besides, parents are terrified of children getting a virus that is increasingly unpredictable. What to do? The answer to this conundrum lies in viewing the opening of schools very differently from unlocking the economy. Nationally we are near the peak of the epidemic; we need to wait for the endemic phase, marked by Iow and relatively steady numbers of infection. Then we can open schools for higher as well as lower grades, but with a clear protocol for safe practices. When schools were closed nationally on March 24, the epidemic was just starting in India. The virus had not even reached many states in India’s eastern region. So the closing of schools was clearly premature. Now, six months later, the epidemic has penetrated India’s remotest tribal habitats. In the US, the reopening of schools during the epidemic was followed by a 90 per cent increase in infection in children over four weeks. Reopening now will surely accelerate the spread of the virus, potentially leading to resurgence, possibly a second wave, and deaths among the elderly at home. Looking back now, we can say it was very easy to close schools but reopening will not be that simple. One-size-fits-all won’t work The Unlock 4 guidelines announced on August 29 allow schools to open partially for Classes 9 to 12 from September 21, but with no word yet on when schools will be allowed to reopen fully for all classes. But now is the time to prepare schools and to rehearse measures. Education is on the concurrent list and both Central and State Governments are jointly in charge. Since the epidemic is not uniform in all states, the role of the Central government is to provide detailed guidelines. It must be the responsibility of state governments to assess the local situation and make decisions on school reopening. The one-size-fits-all approach, that was clearly faulty at the time of school closure, is also inappropriate for school reopening. States should consider anganwadis, primary, secondary, high and higher secondary schools separately and not as one unit. Within states, districts are not uniformly affected and a staggered approach, district by district, will be advisable. To manage the lifting of lockdown and economic recovery, district task forces with government and private participation will be an innovative step in decentralised governance. The district task force could assess the local conditions and assist the education department to prepare for school reopening. Put detailed protocols in place The immediate need is to spell out all mitigating steps to minimise the spread of infection and clear guidelines to keep the infection under check and watch. If anyone in school – be it student, teacher or ancillary staff – is infected, either in the school environs or elsewhere, protocols of action should be ready and rehearsed before schools are allowed to open. Distance teaching is an option at the higher secondary level, if preparations are in place. Teachers, parents and children have to be ready with hardware, software and connectivity. If any child lacks any item, provision must be made to give it. Without such preparations, distance education as a blanket solution is not advisable. Teachers, staff and parents must be given authentic information on the epidemic to mitigate the stigma attached to the infection. Detailed training for physical distancing, mask-wearing, hand and respiratory hygiene must be given. Where necessary, classes could be conducted in shifts or batches. Anyone found ill in class needs quick medical attention. Breaks for refreshments or lunch should be carefully planned and managed to avoid risk of infection when children will have to remove masks. Visual cues for physical distancing are needed on the floor; posters and reminders in the morning assembly can serve as channels for reinforcing new drills and disciplines put in place. Contact sports must be avoided, but other games must be carefully supervised. Providers of school transport services need education and preparation for safe travel of children. Such preparations will take time, and only after they are in place should the district task force allow schools to reopen. When to reopen? The best time to reopen schools will be after all schools are fully prepared and at a time when the epidemic has abated or the vaccine is in wide use. Nationally we are around the time of the epidemic peak and we can expect a slow decline in daily numbers of new infections. That will lead to the endemic phase when new infections will be low and steady. The experience of Germany shows that with proper precautions, and when infection had become endemic, reopening schools is safe and without the acceleration of virus spread. The cooperation of parents must be ensured and the best agency to ensure the smooth reopening of schools is the district task force with the representation of government administrators, health authorities, educationists, representatives of businesses and professions, voluntary organisations and civil society. The education department must grapple with the problems of catching up on syllabi, with fairness and lenience in conducting examinations and making the return to normalcy as smooth and non-traumatic as possible for all children. State governments must evolve policies on shortened durations of future school vacations and take extra efforts to make up for lost academic lessons. There should not be any stress on school students in the processes of school reopening and life gradually returning to normal. The idea of ‘one size fits all’ must give way to decentralised planning and decisions taking into account local factors. The world after Covid must be a vastly better place than the one before. Schools are a good place to begin. (Dr T Jacob John is a past president of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP) and Dr Dhanya Dharmapalan is the editor of the IAP Textbook of Pediatric Infectious Diseases. Through The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-should-schools-reopen-amid-covid-19-futures-lives-at-stake-893623.html
27-09-2020||National||Former Union Minister Jaswant Singh passes away||Armyman-turned-politician Jaswant Singh, the External Affairs Minister in the Vajpayee government who reshaped India’s foreign policy in the aftermath of the 1998 nuclear tests and transformed relations with the US, breathed his last here Sunday morning after a prolonged illness. He was 82. Singh passed away at 6:55 a.m. at the Army Hospital (Research and Referral), where he was admitted on June 25. A founding member of the BJP, Singh was considered as the man for all seasons by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who entrusted him with key portfolios of Defence, Finance and External Affairs. “Jaswant Singh Ji will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society. Jaswant Singh Ji served our nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. Jaswant Singh Ji will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society. He also contributed to the strengthening of the BJP. I will always remember our interactions. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti. As External Affairs Minister, Singh’s task was cut out – to ensure that India does not face international isolation after the nuclear tests in 1998. The economic sanctions from key global powers followed, but it was Singh who made relentless efforts to blunt their impact by assuring the world leaders of India’s compulsions and its commitment to restraint and non-proliferation. Singh also faced much flak for escorting three dreaded terrorists to Qandahar to bring back the passengers of hijacked Indian Airlines flight IC-814 on December 31, 1999, after tough negotiations with the Taliban leadership. Singh’s controversial visit to Qandahar continues to haunt the BJP till date.  Born on January 3, 1938, in Jasol in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, Singh was an alumnus of the National Defence Academy and served as a Major in the Indian Army. He quit the Army in the 1960s to enter politics – starting with the Jana Sangh and later the BJP. He was a five-term Rajya Sabha member and elected to the Lok Sabha for four terms and enjoyed cordial relations with leaders across the political spectrum. “As a person, Jaswantji was a true gentleman and will be remembered as a soft-spoken erudite and warm-hearted person. He was known for his sharp analytical mind and was respected by people across the political spectrum,” BJP veteran L K Advani said in a statement. After the BJP lost elections in 2009, Singh caused a flutter in the BJP by demanding an enquiry into the reasons for the defeat. He was expelled from the BJP after his book on Pakistan founder M A Jinnah triggered a controversy for a sympathetic portrayal of the late leader. He was admitted to the party in 2010 but was relegated to the margins. In 2014, Singh was denied a BJP ticket to contest the Lok Sabha polls from Barmer. He stood as an independent only to lose to BJP’s Sonaram Chaudhary. In August 2014, Singh had a fall at his residence in Delhi and has been under coma and in and out of the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-jaswant-singh-passes-away-893627.html
27-09-2020||National||Jaswant Singh: The defiant leader whom BJP expelled twice||From writing a eulogy to deciding to contest as an Independent from Barmer, Rajasthan, Jaswant Singh even though a stalwart, has often found himself in a soup with BJP. The late Lok Sabha member and former Union Minister had been expelled from the party twice. The first time, for writing a book that supposedly praised Mohammed Ali Jinnah through a eulogy. He was also accused of criticising his fellow Indians for not seeing the partition as a shared guilt and blaming Indian Muslims for the same. Singh was later readmitted into the party's fold in 2010. BJP president Rajnath Singh with his party members decided to distance himself from Singh’s book, 'Jinnah - India, Partition, and Independence' thereby taking the decision of expelling Singh from the party as well. "I had issued a statement yesterday that the party fully dissociates itself from the contents of the book. Today I put up the matter before the Parliamentary Board which decided to end his primary membership," said Rajnath Singh. The then BJP president added, "So he has been expelled. From now onwards he will not be a member of the party or be an office bearer." The 71-year-old former Union Minister, who had held the portfolios of defence, finance and external affairs, said after expulsion, "It is sad and I regret it for a number of reasons, which I cannot explain in detail," "I had never imagined that 30 years of my service would have ended this way. It's regretful. I would have stepped down had they informed me in person," he said. "I am worried and sad that just one book has led to my expulsion," he added. Expelled for the second time Jaswant Singh, in 2014, had dared to file his nomination papers from Barmer against the official BJP candidate. He had also charged the party president Rajnath Singh and Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje of having exhorted then PM Atal Behari Vajpayee, in 2003, to give her the top job in Rajasthan and of plotting to politically eliminate him. The defiant late leader did not budge from his stand to contest as an independent candidate from Barmer and was thus expelled from the BJP for the second time. While refusing to withdraw his candidature, Singh turned the heat on the saffron brigade by saying, "There are two BJPs now. One is authentic and the other is fake." The defiant stalwart was expelled for 6 years then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaswant-singh-the-defiant-leader-whom-bjp-expelled-twice-893645.html
27-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 caseload nears 60 lakh; recoveries cross 49 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload neared 60 lakh with 88,600 fresh infections being reported on Sunday, while the number of people having recuperated from the disease crossed 49 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 82.46 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 59,92,532, while the death toll climbed to 94,503 with 1,124 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries have surged to 49,41,627, and there are 9,56,402 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 15.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.58 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 7,12,57,836 samples have been tested up to September 26 with 9,87,861 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-caseload-nears-60-lakh-recoveries-cross-49-lakh-893657.html
27-09-2020||National||Government looks to implement all four labour codes in one go by December, says Santosh Gangwar||The government is aiming to implement all the four labour codes in one go by December this year and complete the final stretch of labour sector reforms, Union Minister Santosh Gangwar has said. Parliament in its just concluded session passed three labour code bills: the Industrial Relations Code, the Social Security Code, and the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code. The Wage Code Bill, 2019 was passed by Parliament last year. The Labour Ministry had circulated the draft rules on the Wage Code Bill last year but held back its finalisation and implementation. The Ministry wanted to implement all the four codes and rules under those in one go as all of them are inter-linked. Talking to PTI, Labour Minister Gangwar said, "Government is doing all efforts to complete the labour reforms by implementing the all four labour codes by December this year..." He further said the Wage Code Bill was passed last year and now with the passage of three more codes by Parliament, "the rules under these legislations would be enforced at once". After the passage of a legislation in Parliament, it is sent for President of India assent. A law comes into force after notification of rules. Initially, draft rules under a law is notified with a stipulated time period to receive feedback. Thereafter, these rules are finalised and implemented for bringing the law into force. The draft rules of the three codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health and working conditions are likely to be circulated by the first week of November for feedback. The Labour Ministry is expected to finalise and implement rules of the three codes along with already firmed wage code rules by December this year. Thereafter, these four codes would become law of land to complete game-changing labour reforms in the country. The government aims to catapult India to among the top 10 countries in World Bank's ease of doing business rankings with the comprehensive labour reforms. As per the 'Doing Business' 2020 report, India had jumped 14 places to the 63rd position in the ease of doing business rankings. India has improved its rank by 79 positions in five years (2014-19). The higher ranking would boost investment and job creation in the country. Commenting on labour reforms K E Raghunathan, Convenor of CIA (Consortium of Indian Association), said, "The Covid-19 situation has made both the life of employer and employee difficult. If the government statistics say over 21 million Job loss during April to August then the figure of employers who lost enterprises is yet to be ascertained. We estimate them to be around 30 per cent of over 65 million enterprises." He further stated, "Under these circumstances, these new (labour) codes are bound to make new enterprises investor friendly, increase ease of doing business and make it attractive to invite foreign entities which want to come out of China."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-looks-to-implement-all-four-labour-codes-in-one-go-by-december-says-santosh-gangwar-893665.html
27-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Will SSR case be Bihar's key poll strategy?||Hours after the Election Commission declared elections for Bihar, the Shiv Sena on Friday felt that the Sushant Singh Rajput case would be politicised during the polls. "The government did not have development or governance issues to speak on,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-will-ssr-case-be-bihars-key-poll-strategy-893685.html
27-09-2020||National||Centre offers processed moong, urad to states at subsidised rate for retail sale||The Centre has offered to provide processed moong and urad pulses from its buffer stock to state governments for retail sale at a subsidised rate in the current lean period in a bid to check any possible price rise, according to Consumer Affairs Secretary Leena Nandan. Moong will be offered at Rs 92 per kg and urad at Rs 84-96 per kg, much lower than prevailing retail market prices, she said. "This is a new retail price intervention mechanism which has been approved by the Group of Ministers recently. Under this initiative, the central government will provide processed moong and urad to state governments either in bulk quantity or in one or half kilo pack for retail sale," Nandan told PTI. Pulses will be offered from the buffer stock created with the Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF). States after evaluating their requirement can lift pulses from the central buffer by paying upfront, she said.   Pulses will be offered at a subsidised rate comprising minimum support price plus other charges for a period of two months till arrival of new crop. The order for moong was issued on September 14 and for urad, it is in the process, she said. The secretary said the processing, lifting and transportation charges as well as dealers' margin will be borne by the central government, which was not done earlier. "We are offloading at MSP plus other changes. For instance, we are offering moong dal to states at Rs 92/kg while an average retail price in the market is about Rs 100 per kg," she said. Urad whole will be offered at Rs 84 per kg, urad dhuli at Rs 90 per kg and urad gota at Rs 96 per kg from the buffer stock, she said. "This is a targeted intervention and will help check any possible price rise during the lean period till the new crop comes," Nandan said. At subsidised rates, states can either directly lift the pulses for retail distribution through their own agencies or ask central implementing agency Nafed to deliver, she said. The Centre has a buffer stock of over one lakh tonnes of urad and two lakh tonnes of moong under the PSF at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-offers-processed-moong-urad-to-states-at-subsidised-rate-for-retail-sale-893699.html
27-09-2020||National||Adar Poonawalla hails PM Modi's assurance of vaccine production at UN||Adar Poonawalla, Chief Executive Officer of Serum Institute of India (SII) which is producing a coronavirus vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University, on Sunday hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his address at the UN, assuring the world that India will help other nations with its vaccine production capabilities. We share and applaud your vision @narendramodiji, on providing vaccines to the global community. It is a proud moment for India, thank you for your leadership and support. It is clear that all your arrangements for India will take care of all needs for the Indian people," Poonawalla tweeted.  This comes a day after the SII CEO asked if the government will have Rs 80,000 crore available to buy and distribute the vaccine. "Quick question; will the government of India have 80,000 crores available, over the next one year? Because that's what @MoHFW_INDIAneeds, to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India," he tweeted.  I ask this question, because we need to plan and guide, vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution. This is the next "challenge" we need to tackle, he said, also tagging the Prime Minister's Office. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pledged at the United Nations on Saturday that his country's vaccine production capacity would be made available globally to fight the Covid-19 crisis. "As the largest vaccine-producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today," Modi said in a pre-recorded speech to the UN General Assembly. "India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis." Modi said India was moving ahead with Phase 3 clinical trials - the large-scale trials considered the gold standard for determining safety and efficacy - and would help all countries enhance their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adar-poonawalla-hails-pm-modis-assurance-of-vaccine-production-at-un-893725.html
27-09-2020||National||Drugs case: NCB reviews investigations done so far||After hectic investigations that lasted over a month and saw the arrest of 20 persons including Sushant Singh Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and the grilling to top Bollywood actors like Deepika Padukone, Rakul Preet Singh, Shradhha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of the cases. “We will review and decide the plan of action,” NCB’s Deputy Director General Mutha Ashok Jain, who heads the south-west region of the bureau, said. When asked about the investigations, Jain said, “We cannot say anything…we have told the court and would be telling the court. You must appreciate the fact that so many persons have been arrested and none of them have got bail so far…that speaks of our investigations.” While looking into the two cases – one involving the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case (Cr No. 15/2020) and the larger Bollywood-drug cartel nexus (Cr No. 16/2020) – the NCB has managed to unearth the modus operandi of how drugs get supplied in Bollywood. The NCB has also seized cellphones of several of the suspects who were grilled. “The digital forensics of seized communication devices led to some workable information which was verified subsequently,” NCB officials said. While the 15/2020 case is being overseen by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) Joint Director Sameer Wankhede, the 16/2020 case is spearheaded by NCB Deputy Director (Operations) KPS Malhotra. According to officials, the sourcing and supply operate like a well-oiled network and the contraband changes several hands before it reaches the end user. NCB officials, however, have clarified that the ongoing probe into the Bollywood-drug mafia nexus has no connection to Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa's complaint about the alleged drug party hosted by filmmaker Karan Johar at his residence in Mumbai in 2019. The officials said that during the course of the probe, they have questioned and/or arrested drug peddlers, people in the film industry, executives, actors and talent managers. People arrested so far: Abbas Lakhani Karan Arora Zaid Vilatra Abdel Basit Parihar Samuel Miranda Dipesh Sawant Kaizan Ibrahim Showik Chakraborty Rhea Chakraborty Anuj Keshwani Ankush Arneja Karamjeet Singh Anand Sanket Patel Sandeep Gupta Aftab Ansari Dwayne Fernandes Suryadeep Malhotra Chris Costa Rahil Vishram Kshitij Prasad||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-case-ncb-reviews-investigations-done-so-far-893743.html
27-09-2020||National||Travellers from Dubai, UK brought in maximum Covid-19 cases into India: IIT study||Travellers from Dubai and the UK were primary sources of Covid-19 importations into India, according to an analytical study done by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi. According to the research, which has been published in the Journal of Travel Medicine, Covid-19 got induced into Indian states mainly due to international travels. The study has also found that infected cases from Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh played less role in spreading the disease outside their communities. Whereas infected people in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka played a significant role in the local transmission, and some of them caused interstate transfer too. "We tracked the spread of Covid-19 and its diffusion from the global to national level and identified a few super spreaders who played a central role in the transmission of the disease in India. The Covid-19 spread in phase one was traced using the travelling history of the patients, and it was found that most of the transmissions were local," Sarita Azad, Assistant Professor, IIT Mandi, told PTI. "The research team has used the travel history of infected patients from January to April as the primary data source and a social network was created depicting the spread in the early phase of the pandemic. The research found that the maximum numbers of connections were established from Dubai (144) and the UK ( 64),” she added. Azad explained that statistical metrics calculated from the data revealed that Dubai and the UK played a crucial role in spreading the disease in Indian states and were the primary sources of Covid-19 importations into India. "Dubai's eigenvector centrality was the highest that made it the most influential node. The statistical metrics calculated from the data revealed that Dubai and the UK played a crucial role in spreading the disease in Indian states and were the primary sources of Covid-19 importations into India. "Based on the modularity class, different clusters were shown to form across Indian states, which demonstrated the formation of a multi-layered social network structure. A significant increase in confirmed cases was reported in states like Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh during the first phase of the nationwide lockdown, which spanned from March 25 to April 14," she said. "The modularity class of states such as Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Andhra Pradesh was low. Hence, it is likely that infected cases from these states played less of a role in spreading the disease outside their communities. Whereas states like Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka played a significant role in the local transmission, and some of them caused interstate transfer too," she added. Azad, who conducted the analytical study, along with her student Sushma Devi, said, "When a pandemic like Covid-19 subsides, a good research work serves as a record for the future. In this work, we have used real time data and demonstrated how the disease got diffused from the global to national level from January 30 to April 6. This will be an important contribution to understanding the disease transmission in India during the early phase of the pandemic." India's Covid-19 caseload neared 60 lakh with 88,600 fresh infections being reported on Sunday, while the number of people having recuperated from the disease crossed 49 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 82.46 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 59,92,532, while the death toll climbed to 94,503 with 1,124 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/travellers-from-dubai-uk-brought-in-maximum-covid-19-cases-into-india-iit-study-893770.html
27-09-2020||National||India reports 92,043 recoveries in 24 hours; total now nears 50 lakhs||A total of 92,043 people have recuperated from Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, taking India's total recoveries close to 50 lakhs and exceeding the active cases of coronavirus infection by 39,85,225, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The single-day recoveries on an average for the last few days have been more than 90,000, the ministry said underlining, "This high rate of daily recoveries has sustained India's leading global position as the country with the maximum number of recovered cases." A total of 92,043 recoveries have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country, while 88,600 new infections were recorded during the same period, according to the data updated at 8 am. "Maintaining its upward trend, the national recovery rate presently has risen to 82.46 per cent," the ministry highlighted. As many as 21 states and UTs have reported higher numbers of new recoveries than the new cases, the ministry said. A total 76 per cent of the new recovered cases are found in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Odisha, Delhi Chhattisgarh, Kerala and West Bengal. Maharashtra continues to top this list. It has alone contributed more than 23,000 followed by Andhra Pradesh with more than more than 9,000 cases, the ministry said. As India records more recoveries than the new cases, the gap between the recovered cases and active cases is nearly 40 lakh (39,85,225). "The number of active patients has been below 10 lakh for several successive days. The active caseload is merely 15.96 per cent of the total caseload," the ministry said. Close, proactive, calibrated and effective coordination between the Centre and states and UT governments has made this sustained high level of single day recoveries possible. As many as 21 states and UTs have reported higher numbers of new recoveries than the new cases, the ministry said. These results have been ensured through sustained, multi-pronged strategies and effective actions, coupled with regular review by the Union Government. Early identification through high countrywide testing, prompt surveillance and tracking supplemented with standardised clinical care have aided these encouraging outcomes, it pointed out. The ministry further said that 10 states and UTs --Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Delhi, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh -- account for 77 per cent of the 88,600 new cases reported in a day. Maharashtra continues to lead this tally. It has contributed more than 20,000 followed by Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh with more than 8,000 and 7,000 cases respectively. Further, the virus has claimed 1,124 lives in a span of 24 hours with 10 states and UTs accounting for 84 per cent of the deaths.These ten states and UTs are Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh, the ministry mentioned. Of the new deaths, Maharashtra reported more than 38 per cent of deaths with 430 deaths followed by Karnataka and Tamil Nadu with 86 and 85 deaths, respectively. India's COVID-19 caseload mounted to 59,92,532 with 88,600 fresh infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 94,503 with 1,124 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-92043-recoveries-in-24-hours-total-now-nears-50-lakhs-893785.html
27-09-2020||National||When Gayatri Devi sent Alphonso mangoes for Prince Philip||Former Rajmata of Jaipur, the charismatic Gayatri Devi and her husband were great friends with Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip and every year, she would send a box of Alphonso mangoes from India for the Duke of Edinburgh's birthday, says a new book. In "The House of Jaipur: The Inside Story of India's Most Glamorous Royal Family", Australian author John Zubrzycki describes the history of the royal house, with stories of glamour, jewels, scandals and opulence. Gayatri Devi and husband Man Singh II, the last ruling Maharaja of the erstwhile Jaipur State - Ayesha and Jai as they were known to their friends - are central to the story of Jaipur over the past century, he says. "In the 1950s and 1960s, Jai and Ayesha were India's golden couple, its answer to John and Jackie Kennedy, Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip. They were the only Indians invited to Truman Capote's Black & White Ball in 1966 at New York's Plaza Hotel," he writes in the book, published by Juggernaut. "Ayesha was the only woman who was allowed to break the dress code, arriving in a gold sari and a necklace of emeralds. Frank Sinatra, Rose Kennedy and the Duke and Duchess of Windsor were there too. All were friends of the Jaipurs," he says about that masquerade ball. Like the historical series "Downton Abbey" and "The Crown", this book shows what life is really like inside the royal palace. It also reveals the poignant drama of how India's princely families came to terms with democracy and change. In the book, Zubrzycki mentions about Ayub Khan, a close confidant of Gayatri Devi. "Khan used to earn a few rupees a day as Gayatri Devi's ballboy on Lily Pool's now abandoned tennis courts. After he completed his college degree, she offered him a job as a typist and bought him a trusty Godrej manual typewriter," he writes. For three decades, Khan typed all her correspondence - responses to constituents seeking help for their daughters' dowries, invitations to heads of state to visit her in the Indian winter and complaints to politicians who were neglecting Jaipur's heritage. "'Every year she would send Prince Philip a box of Alphonso mangoes for his birthday," Zubrzycki quotes Khan as telling him. Khan regularly met the British royal at polo matches in England. Zubrzycki describes Jai as the quintessential modern-day maharaja, with a portfolio of gleaming palaces bursting with taxidermied tigers and sporting trophies, garages full of collectible cars and stables full of polo ponies and caparisoned elephants. Ayesha was unique among Indian maharanis, breaking the stereotype of Indian princesses demurely hidden behind their veils, he says. "Born into a small eastern princedom, she grew to be a woman who was an international social celebrity, in a class apart from the maharanis of bigger, 21-gun-salute princely states such as Gwalior or Kashmir. She combined the exotic allure of the East with the sophistication of Western aristocracy," Zubrzycki writes. Jai predeceased Gayatri Devi in 1970. According to Zubrzycki, if signatures could speak, Jai and Ayesha's guestbooks would tell a thousand stories. "The first signatures, dated 22 January 1961 when the Jaipurs lived at Rajmahal Palace, are those of Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip. A little over a year later, Jackie Kennedy and her sister Lee Radziwill memorialised their visit, as did Jackie's children, John and Caroline, in 1982," he writes. "Mexico's Octavio Paz was followed by the Italian photographer Pietro Francesco Mele, best remembered for his work in Afghanistan and Tibet. 'Reggie', 'Baby', 'Boopy' and 'Bunny' had a 'wonderful stay' in 1964," he adds. Zubrzycki says it's a little over a decade since Gayatri Devi died, but such was her stature it could have been a few weeks ago. "Her memory is revered, her portrait found in many Jaipur homes - though strangely enough not in the City Palace Museum. She was the woman who took on Indira Gandhi, winning three straight elections despite neither speaking nor understanding the language of her constituents, then paid for her success with a lengthy incarceration in Delhi's notorious Tihar Jail," he writes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-gayatri-devi-sent-alphonso-mangoes-for-prince-philip-893790.html
27-09-2020||National||4,300 cases of domestic violence reported with NCW since March||Over 4,300 cases of domestic violence have been reported to the National Women's Commission for Women (NCW) since March this year, with Uttar Pradesh and Delhi topping the list of ignominy. Between March 1 and September 18, the NCW has received 4,350 complaints through email, phone and a dedicated WhatsApp number during the period when the country is in the grip of Covid-19 pandemic. According to statistics placed before the Parliament by the Ministry of Women and Child Development (WCD) during the Monsoon Session that concluded on September 23, the highest number of complaints have been received from Uttar Pradesh at 968 followed by Delhi with 784. Maharashtra is at a distant third with 458 cases while Bihar (254) and Haryana (229) stands at fourth and fifth position. Karnataka has reported 137 cases during this period. The number of domestic violence cases could be much more as a large number of cases go unreported while some approach other agencies like police and state women commissions. The trend showed that the incidents of domestic violence have increased during the Unlock period. The month of July reported the highest number of complaints at 660 followed by June (537) when the Centre started opening up more activities. The NCW had in April suggested an almost 100% increase in such incidents during the lockdown as more and more people were staying at home or working from home. According to the Ministry of WCD, the NCW has received a total of 13,410 complaints, including domestic violence, between March 1 and September 18. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of complaints (5,470) followed by Delhi (1697) and Maharashtra (865). Karnataka had 322 complaints. "From the beginning of lockdown due to the Covid 19 pandemic, the NCW launched an advertisement campaign through electronic media and social media inviting women who have suffered any kind of violence to come forward and report it. Further, in addition to handling complaints received through regular modes, NCW has also launched a WhatsApp number 7217735372 on April 10 for reporting domestic violence cases," WCD Minister Smriti Irani said. "The additional modes provided by NCW facilitated reporting of cases, including from women who had been experiencing violence at home for the past several years. The complaints received by NCW are acted upon by coordinating with victims, police and other authorities to provide necessary assistance," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4300-cases-of-domestic-violence-reported-with-ncw-since-march-893807.html
27-09-2020||National||While driving, mobile phones must be used only for navigation: Govt||Drivers can use a mobile phone while driving only for route navigation purposes, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said on Saturday. “It has been provided that the use of handheld communications devices while driving shall solely be used for route navigation in such a manner that shall not disturb the concentration of the driver while driving,” a statement from the ministry said. While making provisions for maintaining vehicle documents on online portals established by the Central government, the ministry said if the driver has all documents in digital format then physical format need not be shown to the authorities concerned. The ministry has notified amendments in the Central Motor Vehicle Rules facilitating the implementation of electronic enforcement, maintenance of vehicular documents through information technology portals like DigiLocker or m-Parivahan, with effect from October 1 this year. The new rules are a part of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act 2019 passed in August 2019. “If the details of the documents are found validated through the electronic means by the enforcement officer, then physical forms of such documents shall not be demanded for inspection, including in cases where there is an offence made out necessitating seizure of any such documents,” the ministry said. The order says details of driving licenses disqualified or revoked must be recorded chronologically and it should reflect regularly on the portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/while-driving-mobile-phones-must-be-used-only-for-navigation-govt-893809.html
27-09-2020||National||Over 1 million man-days of work generated under Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan: Railways||The Railways on Sunday said it has generated 10,66,246 man-days of work till September 25 under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Around 164 railway infrastructure projects are being executed in these states, according to a statement from the Railways said. Till September 25, as many as 12,276 workers have been engaged in this scheme and Rs 2190.7 crore has been released to the contractors for the projects being implemented, it said. "The railways has appointed nodal officers in each district as well as in the states so that close coordination is established with the state government," it said. The railway has identified many rail works being executed under this scheme. They include construction and maintenance of approach roads for level crossings, development and cleaning of silted waterways, trenches and drains along the track, construction and maintenance of approach road to railway stations, repair and widening of existing railway embankments and cuttings among others. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a massive employment-cum-rural public works campaign named Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan to empower and provide livelihood opportunities in areas/villages witnessing a large number of returnee migrant workers affected by the devastating Covid-19 on June 20 this year," the railways said. He announced that Rs 50,000 crores would be spent for building durable rural infrastructure under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, it said. This scheme of 125 days is being undertaken in mission mode and involves focused implementation of 25 categories of works and activities in 116 districts, each with a large concentration of returnee migrant workers in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. Public works being undertaken under this scheme will have a resource envelope of Rs 50,000 crore. The scheme is a convergent effort between 12 different ministries and departments, namely -- Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Road Transport and Highways, Mines, Drinking Water and Sanitation, Environment, Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, New and Renewable Energy, Border Roads, Telecom and Agriculture, to expedite implementation of 25 public infrastructure works and works relating to augmentation of livelihood opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1-million-man-days-of-work-generated-under-garib-kalyan-rozgar-abhiyaan-railways-893813.html
27-09-2020||National||Citi helps Covid-struck Indians in kind, pumps in essentials worth Rs 75 crore||Adopting a different approach that focuses on helping the pandemic-affected in kind rather than cash, American lender Citi has extended aid worth Rs 75 crore in a country-wide programme focusing on delivering essentials to households, and other initiatives, officials have said. Over 700 tonnes of essentials which majorly include food items have reached over 20,000 beneficiaries identified by the Wall Street bank's employees in the country as part of the programme, they said. While different companies adopt different approaches for engaging with the community, a lot of focus seems to be on cash transfers, especially the newly-launched PM-CARES Fund.    According to ratings agency Crisil's estimates, Rs 4,316 crore has been allocated by top corporates to the PM-CARES Fund while Rs 3,221 crore has gone to other aspects related to the pandemic. Apart from essentials, the bank paid for the testing of over 1 lakh individuals from low-income households in Maharashtra, and provided one million meals to migrants and supported six start-ups working on various aspects related to the pandemic, including in the discovery of a vaccine, officials said. They added that some of these funds will also be utilised to support a few mid to long term initiatives that are being planned currently. For the essentials programme, it initiated the 'You Nominate, We Donate' programme after the spread of the pandemic, wherein employees flagged potential beneficiaries to the bank. "We saw this as a way for our family to show their appreciation to those who have been there for them in their own way…this is an extraordinary situation, and we wanted our employees to feel part of the process of serving our communities," Citi India chief executive Ashu Khullar said. A single packet containing a month's supplies for a family, including 10 kg rice, 10 kg wheat flour, 5 kg pulses, 1 kg salt and 2 kg sugar, tea or coffee, toothpaste, bathing soap, feminine hygiene products and clothes washing soap was handed over to the beneficiaries, the bank said. Its public affairs officer Debasis Ghosh said the nutritional value, brands, and dietary preferences for each city were primary considerations taken on board while extending the help. Almost three-fourths of its employees participated in the programme, helping identify the beneficiaries. Over 1.15 lakh calls were made to all the beneficiaries to check their antecedents and coordinate. So far, more than 900 trucks have travelled 70,000 km to deliver over 740 tonnes of rations to 22,500 families, which translates to over 6.75 million meals over a month for more than one lakh individuals, the bank said. Ghosh said it has over 3,000 more packages which will be delivered to the needy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/citi-helps-covid-struck-indians-in-kind-pumps-in-essentials-worth-rs-75-crore-893816.html
27-09-2020||National||AAI plans to upgrade runways at seven airports by March 2022||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is planning to upgrade runways at seven airports across the country by March 2022, senior officials said on Sunday. These seven airports are at Jammu (J&K), Kolhapur (Maharashtra), Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh), Barapani (Meghalaya), Kadapa (Andhra Pradesh), Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh) and Tuticorin (Tamil Nadu), the AAI officials told PTI. The officials said the runway at the Jammu airport is undergoing expansion from the current length of 2,042 metres to 2,438 metres and it is planned to be completed by March next year. The extension of the runway of the Kolhapur airport from 1,370 metres to 2,300 metres has begun and is planned to be completed by December this year, the officials mentioned. They said the runways at the Jabalpur airport and the Tuticorin airport are expected to be upgraded by December 2021 and March 2022, respectively. Officials explained that the runway of an airport is designed for a particular type of aircraft, depending on traffic demand and other factors. "As the traffic increases, the airline operators want to operate bigger aircraft from the airport. At that time, the runway has to be upgraded to make it suitable for that purpose," said an official. The runway at the Barapani airport will be "extended and strengthened" by December this year, the officials stated, adding that the Kadapa airport's runway is also being "extended and strengthened" and the work will be done by March 2021. They said the runway at the Tirupati airport will be extended from the current length of 2,286 metres to 3,810 metres by December 2021. "In total, the runways of these seven airports will be upgraded by March 2022," said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aai-plans-to-upgrade-runways-at-seven-airports-by-march-2022-893822.html
27-09-2020||National||Situation improves in Rajasthan's Dungarpur; protesters clear Udaipur-Ahmedabad highway||The situation improved in Rajasthan's Dungarpur district on Sunday after the Udaipur-Ahmedabad highway, which was blocked by candidates of a recruitment exam for three days, was cleared, even as the death toll in the police action during violent protests on the previous day increased to two. The highway was cleared following a meeting between a delegation of the protesters, and public representatives, including Tribal Area Development Minister Arjun Singh Bamniya, and officials. The protesters were demanding that 1,167 vacant general quota seats be filled from the Scheduled Tribes (ST) category. "The situation by and large remained peaceful today. The highway in Dungarpur is clear for traffic movement now," Inspector General of Police (Udaipur range) Binita Thakur said. However, incidents of stone-pelting took place in Rishabhdev and Jhadol area of adjoining Udaipur district, Thakur said. "Police forces are trying to control the situation there also," she said. Director General of Police (DGP) Bhupendra Singh said in a statement on Sunday night that police had to use force and open fire on Saturday evening in which two persons were killed and as many injured. The injured are out of danger, he said. Last night, police had said that one person died in firing but it was not clear whether the death occurred in police firing or firing by the protestors. Singh informed that two companies of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) and six companies of the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) have been deployed in the area and 24 cases have been lodged in Dungarpur and Udaipur districts in connection with the violence. The police control room said that stones and other obstacles on the highway in Dungarpur are being removed so that traffic movement can be resumed. Several torched vehicles, stones and boulders are there on a 20-km stretch of the highway. "Traffic will resume on the highway by tomorrow. After the meeting, which was held in a positive manner today, we conducted a march on the highway to review the situation. Now the things are under control in Dungarpur," former Udaipur MP Raghuveer Meena said. Violence erupted in the region on Thursday when the candidates of teachers' recruitment examination-2018 blocked the highway, pelted stones at police, damaged several properties and torched vehicles demanding filling of 1,167 vacant posts of general quota with ST candidates. On Sunday, a meeting was held in Kherwara Panchayat which was attended by public representatives, including sitting and former MPs and MLAs of various parties, senior police and district administration officials, community leaders and members of the delegation of the agitators. "We have appealed to the protesters to stop the violence and restore peace. There was general consensus on this in the meeting. All public representatives of the area were present in the meeting," Minister Bamaniya told reporters. The state government had sent DG (crime) M L Lather, Additional DG of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Dinesh M N and Jaipur police commissioner Anand Srivastava to Dungarpur on Saturday night after the situation worsened. Dinesh MN and other officers also conducted march on the highway on Sunday after the meeting to restore peace. "The situation here is now peaceful. No violence occurred today,” he said. In Jaipur, DGP Singh reviewed the situation and took feedback from senior officials. “Two companies of Rapid Action Force were deployed in the area today. Three senior police officers were sent to Dungarpur Saturday night and the situation at present is peaceful,” he said. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot too reviewed the situation and held discussions with the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-improves-in-rajasthans-dungarpur-protesters-clear-udaipur-ahmedabad-highway-893823.html
27-09-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind gives assent to contentious Farm Bills amid farmers' protest||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave his assent to the three contentious agriculture-related Bills amid continued farmers' protests and a demand by 18 Opposition parties to not sign the legislations over the way in which it was passed in the Rajya Sabha. The government on Sunday issued gazette notifications on the three farm Bills -- The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farmer Services Act, 2020, The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities Act, 2020. The President had signed the Bills on September 24, a day before farmers held countrywide protests against the Bills, refusing to believe the government's assertions that the legislations were in the interest of the farmers. Immediately after the notification was issued, Congress MP from Kerala T N Prathapan said that he would file a petition in the Supreme Court on Monday against the Bills. After the Lok Sabha cleared it, the Rajya Sabha had passed The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farmer Services Bill and The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill on September 20 amid pandemonium after Deputy Chairman Harivansh went ahead with the passage of the legislations with a voice vote while ignoring the demands for division of votes.  The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill was passed in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday after the Opposition boycotted the session demanding the revocation of suspension of its eight MPs.  On Wednesday, Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad met the President with the letter supported by 18 parties urging him not to sign the Bills, citing the “unconstitutional” manner in which the two Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha. Azad had said the two Bills were passed without considering the resolutions moved by the Opposition leaders and breakdown in the audio link that deprived members seated in the Lok Sabha chamber from participating in the proceedings. On Friday, farmers held countrywide protests while on Saturday long-time NDA ally Akali Dal quit the ruling coalition citing its opposition to the legislations. Its Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur had resigned from the Union Cabinet when the Bills were being debated in the Lok Sabha. While former Congress President Rahul Gandhi stepped up the attack demanding that the government withdraw the proposed legislations and give a guarantee on MSP, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been accusing the Opposition of misleading the farmers and the country on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-gives-assent-to-contentious-farm-bills-amid-farmers-protest-893833.html
27-09-2020||National||BJP leader files PIL in SC to debar candidates with criminal charges from contesting polls||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Union government to debar all those candidates against whom charges have been framed, from contesting the election, in terms of the recommendations of the Law Commission's 244th report. Petitioner Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, a BJP leader and advocate, in the alternative, sought a direction to the Election Commission of India to use its plenary power conferred under Article 324 for amending the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order 1968 and insert such a condition for the contestants. He said that the reason behind filing this petition occurred on May 25, 2019, when out of 539 winners of 17th Lok Sabha, 233 (43%) declared criminal cases against themselves.  Out of 542 winners analysed after 2014 Lok Sabha elections, 185 (34%) winners had declared criminal cases against themselves. Out of 543 winners in 2009 Lok Sabha elections, 162 (30%) winners had declared criminal cases against themselves.  "There is an increase of 44% in the number of MPs with declared criminal cases since 2009.  Similarly, 159 (29%) winners in Lok Sabha 2019 Elections have declared serious criminal cases including cases related to rape, murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, crimes against women etc," he pointed out. The petitioner said consequences of permitting criminals to contest elections and become legislators were extremely serious for our democracy and secularism as during the electoral process itself, not only did they deploy enormous amounts of illegal money to interfere with the outcome, they also intimidated voters and rival candidates.  Upadhyay said that by raising the threshold to the stage where charges have already been framed before the restriction can operate ( debarring the candidates from contesting polls), the chances of false cases being maliciously foisted on the candidates are considerably reduced, as police have filed its charge sheet to prosecute the accused and the court has applied its mind to the police report. The effect of the proposed direction would only be to impose an additional condition on the political party to obtain and retain the status of the “recognised national party or state party”, he added. The petitioner said candidates for the judgeship of the superior courts or for Indian Administrative Service certainly would not be considered at all if there were criminal cases pending against them, let alone if charges had been framed in respect to serious offences.  In fact, legislators are not only public servant but also lawmakers hence must comport higher ethics and morality, his plea stated. The Law Commission, in its 244th report favoured for debarring candidates with criminal antecedents with an additional condition that charges should have been framed at least one year before the scrutiny of nominations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-files-pil-in-sc-to-debar-candidates-with-criminal-charges-from-contesting-polls-893838.html
27-09-2020||National||Former Union minister Jaswant Singh cremated in Jodhpur||Former Union minister Jaswant Singh was cremated at his farmhouse in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur on Sunday evening. The former Union minister had passed away in New Delhi after a prolonged illness. He was 82. His son Manvendra Singh lit the funeral pyre amid chanting of Vedic mantras. Singh's family members and relatives were present during the cremation at the farmhouse located near a civil airport. The body was brought to Jodhpur from New Delhi by air and kept in the farmhouse where people offered floral tributes. A wreath was also laid on behalf of the Indian Army. Singh, a retired Army officer, was one of the founding members of the BJP and a close associate of ex-prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He had a fall at his home in August 2014 and was admitted to the Army Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi. He was in coma for a long spell and had been in and out of the hospital since then. He was admitted to the hospital again in June this year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje and leaders of other political parties expressed grief over his demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-jaswant-singh-cremated-in-jodhpur-893839.html
27-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Bengaluru epicentre of terror activities, claims Tejasvi; Ex-Union Minister Jaswant Singh passes away||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Bengaluru epicentre of terror activities, claims Tejasvi Surya; Ex-Union Minister Jaswant Singh passes away, Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis says that  BJP is not keen on toppling the Maha Vikas Aghadi government; Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of the cases involving Bollywood celebrities and World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus lauds Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to From The Newsroom, your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here are the top stories of the day, September 25, 2020: Former Union minister Jaswant Singh, one of the founding members of the BJP and a close associate of ex-prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, passed away in New Delhi, following a long spell of illness. He was 82. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers and other top leaders cutting across the political spectrum paid rich tributes to Singh. Bengaluru has become an epicentre of terror activities, claimed BJP MP Tejasvi Surya and said he had requested Union Home Minister Amit Shah to set up a permanent division of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the city. A day after becoming the president of the BJP's youth wing, Surya said many terror modules have been busted in Bengaluru, in the recent past. The terrorist groups want to use the city as an "incubation centre" for terror activities. Fancy a Hyperloop ride from the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) to the city centre in less than 10 minutes? Proposing this galactic leap in speed, Virgin Hyperloop inked a deal to conduct a Feasibility Study for this corridor and later build a test track in the airport.In arguably the first for any airport in the world, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) and Virgin Hyperloop signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to conduct the study. Amid hectic political developments and back-to-back meetings in Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said that BJP is not keen on toppling the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. However, he said that the government will collapse on its own. The speculations started when Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut met the Leader of Opposition Fadnavis on Saturday over lunch – apparently to discuss an interview for Sena mouthpiece Saamana. After intense investigations that lasted over a month and saw the arrest of 20 persons including Sushant Singh Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and the grilling to top Bollywood actors like Deepika Padukone, Rakul Preet Singh, Shradhha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of the cases. World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurance that India will use its vaccine production capacity in helping nations fight Covid-19, saying the pandemic can be defeated only by mobilising resources for common good. In his address to the 75th session of the UN General Assembly on Saturday, Modi said that “as the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today. India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis.” That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bengaluru-epicentre-of-terror-activities-claims-tejasvi-ex-union-minister-jaswant-singh-passes-away-893862.html
27-09-2020||National||India far from achieving herd immunity against Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan||The ICMR's second sero-survey shows that Indian population is still far from achieving herd immunity against coronavirus infection, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday while underlining the need for following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. He also stressed that masks be worn even in places of worship. During an interaction with his social media followers, the minister said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is actively researching on reports of Covid-19 reinfection and although the number of such cases is negligible at this moment, the government is fully seized of the importance of the matter, the health ministry said in a statement. He cautioned that the sero-survey report should not create a sense of complacency among the people. The first sero-survey of May 2020 had revealed that the nationwide prevalence of novel coronavirus infection was only 0.73 per cent. "Even the soon to be released second sero-survey indications are that we are far from having achieved any kind of herd immunity which necessitates that all of us should continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour," Vardhan said in response to the queries posed by his social media followers on ‘Sunday Samvad’ platform. The health minister also dispelled fears regarding the phased opening of schools, and advised on proper protocol to be followed while visiting salons and hair spas, the ministry said. He asked everyone to always raise awareness regarding Covid-19 appropriate behaviour which he himself does by stopping his car and asking non-compliant people to wear their masks, the statement said. He re-emphasized on the need for wearing masks even in places of worship. "The pandemic can only be fought when the government and society work in tandem," he was quoted as saying in the statement. On the wide usage of investigational therapies such as plasma therapy and Remdesivir drug for combating Covid-19, Vardhan said the government has issued regular advisories regarding their rational usage and private hospitals have also been advised against routine use of these therapies. The doctors in the states and UTs are being made aware of this through webinars and tele-consultation session of AIIMS, New Delhi, the statement stated. On emerging evidence that Covid-19 infection not only impacts our lungs, but other organ systems too, especially cardiovascular and renal functions, the minister said the Ministry of Health has already set up committees of experts to look into these facets of the disease. "ICMR is also actively investigating and researching reports of reinfection and although the number of reinfection cases is negligible at this moment, the government is fully seized of the importance of the matter," he said. Vardhan stated that states/UTs have also been advised to lower the prices of Covid-19 tests. In the early days of the pandemic, as the kits were imported, the price tended to be high. But now, supplies of testing kits have stabilised and domestic production of these kits has commenced, the statement said. He said his ministry has written to the states and Union territories to engage private laboratories at mutually agreeable lower rates. He said he has spoken personally to several state health ministers regarding reduction in prices of testing in their respective states. On a question related to 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Yojana', the minister spoke of India's two-pronged strategy of incentivising production and creation of common infrastructure for high-quality medicines and medical devices to make the country self-reliant. He said the government is ensuring that there is import substitution in this sector. Vardhan said in the last few months since the outbreak of the pandemic, India had made rapid strides in the “manufacturing of ventilators, PPEs, testing kits and many medical devices”. On disparity in setting up AIIMS in different regions and only one for the entire North East, he talked about the Central Scheme Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) aimed at correcting the regional imbalances in healthcare. Other than setting up new AIIMS, the scheme also aims to upgrade the existing medical infrastructure in the entire country in a phased manner. Under different phases of the scheme, the central government will establish new medical colleges attached with existing district and referral hospitals in Dhubri, Nagaon, North Lakhimpur, Diphu and Kokrajhar districts in Assam, Churachandrapur in Manipur West Garo Hills district in Meghalaya, Falkawan district in Mizoram, and Kohima and Mon in Nagaland. Vardhan also stated that the Centre has added 29,185 MBBS seats in the last five years. Responding to questions on strengthening the public health system, he talked about the Union government's commitment to "increase the public healthcare spending as a percentage of GDP from the existing 1.15 per cent to 2.5 per cent by 2025”, which “will mean an actual increase of 345 per cent over the current share in this short period of time.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-far-from-achieving-herd-immunity-against-covid-19-harsh-vardhan-893867.html
27-09-2020||National||Sharad Pawar congratulates SAD for quitting NDA over farm bills||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, one of the seniormost politicians in India, congratulated Shiromani Akali Dal for breaking ranks with the BJP  and pulling out of the NDA. "Congratulations to Sukhbir Singh Badal, President of Akali Dal and MP Harsimrat Badal, who under the leadership of  Prakash Singh Badal pulled out of NDA in a protest to farmers’ bills. Thanks for firmly standing with the farmers," Pawar, a two-term Union Agriculture Minister, tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-pawar-congratulates-sad-for-quitting-nda-over-farm-bills-893874.html
27-09-2020||National||Identified tourism sites can be turned into green zones with use of only bio fuels: Dharmendra Pradhan||Union cabinet minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday recommended a proposal under which identified tourist sites or iconic spots will be turned into green zones where vehicles using only eco-friendly fuel will be allowed to ply. He said the proposed project will be the joint effort of the ministry of tourism and the ministry of petroleum and natural gas. Speaking at a virtual event organised by the tourism ministry on the occasion of 'World Tourism Day 2020', Pradhan, Minister of petroleum and natural gas, and steel, said the project's aim will be to turn such sites of tourist importance into completely green energy-driven areas. "The secretaries of the two ministries can jointly work on this. They can pick the iconic sites already identified by the ministry of tourism or 100 sites of tourist importance and turn them into completely green energy-driven regions," he said. "This should be done taking the state governments on board. We have to look towards modern technology to create sustainable fuel and ensure that we use battery-operated vehicles, LNG, PNG, LPG in their vicinity rather than diesel and petrol vehicles,' the minister said. Pradhan also launched another initiative called SAATHI -- System for Assessment, Awareness, and Training for the hospitality industry -- to assist the sector in their preparedness to continue operations safely and mitigate risks arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. Hailing the initiative, Pradhan said people have spent months cooped up in their homes and might want to venture out. But there is apprehension about the pandemic and the hospitality industry must follow protocols to provide safety to tourists, he said. Addressing the event, tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel reiterated that the ministry launched the Dekho Apna Desh (DAD) initiative in January 2020 with the objective of creating awareness among citizens about the rich heritage and culture of the country, encouraging them to travel widely within the country and enhancing tourist footfalls leading to the development of the local economy and creation of jobs at the local level. During the pandemic, the ministry has been organizing a series of webinars under the overall theme of DAD, showcasing the diverse culture, heritage, destinations and tourism products of the country, he said. The minister informed that as on date 54 webinars covering different States/Union Territories have been organized as part of the initiative. Patel further said the programme will help in enhancing the overall experience of tourists, who would benefit from the knowledge of the local tourist facilitators and it will also help in creating employment opportunities even in the remotest parts of the country. Pradhan also launched a film titled ‘Pathik’, an initiative on Incredible India Tourist Facilitators Certification Programme (IITFC) and an ICPB MICE Promotional film. The objective of the promotional film is to communicate a positive message for welcoming events to India when competing destinations are already actively marketing their products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/identified-tourism-sites-can-be-turned-into-green-zones-with-use-of-only-bio-fuels-dharmendra-pradhan-893892.html
27-09-2020||National||This QR code lets you trace where your banana came from||Ever wondered how the curvy yellow banana reached your fruit basket from the farm? The answer could be just a QR code scan away. Happy Banana, the fruit brand of Desai Fruit Ventures, has started to deploy Farm Trace, a QR Code solution that helps consumers trace the journey of the farm product back to the farmer. “By simply scanning the QR Code on the banana, a consumer can now get to know where it was grown, what was the name of the farmer, the ripening techniques deployed before it reached the retail shelves,” Marco Klinge, Chief Executive Officer of Desai Fruit Ventures told DH. Klinge said the QR code solution could help the consumer differentiate the premium fruit from other suppliers and assure them of the quality of the product. The Farm Trace stickers on the fruit do not require any specialised app to be downloaded and can be scanned using any scanning app using a smartphone camera. Klinge said consumers were now more keen on knowing the quality and the purity of the fruits and vegetables consumed by them, particularly because of some techniques deployed to hasten the ripening. He said using Farm Trace, consumers can be reassured on the quality of the product by gaining access to the entire cultivation journey. Klinge said the QR code solution would soon be extended to other products such as pineapple and rice. The Farm Trace solution involves reaching out to farmers and suppliers of fruits and encouraging them to use management information systems to map the farm produce. The company helps enroll small farmers and farmer producer organisations adapt to newer technologies to help provide traceability features for their produce. So far, 3,000 farmers have marked their presence on the Farm Trace map and there are plans to take the number of 10,000 by next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-qr-code-lets-you-trace-where-your-banana-came-from-893895.html
27-09-2020||National||Indian Army gears up for biggest operation in decades to stock supplies in eastern Ladakh||In its biggest military logistics operation in decades, the Indian Army has rushed tanks, heavy weaponry, ammunition, fuel, food and essential winter supplies to high-altitude areas in eastern Ladakh to maintain its combat readiness through the treacherous winter of around four months, military sources said on Sunday. They said Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane, aided by a group of top commanders, has been personally involved in planning and overseeing the implementation of the mammoth exercise that began in mid-July and is nearing completion. A significant number of T-90 and T-72 tanks, artillery guns and infantry combat vehicles were flown into various sensitive areas including Chushul and Demchock sectors as part of the logistics operation, the sources said Under the operation, the Army transported large quantities of clothes, tents, food items, communication equipment, fuel, heaters and other supplies to army personnel deployed at forward posts and mountain passes at the height of over 16,000 feet. "By far it is the biggest logistics operation that has been implemented in Ladakh post Independence. Its scale is humongous," a senior military official told PTI on the condition of anonymity. To deal with any Chinese misadventure, India has deployed over three additional Army divisions in eastern Ladakh where the temperature fluctuates between minus five to minus 25 degrees Celsius from October to January. The sources said India imported winter clothing and gear from a couple of countries in Europe and they have already been supplied to the troops in eastern Ladakh. Almost all transport aircraft and helicopters of the Indian Air Force including C-130J Super Hercules and C-17 Globemaster were used to transport thousands of tonnes of food, fuel and other equipment to the region. The Indian Army has decided to maintain its current strength of troops in all key areas in eastern Ladakh in the winter months as there was no sign of early resolution of the border row with China. The Indian Air Force (IAF) has also decided to remain on high alert in the forward air bases along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Indian and Chinese armies held the sixth round of Corps Commander talks on September 21 in the backdrop of deteriorating situation in the Chushul sector following three incidents of shots being fired in the air by the Chinese military since the intervening night of August 29 and 30. Following the incidents, India had occupied at least 20 strategic heights around southern and northern banks of Pangong lake. In the talks, the two sides agreed not to escalate the situation by announcing a series of measures. However, there was no breakthrough on the disengagement process. The sources said a series of talks will be required for the disengagement process to begin with. The situation in eastern Ladakh escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side acknowledged suffering casualties, but it is yet to divulge the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The situation further deteriorated following at least three attempts by the soldiers of the PLA to "intimidate" Indian troops along the northern and southern bank of Pangong lake area in the last three weeks where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the LAC in 45 years. As the tensions escalated further, the foreign ministers of the two countries held talks on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet in Moscow on September 10 where they reached a five-point agreement to defuse the situation in eastern Ladakh. The agreement was the basis for the sixth round of Corps Commander-level talks on Monday which was also attended for the first time by a joint secretary from the MEA. The agreement aimed at ending the tense standoff included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-gears-up-for-biggest-operation-in-decades-to-stock-supplies-in-eastern-ladakh-893902.html
27-09-2020||National||Maldives-India cargo ferry service will promote bilateral ties: PM Modi||As the Maldives-India cargo ferry service made its maiden voyage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said it will promote bilateral trade and boost the economies of both countries.  Modi was responding to a tweet by Maldives President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih on Saturday.  Solih said, "Our thanks to PM @narendramodi and Govt of India as the Maldives-India Cargo Ferry Service goes on its maiden voyage today between Kulhudhuffushi, Malé and South India. The ferry would further strengthen Maldives, India friendship and bring greater prosperity to our communities." In his response, Modi tweeted, "It is indeed a happy day, President @ibusolih! Our dream of a direct ferry service between India and Maldives is now a reality. I have no doubt that it will promote bilateral trade and boost our economies. The Maldives-India friendship will continue to strengthen." The Indian government on September 21 said it has launched a direct cargo ferry service to Maldives to strengthen bilateral relations. "During its maiden voyage, a vessel with a capacity of 200 TEU (twenty-foot equivalent unit) and 3,000 MT (metric tonne) of break bulk cargo will sail from Tuticorin to Kochi today, from where it will proceed to Kulhudhuffushi port in North Maldives and then to Male port," the Ministry of Shipping had said in a statement on September 21. It was scheduled to reach Kulhudhuffushi on September 26 and Male on September 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maldives-india-cargo-ferry-service-will-promote-bilateral-ties-pm-modi-893914.html
27-09-2020||National||96% candidates appear for JEE-Advanced amid strict Covid-19 precautions||At least 96 per cent of the candidates, who had registered for JEE-Advanced, appeared for the examination on Sunday amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi, which conducted the exam. A total of 1.6 lakh candidates had registered for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced after qualifying the JEE-Main. "Out of total registered candidates, 96 per cent appeared for the exam. The number of exam centres were increased from 600 last year to 1,000, and the number of exam cities were also increased from 164 to 222," an IIT-Delhi official said. The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main for admission to engineering colleges was conducted from September 1 to 6, amid stringent precautions and social distancing measures in view of the pandemic. Staggered entry and exit of candidates, use of sanitisers at gates, distribution of masks and social distancing as candidates queued up, were followed at examinations centres across the country. While a total of 8.58 lakh candidates had registered for the JEE-Main exam, 2.5 lakh of the candidates were eligible to appear for JEE-Advanced, which is conducted for admission to the 23 IITs in the country. Through JEE-Advanced, admission will be given to under-graduate engineering programmes in the IITs. The result of the JEE-Advanced will be declared on October 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/96-candidates-appear-for-jee-advanced-amid-strict-covid-19-precautions-893922.html
27-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 60-lakh mark, but national recovery rate climbs to 82.46%||India's Covid-19 caseload sprinted past 60 lakh on Sunday night, 12 days after it crossed the 50-lakh mark, while the total number of recoveries too surged to 50,02,959, according to data from states and union territories. However, by night, a PTI tally showed India's Covid-19 caseload at 60,66,061, death toll at 95,466 and recoveries at 50,03,084. The tally has been compiled according to information provided by the states and union territories. India is in pole position in terms of the number of recoveries, followed by Brazil and the US, according to the Johns Hopkins University (JHU), which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world. India is the second-worst hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US, while it is in the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil, according to JHU data. The Union health ministry on Sunday said a total of 49,41,627 people have recuperated from coronavirus infection taking the national recovery rate to 82.46 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.58 per cent. There are 9,56,402 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 15.96 per cent of the total caseload, the health ministry data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-60-lakh-mark-but-national-recovery-rate-climbs-to-8246-893976.html
27-09-2020||National||Government Chief Whip tests positive for Covid-19||Odisha Assembly Speaker S N Patro and Parliamentary Affairs Minister B K Arukha on Sunday tested negative for Covid-19 while Government Chief Whip Pramila Mallick and another ruling BJD MLA tested positive for the infection, official sources said. The two lawmakers were among the 757 persons comprising MLAs, journalists and Assembly employees who had come forward for Covid-19 test on Saturday ahead of the ensuing monsoon session of the Assembly on September 29, the sources said. The swab samples were collected after the speaker ordered that only Covid-19 negative persons will be allowed entry into the Assembly for the monsoon session which will commence from Tuesday. Congress MLAs Suresh Routray and S S Saluja also tested negative, the sources said. "Though I have no such symptoms, my corona test came positive today. I am in home isolation and request all those who have come in contact with me in the last 10 days to get their swab tested," Mallick said in her twitter post. Another ruling BJD MLA, who was in home quarantine after testing positive on August 30, again tested positive. The name of the MLA was not disclosed. Besides, some journalists, who were to attend the session, PSOs, drivers of MLAs as well as a few Assembly staff have also tested positive for the virus, sources said. Total 757 people have undergone RT-PCR test on the premises of Odisha Assembly on Saturday and the sample collection will continue till Monday. Earlier, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation Commissioner PC Chaudhary had informed that around 900 people will undergo test for three days starting from September 26 in the Legislative Assembly before commencement of the monsoon session of the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-chief-whip-tests-positive-for-covid-19-893988.html
27-09-2020||National||Government notifies norms for alternative fuels||The Road Transport and Highways Ministry has notified regulations for various alternative fuels to further promote sustainable transportation, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Sunday. "After testing use of H-CNG (18 per cent mix of hydrogen) as compared to neat CNG for emission reduction, the Bureau of Indian Standards has developed specifications of hydrogen-enriched compressed natural gas (H-CNG) for automotive purposes as a fuel," the Road Transport, Highways and MSME Minister said in a tweet. The notification for amendments to the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989, for inclusion of H-CNG as an automotive fuel has been published, the minister tweeted. It is a step toward an alternative clean fuel for transportation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-notifies-norms-for-alternative-fuels-893992.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||From quizmaster to arch-protester: The emergence of Derek O’Brien||At 43, the sports journalist-turned-ad man-turned-quiz master was seriously thinking about another career switch. He was leading a successful quiz company by then, but the political bug had bit him hard. Derek O’Brien decided to follow his instincts. He started meeting Mamata Banerjee occasionally to discuss politics. The year was 2004. At that time, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) was still restricted to just two seats in the Lok Sabha and the Left continued to dominate West Bengal. But O'Brien was coming to believe that Mamata was an agent of change. His father, Neil O’Brien, an Anglo-Indian credited with conducting the first formal quiz competition in the country, was nominated to the state Assembly three times by the Left Front government (he later became a nominated Lok Sabha MP in 1996 during the term of the United Front government). But the junior O’Brien decided to strike out on his own and joined the TMC formally in 2005. He was eventually proved right. And how. ‘Didi’ went on to win the 2011 Assembly polls in Bengal hands down, setting a historic record of sorts by outsing the Left Front after an uninterrupted 34-year rule. The first thing Mamata told him after the 2011 elections was that she was sending him to the Rajya Sabha. Nine years later, Derek O’Brien is now the Trinamool's face and voice in Parliament. Last week, the 59-year-old MP made it to the front pages for doing what sounds unthinkable by his standards and many others. He rushed into the Well of Rajya Sabha, flashed the Rule Book at the Deputy Chairman during the passage of two contentious agriculture Bills. This was after Deputy Chairman Harivansh ignored the Opposition’s protests over extending the day’s session until the Bills were passed. The Bills were later passed by a controversial voice vote. Floor leaders seldom rush into the Well of the House. But that day, more Opposition MPs joined O’Brien in the Well, and the next day, he along with seven other MPs were suspended from the House for “unruly” behaviour. “That was a conscious decision I made. It was not the time for dainty gestures. When you pervert the rules of democracy, we have to rewrite the rules of protest and opposition” he told DH. He insists that he did not tear the rule book as alleged and dares the BJP to show a single footage to prove it. He sounds very much like a seasoned political hand now. But it has taken him years of work to get here. As Mamata plunged into the Singur-Nandigram protests back in 2006-07, O’Brien’s stock slowly rose within the party he had recently joined. She wanted to leverage his communication skills to attract the educated elite and appointed him a spokesperson to address the English media. After all, as a journalist, ad-man and a quiz master doing TV shows, his forte was communication. He, however, chose to remain in the back-room till 2011. “I did not contest the 2009 Lok Sabha elections and 2011 Assembly elections. I did not want to be parachuted. I wanted to first earn the love and respect of the party cadre,” he says. Since then he has seen a steep rise. After entering the Rajya Sabha in 2011, he became Chief Whip in 2012 and by 2015, he was in the front row leading the party after veteran Mukul Roy fell out with Mamata. Then 54, he was the youngest among Opposition leaders, sharing space with the likes of Ghulam Nabi Azad, Sharad Pawar, Sharad Yadav, Ramgopal Yadav and Sitaram Yechury. He definitely lacked their stature, experience and political tact but was a quick learner. While he has earned his space among the Opposition leaders, all are not in awe of him. Some MPs would say he is “theatrics personified”, “lacks a nuanced approach”, that Bengal politics “restricts” him and that he is not a mass leader. However, it can be said of O’Brien that what he lacks, he makes up in enthusiasm. This was on ample display last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-quizmaster-to-arch-protester-the-emergence-of-derek-o-brien-893450.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Former Union Minister Uma Bharti tests positive for Covid-19||Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Uma Bharti has said that she has tested positive for Covid-19 and has quarantined herself. She requested people who came in her contact to get themselves tested and follow protocols. ३) मै अभी हरिद्वार एवं ऋषिकेश के बीच वन्दे मातरम् कुंज में क्वॉरंटीन हू जो की मेरे परिवार के जैसा है। ४ दिन के बाद फिर से टेस्ट कराऊँगी एवं स्थिति ऐसी ही रही तो डॉक्टरो के परामर्श के अनुसार निर्णय लूंगी । Taking to Twitter, Bharti on Saturday night said that she had taken a Covid-19 test as she was suffering from fever, and the report came positive. She has quarantined herself at a place between Haridwar and Rishikesh in Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-union-minister-uma-bharti-tests-positive-for-covid-19-893604.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 27||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 60 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 60,68,086 as of September 27 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  95,516  No. of people discharged: 49,41,627 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-27-893612.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||An alliance that turns a deaf ear to its oldest ally, not the NDA envisioned by Vajpayee: Badal on Akali Dal quitting alliance||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Union Cabinet Minister of Food Processing Industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal targeted the BJP in a tweet on Sunday over the contentious Farm Bills.  “If pain & protests of 3 cr punjabis fail to melt the rigid stance of GoI (Government of India), it's no longer the #NDA envisioned by Vajpayee ji & Badal sahab. An alliance that turns a deaf ear to its oldest ally & a blind eye to pleas of those who feed the nation is no longer in the interest of Pb,”(sic) she she tweeted. Kaur’s resignation last week created shockwaves. She resigned in protest against the then-proposed Farm Bills that were cleared by both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.  “Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter & sister,” she tweeted shortly after submitting her resignation.  The SAD is the third party to pull out of the NDA political alliance after the Shiv Sena and the Telugu Desam Party (TDP). This comes amid protests against reforms in agriculture and auxilliary industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/an-alliance-that-turns-a-deaf-ear-to-its-oldest-ally-not-the-nda-envisioned-by-vajpayee-badal-on-akali-dal-quitting-alliance-893629.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Jaswant Singh was once NDA's unanimous Vice Presidential candidate against Hamid Ansari||Former Union Minister Jaswant Singh breathed his last on September 27, 2020. Singh, a multifaceted leader was once chosen to be NDA’s unanimous candidate for the Vice Presidential election against UPA’s Hamid Ansari. Singh managed to secure 238 votes out of 736 in the 2012 VP election and was unable to secure a majority. At that time, the BJP leader was 74-years-old.  In the 2012 Vice Presidential election, Ansari was re-nominated, much to the opposition of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The then NDA Working President, L K Advani, said that they would not give the Congress-led UPA a walkover, and had “unanimously decided that Jaswant Singh will be the NDA candidate in the Vice Presidential poll". The NDA had raised concerns over the re-nomination of Ansari, particularly the manner in which he conducted the Rajya Sabha when the Lokpal Bill was passed in 2013.   The BJP leader indicated that the NDA would reach out to all such parties which did not agree to the UPA nominee’s re-nomination, and AIADMK chief J Jayalalithaa extended support in this cause.  “I want to make our opposition known and felt,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jaswant-singh-was-once-ndas-unanimous-vice-presidential-candidate-against-hamid-ansari-893641.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Jaswant Singh's illustrious political legacy— A snapshot||One of the founding members of the ruling party, Jaswant Singh Jasol from Barmer, Rajasthan, was a political stalwart who reached the zenith of his political career during the reign of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Best known for smoothing over wrinkles between US and India caused by Pokhran nuclear tests, he held important portfolios in positions such as Finance Minister and Minister of External Affairs. Singh’s skills as a master negotiator was acknowledged by US’s Strobe Talbott during the US-India talks on nuclear armament. As Finance Minister, he was instrumental in pushing market-friendly reforms including privatising government owned businesses that were not performing well.  Later on, after UPA came to power in 2004, he was the Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha.  In addition to this, he wrote several books such as Jinnah: India and Partition, A Call to to Honour: In Service of Emergent, India At Risk: Mistakes, Misadventures and Misconceptions of Security Policy and Conflict & Diplomacy. His book Jinnah: India and Partition which eulogised Jinnah sparked controversy within BJP and was expelled from the party for the first time in 2009. His membership was reinstated later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jaswant-singhs-illustrious-political-legacy-a-snapshot-893642.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Most honourable man, Modi regime treated him shabbily: Jairam Ramesh pays tribute to Jaswant Singh||Congress veteran leader Jairam Ramesh paid tribute to Former Union Minister Jaswant Singh, who passed away aged 82.  Singh had been unwell the last few years since a fall sustained at home. Jairam described Singh as,"one of the most decent and honourable men in Indian politics," specifically saying that the Modi government treated him "shabbily." "Like Pranab Mukherjee, he had been Finance, Defence, and Foreign Minister, as well as Deputy Chairman of the Planning Comission. A widely-read man, he was a noted author as well. His was a voice of reason and moderation," he added.  The INC leader believed that, "the Modi regime treated him very shabbily." Jairam Ramesh also said that politicians like Singh were rare and his breed had almost become extinct in the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/most-honourable-man-modi-regime-treated-him-shabbily-jairam-ramesh-pays-tribute-to-jaswant-singh-893646.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||RIP Jaswant Singh: Political figures condole death of former Union Minister||Former Union Minister and BJP leader Jaswant Singh passed away on September 27, after suffering a cardiac arrest. The 82-year-old was a close aide of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and tributes from various political figures poured in upon hearing of the demise of the army officer-cum-politician. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that Singh, “handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs.” Jaswant Singh Ji served our nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics. During Atal Ji’s Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise. Union Home Minister too condoled the death of the BJP leader, saying:  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh paid his tribute to the former Minister Jaswant Singh, adding that he served the nation as a 'Raksha Mantri'. Deeply pained by the passing away of veteran BJP leader & former Minister, Shri Jaswant Singh ji. He served the nation in several capacities including the charge of Raksha Mantri. He distinguished himself as an effective Minister and Parliamentarian. Vice Presiden of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, tweeted: Former Indian Army Chief Ved Malik and author of Kargil: From Surprise to Victory and India's Military Conflicts and Diplomacy: An Inside View of Decision Making said: Secretary All India Mahila Congress, S S Kim condoled the former Minister's death, tweeting: Deeply saddened by the demise of veteran leader Jaswant Singh ji. Jairam Ramesh, Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) from Karnataka, likened Jaswant Singh to former President Pranab Mukherjee, lisitng out his achievements in various domains. India’s Union Minister for Housing & Urban Affairs, Civil Aviation and MoS Commerce & Industry, Hardeep Singh Puri, tweeted that Jaswant was one of the country's "longest serving parliamentarians". Deeply saddened on the demise of a tall leader & one of India's longest serving parliamentarians Sh Jaswant Singh Ji. Sushmita Dev, President, All India Mahila Congress and a national spokesperson for the INC conveyed her condolences via the social media app, saying:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rip-jaswant-singh-political-figures-condole-death-of-former-union-minister-893655.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Goa CM Pramod Sawant condoles Jaswant Singh's demise||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday expressed grief over the death of former Union minister Jaswant Singh and said his contribution towards the country's development will always be remembered. Singh, 82, a close associate of ex-prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, died in New Delhi on Sunday following a long spell of illness. Condoling his death, Sawant in a tweet said, Saddened by the demise of Former Union Minister Shri #JaswantSingh ji. Jaswant ji handled key portfolios in the Government led by Vajpayee Ji." "His immense contribution towards development of India will always be remembered. My condolences to the bereaved family. Om Shanti," the chief minister added. Singh held defence, finance and external affairs portfolios in the Vajpayee government. He contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election as an independent candidate after the BJP did not give him ticket, but lost the poll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-condoles-jaswant-singhs-demise-893678.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||PM Modi lauds farmers in his Mann ki Baat address||Amid protests by a section of farmers against farm reform bills, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that a large number of peasants have benefitted since fruits and vegetables were brought out of the APMC Act in some states a few years ago and asserted that grain-producing farmers will now have the same freedom. In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, Modi also took a swipe at economic policies pursued by successive Congress governments since Independence. Had the country followed the essence of Mahatma Gandhi's economic philosophy, there would not have been any need for the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign as India would have become self-reliant much earlier, he said. Lauding farmers for strengthening the country's agriculture sector, he said the farm sector is playing a major role in efforts to build a self-reliant India and showed its prowess during the Covid-19 pandemic. The stronger it is, the stronger will be the foundation of a self-reliant India, he said. The prime minister said he receives many letters from farmers and also interacts with farmer groups, as he spoke of changes taking place in agriculture and new dimensions being added to it. He cited example of a Haryana farmer as to how he and other farmers benefited a lot after fruits and vegetables were in 2014 brought out of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act, allowing them to sell their produce outside government-controlled mandis. He spoke about similar examples of farmers benefitting in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, and also noted that they formed groups to come out of the clutches of middlemen and received remunerative prices. "Now they have got freedom to sell not only fruits and vegetables but whatever they produce; paddy, wheat, mustard, sugarcane, anywhere they get a better price," he asserted. The prime minister made no direct mention of the farm bills brought by his government and passed by Parliament or of the opposition-led protests against them. Critics have called these measures as "anti-farmers". These bills, the government has asserted, will allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere they want at a better price. He also shared the success story of a Gujarat farmer as to how he did well after adopting innovative methods to grow potatoes. The agriculture sector will benefit immensely with greater use of technology, he said. Modi also reiterated his request to people to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. These few rules are the weapons in the fight against the novel coronavirus, he said. In his address, he also remembered many noted figures, whose birth and death anniversaries fall in the coming days. Modi paid tributes to Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Vijayaraje Scindia, Jayaprakash Narayan, Nanaji Deshmukh and Bhagat Singh. The prime minister began his monthly broadcast by talking about storytelling, saying it has been a part of our nation for centuries. "Storytelling is as old as civilisation...These days, stories relating to science are gaining popularity," Modi said. He said many people are making storytelling popular across the country and underlined that India has a glorious tradition of storytelling. He also interacted with members of the Bangalore Storytelling Society. Modi also requested all families to set aside some time for storytelling and said it will be a wonderful experience for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-lauds-farmers-in-his-mann-ki-baat-address-893711.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu condoles death of Jaswant Singh||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday condoled the death of BJP veteran and former Union minister Jaswant Singh, saying he was a man of impeccable integrity, an able administrator and an excellent parliamentarian. Singh died here on Sunday following a long spell of illness. He was 82. "Deeply saddened by the demise of former Union Minister, Shri Jaswant Singh. He was a great leader who served the nation with distinction in various capacities," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. He was a man of impeccable integrity, an able administrator and an excellent parliamentarian, the vice president said. "My thoughts are with the bereaved family and friends. Om Shanti," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-condoles-death-of-jaswant-singh-893719.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee condoles death of Jaswant Singh||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday mourned the demise of former Union minister Jaswant Singh, and extended her condolences to his family and admirers. Singh, a close associate of ex-prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, died in Delhi on Sunday following a long spell of illness. He was 82. "Saddened at the passing away of former Defence Minister and one of India's longest-serving parliamentarians, Jaswant Singh Ji. My condolences to his family and his many admirers," the chief minister tweeted. A nine-term MP, Singh held defence, finance and external affairs portfolios in the Vajpayee government. He was elected from the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-condoles-death-of-jaswant-singh-893723.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Sharad Pawar pay tributes to Jaswant Singh||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday condoled the death of former Union minister Jaswant Singh and lauded his contribution towards the country. Singh, 82, a close associate of ex-prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, died in New Delhi on Sunday following a long spell of illness. Koshyari said Singh was fiercely patriotic, articulate and eloquent and made his mark while holding defence, external affairs and finance portfolios in the Vajpayee-led government. "His learned speeches and interventions within Parliament and outside were awaited and appreciated by one and all. I had the proud privilege of knowing Jaswant Singh ji intimately. In his demise, India has lost a world class diplomat and statesman," the governor said in a statement. Pawar in a message on Twitter said Singh was an eminent parliamentarian and served the nation in varied capacities. Singh, who was considered close to Vajpayee and BJP veteran L K Advani, held defence, finance and external affairs portfolios in the Vajpayee government. He contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election as an independent candidate after the BJP did not give him ticket, but lost the poll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhagat-singh-koshyari-sharad-pawar-pay-tributes-to-jaswant-singh-893742.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Jaswant Singh, an upright politician and trusted associate of Atal Behari Vajpayee||An army officer-turned-politician, Jaswant Singh, a founding member of the BJP, was a trusted associate of Atal Behari Vajpayee and established a reputation of being his own man with moderate political views. A self-described liberal democrat with an aristocratic background, 82-year-old Jaswant, who died on Sunday, had the rare privilege of handling three key portfolios in the Union Cabinet--Defence, External Affairs and Finance, all during the tenures of Prime Minister Vajpayee(1998-2004). But it was the hijack crisis in December 1999 which dealt a body blow to his image for escorting three hardcore terrorists in an official aircraft to Kandahar in Afghanistan. Jaswant was the then External Affairs minister. The three terrorists including Maulana Masood Azhar, who later founded the Jaish-e-Mohammed(JeM), were released by India in exchange for the release of more than 150 passengers and crew from the hijacked Indian Airlines plane(IC 814). The terrorists had killed one passenger. No stranger to controversy, Jaswant often faced ridicule and criticism for personally escorting the terrorists to end the eight-day-old hijack crisis--an episode that marked one of the low points in the six-year BJP-led National Democratic Alliance(NDA) rule from 1998. An upright politician, Jaswant, who often sports his trademark shoulder-flapped shirts, enjoyed a lot of clout during Vajpayee's rule. Jaswant was also dubbed as Vajpayee’s Hanuman as the two maintained an extraordinary bond. During Vajpayee's tenure, he was there as an indispensable insider, witness to every action that had an impact on history: Pokhran-II(nuclear tests in 1998), the 1999 Kargil conflict between India and Pakistan, the Indo-Pak Agra Summit in 2001, intense engagement with the US on nuclear issues besides the Kandahar hijack. Right from the start, the top BJP leadership took a liking to Jaswant for he deliberated in English with authority, something not many in the party could do. With his education and army background, Jaswant stood out inside what was dubbed as a party of the 'middle-class’. And that deep baritone voice, with the slightest hint of a tremble completes the persona that he so consciously presents. A man of few words, subtle nuances, but most importantly, an aficionado of liberalization to the core, the suave politician, whose long political career has seen several ups and downs, had first served as finance minister in the short-lived 13-day government of Vajpayee in May 1996. Known for his self deprecating humour and who exuded style combined with a powerful gravitas, Jaswant during a Parliament debate after Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee presented his budget in July 2009 said the amount of tax relief given for senior citizens was not enough for him to buy even a "bottle of whisky". "Kick the bottle", was the advice of Mukherjee. Jaswant, who does not have a RSS background, was expelled twice from the BJP--once in 2009 for his praise of Mohammed Ali Jinnah and the second time in 2014. He was readmitted in 2010 but expelled again after the 2014 Lok Sabha polls for defying the party directive to withdraw his candidature as an Independent from Barmer in Rajasthan. He, however, lost the elections. Jaswant left the Army in a huff in 1965 after serving for eight years. Asked for the reason for quitting as Major, he said he wanted to join politics. In contrast to several hawkish senior leaders in a party known to be a right-wing organisation ever since its inception, Jaswant's was a moderate voice that represented the English-speaking, progressive view in the party that had helped it to reach a wider urban constituency beyond its conservative, Hindu chauvinist, trader base. Jaswant, who considers himself a Rajput with a profound sense of history, maintained a low political profile through his decades-long career. Jaswant was never a mass leader as he was not seen as a popular figure with whom party cadres identified with. He was a political lightweight who enjoyed power because he was considered a 'thinking politician'. After Vajpayee became prime minister for the second time in 1998, Jaswant served as Minister for External Affairs from December 5 until July 1, 2002. Responsible for foreign policy, he dealt with high tensions between India and Pakistan during the 1999 Kargil war and in the aftermath of the 2001 Parliament attack and Pakistan's nuclear tests in 1998. It was his innings as India's foreign minister from 1998 to 2002 that is most talked about. He not only steered the country successfully through the turbulent days of the sanctions imposed by the West after the Pokhran nuclear blasts of 1998, but also played a big role in taking India's ties with the US to a higher plane. Jaswant is widely regarded for his handling of relations with the US which were strained after the nuclear tests but which improved soon culminating in the 2000 visit of US President Bill Clinton to India. His skill as a negotiator and diplomat during talks with the US has been well acknowledged by his American interlocutor Strobe Talbott. His protracted engagement with Talbott on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty(CTBT) and related nuclear issues is considered a high point in Indian diplomacy. In July 2002, Jaswant became finance minister again, switching posts with Yashwant Sinha. Jaswant was instrumental in defining and pushing through the market-friendly reforms of the government. The first big 'action' during Jaswant's stint as finance minister from 2002 came in the form of the Unit Trust of India(UTI) restructuring which involved a huge amount of taxpayers money to bail out the two million unit holders of US-64. Jaswant was the candidate for the post of Vice President for the NDA in 2012. He lost to Hamid Ansari who was UPA's nominee. He was at the centre of a controversy in October 2007 when he was accused of illegal drug possession after he allegedly offered 'kesar' milk laced with opium to his guests during a function at his ancestral house in Barmer district in Rajasthan. Jaswant, who was dragged to the court, denied the charge. In 2008, a special court gave a clean chit to him and nine others in the opium case. An alumnus of prestigious Mayo College in Ajmer and the National Defence Academy(NDA), Khadakwasla, he also has been the Leader of Opposition from 2004 to 2009 in the Rajya Sabha and the Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission(1998-99). Though Jaswant entered politics in the late 60s, the first few years of his political life lacked success and recognition till he was initiated in the Jan Sangh by BJP stalwart from Rajasthan Bhairon Singh Shekhawat who is considered to be his political mentor. In 1967, contesting the national elections for the first time, Jaswant, then a lanky young lad of 29, got a mere 18,564 votes in Bikaner in Rajasthan, and lost. He tasted success in his political career in 1980 when he was first elected to the Rajya Sabha. He served five terms in the Upper House, and another four in the Lok Sabha. In the 2009 Lok Sabha polls, Jaswant was the BJP's surprise candidate from Darjeeling in West Bengal from where he won with the backing of Gorkha Janamukti Morcha(GJM). Son of Thakur Sardar Singh and Kunwar Baisawas, he was born on January 3, 1938 in the village of Jasol in Barmer. Married to Sheetal Kumari, the couple had two sons one of whom is Manvendra Singh, a former BJP MP. Jaswant has varied interests and has penned over a dozen books. An avid reader, he is a self confessed horse lover and rider, and likes playing chess and loves golf. The man, who stands erect despite a serious equestrian accident long back, exudes style and used to go riding frequently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jaswant-singh-an-upright-politician-and-trusted-associate-of-atal-behari-vajpayee-893748.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Trinamool Congress commits support to Akali Dal over quitting NDA on Farm Bills||A day after Akali Dal quit the ruling NDA, the Trinamool Congress on Sunday came out in support of the Punjab-based party on the three contentious agriculture sector bills that were passed in Parliament recently. Trinamool national spokesperson Derek O'Brien offered the party's support to Akali Dal through a tweet. “We support Sukhbir Singh Badal and Akali Dal's stand with the farmers. Fighting for farmers is part of Trinamool DNA. In 2006, Mamata Banerjee risked her life on a historic 26 day fast for farmers’ rights. We oppose #FarmBills2020 as they endanger States’ role, MSP, PDS and procurement,” he tweeted. Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal soon responded to O'Brien on Twitter, "Derek - your stand against the #AgricultureBills in parliament is well known. Appreciate your support." Akali Dal, one of the longest ally of the BJP, had announced its exit from the NDA on Sunday while its Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur resigned from the Cabinet on the day the Bills were passed in Lok Sabha. Opposition parties have already petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind not to give his assent to the Bills, saying two of them were passed in Rajya Sabha by not acceding to their request for voting. Farmers have also hit the streets across the country against the Bills even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi dismissed concerns about the Bills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trinamool-congress-commits-support-to-akali-dal-over-quitting-nda-on-farm-bills-893755.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Jaswant Singh was perfect boss and mentor: Omar Abdullah||Jaswant Singh was the perfect boss and mentor, National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah said as he remembered his stint as a junior to the former External Affairs minister who passed away on Sunday. Singh, one of the founding members of the BJP and a close associate of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, died in Delhi following a long spell of illness. He was 82. Omar, who was the minister of state for External Affairs from July 2001 to December 2002, took to Twitter to mourn the Singh's demise, saying his boss was always supportive. "Jaswant Singh sahib was my senior minister when I was Minister of State External Affairs. He was supportive without being interfering, was always available for advice & never made me feel like my work didn't matter. He was the perfect boss & mentor. Rest in peace sir,” Omar tweeted.  Jaswant Singh sahib was my senior minister when I was Minister of State External Affairs. He was supportive without being interfering, was always available for advice & never made me feel like my work didn’t matter. He was the perfect boss & mentor. Rest in peace sir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jaswant-singh-was-perfect-boss-and-mentor-omar-abdullah-893757.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Modi cites UPA-II initiative to hardsell farm sector reforms in Mann ki Baat address||Days after farmers protests in Punjab and Haryana, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday brought under sharp focus instances of farmers who have benefited from from agriculture sector reforms. Seeking to blunt the criticism of the latest round of farm sector reforms by Congress and other opposition parties, the Prime Minister recounted the success stories of a farmers from Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, who benefited from the exemption of sale of fruits and vegetables from the APMC Act towards the end of UPA-II. In his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’, Modi recalled how Kanwar Chauhan, a farmer from Sonipat in Haryana, had to face difficulties if he tried to sell his fruits and vegetables outside the ‘mandi’. “...many a times his produce and carts would get confiscated. But, in 2014, fruits and vegetables were excluded from the APMC Act, which, greatly benefited him and fellow farmers in the neighborhood,” the prime minister told his listeners. He recounted how farmers in different states had formed farmer producer organisations to sell their produce directly to the consumers without any middleman and increased their income manifold. “They have the power to sell their fruits and vegetables, anywhere and to anyone! And this power is the foundation of their progress,” the prime minister said. “Now this power has also been imparted to other farmers of the country not only for marketing of the fruits and vegetables but whatever they are producing or cultivating in their fields, – paddy, wheat, mustard, sugarcane, whatever they are growing they have now got the freedom to sell where they can get a higher price according to their wish,” Modi said. Karnataka, Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Haryana had exempted fruits and vegetables from APMC Act in January and February 2014 after an intervention by Rahul Gandhi, the then Congress vice president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-cites-upa-ii-initiative-to-hardsell-farm-sector-reforms-in-mann-ki-baat-address-893767.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Centre earmarks 30,000 central security forces personnel for Bihar polls||The Centre has directed deployment of about 30,000 central security force personnel for the conduct of the three-phase assembly polls in Bihar, officials said on Sunday. The Union home ministry has directed that 300 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and the Railway Protection Force will be deployed for "area domination to ensure peaceful conduct of assembly polls" in the state. The maximum 80 companies, as per an official order reviewed by PTI, will be drawn from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRFP) followed by 70 from the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), 55 from the Border Security Force (BSF), 50 from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), 30 from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police force (ITBP) and 15 from the RPF. A single company of these forces has an operational strength of about 100 personnel. "A total of 300 companies or about 30,000 personnel of these CAPFs and the RPF have been ordered to be withdrawn immediately from various units including from the borders and training for deployment in Bihar polls," a senior officer said. Polls for the 243-member Bihar assembly will be held in three phases-- October 28, November 3 and November 7-- and counting of votes will be held on November 10. The Election Commission, while announcing the poll schedule for the state on September 25, had said that the electoral exercise will be one of the biggest elections globally to be held during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation. "Border guarding forces like the ITBP, BSF and SSB have also been asked to withdraw their units and send for the Bihar elections pool. Although, the ITBP is heavily committed due to the current situation along the LAC and the BSF against Pakistan on the western front, these forces could not be spared (from doing poll duty) this time," a senior officer privy to the development said. Officials have recently said that the home ministry is working on an "ambitious" plan to gradually remove border guarding forces-- the BSF, the ITBP and the SSB-- from internal security duties in order to strengthen protection at various frontiers of the country.  The internal security and conduct of elections task will increasingly be rendered by the CRPF that is designated as the lead internal security force of the country, they had said. The home ministry, in the latest order, has said that the CRPF will be the nodal agency for the deployment of these central forces in the state and it will coordinate with the state agencies for moving these contingents in Bihar. The EC had said voting will begin as usual at 7 am in Bihar but the period will be extended by one hour until 6 pm, except in the Left Wing Extremism affected areas, so that Covid-19 patients can vote in the last hour of the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-earmarks-30000-central-security-forces-personnel-for-bihar-polls-893769.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Outstanding parliamentarian, great administrator and patriot: LK Advani on Jaswant Singh||Veteran BJP leader L K Advani on Sunday described Jaswant Singh as one of his closest colleagues and a dear friend, and said he was an "outstanding parliamentarian, astute diplomat, great administrator, and above all, a patriot". Jaswant Singh died here on Sunday following a long spell of illness. He was 82. In a statement, Advani said as a member of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government, Singh singularly and deftly handled the three most important portfolios of external affairs, defence and finance. He noted that a "very special bond was formed between Atal ji, Jaswant ji and myself" while handling tenacious issues during those six years (1998-2004) in power. Expressing grief over the demise of Singh, Advani said he was at a loss of words. "As a person, Jaswant ji was a true gentleman and will be remembered as a soft-spoken, erudite and warm-hearted person. He was known for his sharp, analytical mind and was respected by people across the political spectrum," Advani said. Singh became one of the tallest leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and contributed greatly throughout his active years in the party, he said. Advani (92) remains the longest serving president of the BJP. Noting that Singh was also a great lover of books like him, the veteran BJP leader said they often shared notes about this common interest. "I cherish my long association with him in public life and the bond shared between our families... His passing away is a huge loss to the nation and personally to me. May his soul rest in peace," Advani said. Advani was instrumental in bringing Jaswant Singh back into the party's fold after he was expelled in 2009 for authoring a book that had words of praise for Pakistan's founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top BJP leaders paid rich tributes to Singh, saying that he served India diligently and will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/outstanding-parliamentarian-great-administrator-and-patriot-lk-advani-on-jaswant-singh-893775.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Modi and Yediyurappa govts have launched diabolical attack on lives of farmers: Surjewala||Calling both the central and state government as 'anti-farmer', AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday alleged that they have launched a "diabolical attack" on the lives and livelihoods of farmers. Terming amendments to APMC and land reforms acts passed by the Karnataka assembly on Saturday as "black laws", he accused the government of selling the interests of farmers to a handful of corporates and builder lobbies. "Both the Modi (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) and Yediyurappa (Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa) governments are anti-farmer governments. They have launched a diabolical attack on the lives and livelihoods of farmers in Karnataka, as also the rest of the country," he said. Surjewala was referring to the amended APMC and land reforms Act in Karnataka and the three contentious farms bills passed by Parliament, against which farmers have launched a stir in Punjab, while those in Haryana would do so from September 28 to 31. Speaking to reporters here, he said under the leadership of Congress President Sonia Gandhi and former President Rahul Gandhi, and D K Shivakumar in Karnataka, the party is committed to decisively defeat the 'anti-farmer' forces. "They are selling the interests of farmers to a handful of corporates and builder lobbies, as is apparent from the black laws passed in the assembly. We will support the farmers endeavour in every manner and will stand in solidarity with farmers in Karnataka and India," he added. Despite stiff resistance from the opposition, especially Congress, the B S Yediyurappa government succeeded in getting the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill and the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill passed in the Assembly on Saturday. Farmers organisations have also opposed both legislations, and have called a state wide bandh on Monday against it. While the amendments to land reform act liberalises farmland ownership, the APMC amendment bill curtails the powers of local Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) and private individuals can start agricultural trading, if they hold a Permanent Account Number (PAN). Earlier, State congress president D K Shivakumar said they support the farmers' agitation. "Since Congress is a national party, our AICC General Secretary (Surjewala) will discuss with us and announce what is to be done in the state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-and-yediyurappa-govts-have-launched-diabolical-attack-on-lives-of-farmers-surjewala-893808.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena welcomes SAD's decision of quitting NDA||The Shiv Sena on Sunday welcomed the Shiromani Akali Dal's decision (SAD) of coming out of the BJP-led NDA fold. SAD is the second party after the Shiv Sena to have broken ties with the BJP. Last October, after the results of the Maharashtra Assembly elections were announced, Shiv Sena broke ranks with the BJP as the latter, which had a higher number of seats, refused to concede to regional party’s demand for the post of Chief Minister. “Both parties (Shiv Sena and SAD) stood by BJP through thick and thin.  While others have changed sides when they smelled power. Shiv Sena was forced to quit the NDA last year while Akali  Dal quit over Farm Bills. We felt sad over the development," Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut stated. Shiv Sena and SAD were pillars of the NDA which are no longer there….the present dispensation cannot be called NDA anymore. This is a different alliance," said Raut, a close aide of Shiv Sena President and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. “Shiv Sena appreciates Akali Dal's decision to break its ties with NDA in the interest of farmers,” Raut later tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-welcomes-sads-decision-of-quitting-nda-893812.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Sharad Yadav will work with opposition parties in Bihar: Loktantrik Janata Dal||The Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) said on Sunday that its patron Sharad Yadav will work to bring the opposition alliance to power in Bihar, as it rejected speculation about him joining hands with JD(U) president and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. In a statement, the LJD vowed to strive hard to bring "more cohesion among the secular forces" in the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar and other constituencies where by-elections are yet to be announced, and hit out at the central government over its "anti-farmers" policies. Voting for Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 in one of the biggest elections globally during the Covid-19 pandemic, followed by counting of votes on November 10, the Election Commission had announced. The party's office bearers held a meeting here in which they also paid homage to singer S P Balasubrahmanyam and former Union minister Jaswant Singh. Yadav, who is ill, is the party's patron. The LJD in the statement claimed that there have been rumours that Yadav may join the JD(U) and rejected them as "totally false and baseless". With the country in "deep economic distress" and urban India hit hard by Covid-19, the LJD strongly condemns the government's "anti-farmer policies" and views them as a serious assault on the potential of the rural economy to put the country back on track to progress, the statement said, in an apparent reference to the farm bills brought by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-yadav-will-work-with-opposition-parties-in-bihar-loktantrik-janata-dal-893881.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||Farm Bills: Congress dares BJP allies to oppose Centre||A day after the Shiromani Akali Dal exit the NDA, the Congress on Sunday dared BJP allies JD(U), LJP and JJP to oppose the Centre and not to support the agriculture Bills, which it alleged were like cancer and slow poison that will kill farmers and farming. At a joint virtual press conference, Congress’ Haryana chief Kumari Selja and Punjab president Sunil Jakhar urged all parties to come together and oppose the farm Bills while asking the Centre to take back the legislations, saying these will make farmers “slaves of big businessmen”. The two Congress leaders also urged the President not to grant his assent to the Bills as farmers are on the roads against them. Selja and Jakhar said NDA allies should support the opposition parties, the same way they extended support against the Land Acquisition Bill, which the BJP-led Union government was forced to withdraw. On the Shiromani Akali Dal’s exit from the NDA, Jakhar said the party did not quit the ruling coalition of its own. It was forced to do so by farmers, who made it difficult for the Akalis to enter Punjab without doing so, he said. Jakhar said the Akalis had only staged a drama of first quitting the Union cabinet and then the alliance as the BJP openly said that they were very much party to the clearing of the Bills in the cabinet. "The resignation by the Akali minister was not given but taken by the BJP and the Akali Dal did not quit the NDA of its own but were thrown out,” he claimed. The anger of farmers and the arrogance by the BJP has forced the Akalis to buy the permit of entering Punjab by enacting this drama," Jakhar told reporters. Selja dared the JJP, which shares power with the BJP in Haryana, to quit the alliance and stand with farmers in the state. "The Akalis did a drama and it is time for other parties to think as people are asking questions. Farmers will be made bonded labour under contract farming and after the farm bills are implemented. "We urge the BJP allies to think and stand unitedly with farmers and against the farm Bills. We appeal to all to stand up with the cause of farmers and protest the farm bills," Selja said. Taking on the JJP, she said, "Leaders of the JJP abused the BJP ahead of the elections and after a fractured verdict in Haryana, joined hands with it. Dushyant Chautala should open his eyes and stand with farmers." Jakhar said Devi Lal's soul must be churning in heaven on seeing his descendants support the "anti-farmer" BJP. "The farm Bills are like cancer and its effect will be known later when this cancer will reach the terminal stage and no medicine will work. This is like slow poison," he alleged, saying they are aimed at making farmers "slaves of big businessmen". Selja said there are other parties like the BJD, TRS and the YSR Congress who have been supporting the BJP when it needed their backing. We want that they should not shut their eyes" and tell the Centre that people will ask questions from them, she said. “Those who are part of the NDA, like the JDU and LJP in Bihar, should also think. Polls are approaching in Bihar, people will seek answers from them,” said Selja. Selja said earlier a similar experiment was held in Bihar where farmers were told that they are free to sell their crop anywhere. “But now everyone knows the fate of that experiment. Farmers were reduced to labourers,” she alleged. “The AIDMK, AGP, Apna Dal and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party too should think what is happening with farmers,” Selja said. She said the country will not spare these NDA allies if they don't take a stand against the anti-farmer BJP. When asked if the Congress will approach the NDA allies and other parties on the issue, she said, “They should listen to their conscience. They should decide whether they want to stand with farmers or those who have cleared the way for their exploitation at the hands of big companies and corporates." Jakhar said among the NDA allies, he expects Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to take a lead and listen to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-bills-congress-dares-bjp-allies-to-oppose-centre-893898.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||I wish govt's Covid-19 vaccine strategy was subject of 'Mann ki Baat': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday questioned the government on its strategy for making the Covid-19 vaccine available to people, saying he wished it was the subject of the 'Mann ki Baat' programme. "The question is legitimate, but how long will India wait for the government's answer? Alas, the Covid vaccine access strategy should have been the 'Mann ki Baat'," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi's tweet came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi aired his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' programme on the All India Radio (AIR). Along with his comment, Gandhi shared a news report regarding Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla's tweet in which he asked the government if it had Rs 80,000 crore available to distribute the Covid vaccine to the country's population over the next one year. "I ask this question, because we need to plan and guide, vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution," Poonawalla had asked on Twitter on Saturday. SII has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-wish-govts-covid-19-vaccine-strategy-was-subject-of-mann-ki-baat-rahul-gandhi-893923.html
27-09-2020||National Politics||'Sad, disappointing', says Sukhbir Singh Badal as Farm Bills get President Ram Nath Kovind's nod||In a statement here, Badal said it was a “dark day for the country” as the President refused to act as the nation's conscience”. He said also claimed that only the SAD was a farmers' party, not the BJP or the Congress. “We were very hopeful that the President will return these Bills to Parliament for reconsideration as demanded by the SAD and some other opposition parties," he said, adding that his party will chalk out the next course of action after due deliberations. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to three contentious Farm Bills that have triggered protests, especially in Punjab and Haryana. A SAD delegation led by Badal had met the President, urging him not to give his assent to the Farm Bills and return them to Parliament for reconsideration. The SAD on Saturday quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm legislations and the non-inclusion of Punjabi as official language in Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill. The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, provides for inclusion of Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi in the list of official languages, in addition to Urdu and English. The SAD chief also lamented that before drafting the farm legislations, his party was not consulted by the government. “There is only one party in the country which is called the party of farmers, poor and khet mazdoor (farm labour),” he claimed while addressing party workers at Rupnagar. Neither the Congress, nor the BJP can be called farmers’ parties, he claimed. He said the Farm Bills, if implemented, will not only affect farmers but also farm workers and arhtiyas (commission agents). The SAD chief called upon all political parties and organisations to close ranks for a united fight. “We are ready to join or follow any struggle in the overall interest of farmers, farm labour, arhtiyas and other farm produce traders,” said Badal. Badal said the country needed to understand and empathise with farmers in view of the “pathetic conditions” in which they are living. “Anything like the new farm legislations which increases the uncertainty over the fate of farmers' produce can have disastrous implications not only for the economy but also for social stability in the country,” he said. “The farmers' economic plight affects the entire economy. Therefore, what we are fighting for is to protect the country's wider national interests,” he said. Badal also addressed party workers at Hoshiarpur and Phagwara in order to mobilise people for a Kisan march on October 1. He reiterated his party's firm commitment to preserving peace, communal harmony and fraternity in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sad-disappointing-says-sukhbir-singh-badal-as-farm-bills-get-president-ram-nath-kovinds-nod-893927.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||300 doctors offer free telemedicine services to Jammu and Kashmir residents||A group of 300 doctors from across the world have come together to set up a free telemedicine consultation service in Jammu and Kashmir to serve non-Covid-19 patients who have suffered as the focus of the existing healthcare infrastructure has been on dealing with the pandemic. Under the 'Dial a Doctor' programme, more than 300 doctors across the globe and from different specialties and sub-specialties provide voluntary health services to the patients. Ehsaas International and Dard Welfare Society, in association with Kashmir Health Care Support Group, have initiated this healthcare consultative service, Hakim Mohammad Ilyas, general secretary of Ehsaas International, told PTI. "Considering the adverse impact the Covid-19 pandemic has put on the existing health infrastructure of J&K, we decided to launch 'Dial a Doctor' programme wherein people would get access to quality health consultations and services without leaving the four walls of their houses," he said. "This was conceptualised keeping in view that hospitals are high risk places for contraction of Covid-19 and many medical ailments can be managed by telephonic consultations thus avoiding visit of patients to hospitals," Ilyas said. To ensure timely disposal of queries, a control room managed by doctors and paramedical staff has been set up with a toll free number 1800 889 2729 backed with 10 lines at the back end to avoid any inconvenience to the patients, he said. "In the last two months, more than 2,000 consultations have been provided to the people free of cost," he added.  Chairman of Ehsaas International Tabassum Geelani said this service is being delivered with the approval of Health and Medical Education Department, the Government of J&K and it has brought a sigh of relief to the patients who do not have to undertake risky visits to hospitals for ailments other than Covid-19. "The doctors associated with the initiative readily agreed to offer their selfless services and are relentlessly providing their expertise by managing the patients through telemedicine consultations,” Geelani added.  The organisers of the telemedicine service want to continue the service even after the pandemic in view of the dedication shown by the doctors and the benefits availed by the patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/300-doctors-offer-free-telemedicine-services-to-jammu-and-kashmir-residents-893690.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||High wind speed improves Delhi's air quality marginally||Delhi's air quality improved marginally on Sunday due to high wind speed, while favourable ventilation conditions are likely to keep it in the "moderate" category for the next three days, a government forecasting agency said. Sporadic farm fires were observed on Saturday around Punjab and border regions but its impact has been negligible so far due to unfavourable wind direction and speed, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said. The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 117 on Sunday. It was 165 on Saturday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. "AQI has improved marginally due to high wind speed and rainfall in Rajasthan which washed out dust en route to the city, reducing dust intrusion," the Ministry of Earth Science's air quality monitor said. "High surface wind speed is predicted... Favourable ventilation condition is likely to keep Delhi's AQI in the moderate category for the next three days," SAFAR said. However, it said, the late withdrawal of monsoon and associated stagnant winds are likely to influence Delhi's air quality negatively by the weekend. The monsoon will start receding from Delhi on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-wind-speed-improves-delhis-air-quality-marginally-893694.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir hide in bunkers under toilet, seasonal streams to evade security forces||A false cavity under an Indian toilet or planting a steel box beneath a seasonal nullah or taking refuge in man-made cavities is a new trend emerging among terror groups in Jammu and Kashmir to play hide-and-seek with security forces after their stay with the local population turned out to be a high risk. Police and Army officials feel that mounting pressure has forced the terror groups and their sympathisers to look for alternative hiding places after several encounters with security forces led to several casualties in the militant rank and file. "Underground bunkers and false cavities are not a new phenomenon but of late we have had several such examples in south Kashmir. In one case, terrorists were hiding inside a septic tank of an Indian toilet," says Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbagh Singh. Giving details about the incident, an official from the Army team, which detected the false cavity in March this year in the Watrigaam area of Anantnag, said that they noticed fresh white cement around an Indian toilet inside a house where an intelligence input suggested about the presence of terrorists. "The broken tiles and newly applied white cement gave away the secret despite the presence of human excreta on the toilet seat to divert us...we started digging and received a fire from beneath. This resulted in the death of four Lashker-e-Taiba terrorists," the officer recalled about the operation in March this year. A similar incident, according to Army officials, occurred in the Lassipura area on the Pulwama-Shopian border in south Kashmir in 2019 when a house was searched at least six times and finally the septic tank was dug only to discover two terrorists hiding beneath. "We have seen false walls in kitchen, bedrooms, drawing rooms in many hideouts of terrorists especially in south Kashmir," DGP Singh, who was flanked by Inspector General of Police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar and Deputy Inspector General (South) A K Goel, told PTI recently. Army officials have also been using drones to locate terrorist hideouts and underground bunkers, which included one below a seasonal stream where the terrorist group led by Zubair Wani had placed a steel box beneath the surface to escape the dragnet of security forces. While Wani was killed in an encounter in June this year, the telltale signs led the Army team to the underground bunker beneath the Rambi Ara. Colonel A K Singh, heading the 44 Rashtriya Rifles, the Army's counter-insurgent unit which has earned a distinction of having maximum kills of terrorists as well as surrenders or apprehensions, had said earlier that this trend had been witnessed of late in twin districts of Pulwama and Shopian with the latter having a majority of them in view of dense apple orchards and jungles. The shocker was a hideout in the middle of the Rambi Ara, known for fluctuating water levels and often affected by flash floods, that led Col Singh and his team members back to the drawing board as for the Army, it was not the statistics of the number of kills but a worrisome trend indicating that terrorists were now well-entrenched inside the underground bunkers. Another novel hide-and-seek strategy was witnessed in Labipora in Shopian where terrorists had covered an iron box on the banks of a river and kept a small pipe for breathing while hiding underground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-in-jammu-and-kashmir-hide-in-bunkers-under-toilet-seasonal-streams-to-evade-security-forces-893718.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||India, Pakistan troops exchange fire along border in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba||Indian and Pakistani troops exchanged fire for nearly 30 minutes after the Border Security Force (BSF) picked up suspicious movement along the International Border in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday. No one was injured in the firing which started around 11.45 pm on Saturday in Mangu Chak Border Outpost (BOP) area of Ghagwal sector, the officials said. They said BSF troops deployed at BOP Mangu Chak observed movement of three to four persons near Pakistani post Pir Bunker and opened fire after they were seen moving towards this side under the cover of darkness. Pakistani Rangers retaliated and the exchange of small arms firing between the two sides continued for about half-an-hour, the officials said, adding the suspiciously moving persons returned to Pakistani side amid the firing. A BSF official confirmed the incident and said a massive search operation was launched early this morning to sanitise the area. “The search operation is on but no incriminating material has been recovered so far,” the official said. There has been spurt in airdropping of weapons by drones and smuggling of narcotics along the IB and Line of Control (LoC) amid frequent ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir over the past few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-pakistan-troops-exchange-fire-along-border-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-samba-893720.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Farmers continue rail blockade in Amritsar over Farm Bills||Farmers squatted on the Amritsar-Delhi railway track here on Sunday, continuing their 'rail-roko' agitation against the contentious farm bills passed by the Parliament last week. People from nearby villages brought cooked food and other items for the demonstrators. 'Langar' (community kitchen) has also been organised at the site by local gurdwaras. Women wearing saffron dupattas also joined the protest, raised slogans against the Centre and said they would not allow the implementation of the three legislations. Farmers, under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, have been staging a sit-in on the rail track in Punjab since last Wednesday. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher demanded that all the sitting 13 MPs from Punjab should tender their resignation with immediate effect in support of the farmers' demands. He asserted that BJP leaders would not be allowed to enter villages. The committee had announced to extend their agitation till September 29. Trains services remained suspended in the state because of the protest. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big companies. Parliament had passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill. These are yet to get the assent of the President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-continue-rail-blockade-in-amritsar-over-farm-bills-893734.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||2 railway engineers accused of gang-rape suspended after arrest||Two engineers of the Bhopal division of West Central Railway were placed under suspension for allegedly gang-raping a woman in a room in the railway station here, an official said on Sunday. Junior Engineer (Carriage Wagon) Rajesh Tiwari and Senior Section Engineer (Electrical) Alok Malviya are accused of raping a 22-year-old woman from Uttar Pradesh on Saturday after Tiwari befriended her on Facebook and invited her to Bhopal with the promise of getting her a job, said Bhopal Superintendent of Police (Railway) Hitesh Choudhary. "When the woman arrived on Saturday morning, main accused Tiwari (in his 40s) put her up in a room at the railway station, after which he and Malviya (54) gave her a drink laced with a sedative and then raped her. She filed a complaint after she regained consciousness," Choudhary said. A departmental inquiry has been instituted by the Bhopal divisional railway manager (DRM) against the two and they have been suspended, a WCR release informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-railway-engineers-accused-of-gang-rape-suspended-after-arrest-893738.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Akalis snapping ties unfortunate: Punjab BJP leaders||Describing the SAD's decision of snapping ties with the NDA as “unfortunate”, Punjab’s senior BJP leaders Manoranjan Kalia and Master Mohan Lal on Sunday asserted that the party will be able to fight and also win the 2022 Punjab assembly polls alone. The SAD on Saturday night had announced to quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the Farm Bills issue. The announcement was made by Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, amid the stepped up farmers agitation in Punjab over the three Farm Bills, recently passed by Parliament amid the Opposition protests. Reacting to the SAD's decision of breaking ties, BJP's senior leader Manoranjan Kalia said it was unfortunate that they broke a long association. He said there was a generational change in the Akali Dal as several senior leaders like Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Sewa Singh Sekhawan, who used to work with Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal, have left the SAD. “Now, the second generation has taken over and some leaders are more reactive now,” said Kalia. Kalia said the BJP had always tried to accommodate the SAD and cited an example that in 2007, the post of deputy chief minister was given to the alliance partner Akali Dal when the government was formed in Punjab due to the good performance of the BJP in polls. On the issue of three farm legislations, Kalia said the Akalis had been supporting them initially, saying that they were favourable to the farming community. Former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal even made a statement in its favour, said Kalia. “But they took a U-turn later. This is unfortunate,” he said. Kalia defended the Farm Bills, saying that they were in the interest of farmers. “The BJP is also a party of farmers and BJP knows how to protect the farmers’ interest,” he said. When asked about 2022 Punjab assembly polls, Kalia said the party was ready to contest the polls alone. “We are ready. We will fight (polls) and we are definitely going to form the government,” he said. Another BJP leader Master Mohan Lal described Akalis' move of pulling out of the NDA as a “decision taken in haste”. Lal said the Akalis should have held a meeting with BJP's core group. “I do not understand what were Akalis' compulsions and why they took this decision,” he said. The former minister said the SAD and BJP had entered into an alliance for development, peace and harmony in Punjab. Lal said nobody should take the BJP as weak. “The BJP will win the 2022 Punjab assembly polls. Our workers and cadre are ready at 117 constituencies,” he said. As per the arrangement, SAD used to contest assembly polls on 94 seats while BJP on 23 seats in Punjab. Former Punjab minister Anil Joshi also said it was unfortunate that the Akalis have walked out of the alliance. He said the Farm Bills were in the interests of farmers. “Has anybody said that MSP, mandi system and procurement will end? Farmers are being misled and those doing so will soon be exposed,” Joshi said. Parliament had recently passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; and Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The Bills are yet to get the assent of the President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akalis-snapping-ties-unfortunate-punjab-bjp-leaders-893747.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Monsoon to withdraw from north India in two days; rainy season to end on above-normal note||The southwest monsoon is set to retreat from parts of north India in the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday, while data suggests that the rainy season is most likely to end on an above-normal note. Overall, the country has received 9 per cent more rainfall than normal until September 26, according to data. "Conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal of monsoon from west Rajasthan and adjoining areas from September 28," the weather department said. Mahesh Palawat, the vice president of private forecaster Skymet Weather, said rainfall has reduced considerably. "The withdrawal of monsoon from west Rajasthan is likely to start from tomorrow (Monday). It looks like monsoon will withdraw on an above-normal note," Palawat said. Rainfall in the range of 96 to 104 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) is considered as 'normal', while precipitation in the range of 104 to 110 per cent of the LPA is 'excess'. Nine states have received excess rainfall, while 20 states have recorded normal precipitation, the data shows. The official rainfall season in India is from June 1 to September 30. Monsoon arrived over Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date. June recorded 17 per cent more rainfall, while July saw 10 per cent deficiency. However, there was an excess rainfall in August -- the month recorded 27 per cent more rainfall than normal. Parts of north India -- Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir --- have recorded deficient rainfall. The Union Territory of Ladakh has recorded high deficiency of rainfall this year. Large parts of the country in west and south India, including Gujarat, Goa, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, have received excess rainfall. Sikkim is the only state to have received large excess rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-to-withdraw-from-north-india-in-two-days-rainy-season-to-end-on-above-normal-note-893758.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||All efforts would be made to promote tourism in Ladakh: Lieutenant Governor R K Mathur||Asserting that tourism was the most adversely affected sector due to the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic across the globe, Ladakh Lieutenant Governor R K Mathur on Sunday said his administration would do whatever possible to promote tourism in the Union Territory. Mathur was speaking at a function after flagging off a cleanliness drive on the occasion of World Tourism Day from Karzoo Zing here, an official spokesman said. “In this critical time with the threat of Covid-19 pandemic, tourism is the most adversely hit sector across the globe. Whatever is possible to promote tourism (in Ladakh) keeping in view the guidelines of Covid-19 pandemic shall be done,” he said. He appreciated the Ladakh Tourism Department, Rural Development Department, Municipal Committees of Leh and Kargil and other bodies for their initiative to celebrate World Tourism Day with a cleanliness drive. Highlighting the close dependence of tourism and cleanliness, the L-G said that Ladakh needs to continue with the cleanliness drive on a regular basis and create a clean atmosphere for tourists as well as for the local citizens. He exhorted to carry out such cleanliness drives beyond the urban localities and to motivate the rural population also to ensure cleanliness and hygiene at all levels. The Lt Governor also handed over various items for the cleanliness drive to the representatives of different participating localities, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-efforts-would-be-made-to-promote-tourism-in-ladakh-lieutenant-governor-r-k-mathur-893759.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh man kills sons after argument with wife||A 32-year-old inebriated man allegedly killed his two children after an argument with his wife in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba district, police said on Sunday. Harnarayan, a resident of Parapantar village in Panwari block, tied a 'gamcha' around the neck of his sons -- Ashish (8) and Aryan (5) -- and strangulated them around 7.30 pm on Saturday, Superintendent of Police Arun Kumar Srivastava said. The incident occurred when Harnarayan's wife was harvesting crops in the field and there was a dispute between them over going home. After the killing, Harnarayan tried to flee, but was caught by villagers and handed over to the police, according to the SP. A case of murder has been registered and he has been taken into custody. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-man-kills-sons-after-argument-with-wife-893760.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Major fire at electronics firm in Greater Noida||A major fire broke out at an electronics firm in Greater Noida on Sunday, officials said. The fire was reported around 1.15 pm in Ecotech Extension 1 area and firefighting is underway, the officials said. "Eight fire tenders were rushed to the site. Firefighters and police have been deployed who are trying to control the blaze," an official from the local Kasna police station said around 2.30 pm. The cause of fire is not known yet, the official said. There is no immediate report of any person getting harmed in the fire but the loss of property is yet to be assessed, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-fire-at-electronics-firm-in-greater-noida-893765.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||CAG report highlights failure of J&K govt in proper implementation of MGNREGA in 2016-17||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India has highlighted the failure of the previous PDP-BJP government in the proper implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Jammu and Kashmir during 2016-17, saying long term developmental perspective for all districts could not be ensured due to non-preparation of a perspective plan. In its report on social, general, economic (Non-PSU) sectors for the year ended March 31, 2017, the CAG said delays in submission of labour budgets led to the late release of funds by the Centre and delayed payment of wages. The MGNREGA has the objective of enhancing livelihood security in rural areas by providing at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual labour. “Un-reconciled closing balances, non-accountal of bank interest of Rs 1.20 crore in the financial statements, delayed release of funds, short-release of the state share of Rs 107.08 crore and excess expenditure of Rs 22.85 crore on administrative charges reflected poor financial management which was equivalent to non-generation of 83.78 lakh person-days of employment,” the CAG said in its report tabled in Parliament last week. It said no unemployment allowances were paid to the job card holders who demanded jobs but could not be provided. “Further, 19 per cent of person-days employment could be provided to women beneficiaries against the norm of 33 per cent.” The report said the wage payment in 77 per cent cases was not paid within the prescribed time of 15 days and 40 per cent wage payments were made after a delay of more than 90 days. “Execution of works under the Scheme showed weakness. While 14,211 works included in the approved annual action plans were not executed, 2,281 unapproved works were executed which led to the unauthorised expenditure of Rs 32.67 crore and revealed improper planning and non-involvement of public representatives before framing the annual action plans,” the report said. It said the non-maintenance of wage material ratio led to the excess expenditure of Rs 277.69 crore on a material component with consequent non-generation of 1.74 crore person-days employment. “Non-accountal and non-utilisation of material worth Rs 0.29 crore procured in excess of the requirement have the risk of misappropriation and pilferage. Delay in completion of works taken under 13th Finance Commission in convergence with Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and non-maintenance of wage material ratio led to the diversion of Rs 1.26 crore, time overrun and cost overrun of Rs 1.13 crore in two blocks,” it said. The CAG report said the non-maintenance of essential data and records regarding the inspection of works, job seekers’ details, assets and mismatch in data provided or uploaded on Management Information System revealed poor monitoring. “The department has neither constituted the monitoring committees to monitor the quality of works nor appointed ombudsman to deal with complaints,” it said, adding the independent surveys and assessment by audit showed that implementation of the scheme was left with various gaps in terms of achieving wage employment, sectoral target achievements, coverage, awareness and participation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cag-report-highlights-failure-of-jk-govt-in-proper-implementation-of-mgnrega-in-2016-17-893784.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||BSF foils infiltration bid by five terrorists along International Border in Jammu's Samba||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday foiled an infiltration bid along the International Border in Samba sector of Jammu and Kashmir. “Movement of a group of five militants was noticed in the Pakistan side of the International boundary in Samba sector by alert BSF troops on the intervening night of September 26 and 27. Taking advantage of the darkness, the heavily armed militants tried to enter into Indian territory but were engaged by alert BSF troops,” a spokesperson of the BSF said in a statement. He said the BSF troops challenged them to stop on which they started firing with Pakistan Ranger posts also giving them covering fire. “BSF alert troops fired on the infiltrating militants with coordinated effective fire, however, they managed to flee back to Pakistan territory. With this, BSF foiled another possible infiltration bid of armed militants from the Pakistan side well supported by Pakistan Rangers,” the spokesperson added. This was the second attempt of infiltration through the Samba sector by the militants. Earlier during the intervening night of September 14 and 15 a similar attempt was foiled. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the Line of Control (LoC) fall in Jammu and Kashmir. Besides infiltration attempts and ceasefire violations, there has been a spurt in airdropping of weapons by drones and smuggling of narcotics along the LoC and IB in recent months. A senior BSF officer told DH that the terror infrastructure in Pakistan was intact and airdropping of weapons by drones was a new challenge for them. “The terror infrastructure (in Pakistan) is intact as is evident from the increased activities like attempts to smuggle weapons and narcotics and firing incidents on the borders,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-foils-infiltration-bid-by-five-terrorists-along-international-border-in-jammus-samba-893789.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||SAD quit NDA over farm bills amid chinks in ties surfacing for a year||The Shiromani Akali Dal quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over farm bills, but strains in relations between the two oldest allies had begun surfacing for over a year. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the decision to snap ties with the NDA on Saturday night amid the stepped up farmer agitation in Punjab over the three farm legislations which were recently passed by Parliament. It was, however, not for the first time that the two allies had differed on several issues, including various legislations. On the Citizenship Amendment Act, the SAD had last year said the Act should not specify any particular religion and the right to acquire citizenship should be given to refugees of all religions. Though the party had voted in favour of the contentious law in Parliament last year, it had maintained that it was against keeping out any religious community from the law's purview. The SAD’s core committee had then reiterated that it supports the CAA to the extent that it protects the interests of the Sikh community but wanted the legislation to widen its ambit to include Muslims as well. Later, in first signs that all was not well between the two allies, the SAD opted out of contesting this year's Delhi assembly polls. The SAD had then announced that it would not contest the polls after it was asked by the Bharatiya Janata Party to change its stand on the contentious CAA. Senior SAD leaders Daljit Singh Cheema and Manjinder Singh Sirsa had then said the party wanted to contest the elections in alliance with the BJP but were left with only two options -- either to reconsider the stance over the amended Citizenship Act or decide against contesting the polls. A year ago, differences between SAD and BJP surfaced when SAD's lone MLA from Kalanwali in Haryana, Balkaur Singh joined the BJP just weeks before the October 2019 Haryana polls. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had then lashed out at the BJP for inducting its lone sitting MLA in Haryana into its fold, saying what the saffron party has done is "unethical and unfortunate". Barely days after SAD decided against contesting the Delhi assembly polls on the grounds cited by it, many senior saffron leaders started raising pitch that the BJP workers have a dream of having their government in Punjab. Former Pathankot MLA Ashwani Sharma, meanwhile, was appointed as the Punjab BJP president in January. Senior BJP leader and former minister Manoranjan Kalia had said in January that every party worker has a dream of having a BJP government in Punjab, while another party leader Madan Mohan Mittal pitched for contesting 50 per cent seats in the 2022 assembly polls. Another BJP leader and former minister Master Mohan Lal had then said the saffron party should go alone in the 2022 assembly polls. Over the years, the SAD-BJP had settled seat-sharing formula in the state, with the saffron party contesting on 23 seats and Akalis on 94 seats in assembly polls. During parliamentary elections, the SAD fights on 10 seats and the BJP on three. SAD's alliance with the NDA dated back to 1997. Akali stalwart and former chief minister, Parkash Singh Badal used to describe ties with the BJP as 'nau-mass da rishta' (ties like nail and flesh). Badal senior had over the years held that ties with the BJP were everlasting and essential for the peace and communal harmony in the state. Senior Punjab BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia told PTI on Sunday that the BJP had always tried to accommodate the SAD and cited an example that in 2007, the post of deputy chief minister was given to the alliance partner Akali Dal when the government was formed in Punjab due to the good performance of the BJP in polls. He said it was “unfortunate” that SAD had walked out of the alliance, but at the same time, he asserted his party was ready to fight and even win the 2022 Punjab assembly polls all alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-quit-nda-over-farm-bills-amid-chinks-in-ties-surfacing-for-a-year-893799.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang-rape incident extremely shameful, condemnable, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati said on Sunday that the alleged gang rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district was "extremely" shameful and condemnable. The teenager is struggling for life at an Aligarh hospital, where she has been put on a ventilator. Four accused named in the case have been arrested, officials had said. "A Dalit girl in UP's Hathras district was severely beaten up and then she was gang-raped, which is extremely-shameful and extremely-condemnable," Mayawati tweeted in Hindi. "Even daughters and sisters from other sections of society are not safe in the state. The government must pay attention towards it. This is the demand of the BSP," she added. Giving details of the incident, Hathras Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir said the woman had gone to the fields with her mother on September 14 and went missing soon after. The teenager was later found brutally injured, with her tongue having a serious cut as she bit it while the accused attempted to strangulate her, according to the officer. In a statement to the magistrate, the victim said Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi had raped her and when she resisted their attempts, they tried to strangulate her, leading to the cut in the tongue, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-incident-extremely-shameful-condemnable-says-mayawati-893801.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||All households will have to pay sewage charges; DJB approves proposal||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has approved a proposal to collect annual sewage pollution charge from all households, irrespective of whether they are located in areas with or without sewage connection. According to a National Green Tribunal order, every individual household causing pollution by the release of sewage into an open environment or in the sewer network is liable for payment for its treatment as per "polluter pays" principle. At present, the utility collects sewage charges only from those households which have water connections and a functional sewer network. The money is utilised for maintenance, upkeep and to upgrade the sewer network. But many households get water from the DJB and generate sewage but have not been paying sewage charges as there is no sewer network in their area, according to an official. The DJB has 25.20 lakh active water consumers, of which 19.94 lakh come under areas with sewage connection. Sewage charges are levied in their water bills. "Earlier, we had been collecting sewage charges from households which come under sewered areas and have an active water connection. Now, all households irrespective of whether they are part of sewered or unsewered areas will have to pay these charges," the official said. Officials said there are areas where DJB does not have water pipelines and sewer networks, such as unauthorized colonies and JJ clusters. In such areas, land-owning agencies are responsible for collecting sewage charges. According to the proposal approved by the DJB at a board meeting recently, annual sewage pollution charges for all households -- based on the categories of colonies -- will be levied and collected from domestic and non-domestic consumers. There are eight categories of residential colonies in Delhi – A, B, C, D, E, F, G, and H. Domestic consumers in A and B categories of colonies, such as Maharani Bagh and Andrews Ganj, will have to pay Rs 5,000 a year as sewage pollution charges. Households in C and D categories of colonies will have to pay Rs2,000 and Rs 1,000 a year respectively. Those in E and F categories of colonies will be charged Rs 200 per year, while consumers in G and H categories will be required to pay Rs 100 annually. According to the proposal, sewage charges will be collected through power distribution companies. "There is only one facility which is uniformly used by every household in Delhi -- electricity. The power companies have one the largest billing and collection networks and are most well placed for collection of sewage charges," the proposal read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-households-will-have-to-pay-sewage-charges-djb-approves-proposal-893811.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Ladakh group withdraws call for boycotting autonomous body polls in Leh||An influential organisation of Ladakh Sunday withdrew its call for a boycott of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council polls in Leh after the Centre assured its demands for protection of local language, jobs, land and demography will be considered positively. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also assured a delegation of the People's Movement for Constitutional Safeguard Under Sixth Schedule for Ladakh that the Central government is committed to empower the LAHDC of Leh and Kargil and would protect the interests of the people of the Union Territory. Shah also assured that the Centre would explore all avenues towards this objective including under the 6th Schedule of the Constitution. In a joint statement, former Ladakh MPs Thiksay Rinpoche and Thupstan Chhewang, former J&K minister Chhering Dorje and Union ministers Kiren Rijiju and G Kishan Reddy said the delegation was assured that all issues related to language, demography, ethnicity, land and jobs will be considered positively and taken care of. “A dialogue between a larger Ladakhi delegation comprising representatives from Leh and Kargil districts under the aegis of Peoples Movement for Constitutional Safeguard Under Sixth Schedule for Ladakh and Union Home Ministry would commence after 15 days of the culmination of LAHDC, Leh elections. “Any decision so reached in this connection would be in consultation with the representatives from Leh and Kargil,” the statement, which came a day after the Ladakhi leaders met Shah, said. The statement said the Centre is open to discuss protection of Ladakh's language, demography, ethnicity, land and jobs under the 6th schedule of Constitution and other provisions while looking into issues related to Ladakhi people. “The delegation has agreed to withdraw its call for the boycott of the ensuing LAHDC, Leh elections and promised its wholesome support to the smooth conduct of these elections,” it said. Addressing a press conference, along with the Ladakhi leaders, Rijiju said that Union MoS for Home G Kishan Reddy, who was sitting beside him, would visit Ladakh Monday and meet a cross sections of people in the Union Territory to allay their apprehensions. Chhewang said after the abrogation of Article 370, which gave special status to J&K, people of Ladakh have some apprehensions about their future, land, culture and jobs since there is no longer any legislative body there. “After creation of the UT, people thought that the autonomous bodies will be empowered. Unfortunately, the kind of work should have been done, did not happen. Covid pandemic also played a role,” he said. “Many people thought that powers of the autonomous bodies have been curtailed. There have been strong feelings of unhappiness. We were worried that such unhappiness among the youths should not go in wrong way,” he said. The Peoples Movement for Constitutional Safeguard Under Sixth Schedule for Ladakh, he said, has been seeking the empowerment of the autonomous bodies similar to the Bodo Territorial Council in Assam under the 6th schedule of the constitution. The former MP said after their meeting with the home minister, they now think that their apprehensions will be addressed and people's rights protected. Chhewang said people of Ladakh have been doing their best for the security of the nation since 1947 and even helping the Indian Army now when China is trying to making incursion (Atikraman) in Ladakh. He praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for taking “proactive” steps during the current standoff with China, and said no government in the past has taken such decisions. “When the Indian Army was facing difficulties to send ration to some of the heights it has captured, the people of Ladakh voluntarily delivered the ration to these posts. “Because of the sacrifice the people of Ladakh have been making since 1947, there has been expectation that the central government would sympathetically resolve the problems of Ladakh,” he said. The former MP also said their agitation should not be linked with issues of the Kashmir valley and they were also not in favour of a domicile law similar to UT of Jammu and Kashmir. Rijiju said the provision of the 6th Schedule and other provisions of the constitution will be looked into to allay the apprehensions of the people of Ladakh and protect their rights On September 22, the recently floated People's Movement for Constitutional Safeguard Sixth Schedule for Ladakh announced the boycott of the upcoming elections to LAHDC Leh. The LAHDC Leh is scheduled to go to polls on October 16 -- the first such exercise in the region after Ladakh was carved out from Jammu and Kashmir and granted the Union Territory status on August 5 last year following the abrogation of special status to the erstwhile state. When Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two UTs, it was announced that the UT of Jammu and Kashmir would have a legislative assembly but UT of Ladakh would not have any legislature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-group-withdraws-call-for-boycotting-autonomous-body-polls-in-leh-893821.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Recruitment of local youth into militancy continues in Kashmir, 130 join in 2020 so far||Notwithstanding the claims of the Center, the recruitment of local youth into militancy continues in Kashmir with 130 joining the militant ranks this year so far as against 140 in 2019. As per the official data 140 local youth joined militant ranks in 2019 while the number is 130 this year so far. In 2018, over 200 local youth had joined militant ranks in the Union Territory. However, out of 130 newly recruited militants, security forces have killed 55 and arrested 29 till present. On August 5 last year, New Delhi scrapped the constitutional provisions of autonomy in Article 370 and 35A and split the region into two union territories. The Center contended these measures were needed to dismantle a system they claimed fostered separatism, radicalization and militancy. However, more than a year later, the violence continues unabated in Kashmir and since the beginning of 2020, more than 180 militants have been killed. The number of militants killed in 2019 was less than 160. Kashmir’s armed insurgency became more local in recent years and the trend continues this year as well. As cross-border infiltration from Pakistan became more difficult in recent years, locally recruited Kashmiri militants continue to outnumber foreign Islamist militants. A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations told DH that though local militants prove less militarily effective, they help galvanize support for separatism. "Only the limited weapons supply is preventing the resentment in Kashmir from swelling into a mass insurgency. If weapons are available easily, more local youths will join the militancy," he revealed. The officer warned that Kashmir appears poised for a gradual resurgence of violence and armed insurgency if right steps are not taken now. "Frustrations are mounting in Kashmir over corruption and governance deficits. Assurances of stability, development and a resumption of normality have fallen short. The government needs to work on this front immediately," he added. Recently, Lt Gen B S Raju, Commander of Srinagar-based Chinar Corps, had termed local recruitment in militancy as one of primary concerns for the army. “Our efforts are aimed at weaning the youth away from terror. Proactive steps are being taken to identify and counsel vulnerable youth. We are working to, first, prevent local youth from joining terror and, second, to facilitate surrender from those who have joined terror organizations,” he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recruitment-of-local-youth-into-militancy-continues-in-kashmir-130-join-in-2020-so-far-893827.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Scheduled Caste girl gang raped in Uttar Pradesh, suffers paralysis||A girl belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) community was gang raped by four youths, who also tried to strangle her and in the process inflicted serious injuries on her, leaving her critical and paralysed, in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district, about 400 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources, all the four accused, who hail from the native village of the victim, have been arrested. The victim, who suffered serious injuries on her neck, face, back and stomach, is stated to be in a 'critical' condition and had to be put on ventilator at a hospital in the neighbouring Aligarh town. Police officials in Hathras said that the victim was forcibly taken to a field by the youths and was gang-raped a few days back. The matter came to light on Saturday after the victim told the attending doctors that she had been gang-raped. The perpetrators tried to kill her as she knew them. ''The accused tried to strangle her....in the process a portion of her tongue was chopped and she also sustained serious injuries on her neck,'' said an official in Hathras. The doctors said that the victim is paralysed in all four limbs and is in a critical condition. The opposition parties condemned the incident and accused the Yogi Adityanath government of failing to ensure the safety of the women in the state. ''What happened with this Dalit girl is really shocking....this government has failed completely on the law and order front...women are not safe under this regime,'' said a UP Congress leader in Lucknow on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scheduled-caste-girl-gang-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-suffers-paralysis-893837.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Two held in Delhi for liquor home delivery scam||Two men were arrested for allegedly cheating over thousand people across the country on the pretext of home delivery of liquor, police said on Sunday. The accused were identified as Huzaifah (25) from Sangam Vihar, and Lado Sarai-resident Hafiz Tufail (35), they said. The matter came to light on July 24 after Karan Palta, one of the victims of the scam, lodged a police complaint. He stated that he came across a social media advertisement on May 22 that claimed to provide home delivery of liquor during the lockdown, a senior police officer said. He contacted the mobile numbers provided in the advertisement. The person at the other end asked him to transfer Rs 4,000 for two bottles of liquor. When the liquor was not delivered, he called again and asked for a refund, police said. The accused sent a UPI link and asked him to scan the Quick Response (QR) code for receiving the money. When he scanned the QR code, an amount of Rs 20,000 was deducted from his e-wallet, the officer said. "During investigation, police identified Huzaifah and arrested him on Friday from Saket," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said. According to the bank statement of Huzaifah, Rs 35 lakh was deposited in his account from February 20 to September 9, the DCP said. Huzaifah said he had opened multiple bank accounts. The gang leader, Naseer, used to deposit money online into his accounts and take cash from him, police said. He said Naseer lives in Bharatpur in Rajasthan and was introduced to him by Tufail. On his instance, Tufail was also apprehended, Meena said. Tufail said Naseer is his relative and he used to transfer money online in his bank accounts and charged a commission from Naseer. The accused have cheated around 1,500 people in the last one year. Five e-wallet accounts and three bank accounts have been frozen, police said, adding efforts are on to nab Naseer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-held-in-delhi-for-liquor-home-delivery-scam-893842.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Former Bihar police chief takes political plunge, joins JD(U)||Former Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey, who took voluntary retirement from service a few days ago, joined the state's ruling JD(U) on Sunday. Pandey, an outspoken police officer, joined the party in the presence of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who is also the JD(U) president. The 1987 batch IPS officer had strongly defended Kumar on the issue of institution of a CBI probe into the mysterious death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Ever since he took VRS weeks before the October- November assembly elections, there was speculation that he could take the political plunge. "Nitish Kumar ji personally called me and offered party membership with great love. I accepted it," Pandey said. "I don't know anything about politics. I will do what I am asked to do," he told reporters. Speculation is rife that he may be offered ticket to contest the assembly election from a seat in his native Buxar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-bihar-police-chief-takes-political-plunge-joins-jdu-893866.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||President Ram Nath Kovind gives assent to Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill||A new law that provides for inclusion of Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi in the list of official languages in Jammu and Kashmir, in addition to Urdu and English, has been notified after President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent. The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, was passed by Parliament in the recently concluded Monsoon Session. The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020, received assent of the President on September 26, according to a gazette notification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/president-ram-nath-kovind-gives-assent-to-jammu-and-kashmir-official-languages-bill-893880.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Shiromani Akali Dal's reasons to cut ties very surprising: Punjab BJP chief||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma said on Sunday the reasons given by the Shiromani Akali Dal for snapping ties with the NDA were "very surprising", but also mentioned that he "felt sad" over their decision. The SAD on Saturday night announced to quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm bills issue. The party's chief had also expressed anguish over the non-inclusion of Punjabi in the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020. In the wake of this development, the Punjab unit of the BJP held a meeting of its core group core on Sunday. Addressing reporters after the meeting, Sharma said, "The BJP has always given respect to every party associated with the NDA. But the SAD is a political party and they chose another line. Surely I felt sad as they were the oldest ally." "But the two reasons they (Akalis) gave (for snapping ties) were very surprising," he said. On the issue of farm bills, the Akalis alleged that the BJP was not pro-farmer. But, ever since Narendra Modi became prime minister, several decisions have been taken by the farming community, Sharma said. He cited the support of Rs 6,000 given to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sammann Nidhi scheme, supplying neem-coated urea, Kisan Bima and Fasal Bima schemes among others. Strongly defending the three farm bills, Sharma said the prime minister had assured the minimum support price system and government purchase would continue. The Punjab BJP chief said the Akali Dal also raised the issue of non-inclusion of Punjabi language in Jammu and Kashmir. "Under a new clause 4, which has been inserted in the new law (Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020), a provision has been made to promote the Punjabi language in Jammu and Kashmir," Sharma claimed. He said the BJP is accountable to Punjab, Punjabiyat and the people of Punjab. "Therefore, the reasons they (Akalis) gave (for leaving alliance) are not sufficient," he said. Sharma also accused the Congress and the AAP of trying to mislead the farmers. Taking on Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the state BJP chief accused him of using the shoulder of farmers in a bid to hide his government's failures and rampant corruption and existence of liquor and mining mafias. He lashed out at the Congress, alleging that it ruled the country for 60 years and gave false hopes to the poor and the farmers and never took any decision to raise their standard of living. Reacting to the SAD's decision of breaking ties, BJP's senior leader Manoranjan Kalia said it was unfortunate that they broke a long association. He said there was a generational change in the Akali Dal as several senior leaders like Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Sewa Singh Sekhawan, who used to work with Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal, have left the SAD. "Now, the second generation has taken over and some leaders are more reactive now," said Kalia. Another BJP leader Master Mohan Lal described the Akalis' move of pulling out of the NDA as a "decision taken in haste". He said the Akalis should have held a meeting with BJP's core group. "I do not understand what were Akalis' compulsions and why they took this decision," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shiromani-akali-dals-reasons-to-cut-ties-very-surprising-punjab-bjp-chief-893883.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter in J&K's Pulwama||An unidentified militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Sunday, police said. Acting on specific information about the presence of militants in the Samboora area of Awantipora in the south Kashmir district, security forces launched a cordon and search operation there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting the searches in the area, the militants fired upon them. The security forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter. In the exchange of fire, a militant was killed, the official said, adding the identity and group affiliation of the slain ultra is being ascertained. The operation is on, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-pulwama-893888.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Jamia Millia Islamia entrance exam date announced||Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) announced on Sunday that entrance tests for admission to 126 undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma programmes will commence from October 10. In normal situation, around 12,000 students could be accommodated for entrance tests, but due to the coronavirus pandemic, not more than 4,000 candidates can sit at a time, the university said. In order to ensure that the norms are followed, the university is in talks with Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) to set up other entrance test centres in Delhi, it added. The final figure of test centres in Delhi will be finalised in a couple of days while centres outside Delhi are already mentioned in the prospectus, it said. The Executive Council (EC), the highest decision-making body of the university, had in its meeting on September 24 approved the date sheet after taking into consideration the admission-related guidelines issued by the UGC on September 22, the varsity said. The admit cards will be available on students' portal www.jmicoe.in before seven days of the date of the entrance tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-millia-islamia-entrance-exam-date-announced-893890.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||RJD to provide 10 lakh govt jobs if voted to power: Tejashwi Yadav||Seeking to lure voters in poll- bound Bihar, the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Sunday promised to provide "10 lakh permanent government jobs" if voted to power. The populistic announcement was made at a press conference here by Tejashwi Yadav, the party's chief ministerial candidate who is faced with the uphill task of holding his own against the formidable ruling NDA in the absence of his father and RJD boss Lalu Prasad. "It is not just a vaada (empty promise). We will do what we have promised with mazboot iraada (firm resolve). If the RJD is able to form its government, filling up of 10 lakh posts all permanent, government jobs will be sanctioned in the very first cabinet meeting," said the former deputy CM. Assembly elections will be held in three phases in Bihar on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be announced on November 10. In a veiled dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Yadav said, "We are not like those who achieve power with a promise of two crore jobs every year and leave Bihar bankrupt after 15 years of rule." Yadav, who has been leader of the opposition in the outgoing assembly since the abrupt exit of Nitish Kumar from the Grand Alliance robbed him of the deputy CM's post and his party of power, accused the chief minister of inaction despite "lakhs of posts lying vacant in health, education and police departments". "Bihar is the most densely populated state in the country and about 60 per cent of its population is said to be young and of employable age. "Still, there are so many vacant posts of doctors, paramedics, teachers and police personnel and Nitish Kumar did nothing to fill up these," the 31-year-old RJD leader alleged. He said his party intends to fill up the vacancies as well as increase the number of sanctioned ones since the state is plagued by an acute shortage of doctors, teachers and policemen. "I would like to ask Nitish Kumar how does he go around boasting about improved law and order when Bihar has only 77 police personnel for every one lakh people and, as per the NCRB, reports a rape or a murder every four to five years," the RJD leader charged. Yadav further made it clear that these "10 lakh sthaayi sarkaari naukriyan" will be in addition to the jobs generated after growth in sectors such as agro-based industries and tourism. "We have made this announcement after due consultation with economic experts. It is an attainable goal. We will come out with a blueprint shortly," he added. The RJD heads the Grand Alliance, comprising old ally Congress and new ones like the Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP and Mukesh Sahni's VIP. Besides it tends to take along the Left parties which have had some following in the state sharply divided along caste lines. Nonetheless, the coalition has been plagued by frequent squabbles and rebellions. It lost former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi's Hindustani Awam Morcha to the NDA a month ago. Kushwaha, too, has been striking a note of dissent of late, stressing that he would remain with the Grand Alliance only if the chief ministerial candidate is changed since he saw Tejashwi as "no match to" Nitish Kumar, the incumbent for the last 15 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rjd-to-provide-10-lakh-govt-jobs-if-voted-to-power-tejashwi-yadav-893891.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Senior sub-inspector suspended for ‘assaulting’ RSS pracharak’s father in police custody||A senior sub-inspector was suspended on Sunday for allegedly beating up the father of an RSS ‘pracharak’ in police custody here in Mirachi area of the district. Police sources said a person named Phool Singh was taken into the custody on Friday in a land dispute in Nagla Narayan area of the city. Phool Singh's son Munendra, who is an RSS ‘pracharak’ came to know of the physical assault on his father in police custody, when he spoke to him over the phone. Reacting to it, RSS workers along with three BJP MLAs -- Vipin Verma, Virendra Lodhi and Devendra Lodhi -- and district BJP president Sandeep Jain reached the police station and demanded action against the erring SI Ramkesh Rajput. MLA Verma said all the MLAs and RSS workers demanded that action should be initiated against the senior sub-inspector Ramkesh Rajput. On the MLAs demand, Etah’s Senior Superintendent of Police Sunil Kumar Singh directed city Circle Officer Naseer Khan to probe the matter. Khan said Senior Sub-Inspector Rajput was found guilty in the probe and was suspended on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-sub-inspector-suspended-for-assaulting-rss-pracharak-s-father-in-police-custody-893894.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt to issue press notes in Sanskrit||In an apparent bid to encourage use and study of Sanskrit, Uttar Pradesh government has decided to issue the official press notes in the ancient Indian language also. An official press note regarding the Covid-19 review meeting held here on Saturday was issued in the Sanskrit language. The meeting was presided over by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. According to a government spokesman in Lucknow on Sunday, two experts of the language were appointed in the information and public relations department in the state government for preparing the press notes in Sanskrit. So far the state government issued press notes in Hindi, English and Urdu languages keeping in view the media publications here. "The decision to issue press notes in Sanskrit will go a long way in promoting the use of the language... It will encourage the students to study the language," the spokesman said. The spokesman did not explain if there were any newspapers in the ancient Indian language, which would use the press notes in Sanskrit. Ever since assuming the charge of the state in 2017, Adityanath had been harping on the promotion of Sanskrit. He had once remarked that a person, who knew Sanskrit, would never be unemployed. Adityanath had also asked the Sanskrit schools to modernise themselves and include in their syllabus subjects like computer education, Science and English. The experts, however, expressed doubts if the decision would be able to serve its purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-issue-press-notes-in-sanskrit-893906.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||UP govt demolishes gangster Khan Mubarak's Rs 1-cr home||A two-storey house, worth over Rs 1 crore, of gangster Khan Mubarak was razed on Sunday in Ambedkar Nagar district, a government spokesperson said. On September 22, the administration in Ambedkar Nagar district had demolished 20 shops worth around Rs 1.40 crore belonging to the gangster. As many as 35 cases are registered against Mubarak in various districts of the state. Action has also been initiated under the Gangsters Act at a complex in Hansvar market, according to the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-demolishes-gangster-khan-mubaraks-rs-1-cr-home-893912.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||SHO transferred to police lines over Dalit woman’s gang-rape case in Uttar Pradesh||The station house officer of Chandpa police station in Hathras district under whose jurisdiction a 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped nearly a fortnight ago, has been transferred to the district police lines, an official said on Sunday. “Chandpa SHO D K Verma has been sent to police lines for his failure to promptly acting in the case,” said Hathras Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir. The SP added that some Provincial Armed Constabulary personnel too have been deployed in the area as a precautionary measure to ensure that the matter does not get aggravated due to the gang-rape of the Dalit women. All the named accused in the case have also been arrested, the SP said. The woman was raped by four men belonging to a village in Chandpa police station area on September 14. The accused had also tried to strangulate her to death as she resisted their attempt and in the process, she had also ended up biting her tongue and suffering a severe cut on it. After the gang-rape, the victim had been admitted to the J N Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, where her condition was described by officials on Saturday as critical. The woman’s father, however, on Sunday, described his daughter’s condition as "satisfactory" and also expressed satisfaction over the medical treatment meted out to her at the hospital. He also expressed disinclination to shift his daughter to AIIMS, Delhi, saying “whenever we feel that it is necessary to take her to Delhi, we will tell the administration”. Meanwhile, the Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati on Sunday condemned the gang-rape of the women, saying no woman from any community is safe in Uttar Pradesh and asked the state government to pay attention to it. "A Dalit girl in UP’s Hathras district was severely beaten up and then was gang-raped, which is extremely-shameful and extremely-condemnable," Mayawati tweeted in Hindi. "Daughters and sisters even from other sections of the society are not safe in the state. The government must pay attention to it. This is the BSP’s demand,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sho-transferred-to-police-lines-over-dalit-woman-s-gang-rape-case-in-uttar-pradesh-893918.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Shooting at UP Film City ‘to begin in 3-4 months'||Shooting at the upcoming Film City in Gautam Buddh Nagar can begin in three to four months from now, senior government official Awanish Awasthi said Sunday, according to BJP MLA Dhirendra Singh. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) and Information Awanish Awasthi inspected the site in the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority's (YEIDA's) Sector 21 and instructed officials to submit a detailed project report (DPR) soon. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had recently approved a proposal to set up the Film City in 1,000 acre of land along the Yamuna Expressway, near Noida. Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh tweeted in Hindi, “Additional Chief Secretary to UP government Awanish Awasthi toured the proposed film city site in Sector 21 of Yamuna Authority. He said that shooting will begin at this location in 3 to 4 months.” YEIDA's officer on special duty Shailendra Bhatia said Awasthi observed the road connectivity and development adjacent to the site and in the areas nearby. “He also instructed YEIDA to prepare the DPR for the film city.” Asked as to by when a DPR could be submitted, Bhatia told PTI: “As soon as possible.” Awasthi, also the chairman of Film Bandhu, the nodal agency of the state government for cinema-related activities, was joined by YEIDA CEO Arun Vir Singh during the site inspection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shooting-at-up-film-city-to-begin-in-3-4-months-893920.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi's Covid-19 fatality rate less than 1% in last 10 days: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday the Covid-19 fatality rate in the national capital was less than one per cent in the last 10 days and asserted that a massive increase in testing for detection of coronavirus infection has led to the rise in cases. He said Delhi recorded 3,372 fresh cases on Saturday and 4,476 patients recovered within 24 hours. About 46 deaths reported during the same period, which has been the highest in nearly 70 days, Jain said, "We do not look at the figures for a single day. The average fatality rate of the last 10 days has been 0.94 per cent. "The patients who have succumbed are not those who tested positive in a day. These are people who tested positive 15-20 days back. That is why we take the average of 10 days," he stressed. The overall case fatality rate is 1.94 per cent. The occupancy of beds in Delhi hospitals has declined in the last four-five days and 55 per cent of the total beds are unoccupied currently, the minister added. The Delhi government had constituted a three-member committee to audit daily the deaths caused by the novel coronavirus in the national capital. Jain said the committee visited all the hospitals and the report is satisfactory. "There were a few glitches which have been ironed out. There was a time when the fatality rate was at four per cent but it has remained below one per cent in the last 10 days," he said. In the national capital, the number of containment zones has breached the 2,000-mark, which Jain said is a part of Delhi's strategy to tackle the spread of the virus. "We tripled the number of tests and those who tested positive was isolated in small containment zones to contain the spread. We knew we would have to do it aggressively for two to four weeks and we are seeing positive results now as the cases are declining," he added. Jain was also asked about market areas like Connaught Place, Lajpat Nagar and Laxmi Nagar emerging as Covid-19 hotspots. "Wherever cases were reported, now there is a slowdown. In the last seven days, cases and positivity rate have declined. The positivity rate for the last seven days has been 6.5 per cent. Two weeks ago, it was 8.5 per cent and three weeks ago it was nine per cent. "Also, people do not stay in market areas. They come there from residential areas. Markets cannot be called coronavirus hotspots, residential areas are the hotspots," he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-covid-19-fatality-rate-less-than-1-in-last-10-days-satyendar-jain-893921.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Child labour cases increased during Covid-19 pandemic, say Delhi Police, DCPCR||The Delhi Police and the DCPCR have seen an increase in cases of child labour during the Covid-19 pandemic which along with the lockdown has severely hit the income of families, giving an opportunity for traffickers to target the poor and persuade them to send their children to work, officials said on Sunday. Both the Delhi Police and the Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) have jointly rescued several children during this time, they said. Officials of DCPCR said with the outbreak of Covid-19 and ensuing lockdown, there has been a drastic impact on the income of families and the traffickers have been targeting poor families in various states, including Bihar, persuading them to send their children on the pretext of giving employment. The child rights panel said it has been working to curb such cases through a multi-stakeholder approach, coordinating with all the stakeholders, including Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), Mandi Associations, Private Schools Associations among others in Delhi. The Commission is concerned about increasing number of cases during the pandemic, said an official. Even the International Labour Organisation (ILO) has predicted that with Covid-19 pandemic, the world may witness an increase in child labour for the first time in 20 years, thus, there is a risk of reverting years of progress in this arena, he added. In the second week of July, the DCPCR along with the police rescued 12 child labourers from Gandhi Nagar in east Delhi. The children were found in a garment factory and cycle-motorcycle mechanic shops and they were not wearing masks and working in unsafe and unhygienic conditions, the panel had earlier said. A few days later, the DCPCR rescued five child labourers from Okhla, who were working at a bike service centre and eateries respectively. In the same month, another rescue operation was conducted by the body along with the police, in which nine child labourers, who were working in various scrap shops in Mustafabad were rescued. In September, 14 children allegedly trafficked from different districts of Bihar to Delhi were rescued and 10 people were arrested by the Railway unit of Delhi Police. Among those rescued, nine children were from Katihar, two from Begusarai, two from Kishanganj and one from Purnia. The accused had planned to take them to different places, including four to Azadpur and two to Seelampur in Delhi, two to Faridabad in Haryana and six to Punjab, Harendra Kumar Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) had said. Due to the shortage of labourers amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the traffickers saw an opportunity to get the children employed in factories and targeted poor families in Bihar, the DCP had said. In order to curb such incidents, the DCPCR has started a scheme for providing financial incentive for reporting of child labour. Anurag Kundu, chairman of DCPCR recently urged citizens to pro-actively report instances of child labour and win cash award of up to Rs 10,000. He had also said the Commission is building an early warning system to determine child adversity using children's school attendance as an indicator. "It is in the process of laying down processes to activate a series of actions and interventions in the event of children remaining absent from the schools for more than 50 per cent of the days. This will help mitigate the child's adversity in early stages," he had earlier said. The Delhi Police have reorganised it's Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU). The operation 'Milap', under which children are rescued, was launched in December 2014. Under this project, the AHTU develops information, rescues the trafficked or kidnapped person and arrests the kidnappers. A senior Delhi police officer said many of the children who go missing belong in the age group between 12-18. Having solved many such cases, Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said one of the noteworthy thing is that even on being scolded by parents on trivial or minor issues, children go away from their houses. Later when they reach railway stations or bus stands, they are brought to children's home and it becomes difficult for the parents to trace them. The officer said it has been observed in some cases that parents from weaker section do not even lodge an FIR or a missing report, making it difficult to find out about the whereabouts of the children or match their photo on Zipnet (Zonal Integrated Police Network) -- which has details of the missing children or unidentified dead bodies. "To reunite the missing children, we visit children's home where our staff speak to them and try to win their confidence so that they tell us from where they have come. In many of cases, children are initially skeptical or they do not open up easily, but after sometime, we have observed that they do share some information about their house. "In many cases, even a small information like I have a post office near my house or a railway track goes from near my village, have helped us reunite missing children with their families," said Thakur. Citing a similar case from his district, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said on September 12, during a routine visit to an observation home, a team of AHTU met a 12 year-old boy who disclosed that he hails from Loni, Ghaziabad and only remembered that a white temple was near his home, he said. Based on that clue, Google search was used and location of all white temples were searched in Loni and finally on September 19, the family of the missing boy was traced near one white temple in Loni, he said. When visiting children's home, the police personnel always ensure they are in civil dress and its mostly the women officers who interact with children and counsel them to make them comfortable, police officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/child-labour-cases-increased-during-covid-19-pandemic-say-delhi-police-dcpcr-893940.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan govt to blame for crisis in Dungarpur: BJP||Blaming the Congress government in Rajasthan for the tense situation in the violence-hit Dungarpur, the BJP said on Sunday that it has made no efforts to thrash out an agreement with protesting youths. BJP spokesperson and Lok Sabha MP Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore accused the Congress government of all-round failure, and said the situation in the southern Rajasthan has been worsening but it has made little effort to resolve the crisis. The agitation had been going on for several days but it appears that the government was either unaware or made no communication, Rathore alleged. Violence erupted in the region on Thursday when the candidates of teachers recruitment examination-2018 blocked the Udaipur-Ahmedabad Highway, pelted stones at police, damaged several properties and torched vehicles, demanding filling of 1,167 general vacant posts with ST candidates. Rajasthan minister Arjun Singh Bamaniya, senior officers and other public representatives on Sunday met a delegation of protesters in Dungarpur where two companies of the Rapid Action Force have been deployed to deal with the situation. Rathore said the Congress had made promises like unemployment allowance and jobs during the 2018 assembly polls but did not bring any new vacancies except those created by the previous BJP government. He asked the state government to reach out to unemployed protesters to defuse the crisis and said those who have infiltrated their protests and creating violence should be unmasked. A man was shot dead on Saturday night during the protest and two others were injured, while a group of protesters torched a pickup van at around 3 am on Sunday. The Udaipur-Ahmedabad Highway remained disrupted due to the protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-to-blame-for-crisis-in-dungarpur-bjp-893955.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Female elephant dies coming in contact with live wire, 7 suspected poachers held in Chhattisgarh||Seven suspected poachers were arrested on Sunday for allegedly killing an elephant in Mahasamund district of Chhattisgarh by laying a live wire in its way, forest officials said. The arrests were made a day after the carcass of a female elephant was found on the outskirts of Kishanpur village under Pithora forest range. The pachyderm died after it came in contact with a live iron wire laid by poachers to trap wild boar, the official said. "With the help of sniffer dogs from Achanakmar Tiger Reserve, forest personnel raided some houses in Kishanpur and nearby Rampur villages and arrested seven persons on charges of killing the elephant", said Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Mahasamund Division, Mayank Pandey. Two accused are on the run, he said. A bundle of iron wires and materials used in poaching were recovered from them, he said. During interrogation, the accused revealed that they had recently killed a sloth bear in a similar manner. Later,remains of the bear, hidden by the accused, were also recovered from the area, he said. The accused were booked under provisions of Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 and India Forest Act 1927, Pandey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/female-elephant-dies-coming-in-contact-with-live-wire-7-suspected-poachers-held-in-chhattisgarh-893960.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: 50 more deaths, 1,458 new cases in Punjab||Fifty more fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 to 3,238 in Punjab while 1,458 more cases took the infection tally to 1,10,106 on Sunday. Nine deaths were reported from Ludhiana, eight from Jalandhar, six from Patiala, five each from Amritsar and Pathankot and three each from Hoshiarpur and Rupnagar, as per the state health department's medical bulletin. Two deaths each were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, SBS Nagar, Tarn Taran and one each from Mansa, Moga and Sangrur. The places which reported new cases included Amritsar (167), Mohali (165), Ludhiana (151), Patiala (131), Pathankot (115) and Jalandhar (108). There are 18,556 active Covid-19 cases in the state as of now, according to the bulletin. A total of 2,299 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 88,312 in the state. Sixty-three critically ill patients are on ventilator support while 451 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 17,63,498 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-50-more-deaths-1458-new-cases-in-punjab-893961.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Priests’ body condemns moving Mathura court on Lord Krishna birthplace dispute||A body of priests has condemned the filing of a petition in a Mathura court for the removal of Shahi Idgah mosque near the birthplace of Lord Krishna in the holy city. The Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha condemned the legal move two days after a group of people filed a petition in a court here for the removal of the 17th-century mosque that they claimed was built at the birthplace of Lord Krishna within the 13-acre premises of the Katra Keshav Dev temple here. National president Mahesh Pathak of the Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha condemned the move saying "some outsiders" are trying to disturb the peace and tranquillity of Mathura by raising a frivolous temple-mosque issue. "There is no temple-mosque dispute in Mathura at Srikrishna Janmasthan after a compromise between both the parties in 20th century," said Pathak. He said there is complete harmony between both the communities and a side by side existence of both the shrines has become an example of the emotional integration. The petition filed in the court of the district's Senior Civil Judge Chhaya Sharma on Friday has also demanded the annulment of a 1968 Mathura court ruling, ratifying a land deal reached between the Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan and Shahi Idgah Management Committee on the mosque. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Power Minister Shrikant Sharma, visiting Mathura to supervise the power infrastructure development work in the district, said in a democratic country, everyone has the right to chose and profess his faith and everyone has also the freedom of speech and expression. Asked about the filing of the petition on Lord Krishna birthplace dispute, the minister said it is true that foreign invaders tried to demolish religious places in the country. The minister, however, added that India is a democratic country and the judiciary is supreme in a democracy. He said the government and his party, including he himself, is governed by the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priests-body-condemns-moving-mathura-court-on-lord-krishna-birthplace-dispute-893965.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Intensify surveillance, contact tracing: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to officials||To keep the Covid-19 positivity rate below five per cent and the death rate below one per cent in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed officials to intensify surveillance and contact tracing. He also said that testing among high-risk groups should be intensified. These combined endeavours are the only way to keep the Covid-19 death rate low and prevent spread of the infection, Adityanath said. The chief minister issued the directions while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, especially in 16 districts where more than 100 cases are reported within a week, a statement issued by the state government here said. He said that testing should be focussed and one-third of testing should be through RT-PCR and the rest by the rapid-antigen method. Adityanath pointed out that focus testing is less in Lucknow and should be increased. Micro-containment zones should be created and these areas will be more compact than containment zones created earlier, the chief minister said. He emphasised that the case fatality rate (CFR) should be kept under control and the district where it is more than one per cent, contact tracing and surveillance should be more aggressive. Adityanath directed the Health and Medical Education department to make available facilities of virtual ICUs in all L-2 and L-3 hospitals. A virtual intensive care unit (ICU) is a redesigned model of care that uses state-of-the-art technology to leverage the expertise and knowledge of experienced caregivers over a large group of patients in multiple intensive care units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intensify-surveillance-contact-tracing-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-officials-893972.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Man held for raping woman on pretext of giving her job in Delhi's Shaheen Bagh||A 32-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a woman by luring her on the pretext of giving her a job in southeast Delhi's Shaheen Bagh area, police said on Sunday. On Friday, a woman, who resides in Ghaziabad and works at a factory, lodged a complaint where she alleged that while searching for a new job, she joined a WhatsApp group -- 'Job for all', a senior police officer said. While chatting in the group, the accused called her and told her that he was a member of the group and wanted to help her get a new job. Later, they started chatting with each other, the officer said. On Wednesday, the accused again contacted her, saying he had arranged a job for her and asked her to come to Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh. She told him she would not be able to reach there that day , but he insisted. She finally agreed and asked him to pick her up from Shastri Park metro station. The accused took her at his house in Abul Fazal Enclave on his motorcycle, police said. After reaching his house, he offered her some eatables but she refused to eat them. She said she was not feeling well following which the accused offered to give her a massage which she again refused, police said. Thereafter, the accused caught both her hands and forced himself on her. He later dropped the victim at her residence in Ghaziabad, police said. "During investigation, the mobile number of the accused was found to be switched off. The victim identified the house of the accused in Abul Fazal Enclave, following which he was arrested," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) R P Meena said. Sabri said earlier, he was working in private companies but during the lockdown, he lost his job and joined the group to get a job, the DCP said. Through the group, he came in contact with the victim. On Wednesday, he called the victim and forced himself on her, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-giving-her-job-in-delhis-shaheen-bagh-893974.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi records over 40 Covid-19 deaths for second straight day||The national capital reported 42 Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, taking the number of deaths to 5,235, while 3,292 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 2,71,114. This is the second day on the trot when the city reported more than 40 coronavirus deaths. On Saturday, authorities had reported 46 fatalities, which was the highest in a day since July 16, when the city reported 58 deaths. The cumulative Covid-19 case count rose to 2,71,114 on Sunday with 3,292 more people contracting the viral disease. The 42 fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,235. The capital reported 3,372 cases on Saturday, 3,827 on Friday, 3,834 on Thursday, 3,714 on Wednesday, and 3,816 on Tuesday. Of the total cases reported in Delhi so far, 2,36,651 have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out. As many as 51,416 tests were conducted on Saturday to detect Covid-19 infection, of which 11,414 were RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 40,002 rapid antigen tests. The health authorities have conducted around 5.55 lakh tests in the last 10 days -- an average of more than 55,500 per day. The number of total tests conducted was 23,69,592 on September 17. It rose to 29,24,754 on Saturday. The case positivity rate during the last 24 hours was 6.40 per cent while the cumulative positivity rate was 9.27 per cent. The average death rate for the last 10 days stands at 0.98 per cent. The number of active cases decreased from 29,717 on Saturday to 29,228 on Sunday. Around 150 containment zones were added in the last 24 hours. The number of red zones was 2,231 on Saturday and 2,380 on Sunday. Talking to reporters about 46 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said, "We do not look at the figures for a single day. The average fatality rate of the last 10 days has been 0.94 per cent.” "The patients who have succumbed are not those who tested positive in a day. These are people who tested positive 15-20 days ago. That is why we take the average of 10 days," he stressed. The overall case fatality rate is 1.94 per cent. The occupancy of beds in Delhi hospitals has declined in the last four-five days and 55 per cent of the total beds are unoccupied currently, the minister added. The Delhi government had constituted a three-member committee to audit the daily deaths caused by the novel coronavirus in the national capital. Jain said the committee visited all the hospitals and the report is satisfactory. "There were a few glitches which have been rectified. There was a time when the fatality rate was at four per cent but it has remained below one per cent in the last 10 days," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-over-40-covid-19-deaths-for-second-straight-day-893978.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Assault on journalist: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel assures action||A day after a journalist was allegedly assaulted by some local Congress leaders and others in Chhattisgarh's Kanker district, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday condemned the incident and assured strict action against the accused. Editor of Bhumkal Samachar Kamal Shukla was allegedly beaten up by Jitendra Singh Thakur, a former president of Kanker Nagar Palika, Gaffar Memon, a representative of local Congress MLA, Shadaab Khan, a corporator, local scribe Ganesh Tiwari and others in Kanker town, police had said. Four accused were arrested in the case. Speaking to reporters, Baghel said whatever happened was wrong. "Police arrested the accused on the application (of the victim). Irrespective of party affiliations, the action has been taken against the accused persons. It is a matter of investigation whether they (accused) had brought a pistol. If it is found to be true, further sections (of the IPC) will be included in the case," he said. The victim Shukla had alleged that Memon had trained a pistol at him and threatened to shoot him, police said. The CM indicated that journalists had suffered worst when the BJP was in power and referred to murder cases of journalists in Bilaspur and Gariaband. "What happened to the CBI probe into Bilaspur incident? Another journalist was murdered in Gariaband but what happened to the CBI probe into that killing? An accused in the Gariaband murder cased died in the CBI custody. "In Bastar, a journalist was arrested under Chhattisgarh Special Public Security Act under the previous (BJP) government. Unfortunately his employer media house disowned him," Baghel said. When asked about enforcement of the law to ensure protection to journalists, the chief minister said suggestions and feedback of journalists are being added in the draft law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/assault-on-journalist-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-assures-action-893984.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Couple dies by suicide as married son elopes with woman in Jodhpur||Agonised by their married son's elopement with a woman from their own 'gotra', a couple in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur committed suicide on Sunday morning, police said. The incident took place in the Masuriya area and the couple was found hanging from a ceiling fan at their house by their elder son, police added. Their son raised an alarm after which their relatives and neighbours rushed them to a hospital where they were declared brought dead. According to area SHO Som Karan, Vishnudutt (48) and his wife Manju Devi (45) had been living with their two sons, both married, at Shramikpura in the Masuriya area. “The sons were married but their wives were yet to be taken home. Their younger son eloped with a woman from their own community and 'gotra' three days ago and the couple was under stress due to it,” the SHO said. He said due to the trauma caused by their son's elopement and a sense of social stigma, the couple committed suicide on Sunday morning. The couple had attending to their morning chores before taking the extreme step. Official said their family members and police tried to contact their younger son but his phone was switched off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/couple-dies-by-suicide-as-married-son-elopes-with-woman-in-jodhpur-893993.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: Congress releases second list of candidates||The Congress in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday released its second list of nine nominees, comprising three BJP turncoats, for the upcoming bypolls on 28 seats, a party spokesman said. In the first list released on September 11, the Congress had picked 15 nominees, including 11 for reserved seats. In that list too, the Congress had chosen six turncoats - four from the BJP and two from the BSP. With the latest list, the Congress has so far announced names of 24 candidates. "All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh, Mukul Wasnik, released the list of nine candidates after getting nod from interim party president Sonia Gandhi," said state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta. Names of BJP turncoats Satish Sikarwar, Parul Sahu, and Ajab Kushwaha figure as Congress nominees from Gwalior East, Surkhi and Sumawali constituencies, respectively, in the latest list. They are likely to face a stiff challenge from former MLA Munnalal Goyal, and ministers Govind Singh Rajput and Edal Singh Kanshana, who are loyalists of Jyotiraditya Scindia. Though the BJP has not yet announced its candidates for the bypolls, Goyal and Rajput are likely to get tickets, sources said. Other six nominees who figure in the latest list of Congress are: Pankaj Upadhaya, Hariballabh Shukla, Kanhaiya Ram Lodhi, Uttam Raj Narain Singh, Abhishek Singh Tinku Bana and Rakesh Patidar for Joura, Pohri, Mungaoli, Mandhata, Badnawar and Suwasara assembly segments, respectively. Bypolls became necessary in view of resignations by 22 MLAs, mostly from the Scindia camp, in March this year, leading to collapse of the then Kamal Nath government. They later joined the BJP with Scindia. Later, three more legislators resigned from the Congress. Another three seats are lying vacant due to the death of sitting MLAs, bringing down the effective strength of the Assembly to 202. The Election Commission (EC) is yet to announce schedule for the bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-congress-releases-second-list-of-candidates-894003.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||NCDC sanctions Rs 19,444 crore to 3 states for paddy procurement at MSP||The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) has sanctioned Rs 19,444 crore as the first instalment to Haryana, Telangana and Chhattisgarh for carrying out kharif paddy procurement operation at the minimum support price. The timely step will help the state agencies start procurement operations immediately, an official statement said. NCDC is the apex financing organization of Union Agriculture Ministry. "NCDC has sanctioned as first instalment, funds amounting to Rs 19,444 crore to the states of Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Telangana for Kharif paddy procurement under Minimum Support Price (MSP) operations," an official statement said. Chhattisgarh gets the highest amount to the tune of Rs 9,000 crore. Haryana has been sanctioned Rs 5,444 crore and Telangana Rs 5,500 crore. The amount has been sanctioned to assist the States/State Marketing Federations in undertaking paddy procurement operations in a timely manner through their respective cooperative organisations. This proactive step by the NCDC during the Covid-19 pandemic will give the much needed financial support to farmers of these three state who account for nearly 75 per cent of production of paddy in the country. NCDC Managing Director Sundeep Nayak said the company is ready to assist more States in carrying out MSP operations for giving fair value to farmers in the light of historic farm related legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncdc-sanctions-rs-19444-crore-to-3-states-for-paddy-procurement-at-msp-894006.html
27-09-2020||North and Central||Woman found in north Delhi with bullet injury, accuses police SI of shooting her||A woman who was found lying on the G T Karnal Road in north Delhi's Alipur area with a bullet injury, has accused her friend, a Delhi police sub-inspector, of shooting her during a quarrel, officials said on Sunday. The accused has been identified as 36-year-old Sandeep Dahiya, a sub-inspector posted at Lahori Gate police station, they said. According to the police, information was received at Alipur police station from sub-inspector Jaiveer, posted at Shahbad Dairy police station, that while crossing the Sai Mandir on the G T Karnal road, he has spotted a woman lying on the side of the road. "On seeing the woman, he immediately rushed her to a nearby hospital. On the way, the victim revealed that she has been shot by SI Dahiya, presently posted at Lahori Gate police station," Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma said. Victim and accused were having an affair since last year, police said. The incident took place in midst of the quarrel over some issue while they were roaming in his car. Dahiya left the woman on the road and fled. The condition of the victim is stable, the DCP said, adding it is learnt that Dahiya is involved in a matrimonial dispute. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC and efforts are being made to arrest the accused, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-found-in-north-delhi-with-bullet-injury-accuses-police-si-of-shooting-her-894008.html
27-09-2020||Opinion||Some ancient wisdom for the modern world||One of the Canadian singer-songwriter Joni Mitchell’s best-known and most poignant songs, ‘Both sides now’, muses emotively over just that: having seen things – clouds, love, life – from “both sides now”. Seeing things from both sides – from one’s own, of course, but also from one’s interlocutor’s as well – is not instinctual. It is a capacity that has to be cultivated. Neuroscientists today call it ‘cognitive empathy’, but for over a millennium, Indian philosophers have been referring to it as poorva paksha. A choice venue for the inculcation of this capacity is the university. Universities are usually walled campuses, designed to keep the lumpen out and to offer a contemplative space within. Out on the quotidian streets, we’ve no time to ponder and reflect; we just react from basic instincts, habits – we hustle, we claw and snap, hoard and retreat. In the competitive world beyond the walls, when we encounter our others, our political or ideological adversaries, it’s usually fight or flight, with words not deployed for dialogue but for insult, too often with fists flying.    On campuses, however, where the birdies chirp, there is time to think things through. An encounter with our ideological rival affords the occasion for debate, for discussion, and thus for humanisation of the other – both sides have the opportunity to demonstrate that they can be rational and reasonable. No need to scream at each other from across a noisy road packed with lathi-wielding police violently separating protesters from counter-protesters. No hate-filled lynch mobs, with minds turned off and testosterone on. At least, that’s how a campus ought to be. At JNU a few semesters ago, I was teaching a course in Modern Indian Political Thought and sought to expose the students to the practice of poorva paksha. It is a lovely walled campus after all, the requisite birdies chirp, and I’ve even heard the crooning of Joni Mitchell’s ‘Blue’ emanate from the boys’ hostel. I assigned Babasaheb Ambedkar’s Riddles in Hinduism. On the first day, all hell broke loose. Right-wing students boycotted the course, ABVP goons were sent to block my classroom doorway, and some Dean or other issued me a warning about ‘religious sentiments’. But the tragedy turned quickly into farce when I assigned the next reading: M S Golwalkar’s WE, or Our Nationhood Defined. Those who had previously threatened me were now thirstily packing the front-row seats, and it was the Left-wing student groups blocking access to the classroom and protesting against me. If outside of the walls there will preponderantly be violence, we have only our time inside such reflective spaces to foster humanisation and understanding. Although too rare in practice, poorva paksha has long been universally recognised – albeit via diverse nomenclature – as an essential cognitive skill for a social agent. Used strategically, poorva paksha entails fully entering, comprehending, analysing and articulating another’s arguments, ideas, beliefs, ideological positions, and then – having demonstrated total mastery over them – dismantling, deconstructing, discrediting and disproving them. Needless to add, ouch! It hurts to be on the receiving end of that process. Used reflectively, poorva paksha nurtures self-understanding. It cautions us not to be so foolish as to believe everything that we think! Our craniums are stuffed with fake news, fake views, and getting out of the comfort of our own heads and into those of others helps us learn to spot the fuzz and the rot that resides not only without but within as well. And used empathically, poorva paksha can help to humanise the other. Political adversaries, ideological opponents, howsoever repugnant, are our compatriots after all. To understand them is not to support them. To comprehend an opposing view is not to condone it. And yet, understanding does breed understanding, and cognitive engagement can foster constructive dialogue – by all accounts preferable to lynching, pogroms, violence. And this is true whether we are the ones dishing it out or, as it seems today, the ones always on the receiving end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/some-ancient-wisdom-for-the-modern-world-893587.html
27-09-2020||Opinion||NDA: No Data Available?||All through this month, Union ministers have been submitting before the nation that they don’t know most things about most things: There is no data on how many migrant workers died during the lockdown, nor even how many doctors and healthcare workers on Covid-19 duty have died, how many farmers committed suicide, or how many people lost jobs. As I watched the Modi government do this each day, I was reminded of my time as a policy consultant in the Middle East last year. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s hopes of modernising his kingdom have spawned a multi-billion-dollar consulting mega-market, bringing in experts from across various domains of policymaking from all over the world. On one of my projects with an illustrious team there, we were advising a ministry in the Saudi government on revamping itself. The task included reallocating existing resources for maximum efficiency – for instance, deploying more firemen to the most fire-prone regions and laying off policemen if fewer of them were needed. As one would imagine, this was a task that required a lot of reliable data on everything from crime to the incidence of fires. Yet, data was the one thing that no one in the ministry seemed to have. As my frustrated colleague, a former Colonel of the Canadian Air Force, grumbled to me after yet another meeting with a team of Saudi bureaucrats, “Nobody wants to tell us what time of day it is, let alone share crime stats!” Lack of transparency on basic data is not unusual in authoritarian regimes. Data means accountability. If officers collect data, it opens them up to questions on their performance: Why were more people robbed in their region than elsewhere? Why have fires been more frequent in the last couple of years? Why are death rates in their area higher than the national average? In some cases, no data can also mean no work and no expense: As our own government asked Parliament earlier this month, if you don’t know how many migrant workers died, why would you need to pay compensation to any of their families? Without institutional safeguards or legal requirements, officials in many authoritarian regimes refuse to maintain comprehensive databases – or, when asked, simply cook up the data (an art which I found many in the Middle East to be adept at). And fake data is much worse than no data: It creates an untrue version of reality and leads to misguided policymaking. Governments often paint a rosier picture of reality to keep their people calm, but that also means that they end up spending where they shouldn’t and hold money back from where it is most needed. Sometimes, data is tampered with because it is subject to competing incentives. On the one hand, rising crime data would reflect poorly on the law and order situation in a particular region. Yet, on the other hand, if crime has fallen significantly, police officers worry that they may be laid off – or be transferred to more difficult and dangerous locations. If governments in some regions receive more funds from the central government because they are poorer, they have an incentive to continuously show themselves as being poorer. We are a country obsessed with numbers – from the grades of our kids, to the salaries of our peers, the mileage of our cars and the price of tomatoes. So, you may be understandably distressed that the government has no data. But it could actually get worse: If the government decides to cook up data, how confident are you of being able to smell a rat?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/nda-no-data-available-893589.html
27-09-2020||Opinion||The day of the jackal’s undoing is near||I am back to tell you another story from the Panchatantra. I won’t name names, but surely a discerning reader like you can christen the hero (or villain) of the story yourself. The story goes that there was once a jackal—call him what you will. Unlike so many other jackals in the Panchatantra, he was not too witty, wily, or creative. He was lucky enough to be born into a comfortable existence, and he went about life, never bothering too much about anything in general. But fate does the strangest things. The jackal got into a tiff, one thing led to another, and before he knew it, he had fallen into a huge vat of indigo dye. Purely by chance, might I add? He turned royal blue from top to bottom. Once he escaped the vat, all the animals who saw him were struck by fear — “Who is this strange creature, the likes of whom we have never seen before?” they thought. Then the jackal seized the opportunity that presented itself. He announced to all the animals in the vicinity —”Do not fear me! I have been sent by Indra, the king of the gods. Indra knew that you don’t have a king, and he appointed me your king. I shall make this forest great again!” All right, you got me, that last line isn’t in the text, but you get the gist, and you know who we are talking about. Anyway, the animals believed he was divinely appointed to rule over them. Some of them were doubters, but one argued, “We’ve been ruled by generations of kings who have changed nothing. He’s an outsider. Trust me, he’ll shake things up!” Another added: “He has God’s blessing, or how else could it be that he is royal blue, rather than green or brown?” The jackal appointed the worst possible people for every job: the lion was appointed his minister, the tiger the bed-keeper, the leopard his paan-walah, the elephants his doorkeepers, and finally, the monkeys the royal-parasol-holders. In the Panchatantra story, the blue jackal did not give his own family important positions, but we can tweak the story a little if we like. The jackal was enjoying his power and had no intention of giving it up. In fact, he found it rather easy to get the animals under his sway to get him his food, pamper him, and carry out every pompous command. One day, while the blue jackal was seated in the royal assembly, he heard the howls of a group of jackals, and his inner self was overjoyed. He had goosebumps, tears of joy coursed down his cheeks, and unable to help himself, he finally gave voice to the long and loud howl that loomed from deep within him. The lions and other animals, serving him obediently, realised in a trice that he was but an ordinary jackal. How many times do you think the blue jackal will howl before they chase him away?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-day-of-the-jackal-s-undoing-is-near-893590.html
27-09-2020||Opinion||Being older and bigger – as a civilisation||In his celebrated article ‘Between History and Memory’, Pierre Nora refers to the arrival in 1877 of the history textbook Tour de la France par Deux Enfants, a textbook written by Augustine Fuillee – of course, under the pseudonym G Bruno. “It trained the memory of millions of French boys and girls,” and was so important a start to the school day that the Minister of Public Instruction could pull out his pocket watch and say, at 8:05 am “all of our children are crossing the Alps.” Yet, though it was an inventory of what one should know about France, Tour spoke of a France that no longer existed. This ‘enchantment’ with history (based on the memory of adults) was essential to nation-building, but it faded into oblivion by the end of the First World War, by which time all ‘peasants’ had turned into modern French people. Now, 2020 is not 1877, when the history textbook was the beginning and end of all historical knowledge, for school children in particular. If anything, we are living in an age in which a single, usable, teachable Indian history is an impossibility. So, it seems that the appointment of a committee of 16 Grey Eminences, all men, to conduct “a holistic study of the origin and evolution of Indian culture since 12,000 years before the present” has everything to do with the wide range of threats posed to a single, teachable, usable past by historians and others. At a time when Indian history has been the stuff of courtroom battles, political rallies, street fights, on the one hand, and creative reinterpretations and challenges from within the historical profession itself, the committee is intended to put the seal on contentious debate and difference. Just when we require a history that educates us about discontinuity, since “discontinuity, disruption and chaos” is our lot, we will have a committee – not for this government the lonely labours of an individual historian -- whose ‘findings’ have been more or less determined at the outset: “We have always been the Greatest, Oldest, Most Continuous, and Biggest Civilisation.” It is easier to write such a singular history than propagate it. Fortunately, the contentious, plural and contested versions of Indian history will thrive and prosper in the hands of tourist guides, amateur historians, community historians, and perhaps some academic historians, well away from the glare of an ‘Authorised History’. Our texts, inscriptions, art, architecture, and material artefacts are too luxuriously pluralistic and varied, unless a systematic iconoclastic blitz follows the ‘Authorised History’ (given recent experience, this is not impossible). Meanwhile, let me take some comfort in our rich sculptural tradition, and careful – dare one say, feminist? -- readings of that heritage. On a frieze on the Mahanavami Dibba at Hampi, is the series of carvings of a tribal woman hunter, chasing a boar and a deer with the bow and arrow, spearing the deer, accompanied by another hunter, perhaps awaiting his turn. Both are dressed in leaf clothing, and between them carry away the hunt: when our huntress is pierced by a thorn, the companion bends to remove it, then play a soft tune on the flute, while the weary huntress rests, before they move on to their destination.  Could this be drawing on the famous story of the Chenchu huntress, who captivated Narasimha? His pursuit was finally rewarded, she is bestowed the title of Chenchu Lakshmi, and they are both immortalised in the temple at Ahobilam. Chenchu Lakshmi, resting on her bow, or having her foot attended to, is a favoured motif on several Vijayanagar style temples across Andhra, Karnataka. But we can only speculate on what links the famous Mahanavami Dibba to this folk story.  In such open-ended interpretations lies the true value of our heritage: Images may be cast in stone, but the intention of the sculptor, the rich retellings of stories that circulate, always with that little twist, and the proximity of such images to a location of supreme symbolic value, are open to rich and creative speculation. Did women hunt, and what did women do when men were away hunting? (inventing agriculture, as many historians have shown). At a time when the story of our past is being told by many competent people, and by so many of those ‘peoples without history,’ the Wise Old Men (as has already been pointed out by many, all upper caste, and North Indian to boot) may have some difficulty pushing the toothpaste back into the tube. No longer are historians like Augustine compelled to disguise themselves as men, and our Chenchu Lakshmis will hopefully continue to disrupt the narratives that exaggerate the importance of hunting as an exclusively masculine occupation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/being-older-and-bigger-as-a-civilisation-893591.html
27-09-2020||Opinion||Propaganda 101: What the Indian Right has learnt from Big Tobacco||The Indian economy, as measured by GDP, contracted by 23.9% during April to June 2020 in comparison to the same period in 2019. This contraction was huge – a shrinkage by almost a quarter. But soon journalists, economists, corporate honchos and analysts who are close to the current dispensation started telling us, so what if India has contracted by 23.9%, the American economy contracted by 32% during the same period. The point sought to be made was that if India was in trouble, America was in bigger trouble. How that lessens our pain, they didn’t bother to explain. There was an even bigger problem with the 32% US contraction figure. It was wrong, when compared to India’s 23.9% contraction. The way India calculates GDP contraction (or for that matter, growth) and the way America does it, are different. So, what was the American contraction if we used the Indian method? It was 9.1% year on year, not 32% (for those interested in the fifth-standard math behind this, I suggest you Google it. It has been explained by multiple people, including yours truly). Also, none of the people who believed that the US economy had contracted by 32%, bothered to sit back and think what it would have done to the world economy at large if that figure were true. Data from the World Bank suggests that the American GDP (real GDP adjusted for inflation), was $18.3 trillion. This was around 21.7% -- or somewhere between one-fifth and a quarter -- of the global GDP. Now, imagine the American economy contracting by 32%, or almost a third. This would have led the world into a second Great Depression. America is the world’s largest source of consumer demand. If that demand had contracted by a third, the global economy would have been in an even worse situation than it currently is in. This simple thought did not occur to any of those who went around telling people that the American economy had done worse than the Indian economy, so we must be happy under the present dispensation. Or maybe it did occur to them, but they chose to ignore it. Our 23.9% GDP contraction was announced on August 31, but a month later, the doubts about how bad it really is are still buzzing on social media. Do the people who spread the story of the US economy contracting by 32% to counter the news of India’s 23.9% shrinkage not understand basic fifth standard math? They do. In fact, this bunch of people is a smart lot and I don’t think there is any problem with their math. So, what were they up to then? They were basically borrowing a simple propaganda idea first used by Big Tobacco Companies in the 1950s. In the early 1950s, research started to come out that linked the smoking of cigarettes to incidence of lung cancer. Big Tobacco Companies met at the Plaza Hotel in New York in December 1953. They were worried. Scientific research which was being published was making them look very bad, and they had to do something about it. What did they do? As Tim Harford writes in How to Make the World Add Up: Ten Rules for Thinking Differently About Numbers: “They muddied the waters. They questioned the existing research; they called for more research; they funded research into other things that they might persuade the media to get excited about, such as sick building syndrome or mad cow disease. They manufactured doubt. A secret industry memo later reminded insiders that ‘doubt is our product’.” How did muddying the waters about the research help Big Tobacco? It basically created confusion in the minds of smokers. Was the research linking smoking to lung cancer right? Was there enough evidence of it? Aren’t correlation and causation two different things? These were the questions that the smokers were suddenly asking themselves. As Harford writes: “Smokers liked smoking, were physically dependent on nicotine, and wanted to keep smoking if they could. A situation where smokers shrugged and said to themselves. ‘I can’t figure out all these confusing claims’ was a situation that suited the tobacco industry well.” Big tobacco wasn’t trying to tell smokers that smoking was safe. They weren’t so blatant about it. All they were trying to do was to create doubt about the statistical evidence that showed that smoking was dangerous. The muddying of waters to create doubt has been a standard part of propaganda since then. It’s Propaganda 101. As Harford says: “Their answer [that of the Big Tobacco Companies] was – alas – quite brilliant, and set the standard for propaganda ever since.” Something very similar happened in the case of the Indian economy contracting by 23.9%, as well. The fact that the Indian economy contracted by close to a fourth was something that the government’s sympathisers couldn’t deny, nor that this contraction was bad for the average Indian, just as Big Tobacco couldn’t deny that smoking was injurious to health. But the waters could be muddied by getting the American angle in. The message was, see, all economies are suffering, and the mighty US economy is doing worse than the Indian economy, we are therefore actually better off. The sad part of all this is that many ‘educated’ Indians fell for this spin. But that’s the thing about propaganda, even the educated fall for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/propaganda-101-what-the-indian-right-has-learnt-from-big-tobacco-893592.html
27-09-2020||Opinion||Rafael Nadal and the greatness of hard graft||The bottles of water, juice, and energetics are placed with forensic detail, slotted right in between the legs of the seated figure. A few seconds are spent in deep thought before the bench is vacated and a towel is picked up to wipe precise portions of the arms and the face. A truant strand of hair is knocked behind the ear and beads of perspiration are hastily removed from the nose and from beneath the eyes, following an intuitive pinch of the shorts and an inconsequential readjustment of the skin-tight vest. The ball is prodded by the racket in the left hand for at least half a dozen times and allowed to bounce from the right hand thrice. Then, at long last, the scalpel-esque serve is loaded and Rafael Nadal is ready to begin a game of tennis. For those fascinated by the idiosyncrasies of elite athletes, Nadal’s meticulous routines on the court have become the stuff of legend. But concealed beneath his tics and compulsive repetition of rituals is the essence of the Spaniard’s astounding success – the ability to do the same things in the same ways, and to do them relentlessly. The unteachable instinct to graft his way to greatness. Hard work as the rarest talent “I could see, by the sheer intensity with which he trained, that he was super-ambitious and desperate to improve...He hit every shot as if his life depended on it,” recounts Carlos Moya, one of Nadal’s current coaches, in the tennis superstar’s 2011 memoir, Rafa. When Moya first saw him, the “super-ambitious” Nadal was only 12, a prodigy in Mallorca, but no different in his resilience to the phenomenon we know today. No sensible follower of Nadal can posit that hard work is the solitary factor behind his rise to the pinnacle of tennis. Nadal’s fearsome striking of the ball, his seemingly elastic limbs, his knack for picking the right moments to defend and attack are among a range of gifts that even the most supremely talented player would envy. But there is something about Nadal’s persistence and perseverance that make him unique. Even at the highest level, where an excellent work ethic is a baseline requirement, Nadal’s industry is barely believable, the hunger to win every point often challenging the pragmatics of match-management. The gumption of grit has, unfortunately, not been anthologised as frequently as the glory of grace. And nor have Nadal’s peculiar proclivities for chasing lost causes, by putting his body on the line, through what The New York Times memorably described as “poetic self-immolation...pushing himself resolutely towards his own undoing.” And yet, his apparently myopic masochism, his neglect of the bigger picture, his reckless and endless running have, over close to two decades, overwritten a score of premature sporting obituaries by putting Nadal within touching distance of a score of grand slams. On the cusp of history Twenty is a nice, plump number, more definitive than 19, more resounding than 17, and far more reachable than the mark of a quarter of a century that Nadal has recently admitted to chasing. Yes, he wants to end his career with 25 grand slams, a ludicrous feat he might yet achieve. But heading into Roland Garros, which starts on September 27, Nadal stands on 19, one behind his great rival, Federer (who will not be competing), and two ahead of his biggest challenger, Novak Djokovic (who, barring self-destructive disqualifications, will most certainly be competing). The clay of Paris’ Roland Garros and Nadal share a love story unmatched in modern sport. It is a dynamic that has been forged since 2005 through blood, sweat, and (very few) tears. Nadal’s footprints are edged all over the Parisian surface, his fingerprints all over the “Musketeers” trophy. They are made of four consecutive titles (2005-08), an injury-ravaged fourth round exit (2009), five successive championships (2010-14), two blank, disappointing years (2015-16), and another hat-trick of wins (2017-19). This is the ridiculous French Open report card of the finest clay court player in history. But we are, of course, in 2020. So unlike previous editions there is a pall of uncertainty over this year’s outcome. For the first time in his life, Nadal enters Paris without a single tournament victory in the calendar on his dearest turf, thanks in part due to the pandemic and his shock elimination in the last eight of the Italian Open earlier in the month. Add to that the relatively cool weather in the French capital at this time (as compared to the sizzling heat of its traditional playing time during May and June), more humidity, and a potentially quicker surface ‒ all factors that have generally hindered Nadal ‒ and expectations are that Djokovic or Dominic Thiem, the newly crowned US Open champion, will walk away with the laurels come the final on October 11. A life in graft How will Nadal change his attitude when he is not the overwhelming favourite? How will he adjust his game when the conditions are not as conducive? The answer: He won’t. There is no plan B for Nadal. Plan A ‒ turn up, graft, win, repeat ‒ is not just everything, it is the only thing. The Nadal playbook of greatness may be slim, but it sure is solid. Once the bottles are put in their place and the pre-serve customs are met, the Nadal the world will see in Paris will be the Nadal it has always known. More of the interminable rallies contested to the soundtrack of Rafa’s grunts, more of the scampering, scurrying, and sprinting, more of the irritable pauses as he takes his sweet time hustling between points. While some may exude greatness and some may exhaust it, Nadal extracts it from every pore of his being, every ounce of his will. Even if there is no customary coronation by the end of it all, Nadal’s greatness will not melt into the dust that emanates from Parisian clay this autumn. Instead, it will only be further entrenched at the site where Nadal’s very presence is the guarantee of greatness, the guarantee of grafting. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture and sport) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rafael-nadal-and-the-greatness-of-hard-graft-893672.html
27-09-2020||South||Periyar statue found desecrated in Tamil Nadu's Tiruchirapalli||A bust of Dravidian leader Periyar was found desecrated with saffron paint and a garland of slippers in Samathuvapuram in Inamkulathur village near Tiruchirappalli in the wee hours of Sunday. The Manikandam police cleaned the statue immediately with the help of local residents and an investigation is on to find the culprits. Police said that the incident may have occurred around 4 am on Sunday.  Political leaders, including DMK chief M K Stalin slammed the incident, the second such one in the state in recent months, after a statue of the rational leader was found daubed in saffron in Coimbatore. Locals blocked traffic for some time on the Dindigul highway, protesting against the vandalism and dispersed after police them that action would be taken. Stalin slammed the defacing of the statue of the Dravidian stalwart and said people will "boycott" such persons. Periyar was not the leader of just a movement---Dravidar Kazhagam -- but that of Tamils, he said. "When are they going to realise that people will further boycott them if they repeatedly do the same mistake," he said in a Facebook post without naming anyone. "Periyar is not the leader of just a movement. He is the leader of the Tamil race. Those who do such things thinking they are insulting him are insulting themselves," he said and strongly condemned the incident. PMK leader S Ramadoss hit out at the defacing of the statue and demanded "strong action" against those involved. MDMK founder and Rajya Sabha MP Vaiko, AMMK leader and independent MLA T T V Dhinakaran also criticised the latest episode of targeting Periyar's statue and demanded that such elements be dealt with strictly. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/periyar-statue-found-desecrated-in-tamil-nadus-tiruchirapalli-893650.html
27-09-2020||South||1,967 new Covid-19 cases, nine deaths in Telangana||Telangana reported 1,967 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection count to 1,85,833, while the death toll rose to 1,100 with nine more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation accounted for the highest number of cases with 297, followed by Karimnagar (152), Rangareddy (147), Medchal Malkajgiri (137), Nalgonda (105) and other districts, a state government bulletin said on Sunday, providing data as of 8 PM on September 26. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,54,499, while 30,234 are under treatment across the state. As many as 50,108 samples were tested on September 26, taking the total number examined so far to 28,50,869. The samples tested per million population was 76,788, the bulletin said. The Case Fatality Rate in the state stood at 0.59 per cent, while it was 1.57 per cent at the national level, it said. The recovery rate was 83.13 per cent, while it was 82.39 per cent at the national level, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1967-new-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths-in-telangana-893677.html
27-09-2020||South||Senior Kerala Congress leader C F Thomas passes away||Kerala Congress (M) senior leader and MLA C F Thomas, 81, died on Sunday. Thomas, who was also a former minister in the state, was under treatment for age-related ailments for quite some time. A native of Changanaserry in Kottayam, Thomas was elected to the Kerala Assembly nine times from Changanaserry constituency in a row from 1980. He served as rural development and registration minister from 2001 to 2004. Thomas, who was vice chairman of Kerala Congress (M), was a close confident of its founder leader K M Mani who died last year. In the ongoing power tussle in Kerala Congress (M) between Mani's son Jose K Mani and veteran leader P J Joseph, Thomas had earlier shown allegiance with Joseph.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-kerala-congress-leader-c-f-thomas-passes-away-893692.html
27-09-2020||South||372 fresh Covid-19 cases takes tally to 26,400 in Puducherry||A total of 372 fresh Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths in the union territory took the infection count to 26,400 and the toll to 513 on Sunday, the government said The deceased included four women and were in the age group of 31 to 80 and most of them had comorbidities, a release from the health department said. A total of 4,623 samples were tested, taking the total number of specimens examined so far to 1,71,561, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said. The overall Covid-19 cases in the union territory stood at 26,400 (after the transfer of four cases to Tamil Nadu), he said. He said that 443 patients recovered and were discharged during the last twenty-four hours from hospitals. The fatality rate and recovery rate was 1.94 per cent 78.21 per cent respectively. Of the overall 26,400 cases, as many as 5,239 were active, while 20,648 patients have been discharged so far. Puducherry region accounted for 10 deaths, while Karaikal had three. Mahe and Yanam regions did not report any deaths on Sunday, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/372-fresh-covid-19-cases-takes-tally-to-26400-in-puducherry-893726.html
27-09-2020||South||'Adhika Masam Brahmotsavam' at Tirumala concludes||The nine-day 'Adhika Masam Brahmotsavam' held once in three years concluded on Sunday with the conduct of the celestial bathing of the centuries- old idols at a makeshift tank built in the shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala, near here. The 'Brahmotsavam' that began on September 19 was conducted amid observing Covid-19 precautionary measures without processions and devotees, a temple official told PTI. Marking the conclusion of the festival,the processional idols of Lord Venkateswara and consorts Padmavathi and Lakshmi, and Sri Chakram were given the bath by chanting Vedic hymns in the morning, the official said. The priests, after performing special pujas to the idols, took them back to the sanctum sanctorum of the ancient shrine. For the last several centuries, the high priests used to conduct the 'Chakrasnanam' in the tank close to the temple, the official said adding that tens of thousands of devotees used to take part and also take a dip at the moment of Chakrasnanam. This time, all these customs were not followed owing to the novel coronavirus. Because of 'Adhika Masam' (an extra month which makes it 13 months this year) in the traditional Hindu Lunar calendar, two 'Brahmotsavams' of nine days each were conducted this year, he said. No decision has been taken on the participation of devotees in the 'Navaratri Brahmotsavam' to begin on October 16, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/adhika-masam-brahmotsavam-at-tirumala-concludes-893739.html
27-09-2020||South||Kerala women manhandle and pour black oil on vlogger for derogatory post||A person who made a social media past insulting women was manhandled and black oil was poured on him by three women, including popular dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmy, in Thiruvananthapuram. While vlogger Vijay P Nair, who made the derogatory post was booked by the police, a case was also registered against the three women on the basis of a petition filed by Nair. The row was over a video post by Nair a few weeks ago in which he asks why feminists, especially those in Kerala, do not wear underwear. He also specifically named some known women including an aged and very well known poetess and couple of women who fought for the entry of women to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Bhagyalakshmi, activists Diya Sana and Sreelakhmsi Arackal allegedly barged into his lodge room in the city and manhandled him on Saturday evening. Black oil was also poured on him and he was made to tender an open apology for the post. The women also took away his mobile phone and laptop. The incident was aired live on social media. While Bhagyalakshmi's justification for the act was inaction by police on a complaint against Nair, the police maintained that a complaint against Nair was received only on Saturday and a case was also registered against Nair by Saturday evening after preliminary verification. The women also lodged a police complaint accusing Nair of misbehaving with them when they went to his room to talk about the incident. With the video of the three women manhandling Nair going viral, the police asked Nair if he had any complaint. But he maintained that he had no complaint. However, he lodged a complaint against the three women accusing of them trespassing, theft, manhandling and abusing. A case was registered against the women on the basis of the complaint. Thriruvananthapuram city deputy commissioner of police Divya V Gopinath told DH that investigations in the case were progressing and further steps like arrest would be taken subsequently. At present, two cases were registered against Nair and the sections invoked against him included IPC 354 for assault or criminal force against a woman with the intent to outrage her modesty. The DCP also said that there was no inordinate delay in taking action on the complaint against Nair regarding the post. The complaint was received on Saturday only and a case registered by evening itself after preliminary verification by the cyber police, which required some time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-women-manhandle-and-pour-black-oil-on-vlogger-for-derogatory-post-893773.html
27-09-2020||South||Centre against Andhra govt's over making English medium of instruction in govt schools||The Centre has come out before the Supreme Court against the decision by Andhra Pradesh directing all government schools, to adopt English as a medium of instruction for students between class I to VI students. It has relied upon the National Educational Policy, 2020, which stated, "wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least grade V, but preferably grade VIII and beyond, will be the home language/mother tongue/local language/regional language". The Education Ministry, in an affidavit, again cited the NEP to say that the three-language formula will continue to be implemented while keeping in mind the constitutional provisions, aspirations of people, regions and the Union and to promote multilingualism as well as national unity. "However, there will be greater flexibility in three-language formula and no language will be imposed on any state," it added. The Education Ministry also pointed out a letter has been sent on September 10 to all states and CBSE, NCERT with a request to initiate the process for implementation of the NEP, 2020. The Centre also referred to UNESCO's 2003 guidelines, which supported mother tongue instructions as a means of improving educational quality by building upon the knowledge and experience of learners and teachers. It also pointed out the Andhra Pradesh Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Rule, 2010 framed for implementation of the Right to Education Act, 2009 stated that the medium of instruction shall, as far as practicable, be in child's mother tongue. In its plea before the top court against the High Court's judgement of April 15, the state government claimed contended that its move for government schools to teach in English medium was a progressive and practical one and nothing in the Right to Education Act stated that the medium of instruction has to be in mother tongue only. A number of renowned Telugu scholars, poets, and cultural activists, including M Buddha Prasad, former Deputy Speaker of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly, have filed an intervention application through advocates Sughosh Subramanyam and Vipin Nair. They said the decision will have negative ramifications for the Telegu language, which is "one of the Indian Classical languages under Schedule Eight, and spoken by more than 81 million people as per the 2011 census". Other intervenors are veteran centenarian politician and former Rajya Sabha member Yadlapati Venkat Rao, Dr Palaparti Syamalananda Prasad, a renowned Telegu scholar and poet, Brahmasri Vaddiparti Padmakar, a distinguished poet, Jonnavithula Ramalingeswara Rao, a film lyricist and a poet, and D Vizai Bhaskar, a Telugu playwright, poet, short story writer and translator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-against-andhra-govts-over-making-english-medium-of-instruction-in-govt-schools-893841.html
27-09-2020||South||Resentment in Kerala BJP after senior state leaders left out of national posts' list||Resentment is brewing among BJP leaders in Kerala as two leaders who recently joined the party from the Congress were given prominent posts at the national level, while some senior leaders in the state were ignored. The state leadership is now pinning its hopes on reports of a cabinet reshuffle in the offing. The appointment of A P Abdullakutty as national vice-president and Tom Vadakkan as national spokesperson had irked the state leaders as senior leaders like Kummanam Rajasekharan and Sobha Surendran, who were learnt to be expecting posts at the national level, apart from many other former state presidents of the party, were left out. There was already some resentment among some state leaders over the appointment of K Surendran as the party state president. Kerala BJP leaders, however, did not openly accept the resentment over the restructuring at the national level. Surendran and Kummanam told the media that the decision of the party was acceptable to all in the party. Abdullakutty, who was initially part of the CPM, had later joined the Congress before entering the BJP. The two-time MP and two-time MLA was expelled from the Congress last year for praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Subsequently, he joined the BJP and was made the state vice-president. His elevation to the national vice president post could be seen as an attempt by the BJP to overcome the anti-Muslim tag pinned on it, a major hurdle for the party in Kerala's electoral politics. Tom Vadakkan, who was the national spokesperson of the Congress, joined the BJP last year. It is learnt that both these leaders were not nominated by the BJP state leaders from Kerala to the national posts. Former Mizoram Governor Kummanam Rajasekharan, who had put up strong electoral fights for the BJP in Kerala, was expected to be a frontrunner for a post at the national level. There were also reports of Rajasekharan being given an offer in this regard when he was made to quit the Mizoram governor's post and contest the Lok Sabha elections last year. Sobha Surendran was a probable with high chances for the BJP Kerala president's post after P S Sreedharan Pillai was made Mizoram governor. But K Surendran was made the party president and Sobha was reportedly inactive owing to resentment over the issue. She was expected to be given a suitable post. Sources in the party said that Rajasekharan may be considered during the next cabinet reshuffle and Sobha may be considered as part of the National Women's Commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/resentment-in-kerala-bjp-after-senior-state-leaders-left-out-of-national-posts-list-893864.html
27-09-2020||South||Home care for Covid-19 patients faces resistance in Kerala||Even as home care for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients is becoming an inevitable option in Kerala in view of the sky rocketing number of Covid cases, the state is witnessing local resistance toward home care, citing chances of spread of Covid-19. The state government is planning massive awareness to overcome this. Kerala is witnessing steep increase in Covid-19 cases. The daily fresh cases have been increasing day by day and an all time high of 7,445 was reported on Sunday, taking the total number of active patients to 56,709. In view of the increasing Covid-19 cases, the government decided to implement the home care option to those who do not have any serious medical issues. About 80 per cent of the Covid-19 patients in Kerala were asymptomatic and the number of patients requiring intensive care treatment was also very low in Kerala. The state government issued detailed guidelines for home care. However, health department sources said that only around ten percent of Covid-19 patients opted for home care option so far. Local people were opposing home care of Covid-19 patients, raising concerns that the virus would spread through water or air. Kerala Covid-19 task force member Dr Mohammed Asheel said that at many places, local people were raising concerns over those who tested positive for Covid-19 remaining in home. The issue was mainly felt at residential complexes. The people were being misled by wrong assumptions about the spread of Covid-19 and hence a massive awareness was the only solution to over come this. The state had earlier witnessed resistance from local people towards persons in home quarantine, especially those who came from other state and countries. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had also expressed concerns over this and warned of stringent actions. Health department officials said that at present state have facility to treat up to 83,000 Covid-19 patients including the beds at Covid First Line Treatment Centres. However, as the load of the health sector increases, it would obviously affect the level of medical attention each patient receive. Meanwhile, state health minister K K Shailaja said that the government would be forced to look for total shut down if the situations go beyond control. She flayed that flouting of social distance norms by people was the triggering factor for present spike in Covid cases in Kerala. Experts had earlier projected that the number of fresh Covid cases being reported in Kerala will go up to 10,000 daily by September. Relaxing Covid-19 norms during the Onam festival season was one major factor for the spread of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/home-care-for-covid-19-patients-faces-resistance-in-kerala-893871.html
27-09-2020||South||Women pour black oil on vlogger Vijay P Nair for derogatory post on social media||A person who made a social media post insulting women was manhandled and black oil was poured on him by three women, including popular dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmy, in Thiruvananthapuram. Vlogger Vijay P Nair, who made the derogatory post was booked by the police. A case was also registered against the three women on the basis of a petition filed by Nair. The row was over a video post by Nair a few weeks ago in which he asks why feminists, especially those in Kerala, do not wear underwear. He also specifically named some known women including an aged and very well-known poetess and a couple of women who fought for entry of women to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Bhagyalakshmi, activists Diya Sana and Sreelakshmi Arackal allegedly barged into his lodge room in the city and manhandled him on Saturday evening. Black oil was poured on him and he was made to tender an open apology for the post. The women took away his mobile phone and laptop. All these were aired live on social media as well. While Bhagyalakshmi's justification for the act was the inaction of police on a complaint against Nair, the police maintained that a complaint against Nair was received only on Saturday and a case was registered against Nair by Saturday evening after preliminary verification. The women also lodged a police complaint accusing Nair of misbehaving with them when they went to his room to talk about the incident. With the video of the three women manhandling Nair becoming viral, the police asked Nair if he had any complaints. He maintained that he had no complaint. But later he lodged a complaint, accusing them of trespassing, stealing, manhandling and abusing him. Thiruvananthapuram city Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Divya V Gopinath told DH that investigations were progressing and action would be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/women-pour-black-oil-on-vlogger-vijay-p-nair-for-derogatory-post-on-social-media-893875.html
27-09-2020||South||Chandrababu Naidu asks AP govt to set up music varisty, national award in memory of S P Balasubrahmanyam||Telugu Desam Party chief and former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu has asked the Jaganmohan Reddy government to establish a music university in Nellore and institute a national award in remembrance of legendary singer S P Balasubrahmanyam. The illustrious playback singer, music composer and actor breathed his last on Friday in a hospital in Chennai after battling Covid-19 and other ailments for over 50 days. On Sunday, Naidu wrote a letter to Chief Minister Reddy also asking for the installation of Balu’s bronze statue in the proposed university. “The government should develop the place as S P Balasubrahmanyam Kalakshetram. The state music academy should also be named after him. This would encourage the youth towards fine arts as Balu had desired,” the opposition leader said. SPB or Balu (74) as he was known to his millions of fans, hailed from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh. SPB’s father S P Sambamurthy was a musician and Harikatha exponent, whose devotional musical shows and social plays were the primary impetus for Balu’s transformation into an accomplished musician and thespian. Though he settled in Chennai for professional purposes, SPB maintained a firm connection with Nellore through his friends, family, and visits. In February this year, Balu donated his ancestral house in Tipparajuvari Street in the town to the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham for running a Vedic school. In his communique, Chandrababu Naidu also stated that Balu had wished for installation of a statue of Tikkana Somayaji in Nellore. The 13th century Telugu poet from Nellore is famous as one of the Kavi-trayam (poet triumvirate), who translated the great epic Mahabharata into Telugu. “As per SPB’s wish, a bronze statue of Tikkana was moulded during our tenure. The government should unveil it and fulfil his wish,” Naidu said. “Honoring our ancient Telugu art traditions, upholding our cultural ethos would be the befitting tribute to SPB,” the TDP chief said. Naidu demanded the YSRCP government to institute a Rs 10 lakh annual national award in the name of SPB and hold his birth anniversary as a state festival. The ex-CM reminded that during his tenure, a Rs 10 lakh national award in traditional music was established in honour of another Telugu son of the soil—renowned Carnatic musician Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna (1930-2016).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chandrababu-naidu-asks-ap-govt-to-set-up-music-varisty-national-award-in-memory-of-s-p-balasubrahmanyam-893887.html
27-09-2020||South||TDP's Chandrababu Naidu seeks music university in Nellore, national award in S P Balasubrahmanyam's honour||Telugu Desam Party chief and former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu has asked the Jaganmohan Reddy government to establish a music university in Nellore and institute a national award in remembrance of legendary singer SP Balasubrahmanyam. The illustrious playback singer, music composer, actor breathed his last on Friday in a hospital in Chennai after battling Covid-19 and other ailments for over 50 days. On Sunday, Naidu wrote a letter to Chief Minister Reddy also asking for the installation of Balasubrahmanyam's bronze statue in the proposed university. “The government should develop the place as SP Balasubrahmanyam Kalakshetram. The state music academy should also be named after him. This would encourage the youth towards fine arts as Balu has desired,” the Opposition leader said. In his communique, Chandrababu Naidu also stated that Balu had wished for the installation of a statue of Tikkana Somayaji in Nellore. The 13th century Telugu poet from Nellore is famous as one of the Kavitrayams (poet triumvirate) who translated the great epic Mahabharata into Telugu. “As per SPB’s wish, a bronze statue of Tikkana was molded during our tenure. The government should unveil it and fulfill his wish,” Naidu said. “Honoring our ancient Telugu art traditions, upholding our cultural ethos would be the befitting tribute to SPB,” the TDP chief said. Naidu demanded that the YSRCP government institute a Rs 10-lakh annual national award in the name of SPB and hold his birth anniversary as a state festival. The ex-CM reminded that during his tenure, a Rs 10-lakh national award in traditional music was established in honour of another Telugu son of the soil - renowned Carnatic musician Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna (1930-2016). 74-year-old SPB, or Balu as he was known to millions of fans, hails from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh. SPB’s father SP Sambamurthy was a musician and a Harikatha exponent, whose devotional musical shows and social plays were the primary impetus for Balu’s transformation into an accomplished musician and thespian. Though he settled in Chennai for professional purposes, SPB maintained a firm connection with Nellore through his friends, family and visited the place. In February this year, Balu donated his ancestral home in Tipparajuvari Street in the town to the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham for running a Vedic school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdps-chandrababu-naidu-seeks-music-university-in-nellore-national-award-in-s-p-balasubrahmanyams-honour-893897.html
27-09-2020||South||Congress MP Benny Behanan quits as Kerala UDF convenor||Congress MP Benny Behanan has quit the post of convenor of the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala. Behanan mentioned that he was quitting in the wake of baseless reports that he was having differences with senior leader Oommen Chandy over the post. However, party sources said it was part of an earlier understanding that Behanan quit the post. Former Kerala PCC president M M Hassan is likely to be made the new convenor. Behanan was elected to Lok Sabha from Chalakuddy. Since then there were speculations that he would quit the UDF convenor post. He was made UDF convenor in September 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-mp-benny-behanan-quits-as-kerala-udf-convenor-893909.html
27-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu crosses 70-lakh mark in Covid-19 tests, tally of infections touch 5.8 lakh||The Covid-19 tally in Tamil Nadu rose to 5.80 lakh with 5,791 fresh cases on Sunday as the capital city saw a further rise in its daily count, a trend witnessed in the last few days. The state clocked a record 96,102 Covid-19 tests, taking the total number of samples examined so far past the 70 lakh mark, while the death toll mounted to 9,313 with 80 more succumbing to the virus, the health department said. A total of 5,706 people were discharged from hospitals on Sunday as the cumulative recoveries touched 5,25,154 and the active cases stood at 46,341, it said in a bulletin. Chennai, which saw its daily cases crossing the 1,000 mark on September 24 after a gap of a few weeks, added 1,280 fresh infections on Sunday, taking its tally to 1,63,423 out of the state's aggregate of 5,80,808. After hovering in the 900 plus region for days in a row, the city recorded 1,089 cases on Thursday, 1,193 on Friday and 1,187 on Saturday. On the positive side, the number of single-day tests hit a fresh high with 96,102 samples. A total of 71,00,660 specimens had been examined so far. The previous record was 94,877 samples on September 25. The state does not use Rapid Antigen Diagnostic Tests and all the tests so far are RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction based), considered the gold standard to detect Covid-19. Among the districts, Coimbatore registered 596 new cases on Sunday followed by Salem 378, Chengalpet 296, Tiruvallur 202, Kancheepuram 196 Thanjavur 190, Nilgiris 161, Namakkal 173 and Thiruvarur 123, the bulletin said. Of the deceased, seventy seven were with co-morbidities, while a 30 year old woman from Karur was among the three who died without any other health issues. Eleven of those who succumbed were aged above 80. Of the 9,313 deceased in the state, the share of Chennai stood at 3,166, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-crosses-70-lakh-mark-in-covid-19-tests-tally-of-infections-touch-58-lakh-893931.html
27-09-2020||South||TDP revamps party set up, appoints 25 new district presidents||Nearly 16 months after its electoral drubbing, Telugu Desam chief Nara Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday reorganized the party in Andhra Pradesh, appointing 25 new district presidents, taking each Lok Sabha constituency in the state as a unit. The TDP followed the ruling YSR Congress in this regard as the state government is in the process of creating new districts with each Lok Sabha segment as the base. For long the YSRC has had 'parliamentary district' units but it is the first time the TDP adopted the new model and increased its district units from 13 to 25. Though there was speculation that incumbent president of the state unit K Kala Venkata Rao would be replaced with Kinjarapu Atchannaidu, another BC leader from Srikakulam district, the exercise was put on hold, TDP sources said. In the constitution of the new district units, Chandrababu Naidu gave a lion's share to the backward classes, appointing at least 10 leaders as presidents. Youngsters like Kimidi Nagarjuna (Vizianagaram), Jyothula Naveen (Kakinada) and Abdul Aziz (Nellore) have been made district presidents while Chandrababu also relied on old heads like Nettem Raghuram (Vijayawada), Somisetti Venkateswarlu (Kurnool) and Kalva Srinivasulu (Anantapuramu). MLA Yeluri Sambasiva Rao (Bapatla) and MLCs Gummidi Sandhya Rani (Araku) and B N Jagadeeswara Rao (Anakapalli) were entrusted responsibilities of the new district units. Former MPs Thota Seetarama Lakshmi (Narsapuram) and Konakalla Narayana Rao (Machilipatnam), former MLAs Kuna Ravi Kumar (Srikakulam), Palla Srinivasa Rao (Visakhapatnam), Tenali Sravan Kumar (Guntur), G V Anjaneyulu (Narsaraopeta), Ganni Veeranjaneyulu (Eluru), among others were also entrusted with new responsibilities in the overhaul. Simultaneously, Chandrababu appointed 13 coordinators for the 25 Lok Sabha segments, with 12 of them holding charge of two constituencies each. MLAs Nimmakayala China Rajappa will look after Visakhapatnam and Anakapalli while another MLA Gadde Rama Mohan will be in charge of Rajamahendravaram and Narsapuram Lok Sabha constituencies, according to a party release. Former minister Nakka Ananda Babu will be the coordinator for Araku (ST) constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-revamps-party-set-up-appoints-25-new-district-presidents-893956.html
27-09-2020||State||Pregnant woman on the way to deliver among seven dead in Kalaburagi road accident||A total of seven people including four women were killed in an accident between a car and a lorry near Savalagi of Kalaburagi district on Sunday early morning. The police said deceased included a pregnant woman. The incident took place while the pregnant woman was being to taken to the district hospital for delivery. All the deceased hail from Aland of Kalaburagi district, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pregnant-woman-on-the-way-to-deliver-among-seven-dead-in-kalaburagi-road-accident-893695.html
27-09-2020||State||Karnataka govt planning to transform Panchayat libraries into learning centres||With there being no signs of schools reopening owing to unabated Covid-19 pandemic, the government is seeking public donations of tens of thousands of books to transform panchayat libraries into learning centres. The programme is the brainchild of the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. The department said that all donations will be used to upgrade 5,622 panchayat libraries in the state into learning centres accessible to underprivileged children. Uma Mahadevan, Principal Secretary, RDPR, said that the move is to ensure that ensure that rural children are not left behind in their education. "Libraries will be supplied with a range of children books and periodicals. And reading programmes will also be organised. There is a growing inequity of education among rural kids, who, unlike many urban children do not have access to e-learning platforms," she said. Subhankar Chakraborty, State Secretary of the Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti (BGVS), which is partnering with the programme to hold science classes at libraries, said a large number of children were out of school. "A large number of migrant workers have returned to their home villages. However, because of work loss and the lockdown many do not have the money to spend for their children's education. This is worrisome,” he said. Just how many children are out of school? Mahadevan said a statewide survey will soon determine numbers. In the meantime, a pilot survey has begun in Srirangapatna. The RDPR’s plan is straightforward: enroll all children aged six to 18 to gram panchayat libraries in their areas with a small deposit paid by the panchayat. “This will give the children access to the library which will also be upgraded to access digital libraries maintained by the government plus other online content," Mahadevan said. In the interim, thousands of books are required. The target, according to Manasa Rao, a consultant with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), is about 50,000.  "The book drive started on September 1, but Bengaluru is a focus. The objective is to procure gently used or new books. They can range from encyclopedias to story books, from picture books to books about science and sports,” she said.  When asked how rural children can potentially cope with books in English, Mahadevan added that trained librarians will be appointed at every library to assist. "Many children will be taking home a book for the first time in their lives. It is something that we would want to continue after the pandemic,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-planning-to-transform-panchayat-libraries-into-learning-centres-893830.html
27-09-2020||State||Karnataka CM announces setting up of corporation to assist Kadugolla community||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced the setting up of a Kadugolla Development Corporation to aid the economically backward community, here on Sunday.  The government would provide financial assistance to the community, who were herding cattle and goats in the past. Kadugollas are largely concentrated in Chitradurga and Tumakuru districts, with a small population in Hassan district also. The community was included in the Scheduled Tribes list by the state government in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-announces-setting-up-of-corporation-to-assist-kadugolla-community-893944.html
27-09-2020||State||Karnataka's Tuberculosis control programme hit due to health workers' strike||The strike by National Health Mission workers attached to the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP) had badly hit the TB control project in the state. A tuberculosis unit comprises a senior treatment supervisor, senior lab supervisor, a Health Visitor who goes to the field, and a lab technician.  With 1,278 National Health Mission workers on strike, there is no one to dispense TB medicines and upload patients’ details on NIKSHAY database. NIKSHAY is a database of all TB patients including Multi-Drug Resistant cases across the country and this database is used for monitoring. The TB patients get Rs 500 for their nutrition only after their data is uploaded. Dr Manjunath, a senior treatment supervisor in Udupi district hospital told DH, “For how many days can a junior health assistant, pharmacist or a permanent lab technician manage in our absence? They do not update NIKSHAY and so patients won’t get their incentive for nutrition or drug supply,” he said. National TB treatment guidelines recommend directly observed therapy (DOT) when treating TB patients, especially drug-resistant TB, and HIV patients. A TB Health Visitor provides the prescribed TB drugs and watches the patient swallow every dose. This helps prevent TB from spreading to others. It also decreases the chances of treatment failure and relapse. Venkatesh O, a Tuberculosis Health Visitor in CV Raman General Hospital, Bengaluru, has been working for the past 13 years in RNTCP. “Patients visit the nearest health centre for tablets. The treatment lasts for six months. Up to two months, we make sure patients ingest the medicines in our presence, till they test negative. As we’re on strike, this isn’t happening.” He further added that if the medicines are sent home chances are that the patients may miss their dose. Every two months the patient has to get tested, which includes a sputum test. “We visit their households everyday and update NIKSHAY everyday so that they don’t relapse,” Venkatesh said.  Ramesh Reddy, Joint Director, Tuberculosis, Department of Health and Family Welfare, told DH, “The NHM strike has definitely affected RNTCP as 1,278 employees in the programme are NHM workers. For now, our junior health assistants, permanent lab technicians, and pharmacists are dispensing medicines. The state has a tuberculosis unit for every 2.5 lakh population. In all, there are 271 TB units in primary health centres, community health centres, taluk hospitals, and district hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-tuberculosis-control-programme-hit-due-to-health-workers-strike-893950.html
27-09-2020||State||Rains recede, leave behind a trail of destruction||Showers gave a break on Sunday after battering the north Karnataka districts for two days. The torrential rain that lashed Kalyana Karnataka and Mumbai Karnataka districts on Friday and Saturday has left behind a trail of destruction. A 11-year-old girl died after a portion of her house wall, weakened by a prolonged wet weather, fell on her at Donkamadu in Muddebihal taluk, Vijayapura district, in the early hours of Sunday. While Maremma Hulagappa Bijjur died, another girl Rekha Lotageri suffered serious injuries in the incident, Vijayapura DC P Sunil Kumar told reporters. As many as 303 houses in the district have suffered partial damage while three houses collapsed completely, the DC said. Parts of Vijayapura district, including the city, continued to receive sporadic spells of showers on Sunday. Talikote recorded 4.5 cm of rain while Dhavalgi and Devara Hippargi received 4 cm and 3 cm of rainfall respectively. Hosapete taluk, including UNESCO world heritage site Hampi, witnessed showers for the third consecutive day on Sunday. More than 100 houses have been damaged due to incessant showers in the taluk. Parts of Belagavi and Dharwad districts also received light to moderate showers in the day.  Meanwhile, relief centres have been opened at the rain-hit areas, including Kakanakere, Basavanabhavi Circle and Hegganahalli, in Raichur. The city and surrounding areas had witnessed torrential rain on Friday and Saturday, leaving the low-lying areas and vast tracts of farmlands waterlogged. According to the district administration, in Raichur taluk alone more than 500 houses have been damaged. A 19th century banyan tree, planted by Nawab Nasir-ud-Dowla, near Rangeen Mahal in Bidar fort precinct, was relegated to history books. The tree, weakened by thunderstorms that lashed the city in the last two months, collapsed on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rains-recede-leave-behind-a-trail-of-destruction-893963.html
27-09-2020||State||Karnataka Tourism policy eyes Rs 5,000 crore investment by 2025, focus on agri and rural tourism||Karnataka on Sunday unveiled its new Tourism policy, which aims to generate over 10 lakh direct and indirect jobs in the sector and Rs 5,000 crore in investments by 2025. With the new policy, the government aims at increasing the contribution of tourism from 14.8 percent to 20 per cent of GSDP by 2025. "Agri Tourism and Rural Tourism are the core tourism themes of the policy with the objective to promote not just agricultural and farming activities but also various aspects of rural life in Karnataka such as local cuisine, culture, traditions, arts etc," the government said in a release. The Tourism policy encourages greater participation of the local community in tourism activities to create inclusive socio-cultural growth and generate economic benefits for the people of Karnataka, it said. The policy was launched by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Tourism Minister C T Ravi. A tourism development fund has been established under Karnataka Tourism Infrastructure Ltd (KTIL) as a strategic intervention for the development of land bank under Department of Tourism, it said. A 360 degree marketing strategy shall be adopted to promote the state in domestic and key international markets and to leverage Karnataka's brand of "One State, Many Worlds". An investment facilitation cell shall be set up under the Department of Tourism to act as the nodal agency for enabling, facilitating and monitoring investments, it added. The incentives under the policy, include financial assistance of up to Rs 1 lakh for tourism projects undertaking sustainability measures such as water conservation and harvesting, adopting renewable energy sources, and adopting pollution control measures. The policy also provides for capital investment subsidy and interest subsidy with certain specification. It also provides for concessions like exemption on stamp duty, concessions on registration charges, reimbursement of land conversion charges, exemption on motor vehicle tax, complimentary infrastructure assistance among other benefits. The policy has given due importance to the role of tourism in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations. It also encourages an analytics-driven approach for planning and decision-making and provide innovative digital solutions to enhance the quality of services across the tourism ecosystem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-tourism-policy-eyes-rs-5000-crore-investment-by-2025-focus-on-agri-and-rural-tourism-893966.html
27-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Congress leader and MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao on Sunday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. "I have tested #Corona positive today. Therefore will be quarantining myself for 10 days. I request all my primary contacts to get themselves checked and take necessary precaution," Rao tweeted. The former state Congress President said he was asymptomatic and will recover soon because of the good wishes from every one. Rao had taken part in the proceedings of the monsoon session of the Karnataka assembly till late last night. He was recently appointed as AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Goa and Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-mla-dinesh-gundu-rao-tests-positive-for-covid-19-893728.html
27-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||One more person held in drug case involving Kishore Aman Shetty||The city police investigating the drug case involving dancer-choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty have arrested one more person from here on charges of drug peddling. He has been identified as Mohammed Shakir. Police sources said the arrest was made based on the information provided by Shetty and his aide Aqeel Nausheel, who are presently in judicial custody on charges of drug consumption and peddling. Two persons, Aska, a woman from Manipur employed in a spa here and Tarun Raj, a close friend of Shetty, were earlier arrested in the case on the charge of drug consumption, along with Shetty. Popular television anchor Anushree was questioned by the probe team on Saturday based on Tarun Raj's statement to the police that she had attended Shettys party. Anushree was let off after interrogation that lasted nearly four hours. The state CCB police is investigating drug abuse among bigwigs, including those in the film industry, after the Narcotics Control Bureau arrested three people from Bengaluru with a drug haul. They were allegedly supplying drugs to Kannada film actors and singers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-more-person-held-in-drug-case-involving-kishore-aman-shetty-893731.html
27-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt passes order to test all tuberculosis patients for Covid-19||Covid-19 pandemic has affected all the key strategic interventions of tuberculosis programmes resulting in almost 35% decline in TB case notification in 2020 as compared to the previous year in Karnataka. The decline in TB notification may lead to significant morbidity and mortality, and an increased likelihood of active transmission in the household and close contacts in the state. In order to address this dual morbidity of both the infections, all newly diagnosed TB patients or those currently on treatment will be tested for Covid-19 by RT-PCR/Truenat/CBNAAT, acoording to an order passed by the Karnataka government on September 24. All Covid-19 cases should also be screened for TB symptoms if symptoms persist for more than ten days. TB screening has to be done for SARI cases if symptoms persist for more than 10 days. lmplementation of these guidelines will go a long way in improving the case detection of the both the diseases. Tuberculosis and Covid-19 are infectious diseases which primarily attack the lungs. They present with similar symptoms of cough, fever and difficulty in breathing, although TB disease has a longer incubation period and a slower onset of disease. The prevalence of TB among Covid-19 patients has been found to be 0.37 - 4.47% in different studies. ln addition, TB patients also tend to have co-morbid or living conditions (malnutrition, diabetes, smoking, HIV etc) that increase their vulnerability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-passes-order-to-test-all-tuberculosis-patients-for-covid-19-893751.html
27-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bandh: Normal services will not be disrupted, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Urging farmer groups to withdraw the Karnataka bandh scheduled Monday, September 28, chief minister B S Yediyurappa said that the government wouldn't allow the disruption of public services. Addressing reporters, he said, "Farmer leaders should understand the objective of amendments to APMC and refrain from creating any unnecessary confusion. They should withdraw the bandh and there was no scope for it too." Farmer organisations have called for a statewide bandh protesting the amendments to APMC and Land Reform Act. A meeting held with Yediyurappa and leaders of various farmer groups on withdrawing protests, held Friday, was unfruitful. Amendments to APMC Act are being introduced to provide complete freedom for the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the state or country, the CM said, adding that 90 percent of the farmers have welcomed the changes. Revenue Minister R Ashok said that the government did not support the bandh. "All government and private offices, buses, taxis and other services will remain operational in the state. If any anti-social elements are found forcing people (to observe bandh) or pelt stones, stern action will be taken," he said. All precautionary measures are in place to prevent any untoward incidents. There was nothing for the public to fear, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bandh-normal-services-will-not-be-disrupted-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-893776.html
27-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 9,543 fresh Covid-19 cases, 79 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday reported 9,543 new cases of Covid-19 and 79 related deaths, taking the total infection count to 5.75 lakh and the toll to 8,582. The day also saw 6,522 patients getting discharged after recovery, the Health Department said. Bengaluru Urban district continued to account for a lion's share of new cases, clocking 4,217 on Sunday. So far, cumulatively 5,75,566 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state and it included 8,582 deaths and 4,62,241 discharges, the department said in a bulletin. It said, out of 1,04,724 active cases,1,03,889 patients were in isolation at designated hospitals and stable. As many as 835 are undergoing treatment in intensive care units. The capital city registered 15 of the 79 fresh deaths, followed by Ballari nine while the rest were scattered over 20 other districts. Most of the dead had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). After Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru district accounted for the most number of new cases at 952 followed by Dakshina Kannada 460, Hassan 408, Udupi 320, Ballari 310 and others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of districts in positive cases with 2,20,847 infections, followed by Mysuru 33,300 and Ballari 30,943. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops with a total of 1,73,736 discharges, followed by Ballari 26,560 and Mysuru 26,101. A total of 45,86,780 samples were tested so far, out of which 67,857 were tested on Sunday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-9543-fresh-covid-19-cases-79-deaths-893935.html
27-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bandh casts shadow over CLAT 2020||The dawn-to-dusk bandh called by farmer outfits has cast a shadow of uncertainty over the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) for admission to National Law Schools, scheduled for Monday. Panic gripped several candidates that they may miss out an opportunity to appear for the test due to the day-long bandh. “The bandh will definitely have an impact on the exam in Karnataka as many organisations have supported it. We were initially forced to appear for NLAT that was later quashed. Now, we have prepared to appear for CLAT but there is a bandh call. While all other exams have been deferred, there is no confirmation on CLAT,” a candidate from Bengaluru said. Some of the candidates had even appealed to the farmer organisations to withdraw the bandh call keeping in mind the national-level entrance test scheduled for Monday. “This time, the organisers will not defer the CLAT and farmer leaders must understand our plight,” a candidate rued. The CLAT 2020 was postponed twice citing Covid-19 pandemic. “We do not know whether there will be public transportation available or safe to travel in our vehicle,” said another candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bandh-casts-shadow-over-clat-2020-893945.html
27-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka High Court opens online slot booking facility for physical filing||The Karnataka High Court has introduced online appointment facility for advocates and litigants to book time slots for physical filing. The appointment can be booked for physical filing of fresh cases, interlocutory applications, caveats, DD deposits and to comply with office objections of scrutiny branch. The facility is said to be one of the first among high courts across the country. The new application - Physical Filing – Online Appointment - can be used to book an appointment to pay the court fee and also to file applications for a copy. The application can be accessed at the URL - https://recruitmenthck.kar.nic.in/hck/newcounternew/login.php.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-high-court-opens-online-slot-booking-facility-for-physical-filing-893953.html
27-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||School reopening: Minister seeks suggestions from MLAs||Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar has sought suggestions from all ministers and MLAs on reopening of schools during the Covid pandemic. The minister has stated in his letter that the schools shut in March had not been reopened on account of Covid-19. “The academic year which ideally should have commenced in June has not taken off properly till date. This prolonged gap has also paved way for other problems and hence I seek your suggestions on opening of schools,” the letter says. He has appealed to the elected representatives to give their suggestions on when the schools should be reopened if there is any such possibility, and which classes should be reopened first.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/school-reopening-minister-seeks-suggestions-from-mlas-893962.html
27-09-2020||West||12 crew rescued from sinking cargo ship by Coast Guard in Gujarat||Twelve crew members of a cargo vessel sinking in the Arabian Sea off the Gujarat coast have been rescued by the Coast Guard, officials said on Sunday. Around 9 pm on Saturday, the Coast Guard received information that there was flooding onboard the vessel 'MSV Krishna Sudama' around 10 nautical miles off the Okha coast. The vessel had on Saturday started sailing from Mundra in Gujarat for Djibouti, carrying 905 tonne rice and sugar to the African nation, the Coast Guard said in a statement. "Search and rescue was immediately commenced wherein Coast Guard Ship C-411 sailed from Okha, C-161 was diverted from off Mundra, and MV Southern Robin in the vicinity of the area was diverted to render assistance," it said. The Coast Guard ship C-411 arrived near the vessel in distress. It undertook extensive search in the area and located the craft carrying 12 crew members who had abandoned the vessel as it was sinking due to flooding, it said. The Coast Guard ship rescued all the 12 crew under challenging circumstances owing to night hours, floating dangerous debris and unfavourable weather conditions, it said. "They were brought to Okha and are safe," the statement said. The area where the incident took place is being monitored by the Coast Guard Ship C-161 so that it can combat any probable oil pollution incident that might result from leakage of fuel from the sunken dhow, it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-crew-rescued-from-sinking-cargo-ship-by-coast-guard-in-gujarat-893653.html
27-09-2020||West||Mumbai's train accident victim discharged after hand transplant||Monika More, who underwent first bilateral hand transplant at a private hospital here, has been discharged from the facility, doctors said. Following the 23-year-old woman's hand transplant surgery, the hospital has received nearly two dozen queries from other patients for a similar surgery. More lost her hands in an accident at Ghatkopar railway station here in 2014 while trying to board a train. She was subsequently provided artificial limbs by doctors here. Last month, a brain dead man's hands were airlifted from Chennai to Mumbai and transplanted on More. After a nearly month-long stay at the hospital, she was discharged on Saturday. "We are currently suppressing her immune system so that her body accepts the transplanted hands. She is under medical treatment and intense physiotherapy," a doctor from the hospital said. "She is advised not to step out of her home except for routine visit to the hospital to avoid any chances of infection," he said. More said it was her fathers dream to get her new hands. "I waited for almost two years and finally came to know that a Chennai-based brain dead patients family was ready for hand donation. I got new hands on the night of August 28 but my father died before that," she said. More thanked doctors at the hospital for providing her new hands as well as mental support to go through the extensive medical procedure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-train-accident-victim-discharged-after-hand-transplant-893659.html
27-09-2020||West||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot condoles death of Jaswant Singh||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday condoled the death of former union minister Jaswant Singh. Singh died early today at a hospital in Delhi. "My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of senior leader from Rajasthan and former union minister, shri Jaswant Singhji," Gehlot tweeted. He prayed for the peace of the departed soul and strength to his family members and supporters. Singh held defence, finance and external affairs portfolios in the Vajpayee government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-condoles-death-of-jaswant-singh-893674.html
27-09-2020||West||Deepika Padukone broke down thrice during NCB drug probe||The A-lister was told not to play the ‘emotional card'. The report added that no questions were asked with regard to the ongoing investigation of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide or Rhea Chakraborty. Earlier today, the agency seized mobile phones of Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh in its probe into the alleged drug abuse in Sushant Singh Rajput death case. On Saturday, three stars, Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan, were grilled by the NCB, and sources said that it lasted over six hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deepika-padukone-broke-down-thrice-during-ncb-drug-probe-893709.html
27-09-2020||West||BJP not keen on toppling MVA govt, it will collapse on its own: Devendra Fadnavis||Amid hectic political developments and back-to-back meetings in Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said that BJP is not keen on toppling the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. However, he said that the government will collapse on its own. The speculations started when Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut met the Leader of Opposition Fadnavis on Saturday over lunch – apparently to discuss an interview for Sena mouthpiece Saamana. “We are not keen or interested in bringing down the (MVA) government….people of the state are very unhappy, it will collapse on its own,” said former Chief Minister Fadnavis. According to him, BJP is working as an effective opposition and will continue to raise public issues. As the meeting raised eyebrows, both Fadnavis and Raut clarified that it was a meeting where broad contours of the interview were discussed. “Raut has asked me for an interview, but I wanted to discuss certain things like it should not be edited and I would have my own camera,” Fadnavis said on Sunday. On his part, Raut said: "Devendra Fadnavis is not our enemy. We have worked with him. In Maharashtra, we have a tradition…political opponents are not enemies. I met Fadnavis for his interview for Saamna. This was a pre-decided meeting. Even Uddhav Thackeray ji was aware of this," Raut told reporters. "Is it a crime to meet Fadnavis, who is a former Chief Minister and now Leader of Opposition? We have ideological differences but we are not enemies," he added. Raut said that he had interviewed NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and had also announced interviews with Devendra Fadnavis, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Meanwhile, Pawar met Thackeray at Varsha, the official residence of the Chief Minister. Though the details of the meeting are not known, it was meant to discuss the  Covid-19 situation and the future unlocking process. On the other hand, senior Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam said: “Congress is supporting the farmers’ protests across the country. But Shiv Sena supported the Farm Bills in Lok Sabha and at the time of voting in Rajya Sabha they sneaked out of the Parliament. Shiv Sena cannot be trusted.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-not-keen-on-toppling-mva-govt-it-will-collapse-on-its-own-devendra-fadnavis-893741.html
27-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari launches Ayurvedic chemo recovery kit||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Sunday launched chemo recovery kits containing Ayurvedic formulation at the Raj Bhavan in Mumbai. The chemo recovery kit has been developed by the Integrated Cancer Treatment and Research Centre of the Bharatiya Sanskriti Darshan Trust in Pune with financial assistance from the Tata Trusts. Addressing a gathering of eminent doctors and researchers virtually, Governor Koshyari said Ayurveda and modern medicine have their own distinct areas of strengths.  He said that joint research by scientists working in Ayurveda and modern medicine will benefit cancer patients and other patients immensely. He expressed the hope that like cancer, researchers will soon find a cure for the dreaded Covid-19 infection. Congratulating the Bharatiya Sanskriti Darshan Trust for filing patents for 7 Ayurveda formulations for the treatment of cancer, the Governor expressed hope that that the newly patented chemo recovery kits will relieve cancer patients of the painful side effects of chemotherapy and improve the quality of their life. Chairman Emeritus of Tata Group Ratan Tata conveyed his best wishes to the cancer research being done by the Bharatiya Sanskriti Darshan Trust.  Vaidya Devendra Triguna, Dr Ashok Kukde, Dr Shobha Chiplunkar, President of Bharatiya Sanskruti Darshan Trust Dr Sadanand Sardeshmukh, and others spoke on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-launches-ayurvedic-chemo-recovery-kit-893763.html
27-09-2020||West||Kshitij Ravi Prasad remanded in NCB custody till October 3||Mumbai court on Sunday remanded Kshitij Ravi Prasad, who was earlier hired as an executive producer by a firm of filmmaker Karan Johar, in the NCB's custody till October 3 following his arrest in a drugs caselinked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. Prasad had joined Dharmatic Entertainment (sister concern of Karan Johar's Dharma Productions) in November 2019 as one ofthe executive producers on a contract basis for a project, which eventually did not materialise, Johar said in a statement on Friday. Prasad was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday after questioning. He was produced before a magistrate court here via video conferencing which remanded him in the probe agency's custody till October 3 for further investigation. The NCB on Saturday recorded statements of actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan in the drugs probe linked to Rajput's death and an alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus. The probe agency told the court on Sunday that Prasad in his statement said he had procured drugs from another accused Karamjeet Singh Anand and his associates. The probe agency further said the investigation into the case revealed that the accused is a part of conspiracy for drug procurement with other accused persons. He is connected with other accused linked to Rajput's death case, it said. The investigation into this case is in preliminary stage as revelations made by Prasad are to be verified, the NCB further said. It also said Prasad is indirectly connected with accused Anuj Keshwani, from whom commercial quantity of a contraband was seized. Therefore, it is necessary to interrogate in deep as to whom the accused was delivering the contraband in Bollywood, it added. Prasad's name cropped up during the NCB's wider probe into the alleged Bollywod-drugs nexus. On Friday, the NCB also questioned Anubhav Chopra, who earlier worked with Dharma Productions, in connection with the alleged drug-nexus in the Hindi film industry. However, according to Dharma Productions owner Karan Johar, he doesn't know any of them personally. Johar in a statement on Friday said Prasad had joined Dharmatic Entertainment, sister concern of Dharma Productions, in November 2019 as one ofthe executive producers on a contract basis for a project, which eventually did not materialise. The filmmaker said Chopra was briefly associated with hisbanner as an assistant director and worked only on two projects. "He was briefly associated with us for only two months inthe capacity of 2nd assistant director for a film, between November 2011 and January 2012 and as assistant director for theshort film in January 2013. He has thereafter never been associatedwith Dharma Productions for any other project," Johar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kshitij-ravi-prasad-remanded-in-ncb-custody-till-october-3-893781.html
27-09-2020||West||Covid-19 patient commits suicide in Aurangabad hospital||A 42-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly committed suicide in Government Medical College and Hospital in Aurangabad on Sunday morning, police said. The Paithan resident, who was admitted in GMCH on September 25 and had been shifted to the ICU on September 27, jumped off the window beside his bed around 7 am after asking for water and a paan from attendants in the ward, GMCH officials said. He jumped from the fourth floor, GMCH Dean Kanan Yelikar told PTI. A case has been registered at Begumpura police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-in-aurangabad-hospital-893861.html
27-09-2020||West||Ahmedabad civic body collects Rs 5.5 crore fine over violation of Covid-19 norms||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Sunday said it has collected a fine of over Rs 5.5 crore so far from violators, including citizens and commercial establishments, of Covid-19 norms. The civic body also rued that despite conducting a massive regulatory drive, people are still not following guidelines. The AMC had prepared SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) for various categories like shopping malls, hotels, clubs, religious places, etc. to check the coronavirus spread in the city, an official release said. More than 192 teams were formed for 48 wards and seven administrative zones for effective implementation of rules related to social distancing, wearing masks, spitting in public places etc, it said. "Till date, penalties of more than Rs 5.5 crore have been collected by the AMC and the police. Despite this massive regulatory drive, people are still not following SOPs and rules," the civic body stated. While more than 55,000 shops and commercial units have been penalised of Rs 1.88 crore, 90 big and well-known entities, including shopping malls, were briefly sealed and a fine of Rs 31.41 lakh recovered from them, it said. "Around 4.5 lakh individuals have been penalised after they were found without masks in public places and Rs 2.24 crore recovered from them in penalty," it said. A fine of Rs 27.21 lakh has been collected from 6,949 persons for spitting on public roads or near paan shops. Action was also taken against 603 shops selling paan and tobacco, and a fine of Rs 38.61 lakh was recovered from them, the civic body said, adding that more than 35 tea stalls were sealed. Over 1,200 stalls closed on their own following the action by civic teams. The tally of Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad district stood at 36,048 as on September 26, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-civic-body-collects-rs-55-crore-fine-over-violation-of-covid-19-norms-893877.html
27-09-2020||West||Gujarat prohibition a sham, criminalises social drinking: Shankersinh Vaghela||Prohibition must be lifted in Gujarat to promote tourism as the anti-liquor policy is nothing but a sham that criminalises social drinking, former chief minister Shankersinh  Vaghela said on Sunday. However, neither the ruling BJP nor the Congress want prohibition to go as they do not want to lose the illicit income generated from the policy, Vaghela said in a series of tweets to mark World Tourism Day. The ban is a sham as people are drinking, but by offering double money for fear of being held and criminalised for a "social practice", 80-year-old Vaghela, who has been with the BJP, Congress and NCP earlier, said. "Today on #WorldTourismDay we have to think why Gujarat is behind in the tourism sector? Why can't we attract more tourists from other states and countries? Tourism industry is best in terms of employment and revenue," he tweeted with the hashtag #AgainstLiquorBanChallenge. "BJP and Congress will (n)ever want to lose illegal income earned through #Liquorban in this state. They will always want people to pay double and drink with fear of arrest," he added. He said the ban must be lifted if it cannot be implemented properly, adding "let the people decide good and bad". "It is time to think big. Time has changed. Today liquor is part of social gathering. It has nothing to do with criminality. But in Gujarat people who drink and people who do robbery both are considered criminals. This should come to an end," he further said. Vaghela has also previously spoken against prohibition in the state, and in a release on Sunday claimed "during my CM tenure in the year 1996-97, I wanted to remove the liquor ban policy, but the coalition government has some limitations". Then Congress president Sitaram Kesri was against the move to repeal prohibition and so the plan did not go ahead, Vaghela said. He claimed the ban on liquor would go "within 100 days" if he forms a government in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-prohibition-a-sham-criminalises-social-drinking-shankersinh-vaghela-893905.html
27-09-2020||West||Sharad Pawar meets Maharashtra CM a day after Fadnavis-Raut meeting||NCP president Sharad Pawar met Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray here on Sunday. The meeting took place a day after former state chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis met Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut here, sparking speculation in political circles. Pawar met Thackeray at the latter's official residence and the meeting lasted for about 40 minutes, sources said. What transpired during the meeting could not be known immediately. Fadnavis and Raut had met at a hotel in Mumbai on Saturday. Although their meeting triggered speculation, Fadnavis on Sunday asserted that the BJP has no intention of joining hands with the Shiv Sena or to bring down the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government. Fadnavis also said the meeting was regarding an interview for Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-meets-maharashtra-cm-a-day-after-fadnavis-raut-meeting-893913.html
27-09-2020||West||Maharashtra : Latur temple gets notice after it opens for devotees||A gram panchayat in Latur in Maharashtra issued a notice to the management of a temple which opened for devotees amid the coronavirus pandemic despite restrictions on such type of gatherings by the state government. The notice was issued to the management of a Hanuman temple in Makani Thor village in the district's Nilangekar taluka after people thronged it to offer prayers on Saturday, sarpanch Shreeniwas Ashok told PTI. The temple attracts devotees from several parts of the state as well as Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-latur-temple-gets-notice-after-it-opens-for-devotees-893926.html
27-09-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 18,056 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra recorded 18,056 new coronavirus positive cases on Sunday, which pushed the state's overall tally to 13,39,232, the state health department said. With the death of 380 patients during the day, the toll reached 35,571, it said. A total of 13,565 patients were discharged on Sunday. With this, the state's recovery count stands at 10,30,015, the department said in a statement. There are 2,73,228 active cases in the state at present. As many as 65,65,649 people have been tested so far, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-18056-new-covid-19-cases-893933.html
27-09-2020||West||Mumbai woman held for fake rape case against cops||A 35-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly filing a false case of rape and molestation against two constables, an autorickshaw driver and others, police said on Sunday. A policeman who had helped the lady file the false case has also been booked but is yet to be arrested, said a Ghatkopar police station official. The two constables and the autorickshaw driver were arrested last month after the woman approached Bombay High Court complaining that, on January 11, they had raped her and molested her 11-year-old daughter on the pretext of probing a human trafficking case, the official said. She had said in her complaint that the policemen had assaulted her, leading to a miscarriage. The case was registered at the time on directions of the HC and constables Shishupal Jagdhane and S Gavhane, and autorickshaw driver Ghure were arrested, he added. An SIT was formed under DCP (Zone VII) Prashant Kadam to oversee and probe the case, and it was found that Jagdhane was in UP at the time of the alleged incident, Gavhane was at the police station and the auto driver in his Sakinaka home, he said. The SIT then arrested the woman under section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and she has been remanded in police custody for four days, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-woman-held-for-fake-rape-case-against-cops-893937.html
27-09-2020||West||Woman doctor molested by colleagues at Covid-19 facility||Two doctors have been booked for allegedly molesting their woman colleague working in a Covid-19 facility in Maharashtra's Pune, police said on Sunday. In her complaint, the doctor said she was touched in an inappropriate manner on several occasions by the two doctors in the last few days, a Shivajinagar police station officer said. "A woman doctor approached us with a complaint that she was molested by two doctors on multiple occasions in the last few days. We have registered a case and our investigation is on," he said. A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said the two accused doctors were hired by an agency which is managing the said facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-doctor-molested-by-colleagues-at-covid-19-facility-893979.html
