28-09-2020||Davangere||Karnataka Bandh sees success in Davangere||The state-wide bandh called by various farmers' organisations protesting against amendments to the APMC and Land Reforms Acts received good response in Davengere on Monday. Majority of business establishments, government offices, banks, hotels and malls remained closed. City buses, autorickshaws stayed off the road, Though some nationalised banks were open in the morning, they shut their doors around 11:30am following demands from pro-Kannada organisations. Three Karnataka State Reserve Police platoons, six armed reserve force platoons, and 600 police personnel were deployed in various parts of the city to avoid untoward incidents during the bandh. Police security was beefed up at railway and bus stations across the city..||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/karnataka-bandh-sees-success-in-davangere-894128.html
28-09-2020||First Edit||Bihar Assembly polls: Opposition in bad shape||With the announcement of the election schedule, Bihar is set for the country’s first major election during the Covid-19 pandemic. The election will be held in three phases from October 28, with the last round on November 7. Holding elections in a pandemic environment is very challenging and the Election Commission has launched efforts to make the election as much Covid-proof as possible. It has said that necessary arrangements will be made, including the dispatch of masks, sanitisers, gloves etc, and there will be guidelines for campaigning, voting and counting, which will ensure the safety of voters, campaigners and officials. The campaign will now pick up but it will be less lively and devoid of the usual noise and frenzy. But the elections are important because of the political prominence of the state and as an experiment in how they can be conducted in these times.  There are major issues on which the election will be fought. The record of Nitish Kumar’s JD(U)-BJP government, especially its handling of the pandemic, the experience of about 25 lakh migrant workers who have returned from other states, unemployment, a broken state economy aggravated by the pandemic, the impact of floods on very large numbers of families and the crisis in the farm sector will be important issues to be highlighted in the campaign. These are all issues on which the state government and the ruling coalition will be on the defensive. Nitish Kumar’s reputation as the “sushasan babu” has taken a beating on these and other issues. But he remains the most popular leader, with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad in jail. The BJP, which is the junior partner in the ruling coalition but has higher ambitions, has endorsed Nitish as the leader. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have to do some heavy lifting in the campaign, though it will be virtual. The alliance between the JD(U), the BJP and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, has the electoral arithmetic on its side, though there are still unresolved issues of seat-sharing among them. There is, in fact, an acrimonious relationship between the JD(U) and the LJP, in which Ram Vilas Paswan’ son Chirag Paawan is the rising leader. The junior Paswan has openly criticised Nitish Kumar and the JD(U).  But the opposition, which is mainly the RJD-Congress combine, is in a bad shape. Lalu Prasad’ son Tejaswi Yadav has not been able to establish his leadership. The Congress has steadily declined in the state and has no visible leader. The opposition combine should have a credible leadership and an agenda if its challenge to the ruling coalition has to have any impact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bihar-assembly-polls-opposition-in-bad-shape-894031.html
28-09-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Farmers protest in Chennamma Circle in Hubballi||Though the call for bandh against amendment to land reforms and APMC acts received poor response in Hubballi, massive protests were staged at Chennamma Circle. The bandh was restricted to areas surrounding Chennamma Circle only, where a series of protests were staged by different organisations. Bus services were not suspended, but the frequency of buses was less. Only BRTS buses remained off the roads for sometime. Auto-rickshaws were moving as usual. Banks, government offices, most of the commercial establishments and market places were open. Since morning, members of different organisations staged protests at Sangolli Rayanna Circle and Chennamma Circle. Their number grew by noon, and police diverted vehicular traffic near Chennamma Circle. Raising slogans, burning effigies and displaying placards marked the protests by the members of pro-Kannada, pro-farmer organisations,   trade unions, Congress, JD(S), AAP and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/farmers-protest-in-chennamma-circle-in-hubballi-894260.html
28-09-2020||In Perspective||Is social media turning us into zombies?||The hard-hitting documentary trending on Netflix—“The Social Dilemma”—begins with eerie music and a chilling quote that alludes to social media as a curse. In this, several executives who held top positions in social media companies such as Facebook, Google, and Twitter warn about the existential crisis caused by these manipulative organisations. It hits us hard with several facts we are unaware of or continue to ignore. The covert aim of the ‘free’ platforms is to monetise social media use. They constantly track, collect and analyse data on every facet of our lives. The advertisers on social media misuse this data to predict and influence buyers’ behaviour. We, the unaware users, are the products being bought and sold. It is a market trading in “human futures”. Social media companies treat people as specimens. They deploy experimental tools such as Persuasion Psychology, Growth Hacking, and A/B testing to manipulate behaviour at the subliminal level for multiplying users and their engagement. The social networks lure, push, pull and even annoy us into doing what they want. These platforms programme our preferences for people, places and pleasures. They seduce us to buy a product or service which we never wanted. These networks decide how should we live.  Social media companies exploit social, biological and evolutionary instincts, and pander to our ‘reward/approval seeking’ tendency. They keep nudging us to ‘like’, check, chat, comment, view, share—the list is endless. We have moved away from user-driven tool-based technology environment to addiction and manipulation-oriented system. This dopamine-releasing drug turns us into addicts and morphs us into zombies and robots. Social media pandemic has permeated our psyches and penetrated our lives. It has entered our bedrooms and invaded our boardrooms. It tempts us while we sleep, lounges with us in our living rooms, dines with us and accompanies us to toilet. This pest drives out with us, and sits on our shoulders in school, office, and parties. The fake forces us to forget family and friends. Social media has appropriated our essential resources: time, mind, and free will for making intelligent choices.  Social media exploits human weaknesses, conditions people and causes depression. Children and young-adults suffer most—they stay glued to screens for hours, seeking self-worth from pseudo-social approval. This self-deception disillusions and disorients. An increasing number of pre-teens and teens are harming and killing themselves after getting hooked to social media. The agony and insanity caused by manipulation of our minds and behaviour by social media come alive in “The Scream” painted by Edvard Munch, included for reference below. Unlike Wikipedia, social media tells different versions of truth to different people. It changes the reality based on which we act. These platforms create and disseminate fake news. They spread conspiracy theories which can influence elections, create social unrests and destabilise democracies. To achieve such results through social networking sites is easy because they are fast, cheap and effective. Social media has circulated claims, counterclaims and lies about Covid-19 pandemic, Rohingya crisis in Myanmar and climate change. Fake news spreads faster and generates more money for social media companies. Social media is dangerous because the advances in this technology are exponential as compared to evolution of the human mind. Powered by artificial intelligence, this has become an existential threat for humanity because of its ability to bring out the worst in society.  Why is it difficult to shake the monkey off our backs? The documentary answers: it gives us both—Utopia and Dystopia. Social media is an enormous problem, but it has made significant contributions. It is neither possible nor advisable to shut off this engine. Yet serious considerations of ethics, conscience, and humanity remain. The social networks are changing who we are. This raises grave questions for civilisation, and our present and future. Manipulating minds The crux is the manner in which social media companies earn. Making money is not immoral, but manipulation is. Companies are acting as de facto governments. Stringent laws govern harmful businesses such as illegal drugs, human trafficking, and trading in human organs. Then why not laws for these social media companies which manipulate our minds?  The responsibility to correct this state of affairs lies with these companies, the governments, the civil society, and the individuals. These platforms must self-regulate and operate with ethics. They have to dump their manipulative tactics and technologies. This is their responsibility because they created them. Governments need to regulate social media platforms with strict laws, penalties and punishments. The civil society can debate, generate awareness and engage with these platforms, governments and public for creating a collective will for reforms. As individuals we must say ‘NO’, and demand that these technologies do not treat us as lab-rats and manipulate us. We have to switch off notifications, remove unwanted apps, and limit screen time for ourselves and our children. Most designers of social media either do not allow, or give limited supervised social media access to their children. We better exercise our mind, will, and choice. Social media is a problem that needs a solution. The answer lies not in destroying these platforms, but in reforming them. We have to control these controllers. We can’t allow them to hack our happiness. Smartphones are making us phoney. Social media is changing us into anti-social. We have to stop this. (The writer is a Bengaluru based innovation consultant)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-social-media-turning-us-into-zombies-894028.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kannada activists stop buses at Central Bus Stand in Belagavi||Activists of Karnataka Navnirman Sene supporting the farmers' protest against the government's contentious Farm Bills blocked the movement of buses at the Central Bus Stand here on Monday morning. Led by Babu Sangodi, they expressed their ire against the government for bringing in laws that will affect the farmers dearly and demanded that such laws be withdrawn immediately. Later in the day, farmers' organisations are expected to stage a protest rally from the city to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha. Normal life prevailed in the city  in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kannada-activists-stop-buses-at-central-bus-stand-in-belagavi-894074.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Bandh sees partial success in Hassan, Chamarajanagar||The Karnataka bandh called by the farmers outfits against the amendments to the APMC and Land Reforms Act, on Monday, saw partial success in Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts and near-complete in Mandya. Shops remained closed in all three districts. However, the movement of KSRTC buses and other vehicles were not affected till 9 am. Farmers took out a motorbike rally in Hassan city. Protesters forced shopkeepers to shutter shops in Mandya. Congress workers also joined farmers protest in Chamarajanagar. However, pharmacies were open.With more organisations expected to join in, the protest is expected to intensify further in the day. Police have deployed additional forces as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-bandh-sees-partial-success-in-hassan-chamarajanagar-894113.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||No bandh in Karnataka's CM's home district, but protests rage on||The state-wide bandh call by various organisations in protest against amendments to the APMC, and Land Reforms Acts received poor response in the Chief Minister's home district on Monday, in the morning. The movement of vehicles including KSRTC buses, private buses, autorickshaws was as usual in the city. Taxis were plying between Shivamogga and Bhadravathi. Business establishments remained open in major areas of the city. Activists of District JD(S) unit took out bike rally from Gopi circle and raised slogans against the State an Central governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-bandh-in-karnatakas-cms-home-district-but-protests-rage-on-894123.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmers stage sit-in protest at Channamma Circle in Belagavi||Farmers protesting against the government's farm laws staged a sit-in protest at Channamma Circle here on Monday. Farmers raised slogans in support of their demands and condemned the government for its anti-farmer stand. Different organisations also extended support to the farmers and participated in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-stage-sit-in-protest-at-channamma-circle-in-belagavi-894156.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bandh evokes mixed response in Kalyana Karnataka||Though the bandh call given today against the farm laws evoked a mixed response in Kalyana Karnataka, a series of protests by various organisations demonstrated anger the farming community has over the amendments to Land Reforms and APMC Acts. In Kalaburagi, bus service was withdrawn on Monday morning as leaders of several farmer associations and pro-Kannada outfits staged a protest in front of Central Bus Stand. Though there were commuters in the bus stand, the service was withdrawn as a precautionary measure. After 11 am, the protests intensified in the city. Most of the business establishments downed their shutters. Protest in Bidar Leaders of various associations staged a protest against the amendments in Bidar. The protesters alleged that the BJP government at the centre and in the state are helping the corporate companies by neglecting the interests of the farmers and the labourers. The protest, which began from Ambedkar Circle, submitted a memorandum at the deputy commissioner's office. Heavy police were deployed in the city to prevent untoward incidents. Poor response in Vijayapura However, the bandh call evoked a tepid response in Vijayapura city. Vehicular movement was as usual in the city but the number of commuters was less. Business establishments lifted their shutters in several locations. Government offices and banks were functioning normally. In Vijayapura, farmer associations had organised processions from Siddeshwara Temple to the deputy commissioner's office. Stir intensifies Ballari Protests in Ballari against the amendment to farmer laws received a good response. Members of various organisations staged a protest at Gadadi Chennappa Circle. In Yadgir, peasants and activists of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike expressed their anger by setting a tyre afire at Subhash Chandra Bose Circle. Business establishments downed their shutters in main circles and the farmers forced some of the establishments to close. A series of protests were organised in Raichur and Koppal districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bandh-evokes-mixed-response-in-kalyana-karnataka-894167.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: BJP MP Umesh Jadhav admitted to hospital due to chest pain||BJP MP Dr. Umesh Jadhav was admitted to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Bengaluru with complaints of chest pain, on Monday. He had recently recovered from Covid-19. In his twitter, Jadhav informed that he visited the hospital for a check-up as he developed mild chest pain. I have been admitted to the hospital on the advice of hospital director Dr. C N Manjunath. No one needs to panic, he told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-bjp-mp-umesh-jadhav-admitted-to-hospital-due-to-chest-pain-894403.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Will convince farmers on APMC, land reforms: BS Yediyurappa||With his pro-farmer credentials at stake, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Monday that he would travel around the state to personally convince the farmers about the benefits of freeing up agricultural trading and farmland ownership. "I request all farmer leaders to come and sit again with me to discuss. The government is ready to make any changes the farmers feel is right," Yediyurappa said, referring to the statewide bandh being observed by farmers groups that are up in arms against the amendments made to the APMC and Land Reforms laws. The APMC and Land Reforms Bills were passed by the Legislative Assembly last week. Earlier, farmers were required to sell only in designated markets (mandis). The APMC Bill removes restrictions on the sale of agricultural produce, thereby allowing private individuals to set up trade markets where farmers can sell. The Land Reforms Bill allows non-agriculturists to buy agricultural land and removes the income limit for purchase of land. Yediyurappa termed the bandh as a “conspiracy” by farmer leaders and the Opposition Congress. Requesting farmers to “wait and watch for just six months” to understand the benefits of the amendments enacted by the government, Yediyurappa said: "You will be convinced of its benefits and the problems associated with selling the produce will reduce." He recalled his own experience as a farmer and as APMC president. “Agents ruled the roost in some APMCs. The fight to give farmers the freedom to sell wherever they want goes back 20-30 years, and I was involved in this struggle. We’ve given farmers freedom,” he said, clarifying that APMCs will not be closed. “In case APMCs run into financial hardships, the government is willing to provide salaries for employees,” he said. Yediyurappa also allayed fears that liberalizing agricultural landholdings will not adversely impact farmers. “There are restrictions: irrigated land should be used for its intended purpose, SC/ST lands cannot be purchased and the ceiling on land ownership has been retained at 54 acres for one family,” he said. “It’s not true that lands will be given off to industries. Less than 1% of the lands have been given to industries so far,” Yediyurappa said and pointed out it was the Congress that favoured amendments to the land reforms law in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-convince-farmers-on-apmc-land-reforms-bs-yediyurappa-894170.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa plays down MP Tejasvi Surya’s 'epicentre of terror activities' remark for Bengaluru||A day after Bangalore South MP Tejaswi Surya dubbed the state capital as ‘epicentre of terror activities’, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday played this down while endorsing the need for a National Investigation Agency (NIA) division in the city. Yediyurappa said that Surya meant to only say there was an increase in terror activities recently. "The government has been requesting an NIA division for many years. What he (Surya) said was that terror activities were more these days," Yediyurappa said, adding that the new division would help curb terror activities. “I congratulate the PM for agreeing to this.” Surya’s remark attracted criticism from social media users, especially those belonging to the Opposition parties. The comment was also perceived as an “embarrassment” to the ruling BJP in the state. “Tejasvi Surya calling Bengaluru, a global city known for technology and innovation, as an epicenter of terror is highly condemnable,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said. “GDP growth has crashed and with such statements, which investor will come to Bengaluru and Karnataka? Will PM and FM Nirmala Sitharaman answer?” he said. JD(S) social media in-charge Prathap Kanagal referred to Surya as a “clown” for his remark. “Dear Bengaluru South, you elected this clown! Now sit back, relax and watch his circus!” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-plays-down-mp-tejasvi-surya-s-epicentre-of-terror-activities-remark-for-bengaluru-894321.html
28-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah asks B S Yediyurappa to dissolve Karnataka Assembly, face fresh elections||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah called for fresh elections by asking Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to dissolve the Assembly even as the Congress approached Raj Bhavan on Monday against the government’s ‘anti-farmer’ policies. “Yediyurappa should dissolve the Assembly and go for elections. Farmers elected BJP based on their manifesto. Had farmers known about these amendments, they would have never elected BJP to power. So, BJP has no moral authority to implement these amendments and continue in their position,” Siddaramaiah said during a protest the Congress staged against the amendments to the APMC and land reforms laws. The Congress leader suggested that there was quid pro quo behind the BJP government’s decision to liberalise agricultural landholdings. “Did they take this decision for nothing? They've looted crores of rupees. How much will you loot, Yediyurappa? You brought this ordinance for money. The ordinance was promulgated during the Covid-19 pandemic so that nobody can protest,” Siddaramaiah said. A Congress delegation comprising AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala, Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge, state party president DK Shivakumar, Legislative Council floor leader SR Patil and Siddaramaiah submitted a memorandum to Governor Vajubhai R Vala. The party sought Vala’s intervention in getting the government to withdraw the Bills on APMC, land reforms and labour laws. Reacting to Siddaramaiah, Yediyurappa said: “I’ve already said on the floor of the Assembly that both Congress and I will go to people on these issues. I'll tell people about everything Congress leaders had said on these amendments in the past. Let them come to the arena.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-asks-b-s-yediyurappa-to-dissolve-karnataka-assembly-face-fresh-elections-894391.html
28-09-2020||Main Article||Wildlife Week: Make it meaningful||First week of October is the time for Wildlife Week celebration by the Forest Department across the state. Drawing and essay competitions for school children, expert talks and screening of movies for education and awareness, and walk for wildlife are some of the events organised during the celebration. The coronavirus pandemic this year makes the celebrations virtual and public gatherings low.  Our success should be judged by the measures implemented to conserve habitats and corridors and resolve wildlife conflicts. The fragmented and degraded habitats are further impacted by the increasing presence of invasive species such as lantana, eupatorium, parthenium etc. They not only threaten wildlife conservation but also prevent ecological services the vast expanses of forests provide.  Programmes are implemented to reduce the dependency of rural folk on forests. A book, “Forestry In India during British Era – Karnataka case study” by Dipak Sarmah, retired Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka, brings out a quote from our first Inspector General of Forests Sir Dietrich Brandis on the 1876-78 famine: “In the districts, the demarcation, protection and improvement of public forests is a measure of pressing necessity, which must no longer be deferred. The misery of the late famine has been greatly increased by the denudation of the forests which has diminished the production of the cattle fodder and has had an injurious effect on the water supply in streams and tanks (ponds).” To reduce the dependency on forests, households on the fringes of forests are supplied with cooking gas connection, solar lamps, solar water heater, bio gas plants, social security plantations and fruit orchards etc. Supply of LPG to the families bringing firewood from forests has been a very important component implemented for more than two decades. A similar programme with much wider coverage is the Ujjawala scheme. Despite these programmes, people have continued bringing firewood from forests and wildlife habitats continue to degrade.  ‘Ujjawala’ is an important scheme monitored by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In his words, “millions of mothers and sisters are relieved of inhaling smoke and their costs of curing illnesses are saved.” The scheme is linked to forest conservation and reduction of carbon emissions. The PM, in his keynote address at the UN Economic and Social Council said that the implementation of efficient use of energy, installation of 450 GW renewable energy projects, supply of cooking gas and electrification of villages has contributed in reduction of 38 million tonnes of CO2. However, if Ujjawala beneficiary does not afford the cost of refill of LPG cylinder and continues to bring firewood from forests, then projection of PM may be unrealistic. A recent report published in “SBI Ecowrap” says that 5.92 crore households had Ujjawala gas connection till December 2018 and annual refill data for households that had gas connection for more than a year shows that 24.6% never came back for refill, around 18% refilled only once or twice, 11.7% took three refills, while nearly 46% took four or more refills. A non-Ujjawala household consumes six to seven cylinders in a year while Ujjawala household in 2018-19 on an average consumed only three. With LPG prices zooming, demand for firewood is also rising. The option for the communities residing in and around forests is simple: they can bring any quantity by removing the young forest crop. In the economic package announced by Union Finance Minister Niramala Sitharaman during corona pandemic, Ujjawala beneficiaries got free LPG cylinder till September 2020. This should help revival of the forests, if LPG refill is subsidised beyond this period for beneficiaries adjoining forests.  A study in the Malnad belt of Karnataka has found that the supply of solar water heater can reduce consumption of firewood by 33% in villages adjoining the forests. The evaluation of the programme has revealed that the beneficiaries do not have water supply through pipes from overhead tanks and no vent is fitted with it for the escape of excess heat. Solar water heaters are non-functional, putting additional pressure on forests.  Poor implementation The programmes meant for restoring wildlife habitats are poorly implemented. Unless the gaps are plugged, wild animals will find their habitats shrinking and the corridors for their movement lost. Human-wildlife conflict then assumes a dangerous proportion. When a human is mauled by tiger or leopard or trampled by elephant, action is demanded by public and Forest Department will be at the receiving end. People generally mob the scene and pressurise Forest Department for immediate capture of the conflict animal or even shooting to kill it. Elephants in big herd move outside forests and damage agriculture crops. Ex-gratia payments approved by the government is often inadequate for high-value crops like tissue culture banana, coffee, areca nut and paddy etc. People also get agitated when highly-priced cattle are killed by tiger or leopard. They go in revengeful mode and put poison on the carcass of the cattle. When carnivore revisits the carcass, it consumes the poison and gets killed. People in coffee estates take revenge on elephants herds as well. To drive away the herd, they often open fire injuring some of them. Elephants profusely bleed, develop septicemia and die even after six months. Even if the post-mortem finds metal pieces embedded in the body of the elephant, there is no method to trace the culprit. To protect the crops, sometimes a villager illegally uses electric fence and elephants get electrocuted. By the time the departmental staff visit the scene of offence, culprits and materials become untraceable. Culprits are not brought to book even in 25% of these cases. Without restoring and developing habitats, conservation of wildlife is an uphill task. The department must focus on eco-development and habitat development programmes to conserve wildlife. Celebration of the Wildlife Week is becoming too formal and hardly any useful purpose is served on the ground. (The writer is retired Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/wildlife-week-make-it-meaningful-894029.html
28-09-2020||Mysuru||Bandh in Mysuru; KSRTC services suspended||KSRTC bus services were suspended in Mysuru on Monday as a precautionery measure as hundreds of farmers came to the streets to protest amendments to the Land Reforms Act and APMC Act. The farmers along with members of various organisations are staging protests as part of Karnataka bandh. The protesters raised slogans against the Union and the state government. The protesters also blocked buses at the Sub-Urban bus stand. Farmers holding agriculture equipment and boulders on their head staged protest near the bus stand. Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda said, the farmers are to allowed for protest but no bandh is allowed. He also warned of action against forceful bandh. Farmers claim that Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are anti- farmers and favouring corporate sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/bandh-in-mysuru-ksrtc-services-suspended-894066.html
28-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 28||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 61 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  61,30,315 as of September 28 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):    96,289  No. of people discharged: 50,16,520  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-28-894039.html
28-09-2020||National||Youth Congress torches tractor at India Gate in protest against farm laws||Youth Congress workers on Monday morning set a tractor on fire near the iconic India Gate in the national capital as part of the protests against the contentious farm sector laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government. Police said they have detained five persons in connection with the incident that took place around 7:15 AM. The police said 15-20 people, who claimed to be members of Youth Congress in Punjab, brought the tractor on a Tata 407 to Rajpath at Man Singh Crossing. "They off loaded the tractor and tried to set it ablaze," a police statement said. Fire brigade rushed two fire tenders to the spot at around 7:42 AM following a call and doused the blaze. The tractor was removed from the spot. Youth Congress said activists of its Punjab unit demonstrated at the India Gate on the occasion of the birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. "Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation's backbone. "On Bhagat Singh's birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the government's anti farmer bills," the Youth Congress tweeted.  Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation's backbone. The detained persons have been identified as Manjot Singh (36), Ramandeep Singh Sindhu (28), Rahul (23), Sahib (28) and Sumit (28), all residents of Punjab, police said. The BJP condemned the incident with Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar alleging that the Congress has "shamed" the country today. "Bringing a tractor in a truck and then burning it at India Gate is a drama enacted by the Congress and we condemn it. The party has been trying to do politics in the name of farmers, and it has been unmasked. It has enacted a drama for publicity," he said. He said the Congress had in its manifesto promised what the Modi government has done. "Now the Congress is trying to mislead farmers by speaking in a different voice. But it will not succeed," he added. The government had on Sunday notified the three contentious legislations -- The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farmer Services Act, 2020, The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities Act, 2020 -- after getting President Ram Nath Kovind's asset on September 24. On September 25, farmers had held country-wide protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-congress-torches-tractor-at-india-gate-in-protest-against-farm-laws-894076.html
28-09-2020||National||Surgical Strike anniversary: How jawans destroyed terror launchpads||Four years ago, army conducted a surgical strike across the Line of Control (LoC) as a response to a terrorist attack on an Indian Army base in Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir earlier that month that claimed the lives of 19 jawans. Recalling the bravery of these soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his 69th edition of the ‘Mann ki Baat’ monthly radio programme yesterday, said, “Four years ago, around this time, the world witnessed the courage, bravery and valour of our soldiers during the surgical strike. Our brave soldiers had just one mission and goal — to protect the glory and honour of mother India at any cost.” As India observes the fourth anniversary of the surgical strikes today, here's how the jawans destroyed terror launchpads: In a well-calibrated operation, on the intervening night of September 28-29, 2016, the Indian Army moved across the LoC and smashed four terror launch pads that were under the guard of a Pakistani post located 700 metres from the LoC. Since 2018, India has been observing September 29 as the ‘surgical strike day’ to mark the “valour and patriotism” of Indian troops. “They did not care for their lives, at all. They kept moving on the line of duty and we all witnessed how they returned victoriously. They made mother India proud,” PM Modi added in his address yesterday.  The Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was severely hit in the cross-LoC surgical strikes on the launch pads with assessment reports of radio intercepts indicating that around 20 of its militants were killed. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surgical-strike-anniversary-how-jawans-destroyed-terror-launchpads-894085.html
28-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 toll nears 1-lakh mark with 1,039 new deaths; tally crosses 60 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally galloped past 60 lakh on Monday with 82,170 new cases, while the recoveries have surged to 50.17 lakh with 74,893 more people having recuperated, the Health Ministry said. The death toll from the pathogen climbed to 95,542 with 1,039 more deaths. There are 9,62,640 active cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, comprising 15.85 per cent of the total caseload, according to the ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 60,74,702, while 50,16,520 people have recuperated from the virus, taking the recovery rate to 82.58 per cent. The case fatality rate declined to 1.57 per cent, it said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 7.2 crore samples have been tested so far, with 7.09 lakh tests being conducted on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-toll-nears-1-lakh-mark-with-1039-new-deaths-tally-crosses-60-lakh-894093.html
28-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Bhagat Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary, saying his valour will inspire people for ages. Singh was born on this day in Punjab in 1907. His defiance of the British rule from a very young age, his revolutionary acts to target the empire and his hanging when he was only 23 have made him one of the more notable heroes of the Indian Independence movement.  "Tributes to the immortal martyr Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary. His saga of bravery and valour will inspire the countrymen for ages," the prime minister tweeted.  He also attached a clip of his 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast made on Sunday in which he had paid rich tributes to Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tribute-to-bhagat-singh-894105.html
28-09-2020||National||SC gives more time to Centre, RBI to decide on interest on loan during moratorium||The Supreme Court on Monday gave further time to the Centre and RBI to decide upon the issue of charging interest on interest accrued on loan during loan moratorium, introduced due to Covid-19 pandemic. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the RBI, said the government was at an advanced stage of taking a decision in the matter. He tendered apologies for seeking more time, saying certain things were beyond his control. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan took on record submission by Mehta and put the matter for consideration on October 5. On September 10,  the court gave two weeks time to the Union government as well as the RBI as it was then submitted that "the Union Government on the highest level is considering all issues". The court had then asked the government to consider the relief sought by not only the individual borrowers but by different sectors. The bench had asked Mehta to take specific instructions on charging of compound interest and credit rating and downgrading during moratorium period, for enabling the court to pass appropriate order on the next date of hearing. The court had on September 3, passed order restraining banks from declaring those accounts as non performing assets which were not declared so till August 31. A batch of PILs were filed by Gajendra Sharma and others, contending that the banks were debiting interest on interest and credit rating was being downgraded which may have an adverse effect on various account holders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-more-time-to-centre-rbi-to-decide-on-interest-on-loan-during-moratorium-894148.html
28-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets Lata Mangeshkar on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to iconic playback singer Lata Mangeshkar to wish her on her 91st birthday and said that he considered himself fortunate to have always received her affection and blessings.  "Spoke to respected Lata Didi and conveyed birthday greetings to her. Praying for her long and healthy life. Lata Didi is a household name across the nation. I consider myself fortunate to have always received her affection and blessings," he tweeted.  Considered an all-time great, Mangeshkar ruled Hindi film female playback singing for more than five decades and is a recipient of numerous awards and honours, including Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian recognition. She has also received acclaim for her songs in various other Indian languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-lata-mangeshkar-on-birthday-894150.html
28-09-2020||National||Congress MP T N Prathapan moves SC against farm law||Congress MP from Thrissur T N Prathapan on Monday moved the Supreme Court challenging the validity of one of three controversial farm laws passed last week. He asked the court to strike down the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, which allowed contract farming, calling it "unconstitutional, illegal and void". Prathapan claimed the latest law would spell disaster for 14.5 crore farmers and would lead to their exploitation by opening a parallel and unregulated market for a few corporates, individuals, multinationals and moneylenders. The three farm Bills that triggered protests from farmers and Opposition parties were granted assent by the President on Sunday. In a writ petition, the Congress MP contended that the law was passed hastily this month without having an adequate discussion, as a bare reading of its provisions would reveal that it is not a progressive piece of legislation. "Without Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) acting as a protective shield around the farmers, the market would ultimately fall to the corporate greed of multinational companies who are more profit-oriented and have no care for the conditions of the poverty-stricken farmers," his plea stated. He also asked the court to quash the law for violating Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner asked the court to issue direction for establishing a farmers' tribunal in line with the Industrial Disputes Act and the Consumer Protection Act in order to protect their interests. The petitioner claimed the inherent weakness of the agriculture sector cannot be addressed by way of monetisation of the farmers' produce to increase their income. Instead, strengthening the existing Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system by infusing more capital and effective management of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) was the need of the hour, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-mp-t-n-prathapan-moves-sc-against-farm-law-894191.html
28-09-2020||National||SC allows suspected Covid-19 patient to take CLAT in isolation room||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed a possible Covid-19 patient to appear in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), at a separate isolation room at the examination centre in Gwalior. A bench, presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan, passed this order after hearing the application filed by the candidate. A counsel, appearing for the CLAT authorities, for his part, told the court that in every centre, an isolation room has been provided. However, the candidate pointed out that although the admit card issued to him said that symptomatic Covid-19 candidates will be allocated an isolation room, instructions issued by the Consortium cited that candidates who have tested positive and are under medical surveillance or in isolation will not be permitted to take the CLAT 2020 examination. Allowing his plea for an isolation room, the court ordered that the applicant should enter into the centre after other candidates and should be the first to leave the examination centre. Centre Superintendent may also request the Chief Medical officer of the District or Superintendent, Government Hospital to provide a medical staff to render necessary assistance, it added. The court allowed the candidate to download its order copy to produce before the Centre Superintendent as early as possible by a non-symptomatic person, for enabling the authorities to make necessary arrangements to provide a separate room. The CLAT, for admission to 22 National Law Universities across the country, was first scheduled on May 10. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was rescheduled a number of times. On September 21, the court had quashed a separate test conducted by National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru for admission to the five-year BA-LLB course for academic session 2020-21. It had then directed the premier institution to take admission as per the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) with a consortium of law varsities to be held on September 28, which would be conducted with all precautions and care for the health of students to start the course by October 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-suspected-covid-19-patient-to-take-clat-in-isolation-room-894208.html
28-09-2020||National||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini appears before SIT in 1991 Multani case||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on Monday appeared before the SIT in Mohali in connection with the disappearance case of junior engineer Balwant Singh Multani in 1991. The Special Investigation Team of the Punjab Police on Sunday had summoned Saini to join the investigation at the Mataur police station in connection with the case. Saini reached the police station at around 11 am. Earlier, the former Punjab Director General of Police had failed to appear before the SIT on September 23. The Supreme Court had granted him interim protection from arrest in this matter. Saini was booked in May in connection with the disappearance of Multani in 1991 when he was working as a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation. The police had last month added murder charge under section 302 of the IPC in the FIR in the disappearance case after two former Chandigarh police personnel--former UT police Inspector Jagir Singh and former ASI Kuldeep Singh, who are also co-accused, turned approver. Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer, was the youngest DGP in the country when he was appointed the state police chief in 2012. He was removed from the post in 2015 after protests erupted following sacrilege incidents. Saini retired in 2018. Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by the police after the terrorist attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991. However, the police had later claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from police custody of Qadian police in Gurdaspur. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered against them under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-saini-appears-before-sit-in-1991-multani-case-894216.html
28-09-2020||National||India registers more than 50 lakh Covid-19 recoveries||Total recoveries from Covid-19 in India crossed the 50 lakh milestone on Monday with recovered cases outpacing active cases by more than five times, the Union Health Ministry said. In a statement, the ministry said the rise in the number of total recovered cases from 1 lakh in June 2020 has been steep and the last 10 lakh recoveries were added in just 11 days. "India's total recoveries have crossed the landmark milestone of 50 lakh today (50,16,520). With a very high number of Covid patients recovering every single day, India's steady trend of posting high level of daily recoveries continues," the ministry said. "The total recovered cases have outpaced active cases by more than 5 times. With the exponential increase in the recoveries, there is close to 100 per cent increase in recovered cases in one month," it said. Noting that 15 States/UTs are showing recovery rate more than the national average, the ministry said 78 per cent of the total recovered cases are recorded in 10 States/UTs with Maharashtra contributing maximum to the total recovered cases followed by Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. "Seventy-three per cent of the new recovered cases are being reported from ten states, viz Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Kerala, Odisha, West Bengal and Punjab. Maharashtra leads the tally with more than 13,000 new cases of recovered patients," it said. The ministry further said that 84 per cent of new deaths are reported from 10 States and UTs. It said 36 per cent of deaths reported on Sunday are from Maharashtra at 380 deaths followed by Tamil Nadu and Karnataka with 80 and 79 deaths, respectively. The ministry reiterated its call for strict adherence of norms of physical distancing, following hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette, and use of mask/face covers in public spaces. India's Covid-19 tally galloped past 60 lakh on Monday with 82,170 new cases, while the recoveries have surged to 50.17 lakh with 74,893 more people having recuperated, the Health Ministry said. The death toll from the disease climbed to 95,542 with 1,039 more deaths. There are 9,62,640 active cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, comprising 15.85 per cent of the total caseload, according to the ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 60,74,702, while 50,16,520 people have recuperated from the virus, taking the recovery rate to 82.58 per cent. The case fatality rate declined to 1.57 per cent, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-more-than-50-lakh-covid-19-recoveries-894226.html
28-09-2020||National||Planet is dying, India's 8-year-old climate crusader warns||When 8-year-old Indian climate change activist Licypriya Kangujam is older, she wants to launch a solo mission to the moon to research ways to save planet earth. One of the world's youngest climate change activists, Kangujam was inspired by the devastating scenes she witnessed in Nepal in 2015, where as a four-year-old she helped her father deliver aid to victims of huge earthquakes that killed some 9,000 people and destroyed one million homes. Now she is leading a youth movement calling for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Indian lawmakers to pass a new law aimed at capping carbon emissions in the world's third largest producer of greenhouse gases. "I am fighting to save our planet and our future," she said as she protested outside Parliament House in New Delhi on Sept 21, clutching a placard that read: "Child movement for climate, pass the climate change law." Delhi, a sprawling metropolis of some 19 million people, is one of the world's most polluted cities and during the winter months toxic haze can often confine families to their homes. Born in India's northeastern state of Manipur, home to pristine mountains and crystal clear air, Kangujam has been outraged by the air quality she has seen in Delhi. "I am worried about the health of the school children and small, small babies," Kangujam told Reuters from her high-rise apartment in Noida, a satellite town of New Delhi. Just a week shy of her 9th birthday, Kangujam's home is testament to both her activism and her youth. Awards and trophies from international agencies fill a cabinet, while she and her six-year-old sister Irina have pillow fights, sing karaoke, dance and watch films like "Frozen" together. Kangujam's ultimate ambition is to become a "space scientist" in a bid to save humans back on earth. "I will go to the moon and I will research how we can get the fresh air to breathe, and how we can get water, fresh water to drink, and food, how to grow the crops," she said. "Because our planet is dying soon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/planet-is-dying-indias-8-year-old-climate-crusader-warns-894242.html
28-09-2020||National||MoD does away with defence offset in govt-to-govt deals, allows hiring platform on lease||India on Monday released a new set of defence procurement rules that on the one hand seeks to promote self-reliance, but on the other restricts the use of a key financial tool that was meant to encourage indigenous manufacturing in the sector. The Defence Ministry released the Defence Acquisition Procedure, 2020 which rules out offset obligations for vendors in case of government-to-government deals, inter-government agreement and single-vendor situation. It will be there only for bids won through a multi-vendor tendering process. The offset clause, under which a foreign company was to reinvest a part of their contract money in India, was introduced in the defence procurement in 2006 following the advice of an expert panel with the aim of enabling greater participation of private sector in defence production and to bring in technology and investments from abroad. Fourteen years later, an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) pointed out that only a fraction of the money had come back and there was no flow of high-technology to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The impact on defence FDI was minimal and there was a solitary case of technology transfer to the defence PSUs. Between 2007 and 2018 (March), as many as 46 offset contracts worth Rs 66,427 crore were signed with an understanding that offsets worth Rs 19,223 crore would be discharged. But vendors claimed to have realised only Rs 11,396 crore out of which the government so far accepted claims of only Rs 5,457 crore because of deficiencies in paper works submitted by vendors, the CAG said in its report, asking the ministry to review the policy. Ministry officials said doing away with the offset could actually result in savings, as foreign companies tend to increase contract price by 8-10% to cater for the offsets clause. The announcement comes close on the heels of the CAG pointing out how two French armament majors have failed so far to meet their offset obligations as part of the Rs 59,000-crore deal between India and France to purchase 36 Rafale combat jets for the IAF. Among other changes, the new military acquisition procedure will allow the army, IAF and the navy to hire platforms on lease and operate them. The money saved will be spent on the upkeep and maintenance of such assets. Also, emphasis has been given on framing more realistic SQRs (staff qualitative requirements) for quicker acquisition. “The process of formulation of SQRs has been further refined with greater emphasis on identifying verifiable parameters based on the analysis of ‘comparative’ equipment available in the world and domestic markets,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mod-does-away-with-defence-offset-in-govt-to-govt-deals-allows-hiring-platform-on-lease-894245.html
28-09-2020||National||Tamil Nadu govt should join other states in opposing farm laws, says M K Stalin as DMK, allies protest across state||Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition the DMK and its alliance partners on Monday hit the streets across the state protesting against the farm Bills passed by the Parliament and demanded their withdrawal immediately. DMK President M K Stalin addressed a protest meeting in the neighbouring Kanchipuram district and met with farmers in a village and elicited their views on the legislations. At the meeting, Stalin asked the Tamil Nadu government to join states like Kerala which have decided to challenge the farm laws in the Supreme Court to save the interests of the farmers. “If the state government does not heed to our demand, the Opposition parties will move the court and seek legal recourse,” Stalin said. Thousands of workers belonging to the DMK, Congress, VCK, Left parties and MDMK protested against the farm laws across the state, as part of a decision taken by the DMK-led alliance to intensify their protests. The protests by the Opposition parties came a day after the Rashtrapati Bhavan said that President Ram Nath Kovind had signed all three Bills into law. At the protest meeting, Stalin also launched an all-round attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for not coming forward to help farmers. “The Prime Minister proudly claims he is the son of a poor mother, but he does not understand he has made many people poor after coming to power. Likewise, the Chief Minister says he is a farmer but supports Bills that are against farmers,” he said. Stalin also warned that the protests against the farm laws will continue in Tamil Nadu till the Centre withdraws the legislations. He accused the BJP Government of infringing upon the state’s right by passing laws relating to agriculture, which is a state subject. DMK youth wing chief Udhayanidhi Stalin and other senior leaders of the party participated in a protest in Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-govt-should-join-other-states-in-opposing-farm-laws-says-m-k-stalin-as-dmk-allies-protest-across-state-894248.html
28-09-2020||National||India initiates probe against alleged dumping of pharma raw material by Chinese firms||India has initiated a probe into alleged dumping of a pharma raw material, Ceftriaxone Sodium Sterile, from China, following complaints by domestic manufacturers. Nectar Life Sciences and Sterile India have filed an application before the Commerce Ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) seeking initiation of the probe. According to a DGTR notification, the applicants have contended that material injury is being caused to the domestic industry due to dumped imports from China. They requested imposition of anti-dumping duty on the import. Ceftriaxone Sodium Sterile is an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) or raw material used for formulation for treating disease like lower respiratory tract infection, skin infection, and intra-abdominal infection. "On the basis of the duly substantiated written application by the domestic industry, and having satisfied itself, on the basis of the prima facie evidence submitted by the domestic industry, about dumping of the subject goods originating in or exported from the subject country (China)...the authority, hereby, initiates an investigation," it said. In the probe, the directorate will determine the existence, degree and effect of alleged dumping in respect of the product from China. If DGTR finds that there is dumping of the product which is impacting domestic manufacturers, it will recommend the amount of anti-dumping duty, which if levied, would be adequate to remove the injury to the domestic industry. While DGTR recommends the duty, the Finance Ministry imposes it. The period of investigation is April 2019-March 2020. It would also look into the data of April 2016-19 period. In international trade parlance, dumping happens when a country or a firm exports an item at a price lower than the price of that product in its domestic market. Dumping impacts the price of the product in the importing country, hitting margins and profits of manufacturing firms. According to global trade norms, a country is allowed to impose tariffs on such dumped products to provide a level-playing field to domestic manufacturers. The duty is imposed only after a thorough investigation by a quasi-judicial body, such as DGTR in India. The imposition of anti-dumping duty is permissible under the World Trade Organization (WTO) regime. India and China are members of the Geneva-based organisation, which deals with global trade norms. The duty is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-initiates-probe-against-alleged-dumping-of-pharma-raw-material-by-chinese-firms-894250.html
28-09-2020||National||CVC forwards complaint against leasing airports to Adani to Ministry's CVO||The Central Vigilance Commission has forwarded a complaint by CPI(M) Rajya Sabha leader Elamaram Kareem accusing gross financial irregularities in the leasing out of six airports, including Mangaluru, to Adani Enterprises to the Chief Vigilance Officer of the Ministry of Civil Aviation for "necessary action". Kareem had, on September 4, written to Chief Vigilance Commissioner Sanjay Kothari seeking an enquiry into the deal that hands over the Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram and Manguluru airports, which he claimed was paving the way for the Adanis to "earn windfall profit from the vast assets and businesses" of Airports Authority of India (AAI)  across six states. In a letter to Kareem, Central Vigilance Commission Additional Secretary Sudhir Kumar on September 17 said that the "complaint along with its enclosures are forwarded" to the Chief Vigilance Officer of the Ministry of Civil Aviation for "necessary action." Amid protests, the government had last month cleared the proposal to hand over the airports to Adani Enterprises. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri had earlier rejected criticism and allegations against the government move and said the government should not be running airports and airlines. In his complaint to the CVC, Kareem claimed that the official records showed that there was "gross negligence" while preparing Public Private Partnership Appraisal Committee (PPPAC) memo and other related records, paving way for the private player to "earn windfall profit from the vast assets and business" of AAI spreading across six states. "It is prima facie evident that neither AAI nor the Ministry exercised any reasonable care and prudence, which it usually follows, while placing even comparatively low-value tenders. Most of the vital financial parameters in the bid document, including the total project cost, minimum bid value etc. were kept open, giving free hand to the private player to shape the contract in their fashion," Kareem alleged. He also claimed that the Empowered Group of Secretaries had interfered into the affairs of PPPAC, though they were not legally entitled to do so. It is pertinent to note that the proposed deal also violates the provisions of AAI Act, 1994 and Aircraft Rules, 1937, making the entire process void ab initio, he added. The CPI(M) MP claimed that the AAI did not compare the amount quoted by Adani Enterprises with the corresponding existing fee per passenger to ensure that the PPP is giving economic advantage to AAI. Instead the AAI and Ministry are trying to "glorify the rate quoted" by Adani Enterprises by comparing the rate quoted by other bidders. "In the absence of Minimum Reserve price, the chances of forming a cartel among bidders are more and same need to be inquired by Competition Commission of India," he said. In the letter, he claimed that there is huge deviation in the rates quoted by the various bidders, which is more than 600%, and it showed that the project had been conceived differently by different investors. "The lack of clarity and non – revealing of major financial covenants (including Total Project Cost!) contributed for extremely low quotes by some of the private players. Though the six Airports are entirely different in all aspects, AAI adopted the same technical and financial capacity, which proves clearly that the projects had not been properly envisaged, studied and presented by AAI, questioning the very essence of transparent bidding process," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cvc-forwards-complaint-against-leasing-airports-to-adani-to-ministrys-cvo-894255.html
28-09-2020||National||Mathura court to hear plea seeking removal of mosque near Lord Krishna's birthplace on September 30||A district court in Mathura would hear the civil suit claiming ownership of the entire land on which Lord Krishna was born and seeking removal of the Sahi Idgah Mosque on Wednesday. According to the lawyers representing the petitioners, the court would decide on the maintainability of the petition on that day. Ranjana Agnihotri, who was one of the petitioners, said in Mathura that she was certain that the petition would be admitted and the hearing in the matter would start soon thereafter. Incidentally, the verdict of the Special CBI court in the Babri Masjid demolition cases, in which senior BJP leaders, including L.K.Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Kalyana Singh, and others were among the accused, would also be announced on Wednesday. ''September 30 will be a historic day....on one hand, the special CBI court will pronounce its verdict in the Babri demolition cases and on the other hand hearing in Srikrishna Janmabhoomi matter will start in Mathura court,'' Agnihotri said. The petition has sought removal of the Shahi Idgah mosque, which was adjacent to the existing Srikrishna Janmabhoomi, from the complex and has challenged the agreement signed between the Srikrishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan and Shahi Idgah Mosque Management Committee in 1968. The agreement allowed the Mosque to continue to exist and use the land on which it was situated. The petitioners contended that the Sansthan did not have any authority to enter into an agreement with the Mosque managing committee and hence the agreement should be cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mathura-court-to-hear-plea-seeking-removal-of-mosque-near-lord-krishnas-birthplace-on-september-30-894256.html
28-09-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: Another elephant electrocuted; 3rd death in 6 days||An adult male elephant got electrocuted after it came in contact with a live wire in Chhattisgarh's Gariaband district on Monday, an official said. With this incident, three jumbos have died of electrocution in the last six days in the state. The latest fatality occurred in the wee hours of Monday at a paddy field in Paragaon village under Dhawalpur forest range when a herd of 22 to 25 elephants was passing through the area, Divisional Forest Officer, Gariaband division, Mayank Agrawal said. After being alerted about it, forest personnel rushed to the spot and the autopsy was done, he said. "In the past, no movement of elephants was reported in the area. This big herd of pachyderms ventured into the area from the adjoining Odisha border via Udanti Sitanadi Tiger Reserve," Agrawal said. Preliminary investigation revealed that the tusker came in contact with an 11 KV power transmission line, which was hanging at a low height above the field, and got electrocuted, he said. Locals claimed they had earlier reported to power department officials that high tension lines were lying at a low height in the area but no action was taken, he said. "Prima facie, it seems that negligence on part of the electricity department led to the death of the elephant. We will be filing a case in this connection and further action will be taken accordingly," the official said. He further said the electricity department should ensure that 11 KV and 33 KV transmission lines should be laid at the prescribed height and not below it. Earlier, on Friday night, an elephant died of electrocution after coming in contact with a live wire laid by poachers to trap wild boar in Mahasamund district. Another jumbo died after it came in contact with an electric wire laid illegally at a farm by a cultivator in Raigarh district on September 23. In the last four months, 11 elephants have died in separate districts of the state due to various causes, including electrocution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-another-elephant-electrocuted-3rd-death-in-6-days-894266.html
28-09-2020||National||India sees drop in workers going abroad for jobs||The demand for Indian drivers abroad appears to be on the rise while those of masons and carpenters are on the decline, if one goes by the statistics of skilled and unskilled workers with an education qualification less than Class X who need emigration clearance. Overall, there is a decline in the total number of skilled and unskilled workers leaving India for jobs in the past three years -- from 3.91 lakh in 2017 to 3.68 lakh in 2019. In 2018, the figure was 3.40 lakh. According to the Emigration Act 1983, Emigration Check Required (ECR) categories of Indian passport holders require to obtain "Emigration Clearance" from the office of Protector of Emigrants (POE) for going to 18 countries, including the Gulf, Malaysia, Jordan, Yemen, Sudan, Afghanistan and Syria, for a job. Those who have not passed Class X fall under ECR category. Uttar Pradesh tops the list with 1.16 lakh workers leaving India for work in these 18 countries followed by Bihar (55,423), Rajasthan (28,982) and Tamil Nadu (27,783). UP has seen a massive jump last year compared to 86,273 workers leaving for abroad in 2018 while Bihar, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu have seen a decrease. Karnataka saw an increase from 5,231 to 5,316 during this period. According to the Ministry of Labour and Employment statistics, the number of masons who went abroad declined by half to 26,450 last year compared to 52,883 in 2017. Similarly, the demand for carpenters declined by more than half -- 41,588 in 2017 to 28,188 in 2018 and 17,370 last year. At the same time, the number of different categories of drivers, including those engaged with private persons, rose by almost three times from 23,526 in 2017 to 70,673 last year. In 2018, according to the statistics placed by the Ministry in Parliament during the just concluded Monsoon Session, it was 25,195. While the number of general labourers has increased, the number of labourers, plumbers, painters, welders, fitters and other technicians leaving India for jobs abroad has declined considerably. Ginu Zacharia Oommen, an expert on international migration and Kerala Public Service Commission member, attributed the decline in demand for Indian workers to the recession followed by fluctuation in oil prices. "Also, several construction projects have declined. Diversification of the economy to non-oil sectors also contributed to this change," he told DH. Asked how the job market looks like in the coming days as the world economy is ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic Oommen said the impact would be "very drastic" and workers are unlikely to return soon. Workers who left India to notified Emigration Check Required (ECR) countries for jobs:        2019 2018 2017 Total Uttar Pradesh 1,16,251 86,273 88,450 2,90,974 Bihar 55,423 59,181 69,426 1,84,030 Rajasthan 28,982 30,272 32,184 91,438 Tamil Nadu 27,783 31,588 38,341 97,712 Karnataka 5,316 4,267 5,231 14,814 TOTAL (All States) 3,68,048 3,40,157 3,91,024 10,99,229 Source: Ministry of Labour and Employment in Lok Sabha||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-drop-in-workers-going-abroad-for-jobs-894276.html
28-09-2020||National||Labour Ministry allays fears about Labour Codes||The Ministry of Labour and Employment on Monday allayed apprehensions about the Labour Codes passed last week by Parliament, saying the "criticisms being aired are misfounded". The ministry in a statement termed the bills as historical game-changer reform bills. "The criticisms being aired are misfounded", it asserted. In a pointed clarification on raising employee limit of smaller units for closure to 300, the ministry has underlined that the department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee had also recommended an increase in threshold from 100 workers to 300 workers for seeking prior permission for retrenchment, lay-off and closure. It is only the aspect of prior permission of the appropriate Government which has been removed and other benefits and workers’ rights have been kept intact, it added. The workers’ rights such as notice before retrenchment, compensation at the rate of 15 days wages per completed year of service and pay in lieu of notice period has not been compromised. Further, the IR (industrial relations) Code envisages an additional monetary benefit equivalent to 15 days of wages under newly created Reskilling Fund. There has been no empirical evidence to suggest that higher threshold promotes hire and fire, it pointed out. The ministry also said that the Economic Survey, 2019 has analysed about the pain of dwarfism prevalent in Indian firms. Dwarfism refers to firms which are surviving for more than 10 years but their growth in terms of employment is stunted. One of the inhibiting factors in creation of employment was observed to be the threshold of 100 workers under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. It was observed that the threshold under labour legislation creates perverse incentive to remain small, it added. Rajasthan in 2014 had increased the threshold from 100 to 300 workers and done away with the requirement of prior permission before retrenchment etc., in case of firms having less than 300 workers. The impact of an increase in threshold in Rajasthan, showed that the average number of factories in Rajasthan having more than 100 workers increased significantly as compared to the rest of India. As many as 15 more states have already enhanced threshold to 300 workers. ​The ministry explained that fixed-term employment has already been notified by the Central government and 14 other states. ​Non-availability of fixed-term employment implied that an employer had options to either employ on regular basis or through contractual basis. There have been allegations that the contractors charge full amount in terms of minimum wage and other entitled benefits like EPF, ESIC but do not pass on the same to the contract labour. The ministry said that a fixed-term employee (FTE) has been made statutorily entitled for all benefits and service conditions equivalent to that of a regular employee. In fact the code on Industrial Relations also extends benefit of gratuity even for an FTE contract on Pro-rata basis which is five years in case of regular employee, it added. Talking about definition of Inter-State Migrant worker, the Inter-State Migrant Worker Act, 1979 has been subsumed in OSH (occupational safety health) Code. The various provisions of the erstwhile Act have been further strengthened in the OSH Code. The OSH Code expands the definition of migrant worker to include those workers who would be directly employed by the employer besides by contractor. Further, it has also been made possible that a migrant, who comes on his own, in the destination state, can declare himself a migrant worker by registering on an electronic portal on the basis of self-declaration seeded with Aaadhar. The registration on portal has been made simple and there is no requirement of any other document except Aaadhar. The ministry in this regard has also taken steps to develop a national data base to enrol unorganised workers including migrants, which will inter-alia help migrant workers get jobs, map their skills and provide other social security benefits. It will also help in better policy formulation for unorganised sector workers, in general. A statutory provision for a helpline for migrant workers has also been made. The migrant workers will also be able to enjoy the benefits of portability in respect of ration and avail benefits from building and other construction cess. They will also get all other benefits of ESIC, EPFO and annual medical check-up etc. It also said that for working journalists provisions have been strengthened. These include expansion of definition Working Journalist to include Journalists working in electronic and digital media and allowing Earned Leave for “working journalist” on full wages equivalent to not less than one-eleventh of the period of service. The ministry has also said that the position of Trade Unions has been strengthened by introducing decentralised registration process. The ministry has dubbed apprehensions regarding 14 day notice period (for strike) as totally misfounded. It has said that it only adds an opportunity for resolving the labour grievance before going on strike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministry-allays-fears-about-labour-codes-894288.html
28-09-2020||National||Arrest Anurag Kashyap in rape case or face RPI(A) protest: Ramdas Athawale||Union Minister Ramdas Athawale on Monday said his party RPI(A) will stage a protest if the police does not arrest filmmaker Anurag Kashyap in a week in connection with rape charges levelled against him by an actress. Athawale, who met Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Vishwas Nangare Patil along with the actress here, told reporters he will write to Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh seeking protection for her. The Mumbai Police will be responsible if something wrong happens to the victim, the Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment said. The Rajya Sabha MP said he will also pen a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the issue and added his party, too, will giveprotection to the actress. I have seen the police taking immediate action and nab accused in cases of atrocities against women. But Kashyap has not nabbed yet. "I have instructed the police to ensure no injustice is meted out to her, he said after meeting Nangare Patil. My party will also give her protection. The RPI(A) will stage a protest if Kashyap is not arrested in seven days, Athawale warned. The rape case against Kashyap was lodged last week. The 48-year-old filmmaker has denied all charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrest-anurag-kashyap-in-rape-case-or-face-rpia-protest-ramdas-athawale-894289.html
28-09-2020||National||Delhi man held for taking loan against stolen jewellery||A 22-year-old man, who had multiple cases of theft and burglary registered against him, was arrested in north Delhi's Burari area for taking a loan from a finance company allegedly against stolen gold items, police said on Monday. The accused, Manish Mathur, is a resident of Sant Nag in Burari, they said. Police said 14 cases of theft and burglary were solved with Mathur's arrest. On the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, during picket checking at 100 foot road, Transport Authority, Burari, a bike-borne man was seen coming from Burari Bypass towards Burari village, a senior police officer said. Suspicion grew after the man got down from the motorcycle and started dragging it upon seeing police. He also asked the way to petrol pump in order to deceive police, the officer said. The details of his vehicle were checked and it was found that it was stolen from Burari area, the officer added. During interrogation, Mathur said he used to commit burglary along with his accomplice Mahender. On the night of his arrest, he was going to Burari to commit one such crime, police said. On his instance, papers of a reputed finance company, where he had deposited stolen gold items, were also recovered. He has kept the stolen jewellery items in the finance company branch in Burari and had taken a loan of Rs 1 lakh against them, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-man-held-for-taking-loan-against-stolen-jewellery-894304.html
28-09-2020||National||Former bureaucrats back BJP's counter-campaign on farm issues, call it a 'far-sighted' move||Cornered by farmer protests gaining momentum, BJP in the middle of a 15-day Jan Jagaran counter campaign, looks with anticipation as a group of former public servants have issued a statement hailing the farm laws as a “far-sighted” move and a “game changer” for farmers. 32 top former bureaucrats including former secretary, Delhi an Director NMML Shakti Sinha, former finance secretary S Narayan, former Banking Secretary D K Mittal, former defence secretary G Mohan Kumar, former Petroleum Secretary Saurabh Chandra issued a statement slamming the Opposition parties including Congress alleging them of “inciting” farmers and condemn “surreptitious practices of vested interests for misleading an misguiding the farmers. The letter also signed by former Principal Secretaries of Karnataka S L Gangadharappar and Ramesh Zalaki and four more former bureaucrats from the state, lent their weight behind the farm reform legislations passed by Modi government in the recently concluded Monsoon Session, hailing it as “watershed” moment in the liberation of India's farming community from the shackles of exploitative practices. The BJP shared the statement issued by the bureaucrats.  At a time when farm protests have spread in states like Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, the group trained guns on the critics of the farm laws saying "We have reasons to apprehend the disinformation which certain sections within our society are trying to spread in the country. We have recent instances of untruths and distortions being paraded before the public with hugely negative impact on the morale of the minorities, students, and now the farmers.” They argued that the general public has every reason to suspect the “well-meaning efforts of the government in bringing succour to the farming community” and slammed the attempt of “misguiding and misleading the farmers and discrediting the well-intentioned national initiatives. As Congress seeks to build a 2015 land bill temp on the issue, the group of bureaucrats in an apparent reference to it reminded that the emancipation of the farmers from the middlemen and empowering them with the freedom to choose where and how to sell their produce was enshrined in the manifestos of certain political forces which oppose it now. Union Minster Prakash Javadekar separately said that Congress manifesto had promised to do what the Modi government did with farm sector reform bills but the Opposition party is trying to mislead farmers by speaking in a different voice. As the farm protest got stepped up with Congress workers burning of a tractor near India Gate in Delhi and, the BJP pressed in a number of leaders who went hammer and tongs slamming the Opposition. While Javadekar said, “the Congress shamed the country today by burning tractor even as agriculture tools are venerated by farmers, BJP general secretary in-charge for poll-bound Bihar Bhupender Yadav sought to throw back the “anti-farmers” allegation at Congress itself asking it not to use food producers for politics. Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said Congress conspiracy has been unmasked. Newly appointed Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Tejasvi Surya said, “Our farmers worship tools they use for farming. No real farmer ever burns his tractor. If at all the Youth Congress wanted to show their support to farmers, they could have donated the tractor to a poor farmer instead of burning it.”  From September 15, BJP has already organised a Jan Jagaran to counter the Opposition campaign on farm issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-bureaucrats-back-bjps-counter-campaign-on-farm-issues-call-it-a-far-sighted-move-894317.html
28-09-2020||National||Groundwater use: States asked to review free electricity to irrigation pump sets||With alarming depletion of groundwater, the Centre's new guidelines for extracting groundwater calls for the states to review free electricity supply scheme to irrigation pump sets. "States/Union Territories are advised to review their free/subsidised electricity policy to farmers, bring suitable water pricing policy and may work further towards crop rotation/diversification/other initiatives to reduce overdependence on groundwater," the new guidelines said. Though farmers exempted from taking no objection certificate to extract groundwater, the new norms for drawing of groundwater says, the participative approach is better to ensure sustainable groundwater management in the agriculture sector. The Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) under the Jal Shakti Ministry recently issued the latest guidelines to regulate the extracting groundwater. This was done after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) earlier quashed the guidelines in 2018 citing several loopholes. With groundwater table depleting at an alarming rate, the Centre has earlier launched Atal Jal Yojana, promoting farmers to grow less water-intensive crops in seven states, including Karnataka, where the groundwater situation is very worrisome. As per the Jal Shakti Ministry, around 90% of groundwater is utilised for agriculture activities while 10% used for domestic and industrial consumers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/groundwater-use-states-asked-to-review-free-electricity-to-irrigation-pump-sets-894322.html
28-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Bengaluru sees farmers’ protest; Maharashtra govt seeks answers from CBI on Sushant's case||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Maharashtra government wants to know from CBI about the status of probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput; Bengaluru witnessed farmers’ protest; Congress MP T N Prathapan moves the Supreme Court challenging the validity of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; MLA in Karnataka H K Patil tests positive for Covid-19; Mike Pompeo began talks to de-escalate tension in eastern Mediterranean and Delhi Capitals leg-spinner Amit Mishra on Monday said Rahul Tewatia exceeded his expectations by conjuring up a magical knock.  Here are the top stories of September 28, 2020: Maharashtra government today wanted to know from the CBI about the status of probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that people are asking whether Sushantd died by suicide or whether he was murdered and stressed that he wants that the details of investigations should come out. Immediately, the CBI clarified saying that it was conducting a professional investigation and all aspects are being looked at in the case. The probe into Sushant’s death is being carried out by three agencies: while the CBI is focusing on the death, and the NCB on the drug angle, the ED is looking into the financial aspects of the case. Bengaluru witnessed farmers’ protest today, with thousands of protesters including farmers, pro-Kannada activists and members of other organisations gathered in front of the Town Hall to protest against the state and central government's amendments to land reforms and the APMC Act.  The police have detained about 300 people thus far for blocking roads while protesting. On the other hand, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, whose pro-farmer credentials at stake now, has said that he would travel around the state to convince farmers about the benefits of freeing up agricultural trading and farmland ownership. Meanwhile, in Delhi, the politics over the farm bills plays out.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has  alleged that the agriculture-related laws are a "death sentence" for farmers whose voice has been crushed both inside and outside Parliament. Rahul tagged a news report along with his tweet that claimed that Opposition members demanding a division of votes were on their seats when the Farm Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha, while the government said they were not. The Congress is protesting against the farm laws across the country and one of its MPs, T N Prathapan has moved the Supreme Court challenging the validity of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, which allowed contract farming, calling it "unconstitutional, illegal and void". This bill was one of three controversial farm laws passed last week. The government for its part  has asserted that the new laws will free farmers from the clutches of middleman and allow them to sell their produce anywhere they want at a remunerative price. Moving to another pressing issue, Bengaluru hit another grim milestone on Sunday with 4,217 fresh Covid-19 cases. Officials are now banking on police to crack down on the blatant disregard for social distancing rules, at a time when experts warn that the worst is yet to come. The situation has prompted Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar to ask that violators be fined more stringently, sources said. Consequently, the BBMP said that police will now be empowered to fine violators independent of the Palike. Senior Congress MLA in Karnataka H K Patil on Monday said he had tested positive for coronavirus. He is the third MLA to have attended the recently concluded Karnataka Assembly session and tested positive for Covid-19. In a bizarre statement, newly appointed BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra has said that he would hug West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee if he is infected by coronavirus to make her feel the pain of the families of Covid-19 patients. A police complaint was filed by the Trinamool Congress in Siliguri for the comments Hazra made at a party programme in South 24 Parganas on Sunday evening. The state BJP leadership, however, has distanced itself from Hazra's comment with one leader saying that they should avoid making such remarks. In international news, Russia’s opposition leader Alexei Navalny has said that German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited him at a Berlin hospital where he was treated after being poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent. The Kremlin has denied allegations of involvement in the poisoning and accused Western leaders of launching a disinformation campaign over the opposition leader's illness. Navalny's spokesperson said the leader plans to return to Russia but will remain in Germany until he has recovered. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo began talks  in Greece today to de-escalate tension in the eastern Mediterranean and boost tentative steps at dialogue between Athens and Ankara. Greece and Turkey, who are NATO members, are at loggerheads over energy exploration in disputed waters after Ankara stepped up hydrocarbon research in the sea. The row has roped in other European powers, raising concern about a wider escalation. Pompeo's tour later in the week also includes stops in Italy, the Vatican and Croatia. In Rome, the secretary of state will discuss efforts by the Trump administration to deter its European allies from using equipment by Chinese manufacturer Huawei in developing their 5G networks. The US accuses Huawei of being a tool for Chinese espionage. Delhi Capitals leg-spinner Amit Mishra on Monday said Rahul Tewatia exceeded his expectations by conjuring up a magical knock, which etched his name in the IPL folklore. Both Tewatia and Mishra hail from Haryana and played together for the Capitals in the 2018 season. Playing for Rajasthan Royals, the 27-year-old Tewatia smashed five sixes, four on the trot, in the 18th over bowled by Sheldon Cottrell to help his side record the highest run-chase in IPL history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bengaluru-sees-farmers-protest-maharashtra-govt-seeks-answers-from-cbi-on-sushants-case-894330.html
28-09-2020||National||Amit Shah conducts review meeting at North Block office||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday held a review meeting with senior officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) at his office in North Block for the first time after working from home and hospital for the past almost two months. Shah went to the North Block office in the afternoon where he held the review meeting during which "several important matters and key issues" were discussed. The 55-year-old has not come to North Block, which houses the Ministries of Home and Finance, since August 1. He was tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2, after which he was in and out of hospital. After recovering from Covid-19, he was discharged from Medanta hospital but was admitted to AIIMS for post Covid-19 care where he spent time till August 31. He was again admitted to AIIMS on September 12 and discharged five days later. He had not attended the Parliament's Monsoon Session between September 14 and 23. However, Shah was working from both the hospital and his home and held several meetings. In the last two days, he had met delegations from Leh and Ladakh following which they called off their plans to boycott the local election there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-conducts-review-meeting-at-north-block-office-894341.html
28-09-2020||National||Defence Ministry approves acquisition of military hardware worth Rs 2,290 crore||The defence ministry on Monday approved the purchase of weapons worth Rs 2,290 crore, including 72,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles for the Army from the USA for Rs 780 crore. It was decided at a meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council, chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Besides the infantry weapons, the DAC approved procurement of smart anti-airfield weapon systems for the Navy and the Air Force for nearly Rs 970 crore, a ministry spokesperson said in a statement. The panel also accorded approval for a Rs 540 crore deal to procure static high-frequency trans-receiver sets that will enable seamless communication for The DAC also accorded approval for procurement of Static HF Tans-receiver sets under the buy Indian category at a cost of Rs 540 crore. The HF radio sets will enable seamless communication for the field units of the Army and the Air Force. The military equipment are being procured at a time Indian Army is locked in a bitter border row with China in eastern Ladakh. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-approves-acquisition-of-military-hardware-worth-rs-2290-crore-894347.html
28-09-2020||National||Ahmedabad: Shops in select areas to remain closed after 10 pm||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has ordered the closure of all shops after 10 pm on 27 busy roads in the city in view of a steady rise in new Covid-19 cases and violation of norms by residents of certain localities. "From the last 10-15 days, many instances have come to the notice of the municipal corporation that youths do not wear masks. They gather in groups and do not follow social distancing norms. These types of activities are seen in particular areas of the city, especially during night time," the AMC said in a release on Monday. The civic body further said these youths become potential carriers of coronavirus, posing their family members at risk. "These youths spread coronavirus infection to their parents and grandparents as well as to children and other family members. Their family members have to pay the price for their negligence. Recently, cases of hospital admission due to coronavirus have increased," the release said. As against the average 150 cases been registered every day in the city till the third week of September, around 170 cases have been reported every day since the last one week. On September 26, 175 new cases were reported in the city while the tally stood at 178 on September 27, as per the state health department. The civic body said though it launched a special drive to discourage youths from behaving in such a manner, still, violations continue unabated. Earlier in the day, a meeting was held by senior IAS officer Rajiv Gupta in the presence of municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar and other officials. "As per the decision, all shops, except medical stores, on 27 main roads of the city will have to shut shutters at 10 pm," the civic body said. The AMC hopes that the move will deter youngsters from mingling in night. Most of the 27 roads where restrictions have been placed are in western Ahmedabad, from where a high number of coronavirus cases have been reported in the last couple of weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahmedabad-shops-in-select-areas-to-remain-closed-after-10-pm-894349.html
28-09-2020||National||CM launches initiative to make Odisha slum free in 3 years||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday launched a slum upgradation program to make the state slum-free in three years. All slums in the state will be converted into model colonies in the next three years, the chief minister said while launching the initiative through video conferencing from Balasore town. The process will start immediately in 1,000 slums and then it will be scaled up to cover each and every slum, he said. "This slum upgradation and delisting initiative, the next stage of the states JAGA Mission, aims to improve the living conditions of 18 lakh slum dwellers by providing them with piped water supply, paved roads, storm water drains, street lights, sanitation, household electricity, community spaces, and recreational areas," Patnaik said. The state government's initiative granting the right of land in which slum dwellers were staying under the Odisha Liveable Habitat Mission (OLHM) or JAGA Mission had won a bronze at the World Habitat Awards in 2019. The chief minister also dedicated 116 multi-purpose community centres in the slums which would act as the social lifeline of people living there. He also commenced the distribution of land entitlement certificates to 1,05,000 families living in 1,718 slums in 101 towns benefitting 4.5 lakh people. "While Odisha is putting up a brave fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, I hope this upgradation initiative will enhance the collective resilience of the slum dwellers by improving their lives and livelihoods," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-launches-initiative-to-make-odisha-slum-free-in-3-years-894351.html
28-09-2020||National||Man moves SC against Karnataka-cadre IAS officer for detaining his minor children||A man from Gurgaon has approached the Supreme Court with a habeas corpus petition against his brother-in-law, a Karnataka-cadre IAS officer, for illegally detaining his minor son and daughter after demise of his wife. Acting on a plea by Sachin Gaur, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the Karnataka government and his wife's brother, IAS officer Munish Moudgil, and wife's sister, Anupam M Vikas, seeking their response within four weeks. On hearing advocates Pradeep Kumar Mathur and Chiranjeev Johri for the petitioner, the court, however, made it clear that the court was entertaining his plea only on humanitarian ground and that custody rights will have to be settled by an appropriate forum. The man, in his plea, said his wife Pooja complained of high blood pressure on June 4. She was taken to Bengaluru with two children by his brother-in-law and sister-in-law on June 6. On June 12, the petitioner was informed of the sudden demise of his wife. When he reached Bengaluru along with his parents, medical reports and other details were not shared with him, he alleged. He claimed he was allowed to meet his children for 10 minutes only on instructions that he would not discuss about their mother with them. Since June 14, when he returned back along with his parents, the petitioner claimed he was not being allowed to talk to his children. His brother-in-law and sister-in-law were neither picking up his calls nor responding to WhatsApp messages, rising his apprehension that his children were not being taken proper care and were under captivity and might be tortured. "The minor children have legal right to be in the lawful custody of their father, the natural guardian after the expiry of their mother," his plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-moves-sc-against-karnataka-cadre-ias-officer-for-detaining-his-minor-children-894362.html
28-09-2020||National||Railways may charge Rs 10-Rs 35 user fees in train fares for using redeveloped stations||Railway passengers may have to shell out additional Rs 10-Rs 35 for their ticket fares as user charges for availing redeveloped stations with state of the art amenities and to help the national transporter in raising funds for redeveloping more stations, sources indicated. This is part of a proposal being finalised by the Railways which will soon be sent for Cabinet nod, the sources said. The user fee, the sources said, will vary according to the class -- it would range between Rs 10 and Rs 35 with the higher price for AC first class passengers. The Railways had earlier clarified that user fee would be levied only across stations which will be redeveloped and those that have high footfalls. Of the 7,000 total railway stations in the country, around 700-1,000 fall in this category, it had said. This is the first time that such a fee, which is levied on air passengers, will be charged from rail users. UDF is charged at various airports and the rate varies from city to city. “User charges are essentially a small token amount which when collected, will be ploughed back into the improvement of conveniences and facilities for all passengers at the railway station," a railway ministry spokesperson said. "The amount of this fee is expected to be very reasonable and minimalistic so that there is no burden on anyone especially common people. This little sum will only be levied at the stations where the footfall is high. It will only be collected by the facility management when the development of the station is complete,” he said. The spokesperson added that the matter is under consideration and no final decision has been taken on the amount of user charge. "But one thing is certain, that these user charges, as levied, would be minimal and would not be hard on any section of passengers,” he added. Railway Board CEO VK Yadav in a press conference on September 17 had said the railways will not levy the user charges across all 7,000 stations but “all major stations where the footfall of passengers is increasing over the next five years.” He had added that the Centre will soon issue a notification regarding the user charges for the stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-may-charge-rs-10-rs-35-user-fees-in-train-fares-for-using-redeveloped-stations-894386.html
28-09-2020||National||Plea in Supreme Court to defer Bihar judicial services exam||A group of aspiring judicial officers have filed a plea in the Supreme Court seeking postponement of Bihar Judicial Services Competitive Examination in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plea filed by 13 students challenged the “unjust, arbitrary and unreasonable" act of the Bihar Public Service Commission in issuing the notification for the post of 221 Civil Judges (Junior Grade)/ Judicial Magistrate and prescribing the time line for registration, online application. “The petitioners submit that the impugned Notice/ notifications are in utter disregard to the fundamental rights and legitimate expectations associated with the said examination which is scheduled to be held on October 7, 2020. “The said notifications directly and substantially violate the fundamental right of Equality of Opportunity in public employment guaranteed under Articles 14, 16 and 19 of the Constitution of India to the Petitioners and thousands of their fellow aspirants,” the plea said. The petitioners have sought quashing or setting aside of the notification. The plea, to be argued by advocate Rajeev Ranjan, said notifications are irrational, prejudicial, arbitrary and manifestly “lacking a sound administrative mind".  “These are also likely to cause a serious breach to public health due to their inconsistency with the Disaster Management Act and Infectious Diseases Act,” the plea filed through advocate Arvind Gupta said. According to the petitioners the present situation is likely to make it nearly impossible for the aspirants as well as a very large number of their fellow candidates to take the forthcoming competitive examination. “It is submitted that schools and colleges might become the breeding ground for the spread of the pandemic as thousands of candidates would gather from various places at their respective examination centres.  “It will be also difficult to ensure sanitization of the question papers and answer sheets/OMRs during the course of examination. Given the statics of the pandemic, it will be against the right to life of the candidates and would raise an unwarranted health emergency,” the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-supreme-court-to-defer-bihar-judicial-services-exam-894390.html
28-09-2020||National||NIA to have new branches in Imphal, Chennai and Ranchi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will open new branches in Imphal, Chennai and Ranchi, a move which will help the investigators respond quickly to situations in three states. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has given approval for setting up the branches in these three state capitals, officials said. It will strengthen the agency's capability in Tamil Nadu, Manipur and Jharkhand to investigate terrorism-related cases. At present, the New Delhi-headquartered NIA has nine branches in Guwahati, Mumbai, Jammu, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Kochi, Lucknow, Raipur and Chandigarh. On Sunday, newly-appointed BJP Yuva Morcha chief Tejaswi Surya demanded that an NIA branch be set up in Bengaluru, claiming that terror networks have spread its tentacles in Karnataka. He said Home Minister Amit Shah has assured him that he would look into the demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-to-have-new-branches-in-imphal-chennai-and-ranchi-894393.html
28-09-2020||National||Punjabi singers, actors hold protest in support of farmers||Several Punjabi singers and actors such as Ammy Virk and Deep Sidhu held a protest here on Monday in solidarity with the farmers agitating against the new farm laws. Prominent among them who took part in the protest also included Kanwar Grewal, Ranjit Bawa and Resham Singh Anmol. They exhorted people to join hands in farmers' fight against the farm laws. "The time has come for artists and the youth to come together against the government to force it to withdraw the farm laws. Every section of the society is with farmers," said Bawa. Actor and singer Ammy Virk said, "Farmers are not going to benefit from these laws." He claimed that with these laws, the minimum support price system would come to an end. They also accused the Centre of not consulting farmers before drafting these legislations. They further claimed that big corporates would "exploit" farmers. Protesters were carrying black flags as a mark of protest against these Bills. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjabi-singers-actors-hold-protest-in-support-of-farmers-894395.html
28-09-2020||National||Allahabad High Court asks Centre to apprise it of progress on Covid-19 vaccine||The Allahabad High Court directed the Centre on Monday to apprise it of the progress in the trials of a vaccine for Covid-19 and its proposed completion date. On complaints of sub-standard face masks and sanitiser being sold in Uttar Pradesh, the court sought information about the standards and guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) with regard to such articles. A bench of justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar passed the order in a public interest litigation (PIL) filed over the spread of Covid-19 in the state. The court said the police personnel on the streets are often seen not wearing face masks themselves and wondered that in such a scenario, how could they effectively implement its order on "100-per cent population masking". During the hearing, the counsels assisting the bench made various suggestions such as police monitoring in every district to ensure that people properly follow the unlock guidelines. They said people must be stopped from eating at roadside restaurants and should only be allowed to take away packed food from such places. On September 23, the court had directed the police to ensure a "100-per cent population masking" -- everyone wearing masks, covering the mouth and the nose, while stepping out of their home -- and take strict action against the violators. The court had directed for the setting up of task forces in each police station of Uttar Pradesh to implement its order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allahabad-high-court-asks-centre-to-apprise-it-of-progress-on-covid-19-vaccine-894398.html
28-09-2020||National||Kolkata Metro to resume services on Sundays from October 4||The Kolkata Metro Railway on Monday said it will resume services on Sundays from October 4. The first service will commence from both ends at Noapara and Kavi Subhash stations at 10.10 am and the last one will start at 7.30 pm, an official said. The Sunday services will, however, be available only in the north-south line, excluding the East-West Metro, spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. The East-West Metro has been suffering from poor passenger patronisation, with only a little over a 100 people riding it on weekdays. The decision to resume Sunday services was taken at a high-level meeting of Metro Railway officials, Banerjee said. The Kolkata Metro resumed operations after over five months on September 14 with strict health protocols in place in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and introduced e- passes for entry into stations. A maximum of 400 passengers can travel at a time in its trains to avoid crowding and maintain safety norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-metro-to-resume-services-on-sundays-from-october-4-894399.html
28-09-2020||National||Prasar Bharati official's letter to PTI on news coverage didn't have Board's approval: RTI||In June, Prasar Bharati News Service head Samir Kumar had written to PTI saying that the "recent news coverage" on the India-China border row was detrimental to national interest and undermining India's territorial integrity. He had also said that the Prasar Bharti had alerted PTI on editorial lapses that were detrimental to public interest. Responding to transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak's RTI query, the Chief Public Information Officer said, "as per available record, during the calendar year 2020, matter under reference did not come to the Prasar Bharati Board before issuance of communication being referred to." The Prasar Bharati also said that “all the agreements/contracts are finalised between Prasar Bharati Secretariat and the news agencies and (news services) division has no role to play.” Nayak had sought responses on eight points, including whether the letter had the approval of the Board, the communication to PTI regarding its "editorial lapses" and the criteria to evaluate PTI's news coverage. Except for the one query on Board's decision, all other queries were transferred by Prasar Bharati to All India Radio and Doordarshan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prasar-bharati-officials-letter-to-pti-on-news-coverage-didnt-have-boards-approval-rti-894400.html
28-09-2020||National||Health ministry launches web portal for updates on Covid-19 vaccine development||The Union Health Ministry on Monday launched a web portal that will provide all important information on Covid-19, vaccine development, ongoing clinical trials and progress made in this area locally and globally. The ''vaccine web portal'' and the ''National Clinical Registry for Covid-19'' have been developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and was launched by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, according to a health ministry statement. Vardhan earlier had said that a Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be available by the first quarter of 2021. The National Clinical Registry for Covid-19 will collect systematic data on clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory investigations, management protocols, the clinical course of Covid-19, disease spectrum and outcomes of patients. "The data will serve as an invaluable tool for formulating appropriate patient management strategies, predicting disease severity, patient outcomes etc," the ICMR said in a statement. The vaccine portal contains all information regarding Indian efforts towards the development of a vaccine against Covid-19. "Interested people can visit the website on vaccine.icmr.org.in\nvaccine.icmr.org.in to get the latest information on vaccine development," it said. Vardhan said, "The portal provides useful and important information related to vaccine development, ongoing clinical trials and progress made in this area locally and globally at regular intervals." "Today, in the times of the coronavirus pandemic, vaccine development is watched very closely. Thus, it becomes important to showcase the status of vaccine development in the country," he said. On India's fight against Covid-19, the health minister said the continuously rising recovery rate and progressively falling case fatality rate in the country have proven the success of the Covid-19 containment strategy followed by all states and Union Territories. "From having one laboratory (for Covid-19 testing) to over 1,800 today, we have come a long way in strengthening our capabilities. We have successfully ramped up our testing capacity which has touched 15 lakh daily tests," he said. Vardhan also lauded the healthcare personnel working selflessly to serve the people "even at a time when resources are limited" due to Covid-19. Apart from the ''vaccine web portal'' and the ''National Clinical Registry for Covid-19'', Vardhan also unveiled a time-line depicting the ICMR's historical achievements and inaugurated the apex health research body's mobile stroke unit, the statement said. The timeline of the ICMR depicts its 108-year journey since its inception in 1911 when it was known as Indian Research Fund Association, it said.  According to the statement, the time-line captures the policy and programme interventions by the ICMR and its institutes to control diseases, and its pioneering work in the fields of maternal and child health, HIV, cancer and nutrition, among others. Vardhan said, "The ICMR has always been in the forefront of health research in India and is now leading the country in tackling the unprecedented pandemic through scientific rigour and innovation." "It has contributed immensely towards the nation's welfare. Through these exhibits, people will take pride in knowing the contributions of the ICMR and the country in the area of medical science," he said. Launching the mobile stroke unit, Vardhan said it is disheartening to see the susceptibility of people to heart diseases and hypertension, and added that timely treatment can reduce fatality and prevent people from disability. "Given the large burden of stroke and absence of stroke care facilities in Assam, this initiative will go a long way in addressing the needs of the people in this area. The mobile unit, through tele-consultation, ensures timely and appropriate treatment to the people," he said. Vardhan, also released the 'Nutrient Requirements for Indians' and 'What India Eats' report apart from launching a new participatory research initiative to map the nutrition and health status dietary habits of people across the nation. The Nutrient Requirements for Indians, for the first time includes the Estimated Average Requirements (EAR) and also the Tolerable Upper Limits (TUL) of nutrients alongside RDAs. While RDAs are daily dietary nutrient intake levels which would be sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all healthy individuals, EARs are the average daily nutrient intake levels of population. These recommendations are the basis for defining the nutrient levels in policies and programmes. “What India Eats” reports the dietary patterns across the country for the first time, the data has been analysed and projected based on food groups. This report gives details of 'Regional Dietary Pattern of Indian Population' and energy and protein sources from different food groups in graphical form," the statement said. Another key initiative being spearheaded by ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition that was launched by Vardhan was the proposal on 'Mapping of nutrition and health status', which is a national level participatory real-time data generation programme. This programme aims to develop a mobile based device used by nutrition researchers at district level nationwide in the present pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-launches-web-portal-for-updates-on-covid-19-vaccine-development-894401.html
28-09-2020||National||States can now buy paddy, pulses as Centre speeds up Kharif procurement across nation amid farmers protests||The Centre on Monday stepped up the procurement of Kharif crops across the country, allowing states to buy paddy, pulses and coarse grains with immediate effect to ensure that farmers get minimum support price for their produce. The decision came two days after the Centre asked Punjab and Haryana to begin procurement of paddy on Saturday, in a bid to reach out to farmers who have been protesting against the agriculture reforms unveiled by the Modi government. In the first two days, central agencies had procured 5,637 metric tonnes of paddy worth Rs 10.53 crore from 390 farmers of Punjab and Haryana, an official statement said here. “The procurement of paddy for the remaining states will commence from Sept 28, 2020,” it said. Based on the proposals received from states, the Centre has approved procurement of 13.77 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of pulses and oilseeds for the current crop season for the states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Haryana. The Centre is also open to procuring more pulses and oilseeds under the price support scheme if the market rate of the produce goes below the MSP. As of September 24, the government had through its nodal agencies procured 34.20 MT of Moong having MSP value of Rs 25 lakh benefiting 40 farmers in Tamil Nadu. Similarly, 5,089 MT of copra having MSP value of Rs 52.40 crore has been procured benefiting 3,961 farmers in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu against the sanctioned quantity of 95.75 lakh MT for the Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Earlier, the National Cooperative Development Corporation had sanctioned Rs 19,444 crores to Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Telangana for procurement of Kharif paddy under the minimum support price operations. The amounts have been transferred to state marketing federations of the three states that account for nearly 75% paddy in the entire country. Chhattisgarh has received Rs 9,000 crores, Telangana (Rs 5,500 crores) and Haryana (Rs 5,444 crores).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-can-now-buy-paddy-pulses-as-centre-speeds-up-kharif-procurement-across-nation-amid-farmers-protests-894410.html
28-09-2020||National||Senior bureaucrat P D Vaghela appointed TRAI chairman||Senior bureaucrat P D Vaghela was on Monday appointed as chairman of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), according to a Personnel Ministry order. Vaghela, a 1986-batch IAS officer of Gujarat cadre, is currently Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals. He has been appointed as the TRAI chief for three years or till he attains the age of 65, the order said. Vaghela was due to retire on Wednesday. He will succeed R S Sharma, who completes his tenure on Wednesday. Sharma was in 2015 appointed as the TRAI chairman for three years. In August 2018, his term was extended till September 30, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-bureaucrat-p-d-vaghela-appointed-trai-chairman-894412.html
28-09-2020||National||Indian, Chinese diplomats to talk again 'soon' on ways to end stand-off||The diplomats of India and China are likely to hold a videoconference soon to discuss next steps towards resolving the military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. New Delhi and Beijing are in touch to schedule the 19th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs or the WMCC, sources told DH. Naveen Srivastava, who heads the East Asia division at the Ministry of External Affairs, will lead the Indian delegation and Chinese side will be lead by Hong Liang, the Director-General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the conference. Srivastava and Hong earlier had as many as four videoconference meetings within the framework of the WMCC on June 24, July 10, July 24 and August 20 to resolve the current military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The senior military commanders of India and China will also hold the seventh round of meeting on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) soon. A source in New Delhi said that the forthcoming talks between the senior military commanders of the two sides and the videoconference between Indian and Chinese diplomats would focus on ensuring stability along the LAC – the de facto border between the two nations – and to restart the stalled process of pulling back troops from the face-off points. Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had a more-than-14-hour-long meeting on the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector – on September 21. They agreed to stop sending more soldiers to the face-off points along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, but could not end the stalemate over withdrawal of large numbers of troops the two sides already deployed since the stand-off started. Srivastava also participated in the meeting on September 21. So did his counterparts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-diplomats-to-talk-again-soon-on-ways-to-end-stand-off-894416.html
28-09-2020||National||Do not raise false alarm: How Noida cops rescued kidnapped scientist||Tracking the location of kidnappers through mobile phone number was a job only half done for the Gautam Buddh Nagar police, which safely rescued a scientist held hostage in a hotel room in Noida in an operation that lasted less than five hours. The other half involved a well-coordinated operation involving a sophisticated surveillance team, a crime branch team and the local police – an ensemble of around two dozen policemen who rescued the 45-year-old scientist of a top Delhi-based government agency on Sunday evening. The Home Department of the Uttar Pradesh government on Monday announced a reward of Rs five lakh for the district police for accomplishing the task. "Around two dozen police personnel, including senior officers, were on their toes during the rescue operation directly monitored by Police Commissioner Alok Singh," a senior officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Rajesh S led the surveillance team that tracked the location of the hostage, while additional DCP Ranvijay Singh commanded the Crime Branch team and ACP Vimal Singh was entrusted the Sector 49 police team. "Rescuing a hostage is challenging because no policeman would want to put the victim in harm. Our top priority was rescuing the hostage safely," the official, privy to the operation, told PTI requesting anonymity. Policemen in civil dress were deployed near the OYO Hotel in whose room number 302 the scientist was held by the kidnappers and assaulted. Before zeroing in on the hotel and entering it, the personnel in civil dress closely surveyed the area and were in a two-to-three-km radius of the hotel for a couple of hours. At the same time, police teams mounted surveillance at all borders of Gautam Buddh Nagar district – towards Delhi, Ghaziabad, Haryana, Yamuna Expressway, among others. All personnel engaged in the operation had clear instructions: “Do not trigger any false alarm”. “Any false alarm gives the kidnapper a chance to escape. It could also lead to a situation of collateral damage, putting in harm the kidnapped person. The priority was his safe release,” the official said. “While personnel around the hotel were keeping a low profile, those at the border were keeping a vigilant eye on vehicles without stopping them. They were told only to hold any vehicle if the suspicion level is very high,” the official added. The scientist's wife had approached the local Sector 49 police station around 4 pm on Sunday and an FIR was lodged under IPC 364A (kidnapping), almost 24 hours after her husband had gone “missing”. “She had got a Rs 10 lakh ransom call late Saturday night and tried to collect the money but when unable to do that, she approached the police with a complaint the next day,” according to a police statement. However, the official said, “The entire operation took less than five hours and the victim was rescued safely. However, some post-rescue meetings of the police continued till 11.30 pm on Sunday.” Three people, including a woman, have been arrested for the kidnapping, while two more of their partners are absconding and searches are underway to nab them, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-not-raise-false-alarm-how-noida-cops-rescued-kidnapped-scientist-894419.html
28-09-2020||National||Reject Covid-negative reports of passengers from 4 Indian labs: Dubai to AI Express||The Covid-negative test reports of passengers from four Indian laboratories should be rejected, the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) told the Air India Express on Monday. The laboratories are Suryam Lab in Jaipur, Microhealth Lab in the cities of Kerala, Dr P Bhasin Pathlabs (Private) Limited and Noble Diagnostic Centre in Delhi, the airline said on Twitter. On September 18, Air India Express flights were suspended for 24 hours by the DCAA for bringing two passengers with Covid-positive certificates on August 28 and September 4. According to rules in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), passengers travelling from India are required to bring original Covid-negative certificates from RT-PCR tests done within 96 hours prior to the journey. The Air India Express tweeted, saying the regulatory authority in Dubai has recommended it to "reject the RT-PCR test reports from the following laboratories for passengers travelling to Dubai: Suryam Lab in Jaipur; Microhealth Lab in the cities of Kerala. Dr P Bhasin Pathlabs (P) Ltd in Delhi; Noble Diagnostic Centre in Delhi". Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to Covid-19. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in the country under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed with other countries since July. The UAE is one of the 10 countries with which India has established bilateral air bubble pacts. Under such a pact, the airlines of both countries can operate international passenger flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reject-covid-negative-reports-of-passengers-from-4-indian-labs-dubai-to-ai-express-894431.html
28-09-2020||National||India likely to cross 1 lakh Covid-19 deaths this week if daily mortality trend persists||As the death count was more than 1,000 in each of the last 28 days in September, it is likely that the national toll would cross 1,00,000 by Thursday or Friday if a similar trend continues given that the toll currently is 96,000 plus. But going by the Union Health Ministry that updated its figures only once in a day in the morning, the toll is 95,542 out of which 1,039 were killed in the last 24 hours. As many as 84% of the new deaths are reported from 10 states and union territories, with Maharashtra leading the chart with 380 deaths, followed by Tamil Nadu and Karnataka with 80 and 79 deaths respectively. Nearly 36% of these deaths are from Maharashtra that remained the epicentre of the Covid-19 epidemic in the last few months. Even though India's case fatality ratio has come down from 3.2% on June 20 to 1.57% on Monday – a fall of nearly 50% - the numbers are still sobering on the absolute terms as the respiratory infection spreads far and wide in the country. India is the second-worst hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US, while it is in the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil. The Union Health Ministry officials, however, insist that India has one of the world's lowest case fatality ratio. “India’s continuously rising recovery rate and progressively falling case fatality rate have proven the success of the Covid-19 containment strategy followed by all States and UTs," Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday at an ICMR event. Public health experts, however, questioned the utility of the existing testing and containment strategy as the epidemic spreads. “Early on when numbers were very few, (indiscriminate) testing helped in isolation and quarantine of infected persons. But later on, when infection is widespread, such testing has no effect on the epidemic curve,” T Jacod John, eminent virologist and a retired professor of Christian Medical College, Vellore told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-cross-1-lakh-covid-19-deaths-this-week-if-daily-mortality-trend-persists-894436.html
28-09-2020||National||India, Denmark elevate ties to 'green strategic partnership'||India and Denmark on Monday decided to elevate their ties to a 'green strategic partnership' that aims to create a framework for significant expansion of cooperation in areas of renewable energy, environment, economy, climate change and science and technology. The decision was taken at a nearly hour-long virtual bilateral summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Danish counterpart Mette Frederiksen during which they also deliberated on the long-pending India-EU free trade agreement, the challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on the global supply chains. Joint Secretary (Central Europe) in the Ministry of External Affairs Neeta Bhushan said at a media briefing that the issue of Purulia arms drop mastermind Kim Davy figured in the talks, and it was agreed that the officials concerned of the two sides will be in touch for an early resolution of the matter. India has been demanding the extradition of Davy from Denmark to face trial in the sensational case. On the overall outcome of the talks, Bhushan said: "The two prime ministers agreed to elevate India-Denmark relations to a green strategic partnership. Our prime minister stated that this was a new age partnership and will take add a new dimension to our bilateral relations." She said the move will help the two countries in the expansion of economic relations and green growth, and strengthen cooperation on addressing global challenges with a focus on the implementation of the climate change goals. In his opening remarks at the summit, Modi said the coronavirus pandemic has shown that it is risky for global supply chains to be highly dependent on any single source, adding India was working together with Japan and Australia for supply-chain diversification and resilience. "The events of the past several months have made it clear that how important it is to work together for like-minded countries like ours, which share a rules-based, transparent, humanitarian and Democratic value-system," he said. The prime minister said cooperation between like-minded countries in vaccine development will also help in dealing with this pandemic. A joint statement issued after the talks said the two sides agreed to cooperate in a range of sectors like energy, climate change, environment, water, circular economy, sustainable urban development, trade, shipping, food, agriculture and life sciences. According to it, ambitious goals and actions will be identified within the areas and outlined in an action plan that will be worked out and endorsed as soon as possible. "The green strategic partnership is a mutually beneficial arrangement to advance political cooperation, expand economic relations and green growth, create jobs and strengthen cooperation on addressing global challenges and opportunities with a focus on an ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goal," it said. It said Modi and Frederiksen appreciated the deep cooperation in maritime affairs and noted the potential for enhancing cooperation in shipbuilding and design, maritime services and green shipping, as well as port development. The joint statement said both sides expressed their commitment for working towards an ambitious, fair, and mutually beneficial trade and investment agreement between the European Union and India. The negotiations for the pact have been stalled for several years. The two prime ministers expressed their joint wish to enhance cooperation in the specific areas of water supply, water distribution, wastewater treatment, sewerage systems, re-use of treated wastewater, water management and energy optimisation in the water sector through the Indo-Danish Water Technology Alliance, it added. Bhushan said Modi proposed setting up of India-Denmark green energy park in areas where there are large numbers of Danish companies. He also proposed setting up of India Denmark Skill Institute so that the Danish companies will be able to get skilled manpower as per their requirement. Modi also stated that the concept of circular economy should be added and a time-bound action plan needs to be drawn up, the joint secretary said. "The PM mentioned the mantra- Denmark has the skills and India has the scale. To this 'scope' and 'speed' should be added. He also welcomed Denmark's decision to join the International Solar Alliance," the official said. According to the joint statement, the two prime ministers agreed to join efforts to support and promote a rule-based multilateral system which includes cooperation to face the urgency to step up global efforts to combat the global challenges on energy and climate change. "Both sides supported the need for cooperation on promotion of an open, inclusive and rule-based multilateral trading system under the WTO at its core to promote global growth and sustainable development," it said. It said both sides reaffirmed their determination to strengthen cooperation and contribute for comprehensive reforms of the WTO. "Both sides agreed that the reforms need to be inclusive and to be carried out in a transparent manner, high priority being the restoration of a full-strength Appellate Body as part of the two-tiered Dispute Settlement System of the WTO," it said. It also said that both sides agreed that the Arctic Cooperation within the framework of the Arctic Council has a global dimension and is essential for addressing the need of environmental protection and combating climate change. "The two leaders acknowledged the shared values of human rights, democracy and rule of law and agreed to cooperate in multilateral fora to advance democracy and human rights," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-denmark-elevate-ties-to-green-strategic-partnership-894437.html
28-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi urges other countries to lessen supply chain reliance on China||The Covid-19 crisis has shown that it is risky for the global supply chains to be highly dependent on any single source, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, even as he tacitly asked the other like-minded nations to join India, Japan, and Australia in an initiative to lessen reliance on China.    “We are working together with Japan and Australia for supply-chain diversification and resilience. Other like-minded countries can also join this effort,” Modi told Denmark’s Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen during a virtual summit. New Delhi, Tokyo, and Canberra launched the initiative to lessen China’s dominance on global trade and supply chains – in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, which started in the communist country, as well as the belligerence of Xi Jinping’s regime in Beijing – not only along the disputed Sino-India boundary in eastern Ladakh but also in the South China Sea and the East China Sea as well as Taiwan Strait.   The trade ministers of India, Japan, and Australia had held a virtual meeting on September 1 and decided to launch an initiative to ensure a trustworthy, dependable, and reliable supply chain in Indo-Pacific. They had underscored the necessity and potential to enhance the resiliency of supply chains in the region in the wake of the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 crisis as well as the other recent changes in the economic and technological landscapes around the world. They had also called upon the like-minded countries to join them. The pandemic following the trade dispute between the United States and China prompted the international community to weigh options for diversifying the global supply chains. Modi told Frederiksen that the “events of the past several months” had made it clear how important it was to work together for like-minded countries like India and Denmark, which shared “a rules-based, transparent, humanitarian and democratic value-system”. The two Prime Ministers on Monday agreed to elevate India-Denmark relations to a “Green Strategic Partnership”. They agreed on the need for strong multilateral cooperation to face the urgency to step up global efforts to combat the global challenges on energy and climate change and on a common commitment to the International Energy Agency, the International Renewable Energy Agency, and the International Solar Alliance, according to a joint statement issued after the virtual summit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-urges-other-countries-to-lessen-supply-chain-reliance-on-china-894441.html
28-09-2020||National||Odisha deputy speaker, 11 other MLAs test positive for Covid- 19||A day before the scheduled commencement of the monsoon session of the Odisha Assembly, 12 legislators, including Deputy Speaker Rajanikant Singh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, an official said. Ministers Samir Dash, Padmini Dian, and Jyoti Panigrahi tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time. They had earlier contracted the disease and had completed their quarantine period, he said. The infections were detected during a special drive to test samples of lawmakers for CovidID-19 ahead of the monsoon session of the Assembly. Two other MLAs including Government Chief Whip Pramila Mallick had tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The coronavirus status of some other legislators whose samples were collected during the day will be known on Tuesday, the official said. "I have tested positive for Covid-19 and have been admitted to SUM Covid Hospital, Bhubaneswar. I request everyone who had come in contact with me in recent few days to get themselves tested. Jai Jagannath," the deputy speaker said in a Twitter post. Umakanta Samantray, the MLA of Satyabadi seat in Puri district, also said in a social media post that he has tested positive for Covid-19. He urged people who had come in contact with him in the last couple of days to isolate themselves. The special sample testing drive was launched as per the order of Speaker S N Patro ahead of the monsoon session. MLAs, journalists and Assembly and ministerial staffers were tested. The speaker had said that only those testing negative for the infection will be allowed to enter the Assembly building. As many as 50 MLAs, including nine ministers, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha so far. Many of them have completed their quarantine period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-deputy-speaker-11-other-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-894443.html
28-09-2020||National||Ola partners with Akshaya Patra Foundation to deliver 1.2 mn meal kits to its drivers, families||Cab aggregator Ola will distribute 1.2 million meal kits to support drivers associated with it in 13 cities in the country, including the national capital, a company statement said. The social welfare arm of the aggregator, Ola Foundation, has partnered Akshaya Patra Foundation to deliver wholesome meal kits to drivers and their families across 13 Indian cities, it said. "In our continuous endeavor to support the driver community at large, we are happy to partner with The Akshaya Patra Foundation to further serve tens of thousands of families through this nationwide initiative," the statement quoted Anand Subramanian, Ola spokesperson, as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ola-partners-with-akshaya-patra-foundation-to-deliver-12-mn-meal-kits-to-its-drivers-families-894445.html
28-09-2020||National||2 booked for posting 'objectionable' photo of Modi, Shah on Facebook||Two men were booked here for posting an "objectionable" photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Facebook, police said on Monday. Acting on a complaint lodged by a lawyer, Kavi Nagar Police registered a case against the duo under Section 501 of the IPC (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) and Section 67 of the IT Act (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form).    A complaint was filed by advocate Akash Vashishtha against Zakir Husain Aalam and Sadir Ali Khan, superintendent of police (city) Abhishek Verma told PTI. They are absconding but will be arrested soon, Verma added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-booked-for-posting-objectionable-photo-of-modi-shah-on-facebook-894452.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||BJP will create history in West Bengal Assembly elections: Mukul Roy||Newly-appointed BJP national vice president Mukul Roy on Sunday asserted that the saffron party will create history in next year's West Bengal Assembly elections, as people are eager to see the restoration of democracy in the state. "The BJP will perform extremely well and create history in the assembly elections in Bengal (April-May next year)," he told reporters after an organisational meeting at Purulia. "There is only one question on the lips of people, whether democracy will be restored in Bengal," he said. On the disappointment expressed by Rahul Sinha after being dropped as national secretary of the party, Roy said he is the "face" of the BJP in the state. "It will not be right to judge someone who has been in the party for many years, by one comment only. He has run the state unit for a long time responsibly," he said. Sinha was BJP's West Bengal unit president for back- to-back terms and national secretary since 2015. Roy also claimed that several Trinamool Congress leaders are ready to join the BJP in Purulia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-will-create-history-in-west-bengal-assembly-elections-mukul-roy-894011.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | NDA 2014-24: PM Modi reminds of India's glorious story-telling tradition during Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday appreciated the Bangalore Storytelling Society's work in storytelling in his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat. The PM also interacted with the members of the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-nda-2014-24-pm-modi-reminds-of-indias-glorious-story-telling-tradition-during-mann-ki-baat-894042.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||'What is left of NDA after Akali Dal, Shiv Sena exit?'||With the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) walking out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over Farm Bills, the Shiv Sena on Monday wondered if the BJP-led alliance really exists and asked who are in the coalition now. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said it was surprising that NDA's "last pillar" Shiromani Akali Dal was not stopped from severing ties with the alliance. The editorial said, "When the Badals left, no effort was made to stop them. Earlier, the Shiv Sena also left NDA. With these two parties out, what is left of the NDA? Those who are still there, do they have anything to do with Hindutva?" "Punjab and Maharashtra represent manliness and Akali Dal and Shiv Sena are the faces of that manliness," it said. "Now some have said 'ram-ram' (adieu) to this venture and so there is no Ram left in NDA, which has lost two lions (Akali Dal and Sena)," the editorial said. The Akali Dal quit the NDA on Saturday over the issue of Farm Bills passed in Parliament. It is the third major party to walk out of the NDA in the recent period after the Shiv Sena and the TDP. The Shiv Sena quit the NDA last year following differences with the BJP over sharing the chief ministerial post in Maharashtra on a rotational basis. "First, the Shiv Sena had to quit the NDA. Now the Akali Dal has left it. Does the NDA really exist after its two key pillars have walked out?" it said. "The NDA was formed to give a strong alliance against the Congress at the national level. The alliance saw many ups and downs over the years and several other parties quit it as per their convenience," it said. The country's politics is being pushed towards a one-party system, but the BJP has to face elections in several states by forging alliances with other parties, the Sena said. The Shiv Sena said its government with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra is doing a good job and added it will complete its five-year term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-is-left-of-nda-after-akali-dal-shiv-sena-exit-894119.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||It'll be painful if Bihar's ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey gets JD(U) ticket: Maharashtra Congress||The Maharashtra Congress on Monday said it will be quite painful if the JD(U) gives poll ticket to former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey "who had insulted Mumbai Police", at a time when Devendra Fadnavis is BJPs election in-charge in the eastern state. A lot of questions will be asked by people of Maharashtra if former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis does not oppose Pandey getting candidature, Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said on Twitter. Senior Maharashtra BJP leader Fadnavis is his partys poll in-charge in Bihar, where elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) is an ally of the BJP in that state. Former Bihar Director General of Police (DGP) Pandey, who strongly defended Nitish Kumar on the issue of institution of a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, joined the state's ruling JD(U) on Sunday amid indications that he would contest the state Assembly polls. "It will be quite painful if BJPs ally JD(U) gives ticket to @ips_gupteshwar, who had insulted Mumbai Police and defamed Maharashtra, at a time when Devendra Fadnavisji is BJPs Bihar in-charge," Sawant tweeted. "People of Mahrashtra will ask several questions if Fadnavisji does not oppose it staunchly," he added. Pandey was in the headlines while the governments of Maharashtra and Bihar were engaged in a tug of war over the investigation into Rajput's death. He had publicly denounced the Mumbai municipal authorities for quarantining Bihar IPS officer Vinay Tiwari, who went to Mumbai for heading the probe into the case after an FIR was lodged by Rajputs father, accusing actress Rhea Chakraborty and some others of abetting the actor's suicide. He had also demanded a CBI probe into the death of Rajput (34), who was found hanging in his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra area on June14 this year||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/itll-be-painful-if-bihars-ex-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-gets-jdu-ticket-maharashtra-congress-894141.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||Farm laws are death sentence for farmers: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged that the agriculture-related laws are a "death sentence" for farmers whose voice has been crushed both inside and outside Parliament. "The agriculture laws are a death sentence to our farmers. Their voice is crushed in Parliament and outside. Here is proof that democracy in India is dead," he said on Twitter. Gandhi tagged a news report along with his tweet that claimed that Opposition members demanding a division of votes were on their seats when the Farm Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha, while the government said they were not. Gandhi and his Congress party have been demanding that the farm legislations be withdrawn as they are not beneficial for farmers, who will be enslaved at the hands of private players and big businesses. The Congress party is also protesting against the farm laws across the country. The government has, however, asserted that the new laws will free farmers from the clutches of middleman and allow them to sell their produce anywhere they want at a remunerative price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-are-death-sentence-for-farmers-rahul-gandhi-894151.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||BJP leader says 'I will hug Mamata Banerjee if I get infected by coronavirus', TMC files police complaint||A day after newly appointed BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra said that he would hug West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee if he got infected with Covid-19, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) filed a police complaint against him. Hazra made the remark at a BJP program at Baruipur in South 24 Paraganas district on Sunday arguing that he wanted to hug the Chief Minister after being infected by the virus to make her feel the plight of families of those suffering from Covid-19. “BJP workers are fighting against a more dangerous enemy than Covid-19. They are battling against Mamata Banerjee...I have decided that if I get infected by the novel coronavirus I will hug Mamata Banerjee,” said Hazra. He also said that if BJP workers can fight against Mamata without a mask, they can do the same against Covid-19. He said that the bodies of Covid-19 patients were treated in a “pathetic manner” by the TMC government as they were sometimes even burnt with kerosene. TMC leaders in Siliguri in North Bengal lodged a police complaint against him. A former TMC MP, Hazra joined BJP last year. He unsuccessfully contested in the last Lok Sabha elections on BJP ticket from the Jadavpur constituency. His remarks drew severe criticism from the TMC leadership who said that such remark made by BJP leaders reflect the mindset of the party. “Only a BJP leader can make such insensitive and offensive remark. It shows the mindset of the party,” said TMC MP Saugato Roy. He also said that he strongly condemns such remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-says-i-will-hug-mamata-banerjee-if-i-get-infected-by-coronavirus-tmc-files-police-complaint-894153.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||Government dedicates 1.4-km Gwalior-Morena flyover to nation||The government on Monday said it has dedicated 1.4 km flyover on NH-3 at Morena Town in Madhya Pradesh built at a cost of Rs 108 crore to the nation. Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in a virtual ceremony dedicated the flyover to the nation, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. Chief Minister Madhya Pradesh Shivraj Singh Chouhan presided over the function, attended by Union Ministers Faggan Singh Kulaste, MoS Road Transport and Highways V K Singh, local MPs, MLAs, senior officers from the centre and the State. The flyover connecting Dholpur in Rajasthan and Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh has been completed within the scheduled 18 months' time under engineering, procurement and construction mode. "Total length of the 4-lane flyover structure is 780 metres, with 300-metre retaining wall approach towards Dholpur and 340-metre retaining wall approach towards Gwalior," the statement said. The flyover has service roads on both sides. The flyover will also decongest Morena city which in turn will save time and avoid fuel wastage, the statement said. Speaking on the occasion, Tomar complemented Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways Nitin Gadkari for quickly sanctioning this project and getting it completed within the scheduled time frame. He also thanked Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V K Singh for actively pursuing this project. Singh said, the present stretch is important as it is a major connectivity road in the region, he said and added that this flyover will also help in mitigating accidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-dedicates-14-km-gwalior-morena-flyover-to-nation-894173.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||BJP hits out at Congress over tractor-burning incident near India Gate||The BJP on Monday blasted the Congress over the burning of a tractor near the India Gate here, allegedly by opposition party workers, saying it has "shamed" the country with its "drama" aimed at publicity and "misleading" farmers. Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the way the protest was held by bringing a tractor in a truck and then setting it afire is condemnable. "The Congress shamed the country today. Bringing tractor in a truck and then burning it at India Gate is a drama enacted by the Congress and we condemn it. The party has been trying to do politics in the name of farmers, and it has been unmasked. It has enacted a drama for publicity," he told reporters about the incident. Around 15-20 people set a tractor on fire at India Gate on Monday morning, police said. Five people claiming to be members of the Punjab Youth Congress have been detained, they said. The incident comes amid protests by farmers and opposition parties across the country over the contentious farm legislations that were passed by Parliament last week. Accusing the opposition party of misleading farmers, Javadekar said its manifesto had promised to do what the Modi government has done with its farm sector reform bills and added that former prime minister Manmohan Singh had also spoken similarly on the issue.   "Now the Congress is trying to mislead farmers by speaking in a different voice. But it will not succeed," he said, noting that the minimum support price and APMC mechanism is continuing. The Congress and several other opposition parties have been protesting against three farm sector laws enacted by the Modi government, alleging these are "anti-farmer measures" and will "destroy" the agriculture sector. The government has, however, asserted that the new laws will free farmers from the clutches of middleman and allow them to sell their produce anywhere they want at a remunerative price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-hits-out-at-congress-over-tractor-burning-incident-near-india-gate-894174.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||Punjab CM says his government will move Supreme Court over new farm laws||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said his government would approach the Supreme Court over the issue of new farm laws. He also slammed the BJP-led central government, accusing it of snatching the rights of states. "Will it (Centre) leave anything with them to run their states," Singh asked. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, along with AICC general secretary and Punjab Affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar along with other leaders on Monday paid tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh at Khatkar Kalan village. Amarinder Singh, Rawat and others held a sit-in protest here against the new Farm Laws. Addressing the gathering, the CM slammed the Centre for bringing the farm laws, saying they would "destroy" the farming community. "I have said we will take this matter forward. The President has passed these bills and now we will take this matter to the Supreme Court," Singh said. Stating that his government would take every possible step to protect the interest of the farming community, he said, “Two advocates from Delhi are coming here tomorrow and we will discuss this matter with them.” President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to three contentious farm bills that have triggered protests by farmers, especially in Punjab. According to a gazette notification, the president gave assent to three bills -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Defending farmers for holding protests over the farm laws, the CM said they had the right to do so as “you are taking away their livelihood”. He accused the central government of snatching the rights of states. "Now you have taken away (right over) the farm sector. Which thing will you leave with states? Will you leave it or not? You have taken away everything (from states). How will we run our states?" he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-says-his-government-will-move-supreme-court-over-new-farm-laws-894210.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar wish Lata Mangeshkar on her birthday||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP president Sharad Pawar and other state politicians on Monday extended birthday greetings to legendary playback singer Lata Mangeshkar, saying she has ruled the hearts of people across the globe with her voice. Mangeshkar, who is a recipient of the country's highest civilian honour Bharat Ratna, turned 91 today. "Birthday greetings to @mangeshkarlata who has ruled the hearts of people all over the world with her euphonious voice. Praying to God for your healthy and long life, the Chief Ministers Office tweeted. Pawar also took to the micro-blogging site to wish Mangeshkar. "May your voice continue to light up the lives of many. Wishing you a healthy and long life," he said. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, ministers Anil Deshmukh, Eknath Shinde, Nawab Malik and Nitin Raut, and Leader of the Opposition in state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis were also among those who extended birthday greetings to the iconic singer. Mangeshkar ruled Hindi film female playback singing for more than five decades and is a recipient of numerous awards and honours. She has also received acclaim for her songs in various other Indian languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-wish-lata-mangeshkar-on-her-birthday-894231.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||Congress trying to do politics in the name of farmers: BJP over tractor-burning incident near India Gate||The BJP on Monday blasted the Congress over the burning of a tractor near India Gate here, allegedly by opposition party workers, saying it has "shamed" the country with its "drama" aimed at publicity and "misleading" farmers. Senior party leaders, including Union ministers, hit out at the Congress with Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar condemning the incident and accusing the opposition of misleading farmers. "The Congress shamed the country today. Bringing tractor in a truck and then burning it at India Gate is a drama enacted by the Congress and we condemn it. The party has been trying to do politics in the name of farmers, and it has been unmasked. It has enacted a drama for publicity," he told reporters. Around 15-20 people set a tractor on fire at India Gate on Monday morning, police said. Five people said to be members of the Punjab Youth Congress have been detained, they said. The incident comes amid protests by farmers and opposition parties across the country over the contentious farm legislations that were passed by Parliament last week. BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav dubbed the Congress as "anti-farmers", saying farmers venerate their farm equipment and will not set tractors on fire. This burning of tractors by the Congress and other opposition parties in the name of farmers is shameful, he said, adding that they should not use India's food producers for politics. Another Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat took a swipe at the opposition party, saying it is protesting against farmers' freedom in the name of Bhagat Singh, whose birth anniversary fell on Monday, by burning a tractor. "Its conspiracy has been unmasked," he said. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Tejasvi Surya alleged that youth Congress workers were involved in burning the tractor. "Our farmers worship tools they use for farming. No real farmer ever burns his tractor. If at all the Youth Congress wanted to show their support to farmers, they could have donated the tractor to a poor farmer instead of burning it. But how can they? Destroying is all they know," he said in a statement. "In the guise of a protest against the government's reforms for farmers, it is sad that the youth Congress is destroying property," Surya, Member of Parliament from Bengaluru South, said. Accusing the opposition party of misleading farmers, Javadekar said its manifesto had promised doing what the Modi government has done with its farm sector reform bills, and added that former prime minister Manmohan Singh had also spoken similarly on the issue. "Now, the Congress is trying to mislead farmers by speaking in a different voice. But it will not succeed," he said, noting that the minimum support price and APMC mechanism is continuing. This is why the Congress is getting increasingly "disconnected" with people, he said. The Congress and several other opposition parties have been protesting against three farm sector laws enacted by the Modi government, alleging these are "anti-farmer measures" and will "destroy" the agriculture sector. The government has, however, asserted that the new laws will free farmers from the clutches of middleman and allow them to sell their produce anywhere they want at a remunerative price. Surya said farmers now enjoy the full freedom to sell their produce to whoever offering them the best price. They will no longer be restrained by middlemen, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-trying-to-do-politics-in-the-name-of-farmers-bjp-over-tractor-burning-incident-near-india-gate-894252.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||Why BJP won’t allow Chirag Paswan to rock the NDA boat||With barely a month left before the first vote is cast for the Bihar Assembly election in the first phase of polling on October 28, the NDA seat-sharing pact is yet to be formalised. One prime reason is LJP president Chirag Paswan, who has not made it clear whether he would be part of the NDA or join hands with so-called Third Front, a conglomerate of disgruntled and discredited leaders. NDA sources told DH that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was unhappy with Chirag after the LJP chief asked his partymen to prepare for a contest on 143 seats, out of 243 constituencies, and field candidates against all the JD(U) nominees. Nitish has reportedly asked the BJP that handling the LJP was their concern and he had nothing to do with the over-ambitious Chirag. At the same time, not to be seen as anti-Dalit, Nitish has played his cards well. He has appointed his Cabinet colleague Ashok Choudhary, a prominent Dalit leader, as working president of the Bihar JD(U). Choudhary was Bihar Congress president and a minister in Grand Alliance government (2015-17) but shifted his allegiance to Nitish when the JD(U) strongman changed colours and joined the NDA in July 2017. Besides, Nitish has roped in Jitan Ram Manjhi, the tall Mahadalit leader whom he made Bihar chief minister in May 2014. Last month, Nitish made a DG-rank officer Sunil Kumar (also Dalit) take VRS and join the JD(U). Sunil is likely to be fielded as Nitish’s nominee from Bhore in Gopalganj. Aware of this backdrop, the BJP is still keen that Chirag, the self-styled leader of Dalits, should not rock the NDA boat at this juncture. “In this battle of Bihar, perception matters a lot. Already two of the oldest allies — the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal — have dumped the NDA in the last one year. If the LJP too deserts the NDA, it may send a wrong message to the electorate,” said a senior NDA functionary, adding that efforts were being made by the top BJP leadership to assuage the ruffled feathers of Chirag as well as Nitish. “A seat pact, adjusting all the four allies — the JD(U), BJP, LJP and the HAM — has almost been clinched. A formal announcement is likely by the weekend,” the source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-bjp-won-t-allow-chirag-paswan-to-rock-the-nda-boat-894370.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi asks Congress-ruled states to pass laws to bypass Centre's farm reforms||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Monday asked chief ministers of states ruled by the party to explore the possibility of enacting state laws to circumvent the new farm sector laws that have triggered protests in parts of the country. In an advisory to the Congress-ruled states of Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry, Sonia asked the Chief Ministers to explore the possibility of passing laws under Article 254 (2) of the Constitution which allows state legislatures to pass a law to negate the “anti-agriculture central laws encroaching upon the state’s jurisdiction". “This would enable the states to bypass the unacceptable anti-farmer provisions of the three draconian agricultural laws, including the abolition of MSP and disruption of APMCs, in Congress-ruled states,” AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal said. In doing so, the Congress has picked a leaf out of late union minister Arun Jaitley’s strategy book when the Modi government had in 2015 failed to amend the land acquisition law passed by the UPA-II government due to lack of majority in the Rajya Sabha. Jaitley had then asked BJP-ruled states to invoke Article 254 (2) to override the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. However, even if Congress-ruled states pass such bills, they cannot be turned into laws till they receive the assent of the respective governors and the president. Sonia's advice to Chief Ministers came on a day Congress leaders hit the streets to protest the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh participated in a sit-in protest in the state against the enactment of the three laws and declared that he was exploring legal options to challenge them in the Supreme Court. Singh said the farmers' protests in the state could lead to unrest, which could be utilised by Pakistan’s ISI to foment trouble in the country. “Pak-backed forces will try to feed on the angst in India,” the Chief Minister said, pointing out that 150 terrorists had been nabbed in Punjab in recent months with a huge cache of arms and ammunition. Elsewhere, Congress leaders petitioned the governors of respective states urging them to ask the Centre to roll back the three laws. The national capital witnessed dramatic scenes as Youth Congress activists set ablaze a tractor near the India Gate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-asks-congress-ruled-states-to-pass-laws-to-bypass-centres-farm-reforms-894406.html
28-09-2020||National Politics||NCP, Congress slam Ramdas Athawale for suggesting NCP supremo Sharad Pawar join NDA||The NCP on Monday accused Union minister Ramdas Athawale of vying for "free publicity" after he suggested that NCP chief Sharad Pawar join the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the event of the Shiv Sena not forging ties with its former ally BJP. In a dig, the Congress said Athawale is acting as a "postman" after his meeting with actress Kangana Ranuat "failed to destabilise the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress". Athawale, who heads the RPI (A), had met Ranaut earlier this month after the Sena-ruled Mumbai civic body demolished "illegal" alterations at her bungalow amidst a controversy over her Mumbai-PoK (Pakistan occupied Kashmir) statement. "Some people speak a lot and the Minister of State for Social Justice Athawale is one of them. He is busy writing poems instead of doing justice to the section of people whose responsibility the government has given to him. "He is always yearning for free publicity and any reason suffices him," said NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase in a statement. All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of Maharashtra Ashish Dua tweeted: "Man of 'Go Corona Go' wisdom is teaching @ShivSena & @NCPspeaks what to do in #Maharashtra by being a postman now after his meeting with #KanganaRanuat failed to destabilize #MahaVikasAghadi govt!" Athawale had earlier this year raised the slogan of "go corona go", which became viral and a source for memes on social networking sites. Earlier in the day, Athawale asked the Shiv Sena to reunite with the BJP to form a government in Maharashtra and also suggested a power-sharing formula between the two saffron parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncp-congress-slam-ramdas-athawale-for-suggesting-ncp-supremo-sharad-pawar-join-nda-894440.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 pandemic deals 'crushing blow' to struggling Kashmir tourism||When Kashmir went into a coronavirus lockdown in March, tourism in the Indian-administered territory had already been hobbled by eight months of tight security restrictions that New Delhi imposed after revoking the region's semi-autonomous status. Now hoteliers, taxi drivers and others relying on tourism in the region say the pandemic has compounded the financial shock to the industry and they fear it could take years to recover. The state of tourism in Kashmir is "a typical case of out of the frying pan into the fire," said Faiz Bakhshi, a prominent businessman and former secretary-general of the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCC&I). "I don't see any resumption of tourism in Kashmir until there is zero incidences of Covid-19 cases (here)," said Bakhshi, who owns the Shangrila, a hotel in Srinagar, the region's main city. Kashmir has reported about 70,000 cases of Covid-19 and at least 1,084 deaths, according to government figures. Estimates by the KCC&I show that more than 600,000 jobs have been lost since India's decision to scrap the region's special status in August last year. In that time, Kashmir's economy across all sectors has lost 400 billion Indian rupees (about $5.4 billion), KCC&I vice president Majeed Mir told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in a phone interview. While there are no reliable estimates of how many people have been made unemployed since March, Bakhshi said the pandemic has only exacerbated the situation. In a policy brief published last month, the United Nations said the pandemic could cost the global tourism industry approximately $1 trillion and threaten more than 100 million jobs. Kashmir has been disputed by India and Pakistan since the end of British colonial rule in 1947. Both countries claim it in full but rule it in part. India followed its move last year with a security lockdown in Kashmir, imposing strict restrictions on the movement and assembly of people and shutting down phone and internet communications for several months. The government said the restrictions were necessary to quell unrest in the region. Communications in Kashmir have gradually been reinstated in recent months, but mobile internet is yet to be restored fully, with only slow-speed 2G access allowed in 18 of the region's 20 districts. Ejaz Ayoub, an independent Srinagar-based economic analyst, said Kashmir's tourism business needs two basic factors in order to thrive: peace and sustainable demand. "The August 5 decision jeopardised both. And, since March this year, the pandemic has dealt a crushing blow to tourism," Ayoub said. Empty Rooms Zahoor Ahmad Trumboo said the occupancy of his Hotel Shah Abbas, overlooking the famed Dal Lake in Srinagar, has fallen by more than 90% since August last year. Before then, all 80 rooms would be booked every summer and the hotel would do good business in the winters, too, he noted, as visitors came to enjoy the lake as well as the Himalayan region's scenic mountains and glaciers. Now, the tourist industry "has no raw material," Trumboo said as he leaned back on a sofa at his hotel. "Tourists are the raw material for us. But, there have been no tourists in Kashmir for a year now." Kashmir's tourism season officially started on July 15, noted the region's director for tourism Nissar Ahmad Wani. "But, we have received only 525 tourists in the months since - an average of nine people per day," he said over the phone. In August and September 2019, more than 14,600 tourists visited Kashmir - and that was a 90% drop from the same period in 2018, before Kashmir's semi-autonomous status was revoked, according to figures from the tourism department. Along with horticulture and agriculture, tourism is an important industry for Kashmir, contributing about 7% of the region's gross domestic product, according to government data. While worries about security have kept many visitors away, others are put off by travel restrictions that have been put in place in the region and in their own countries to slow the spread of the virus, say, industry experts. Tourists can only come into Kashmir by air, and they must adhere to Covid-19 testing at the airport and quarantine for 24 hours upon arrival, as well as keep to general social distancing and mandatory mask-wearing, explained Wani. Mental Stress At a tourist taxi stand in the Srinagar locality of Tang Bagh, a line of cars sits parked all day - most of the 200 taxi drivers who use the stand have left their cars there because there are no tourists to drive anywhere. Two drivers, Nazir Ahmad and Fayaz Bhat, visit the office at the taxi stand a few days a week. "We don't only come in search of work. We often chat for hours to share our problems and concerns – to alleviate our mental stress," said Bhat, who has three children, including a physically-impaired son. Three years ago, Bhat took out a loan to buy his taxi, which he was paying off in instalments of 10,000 rupees ($136.00) each month before the pandemic struck. He has not been able to make a single payment since March, he lamented. "The last few months have been very tough. I had to take medicine for two months after I was diagnosed with depression," he said. Earlier this month Jammu and Kashmir Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha announced an economic relief package of 13.5 billion rupees ($183 million) to help the region's business sector recover from the financial pain of the pandemic. Mir at the KCC&I said that figure will not be enough. "One can imagine how much is needed if the government is serious about helping the business sector, including tourism, the worst-hit sector by Covid-19," he said. "But, nonetheless, we appreciate that the government has started showing interest." Hotel Shah Abbas owner Trumboo said he is convinced the only way Kashmir's tourism industry will restart is with a significant "financial injection". Right now, he said, "Kashmir's tourism is not only damaged; it is dead."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-pandemic-deals-crushing-blow-to-struggling-kashmir-tourism-894071.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court asks UPSC to give reasons for not postponing exam||A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar asked the UPSC to file an affidavit by Tuesday as a counsel, appearing for the constitutional body, submitted that it can't agree to the plea for deferment as it would turn the whole calendar go haywire. The court asked the UPSC counsel to furnish the reasons for not postponing the examinations. It decided to put the matter for consideration on Wednesday. On September 24, the court asked a counsel, appearing for 20 aspirants led by Vasireddy Govardhana Sai Prakash, to serve the copy of the petition with the UPSC counsel. In their plea, the petitioners, represented by senior advocate V K Shukla and advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, asked the court to direct the UPSC to defer the examinations for two-three months to let the curve of rising cases flatten. They claimed that if the examination was to be held on October 4, it would result in gross violation of the fundamental right to health and life. The biggest sufferers would be students from the middle and lower-middle class for being unable to arrange for transportation, accommodation and other expenses. They claimed states like Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have already cancelled their tests for public service commission. About six lakh aspirants are likely to appear in the seven-hour offline examination, at centres in 72 cities, putting their lives at utmost risk and danger, in the wake of country recording rise of 78,000 Covid-19 cases per day, they said.  On February 12, the UPSC had issued the notification for the examination to be held on May 31.  However, due to nationwide lockdown and alarming spurt in Covid-19 cases, the UPSC on May 20 postponed the examination indefinitely. But, it published a revised calendar and took a decision in an "utterly arbitrary, unreasonable, and whimsical" manner to conduct the examination on October 4, the petitioners claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-asks-upsc-to-give-reasons-for-not-postponing-exam-894108.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan held for raping 17-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh||A CRPF jawan was arrested for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh's Banda, police said on Monday. According to a complaint lodged by the minor on July 12, CRPF jawan Brijesh Kushwaha (39) allegedly thrashed her and raped her on June 5 when she had gone to his house looking for a room on rent. An FIR was registered against him under relevant sections of the IPC on the basis of the complaint filed by the girl, a resident of Chitrakoot, police said. Senior Sub-Inspector A Singh said the arrest could not be made then as the jawan had left for duty in Jharkhand by the time the FIR was registered. Kushwaha was arrested on Sunday when he returned home on leave, the SSI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-held-for-raping-17-year-old-girl-in-uttar-pradesh-894143.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Congress chief, workers detained during farmer protests||Delhi Congress leaders and workers, including its president Anil Kumar, were detained by the police on Monday during a protest against the farm reform laws at Rajghat. Kumar said a protest march from Rajghat to Raj Niwas was also scheduled but police detained party leaders and workers before it could begin. "We wanted to submit a memorandum to the Lt governor against the farm bills passed by Parliament but we were detained by the police. The Congress will not rest till the Modi government withdraws its anti-farmer bills," he said. According to a senior police officer, several Congress workers were detained. The detained protesters were taken to a stadium in Hari Nagar, Delhi Congress leader Parvez Alam said.  Kumar later submitted the memorandum to the Lt Governor Anil Baijal, after Congress protesters were released by the police.  He alleged that Delhi seems to be under the grip of a "Police Raj" that "primarily targeted" the Congress leaders and workers during "peaceful" protests and demonstrations while letting off BJP and Aam Aadmi Party workers in such activities. Congress will not be cowed down by the tactics of the Delhi Police to prevent peaceful protests against issues that affect the common people, and the farmers in particular, he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-congress-chief-workers-detained-during-farmer-protests-894177.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Ladakh reports 10 fresh Covid-19 cases, one death||One more patient succumbed to coronavirus in Ladakh, taking the death toll to 58 in the Union Territory, while the infection tally reached 4,103 with 10 fresh cases, officials said on Monday. Fourteen patients were discharged after being cured of the contagion during the past 24 hours, they said. With the death of one more patient from Covid-19 in Kargil district, the total number of fatalities in Ladakh has gone up to 58 -- 34 in Kargil and 24 in Leh district. Five residents each in Leh and Kargil tested positive for the virus on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the region to 4,103, the officials said. Thirteen patients have recovered from the infection and subsequently discharged in Leh, and another in Kargil, bringing down the number of active cases to 1,013 -- 607 in Leh and 406 in Kargil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-reports-10-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-894181.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||UPCC president held while protesting against Farm Bills||UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party workers were held while staging protest against the new farm laws in the state capital on Monday, a party leader said. Led by the UPCC president, Congress workers from all over the state converged at the Parivartan Chowk here and staged a protest against the "anti-farm" laws, party's media convenor Lalan Kumar said. While trying to move towards the Raj Bhawan, party workers and its chief were held, Kumar said. There are reports from some districts that party workers, who were on their way to Lucknow to take part in the programme, were detained and not allowed to proceed, Lalan claimed. The workers raised slogans against the new laws and said party would force the government to take them back, Lalan said. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to three contentious farm bills passed in Parliament last week that have triggered farmers' protest in some states. These three farm bills are: The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/upcc-president-held-while-protesting-against-farm-bills-894195.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi airport to resume flight operations at T2 terminal from October||The Delhi airport will resume flight operations at the T2 terminal from October 1, said its operator DIAL on Monday. The airport has been operating flights from the T3 terminal only since March 23, when flight operations in India were curtailed drastically due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The resumption of operations at T2 will be with 96 air traffic movements (48 departures and 48 arrivals) per day and increase progressively up to 180 by end of October," said a DIAL press release. From October 1, IndiGo will operate all its flights with call signs between 6E2000 and 6E2999 from the T2 terminal. Moreover, entire flight operations of GoAir will be conducted from the T2 from October 1, said the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL). "About 27 counters – 11 for GoAir and 16 for IndiGo - have been created to cater to passengers of respective flights," the DIAL noted. India suspended scheduled international passenger flights from March 23 and scheduled domestic passenger flights from March 25 due to the pandemic. However, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA have been allowed to operate. India resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights from May 25 but in a curtailed manner. Airlines are allowed to operate not more than 60 per cent of pre-Covid domestic flights currently. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat mission since May and under the air bubble arrangements formed with various other countries since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-to-resume-flight-operations-at-t2-terminal-from-october-894200.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||IPS officer beats wife; relieved of duties after video goes viral||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday said a senior state IPS officer has been relieved of duties, after a video showing him assaulting his wife went viral on social media. In the video, Madhya Pradesh Director General of Police (Prosecution) Purushottam Sharma is seen thrashing his wife, while the latter is seen resisting the assault. "The officer has been relieved of his duties. Action will be taken against anyone who holds a responsible position, but indulges in illegal activities and taking law into his hands," the chief minister said. There is no official confirmation to reports that the IPS officer was caught red-handed by his wife of 32 years at a woman's house, after which he assaulted her. Sharma's son Parth, a deputy commissioner in the Income Tax Department, sent the video to state Home Minister Narottam Mishra and some senior bureaucrats and requested that a complaint be registered against his father. Sharma, who has been married for 32 years, told PTI that if he has done anything wrong, then his son should say why was his mother living with him for so long. "My son should say why was she taking money (from me) since 12-15 years and going on foreign trips. After enjoying so much comfort in life, she has an obligation towards her family, to save its reputation," Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ips-officer-beats-wife-relieved-of-duties-after-video-goes-viral-894204.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||DU college teachers boycott online classes, official work to protest 'non-payment' of funds||Teachers from some Delhi University colleges on Monday boycotted online classes and official work to protest the alleged non-release of grants to 12 colleges fully funded by the city government. The Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA) started a cluster-wise strike on Monday, under which teaching staff from some colleges like Gargi College, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College and some others boycotted official duties. The cluster strike will go on till October 1. The university administration and the Delhi government have been locked in a tussle over the non-formation of governing bodies in 28 colleges partially or fully funded by the government. Among them, 12 colleges are fully funded by the government and they have alleged that the grants released by the city dispensation have been inadequate and they have not been able to pay salaries to their employees since May||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-college-teachers-boycott-online-classes-official-work-to-protest-non-payment-of-funds-894223.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court asks prisons if they have enough isolation wards||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked prison authorities whether they have sufficient number of isolation wards to accommodate all prisoners who would surrender if the bail extension orders issued by it are recalled. The high court sought from the prison authorities the details regarding the number of Covid-19 cases in the three jails in the national capital, the number of prisoners who are out on bail and need to surrender in the next month and the number of isolation wards in each of the three jails. The high court also expressed concern over "the surge in Covid-19 cases" in Delhi, The order by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh came while hearing an application seeking modification of the high court's July 13 and July 24 orders by which it had clarified that its orders extending interim bails/paroles would be applicable to everyone granted the relief before or after March 16. The application has alleged that the two orders were being misused by prisoners by seeking bail on grounds of family illness or some such other reasons, instead of seeking regular bail, and then getting the same extended on the basis of the high court's direction. The high court said it will not permit misuse of its orders and it will recall its extension order if it was being misused. The bench said, "If they (prisoners) are misusing it, we will stop it and then let them suffer." It asked prison authorities information regarding the number of Covid-19 cases in the three jails, the number of prisoners out on bail and who need to surrender in the next month and the number of isolation wards in each of the jails. The court also asked the prison authorities if they have sufficient number of isolation wards to accommodate the large number of prisoners who would surrender if the extension orders are recalled. "There is a surge in cases (in Delhi). We are truly concerned," the bench said. The high court also issued notice to the Director General (DG) Prisons, who is in charge of the all three jails -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli -- in the national capital and sought his stand before the next date of hearing on October 16. The bench also sought the presence of DG Prisons, via video conference, on the next date, but it was told that he was suffering from Covid-19. Thereafter, the court directed that he may appear if he was well or someone can represent him. The Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra said he was appearing for DG Prisons and will take instructions on the queries raised by the bench. The high court on August 24 had extended till October 31 all the interim orders which were to expire on or after August 31 in cases that are before it as also the district courts in view of the persisting Covid-19 pandemic. It had also extended the relief in cases related to those who were enlarged on interim bail or parole and may carry the Covid-19 infection. If those whose interim bail is ending are required to surrender to the already congested and over-crowded jails, which may not be in a position to strictly maintain physical distancing amongst inmates, it may pose the risk of unchecked spread of the virus, the court had said. On March 25, the high court had extended till May 15 the interim orders in all matters pending before it and subordinate courts, in view of the coronavirus lockdown. Thereafter, the relief was extended from time to time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-asks-prisons-if-they-have-enough-isolation-wards-894241.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Investigation into Shopian ‘fake’ encounter case in final stages: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday said that the investigation into the Shopian alleged fake encounter is in a final stage and will be complete in the next few days. "Senior Superintendent Police (SSP) Shopian is himself monitoring the investigation process of the case and soon further details about the case will be shared.  The investigations are in the final stage," J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh told reporters, here. He said both the Army and the Police were investigating the case. However, Singh declined to share the details of the case at the moment. On July 18, the Army had claimed that three unidentified militants were killed in Amshipora village in the higher reaches of south Kashmir’s Shopian. However, the Amshipora encounter came under scrutiny after three families from the Rajouri district of Jammu region claimed that the three killed were their kin and labourers by profession. Following these claims, the Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police ordered separate inquiries into the matter. The DNA samples of the families were lifted on August 13 and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination and comparison with the “three unidentified slain militants”. On September 25, the DNA sample reports of the three slain persons matched with their parents. On September 18, the Army initiated disciplinary action against unnamed soldiers and officers involved in the Amshipora encounter. In a brief statement, the Army accepted that its men ‘prima facie’ violated powers under Armed Forces Special Powers Acts (AFSPA). Soon after the army’s statement, the families of slain youth had demanded immediate exhumation of the bodies of their loved ones for proper burial at Rajouri. The three families from Rajouri had identified their sons through pictures that went viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/investigation-into-shopian-fake-encounter-case-in-final-stages-jk-police-894254.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Indian soldier injured as Pakistan open fires along LoC in J&K||An Army soldier was injured during a ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Machhil sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Monday. PRO defence Col Rajesh Kalia said Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Macchil sector on Monday morning by firing mortars and other weapons. “Indian Army is responding to the ceasefire violation by Pakistan in a befitting manner,” he said. Col Kalia said one soldier was injured in the ceasefire violation and he has been shifted to a hospital, where his condition is stable. According to official figures, there has been around 75 per cent jump in ceasefire violations by Pakistan in the first six months of 2020 along the LoC in J&K as compared to the same period last year. The Army maintains that Pakistani troops have been frequently violating ceasefire by resorting to heavy shelling and firing to help the militants to infiltrate. A number of infiltration attempts have been thwarted by the Army along the LoC, leading to the killing of several infiltrating militants in recent months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-soldier-injured-as-pakistan-open-fires-along-loc-in-jk-894262.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||J&K security forces kill top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander and recruiter in Pulwama||Security forces in Kashmir achieved yet another success by eliminating one of the longest surviving commanders of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant outfit and his close aide in Samboora area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday night. “The operation at Samboora started yesterday and due to the darkness was halted for the night. When searches started today (Monday) morning, bodies of two terrorists were recovered. One of them was identified as Aijaz Ahmed Reshi, who was the longest surviving commander of the Lashkar outfit,” J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh told reporters here. He said initially Reshi was working as over ground worker (OGW) and had joined militancy even before Burhan Wani, poster boy of new age militancy in Kashmir, who was killed in an encounter with security forces on 8 July 2016. “Reshi was a dangerous terrorist, who carried out deadly attacks on security forces inflicting heavy casualties. He took part in an attack at EDI Pampore (in 2016) in which eight CRPF men were killed. He had transported the Lashkar men to the spot as well. At Kadlabal, Pampore, he had fired at army party killing three soldiers. He was also part of series of attacks on security forces,” the police chief revealed. He said that besides carrying out attacks on security forces, the slain commander was the main recruiter for the Lashkar. “The killing of Aijaz Reshi is a big success for security forces and there will be dip in the local militant recruitment in the areas where he was operating,” Singh added. Asked about number of local youth joining militancy in south Kashmir, the J&K police chief said that the graph is low compared to previous years. “In the past 15 days, three youth were brought back. And this year so far, 24 youth who had left homes and joined militancy, were brought back with the active cooperation of their parents,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-security-forces-kill-top-lashkar-e-taiba-commander-and-recruiter-in-pulwama-894267.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir to modify rules for ease of issuance of domicile certificates: Union minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Monday said the Jammu and Kashmir administration has agreed in principle to amend rules for ease in the issuance of domicile certificates. This will particularly facilitate issuing domicile certificates to children producing a Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC) of either of the parents, he said. "After discussion with #JammuKashmir LG Sh Manoj Sinha & CS Sh Subrahmanium, the UT Govt has agreed in principle to amend/modify rules for ease in issue of #DomicileCertificate. Formal orders being issued soon," Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said in a tweet. "This will particularly facilitate issuing Domicile Certificate to children producing PRC of any of the parents and women from outside married to PRC holder men," he said in another tweet. The move comes after it was noticed that applications for issuance of domicile certificates were being rejected by the issuing authorities "due to misinterpretation of the provisions" set out in an order issued in May and also because of the "absence of enabling provisions" for the issuance of the certificate to a woman, whose native is outside Jammu and Kashmir, but who is married to a PRC holder, officials said. The applications were also being rejected on the ground that the PRC of the father was not attached with those. The PRC of the mother is not acknowledged as a valid document for issuance of domicile certificate to the ward, they said. The Jammu and Kashmir administration has agreed in principle to amend the necessary rules to ensure that people do not face problems in getting domicile certificates, the officials said. The Union Territory government has issued over 18.52 lakh domicile certificates against the over 21.99 lakh applications received so far, they added. The government notified the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, on May 18 and allowed different categories of non-locals, including government employees, to register for domicile certificates. According to the new domicile law, non-permanent residents who have residency proof of at least 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir are entitled to get domicile certificates in the Union Territory. Prior to the nullification of Article 370 and Article 35A of the Constitution, only state subjects were allowed to buy land and apply for government jobs in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-to-modify-rules-for-ease-of-issuance-of-domicile-certificates-union-minister-jitendra-singh-894271.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Why CBI is dragging feet in probe against its ex-directors in corruption case, asks court||A Delhi court has pulled up the CBI for “dragging its feet” in a case of alleged corruption involving two of its ex-Directors, saying it may lead to an "inference that it is not very keen to pursue investigations" regarding them. Special Judge Sanjeev Aggarwal made the observation in a case of corruption against meat exporter Moin Akhtar Qureshi and others and asked the agency to file a fresh status report in the matter. The court asked the probe agency on Saturday whether the name of Ranjit Sinha, an ex-Director of the CBI, who was alleged to be linked to Qureshi, was also being investigated, “if so whether he was also examined in this case, if not why?” “Why CBI did not bring investigations in this case to a logical end by using tried and tested methods of investigations like searches, custodial interrogation of potential suspects? “Whether the alleged role of its another ex-Director Alok Verma was also investigated that he allegedly stalled or did not allow the investigations to reach its logical end during his tenure,” the judge asked the CBI to apprise it on these points. It also asked why “A P Singh, ex-Director, CBl has not been examined in this case?” “Why CBI is dragging its feet in a case involving the roles of two of its ex-Directors, which may lead to an inference that it is not very keen to pursue investigations qua them,” the court asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-cbi-is-dragging-feet-in-probe-against-its-ex-directors-in-corruption-case-asks-court-894320.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia's condition better, likely to be discharged soon: Official||The condition of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who is suffering from Covid-19 and dengue, is much better and he is likely to be discharged from hospital in the next few days, officials said on Monday. Sources at the Max hospital also said that he is doing better. Sisodia, 48, was shifted to the hospital in Saket on Thursday evening, considering his "falling" blood platelet count and low oxygen level. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the private health facility in south Delhi and later administered plasma therapy. "His condition is now better. If everything goes well, then the deputy chief minister may be discharged from the hospital within two days," said an official from the Deputy Chief Minister's Office. The Aam Aadmi Party leader had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 and was in home isolation. On Wednesday, he was shifted to the LNJP Hospital for treatment and tested positive for dengue a day later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodias-condition-better-likely-to-be-discharged-soon-official-894355.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi to inaugurate six mega projects in Uttarakhand under 'Namami Gange', first museum on Ganga||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate six mega projects in Uttarakhand under the 'Namami Gange Mission' on Tuesday through a video conference. The Prime Minister's Office said on Monday that the projects include construction of a 68 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP), upgradation of the existing 27 MLD STP at Jagjeetpur in Haridwar and construction of an 18 MLD STP at Sarai in Haridwar.   He will also inaugurate 'Ganga Avalokan', the first museum on Ganga aimed at showcasing the culture, biodiversity and rejuvenation activities done in the river. The museum is located at Chandi Ghat, Haridwar. A book, 'Rowing down the Ganges', co-published by National Mission for Clean Ganga and Wildlife Institute of India will also be launched at the event, the PMO said.  The colourful book is an attempt to merge the biodiversity and culture of the river, as it conceptualises its story as what one would see when one rows down from Gaumukh, Ganga's origin to Ganga Sagar, the last point before it enters the sea. The inauguration of 68 MLD Jagjeetpur project also marks completion of the first sewerage project taken up on hybrid annuity mode of PPP. In Rishikesh, a 26 MLD STP at Lakkadghat will be inaugurated, the PMO said.  The Haridwar-Rishikesh zone contributes about 80 per cent waste water load into Ganga, and the inauguration of these STPs will play a significant role in keeping the holy river clean, it said.  In Muni ki Reti town, the 7.5 MLD STP in Chandreshwar Nagar will be the first four-storied sewage treatment plant in the country where the limitation of land availability was converted into an opportunity, with the STP constructed in less than 900 sq metre area which is about 30 per cent of the usual area requirement for STPs of such capacity, the PMO noted. Modi will also inaugurate a 5 MLD STP at Chorpani, and two STPs with capacities of 1 MLD and 0.01 MLD at Badrinath. In all 30 projects are now fully complete in Uttarakhand for taking care of pollution from 17 towns near Ganga, which is a "landmark achievement", the PMO said.  The logo of 'Jal Jeevan Mission' and 'Margdarshika' for village panchayats and 'Paani Samitis' under the mission will also be unveiled by the prime minister, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-to-inaugurate-six-mega-projects-in-uttarakhand-under-namami-gange-first-museum-on-ganga-894377.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Arunachal may reopen for tourists after October, says CM||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Monday hinted that the state will reopen for tourists after October. Attending a virtual programme organised by the central government, Khandu said that the tourism sector has suffered a lot in the last six months due to the COVID-19 pandemic which affected the livelihood of thousands of people and dented the state's revenue. "Tourism is one major source of revenue and employment. Keeping all considerations in mind, we will be re-opening the sector. If everything goes well, after October we will be open to visitors," he said at the Destination North East programme. Destination North East is a calendar event of the Ministry of Department of North Eastern Region (DoNER) showcasing the region's rich heritage, diversity and tourism potentials. Union Home Minister Anit Shah inaugurated the four-day programme on Sunday. Khandu lauded the DoNER ministry and the North East Council (NEC) for organising the virtual event and said that it would boost tourism in the region post-pandemic. He said that Arunachal Pradesh with its diversity of geographic and demographic profiles can become a centre of rural, cultural and adventure tourism. The chief minister said that in the last six years, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, North East has witnessed a paradigm shift in its infrastructure development. "Thanks to Modiji's love and concern towards the region, today we have railways, roads and airports. Several projects are under implementation while several are in the pipeline," he said. Endorsing DoNER Minister Dr Jitendra Singh's prediction that North East would be next tourism hub of post- COVID-19 India, Khandu said "We are committed to preserve our culture while walking the path of development."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-arunachal-may-reopen-for-tourists-after-october-says-cm-894388.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 1,984 new cases, Covid-19 tally over 2.73 lakh||Delhi recorded 1,984 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, as the infection count mounted to over 2.73 lakh in the city, while the death toll rose to 5,272 with 37 new fatalities, according to a health department bulletin. The relatively low count of fresh cases came out of the 36,302 tests done the previous day. The active Covid-19 case count on Monday stood at 27,123, down from 29,228 the previous day, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 5,235 on Sunday. The Monday bulletin said the fresh cases pushed the Covid-19 tally to 2,73,098 in Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-1984-new-cases-covid-19-tally-over-273-lakh-894402.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Plea in Delhi High Court claims AAP MLA Preeti Tomar furnished false educational qualifications||A plea was on Monday moved in the Delhi High Court challenging AAP MLA Preeti Tomar's election from the Tri Nagar assembly constituency on the ground that she allegedly gave false declaration about her educational qualifications in her nomination form. Preeti Tomar is the wife of Jitender Singh Tomar, a former cabinet minister in the Delhi government, who was found guilty by the high court of furnishing a fake degree in his election nomination of 2015 and his election as AAP MLA that year was set aside. The present election petition, moved by Tri Nagar constituent Naveen Parashar, alleges that Preeti Tomar misrepresented herself to be an "MSc and BEd passed" and "thus, was successful in exercising undue influence over the voters, which amounts to corrupt practice within the meaning of the Representation of the Peoples Act". The petition, filed through advocate Anil Soni, further alleges that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA was not even a graduate. The plea alleges that Chaudhary Charan Singh University, from where the AAP MLA claims to have completed her BEd in 1994, did not have that course in that year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-delhi-high-court-claims-aap-mla-preeti-tomar-furnished-false-educational-qualifications-894415.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||SAD asks party leaders to resign from posts held in Delhi's civic bodies||After severing its ties with the BJP over farm bills, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has now asked its members to resign from the posts held by them in the three municipal corporations of Delhi, ruled by its former ally. The party has decided to give up all the posts it jointly held with the BJP in any organisation, including the municipal corporations, the president of the Delhi unit of SAD, Harmeet Singh Kalka, said at a press conference on Monday. The Delhi unit of the party chalked out its future course of action at a meeting of its core committee held earlier in the day. Kalka said SAD councillor Manpreet Kaur has resigned from the post of deputy chairperson of the Licencing and Tehbazari Committee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). The SAD had been contesting the Assembly and civic body polls in Delhi in an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "The SAD leaders have to resign from such posts that they held in an alliance with the BJP, considering the party leadership's decision to go alone in its political journey after ending the ties with the BJP," Kalka said. SAD leaders, at a meeting held in Chandigarh on Saturday, decided to break its ties with the BJP and quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-asks-party-leaders-to-resign-from-posts-held-in-delhis-civic-bodies-894420.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Violence in Madhya Pradesh village after man dies in police custody||The death of a 45-year-old man inside a police station in Narayanpur village in Satna district of Madhya Pradesh triggered violent protests on Monday, with family members of the deceased and villagers alleging that he was shot dead by a drunk police inspector. As the news spread about the death of Rajpati Kushwaha, a mob gathered outside Singhpur police station and hurled stones, prompting the police to resort to lathicharge and to fire tear gas shells. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday ordered shifting of Satna superintendent of police Riyaz Iqbal over the custodial death and subsequent violence, an official told PTI. Terming the incident and resultant violence unfortunate, the CM announced Rs 10 lakh aid for the family of the deceased. A police official said Singhpur police had picked up Kushwaha on Sunday night from his house in Narayanpur area, located 50 kms away from Satna, on suspicion of his involvement in a theft case. "Singhpur police station inspector Vikram Pathak had kept his service revolver on the table (inside the police station). Kushwaha snatched the weapon and shot himself dead," the SP told reporters. He said Pathak and constable Manish have been suspended and a magisterial inquiry was ordered. Omkar Kushwaha, nephew of the deceased, alleged that his uncle was killed by the police inspector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/violence-in-madhya-pradesh-village-after-man-dies-in-police-custody-894422.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||BJP accuses Jharkhand govt of according 'state guest' status to Lalu Prasad||The BJP has alleged that the number of people unauthorisedly meeting jailed RJD president Lalu Prasad at RIMS has increased after announcement of election in Bihar and charged Hemant Soren government with according status of "state guest" to Prasad instead of treating him like a prisoner. The saffron party said the RJD supremo is freely meeting political persons, especially after announcement of poll schedule for Bihar, in gross violation of the jail manual. Jharkhand BJP unit spokesman Pratul Sahdeo dismissed assertion of Inspector General of Priosons that RIMS Director's bungalow can't be considered as a prison. Prasad was recently shifted to Kelley's bungalow of the Director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Science after his attendants had contacted infection for Covid. He quoted section 3 (1) of the jail manual of 1894 to say that any place where a convicted is kept even for a short duration, the person is technically considered under custody and the rules apply on the individual. Sahdeo said that the Jharkhand High Court in its order on August 24, 2018 allowing Prasad to stay in RIMS for medical reasons had said that it should be done under judicial custody. He further alleged that rules are grossly violated in course of meeting of visitors with Prasad. The BJP spokesman said that rule 620 of Chapter 17 of the Bihar jail manual says that a written order from jail superintendent is needed for meeting a prisoner, but many of the visitors are coming to Prasad only on oral order. "Even no jail official is present during such meetings where politics are talked," he alleged. "The Jharkhand government is according status of state guest to Prasad instead of treating him like a prisoner," he added. When asked about the charge, Inspector General of Prisons Virendra Bhusan said that Prasad is in Director's bungalow with the permission of the district administration. The district administration takes decision about visitors to Prasad and other issues linked to it. On Jharkhand Health minister Banna Gupta meeting Prasad at RIMS recently, the IG told PTI-Bhasha that he had gone to inspect arrangements at Kelley's bungalow. Earlier, Bihar Deeputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi had alleged that ticket aspirants for Bihar election are openly meeting Prasad without any concern for rules. The BJP's ally JD(U) had alleged violation of the jail manual by allowing Prasad send a letter to Raghuvansh Prasad Singh asking him not to quit the party. Singh, the former union minister has died. The IG Prisons denied that the letter to Singh had political contents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-accuses-jharkhand-govt-of-according-state-guest-status-to-lalu-prasad-894432.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Turncoats have a field day in poll-bound Bihar||It was "aayaram gayaram" politics in Bihar on Monday when the ruling JD(U) as well as the opposition RJD claimed to have scored brownie points with the induction of turncoats into their respective folds. Rashtriya Janata Dal dealt a body blow to its renegade alliance partner Rashtriya Lok Samata Party when the latters state unit chief Bhudeo Chaudhary joined Lalu Prasads party. Prasads younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav inducted Chaudhary minutes after RLSP founding chief Upendra Kushwaha returned from the national capital where he is believed to have held parleys with top leaders of the BJP to facilitate his return to the NDA. Of late, Kushwaha had begun to strike notes of dissent and demanding a change in leadership of the Grand Alliance, holding that Yadav, a former Deputy Chief Minister who is 31 years of age, was no match to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, a veteran who heads the JD(U) and is aiming at his fourth consecutive term in office. Earlier, the RJD also inducted Lovely Anand, a former MP herself who is better known as the wife of Anand Mohan, a dreaded muscleman of the 1990s who is serving life sentence for the murder of an IAS officer. Anand reached Tejashwi Yadavs residence along with her son Chetan Anand, dropping ample hints that the son was being groomed to take over the political mantle from their parents. "We have reposed trust in the RJD because it is led by Tejashwi Yadav who represents the younger generation. Also, I will continue to fight for justice for my father who has been wrongly framed. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been paying lip service, expressing sympathy for Anand Mohan but doing little to facilitate his release", Anand said. Anand Mohan has been accused of instigating a mob, in Muzaffarpur district, in the early 1990s which lynched G Krishnaiah, who was then the District Magistrate of Gopalganj. A self-styled Robinhood of Mithilanchal region, Anand Mohan had come to Muzaffarpur to attend the funeral of Chhotan Shukla, another dreaded gangster with political clout, whose broad daylight murder had triggered angry outbursts from his community. On the other hand, the JD(U) welcomed into its fold Mohd Firoz Hussain, a 40 years old aspiring politician who made his electoral debut as an RJD candidate from Dehri assembly segment last year but lost to the BJP rival. Hussains father Ilyas Hussain is a veteran RJD leader who had served as a minister when Lalu Prasads party ruled the state. His conviction in the bitumen scam, in 2018, had led to his disqualification and necessitated the by-poll in the assembly segment which he had represented multiple times. Upon joining the JD(U), Hussain sung paeans to party president Nitish Kumar and his "transformative development of the state ever since assuming power in 2005". Meanwhile, "spoilers" continued to be at work in the state where the contest is essentially between the NDA and the Grand Alliance comprising RJD, Congress and, possibly, the Left. Pappu Yadav, another muscleman politician who has floated his own Jan Adhikar Party., announced the formation of an alternative front along with Chandrashekhar Azad Ravans Bhim Army. The development came less than a fortnight after AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi had announced formation of a United Democratic Secular Alliance in collaboration with Devendra Yadav, a veteran socialist leader from north Bihar who is now running a fledgling outfit Janata Dal (Democratic). Known as "vote katua" in local parlance, the spoilers have been known to queer the pitch for lead players in a tight contest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/turncoats-have-a-field-day-in-poll-bound-bihar-894444.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Punjab: SGPC passes Rs 981 crore annual budget||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the apex religious body of Sikhs, on Monday passed its annual budget of Rs 981 crore for the current fiscal. The budget of the SGPC, which manages the functioning of Sikh shrines and educational institutes under it, reduced by 18 per cent as during the 2019-20 financial year, it was Rs 1,205 crore. The budget was passed under the supervision of SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and presented by SGPC general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhammi. Dhammi informed that the committee has earmarked Rs 215 crore for educational institutions run by it, Rs 58 crore to promote religious activities, and Rs 577 crore for gurdwara management. Meanwhile, activists of the radical outfit, Dal Khalsa, held a protest demanding the resignation of the SGPC chief over the 328 missing copies of Guru Granth Sahib.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-sgpc-passes-rs-981-crore-annual-budget-894446.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Best performing Rajasthan univ to get 'Chancellor Medal'||The best performing state university in Rajasthan will now be conferred with a “Chancellor Medal”, an official statement said on Monday. It said Governor Kalraj Mishra took the initiative to set up the annual award for the best performing state university. The award will create a healthy competitive environment which will help the students and the universities develop in a better way, the statement said. The governor's secretary on Monday forwarded letters to the state universities seeking details pertaining to their governance, financial condition and activities like research, student development and innovation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/best-performing-rajasthan-univ-to-get-chancellor-medal-894469.html
28-09-2020||North and Central||Enraged over barking, farmer shoots dog dead in Indore; held||A farmer was arrested on Monday in Indore in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly shooting dead a dog after getting enraged over its continuous barking near his house, police said. The accused, Pankaj Shukla, used his licenced gun to shoot the dog on Saturday, an official said. On the basis of a complaint from Priyanshu Jain, local unit president of NGO People for Animals, Shukla was arrested under various sections of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Indian Penal Code, said Banganga police station in charge Rajendra Soni. "Shukla used his licenced gun to shoot the animal on Saturday, and the firearm and two empty cartridges have been recovered. We are writing to the district administration to cancel Shukla's gun licence," Soni said. Shukla told police that the dog used to bark near his home and it had bitten several people, though he could not give names or any other details of such incidents, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/enraged-over-barking-farmer-shoots-dog-dead-in-indore-held-894479.html
28-09-2020||Opinion||Modi's Vodafone loss gives India a stark choice||By Andy Mukherjee Strong states grow stronger by putting limits on their own power; weak states become weaker by descending into arbitrariness. India has to choose which it wants to be.That’s the message being given to New Delhi by an international arbitration tribunal in The Hague. The panel threw out the Indian government’s $3 billion tax demand against Vodafone Group Plc, finding it to be in breach of fair treatment under the country’s bilateral investment protection pact with the Netherlands, and awarded costs to the British telco. This ends a decade-old saga that tarnished India’s reputation among foreign investors. Rather than appealing the decision, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration should accept defeat, honor the award, and move on. While much of the blame for this mess belongs to the previous Congress Party-led coalition, Team Modi had six years to end the dispute. Ending “tax terror” was also his party’s promise in the 2014 election that brought Modi to power. If anything, reckless expansion of the state’s power — both in the economy and broader society — has become the norm since then. One hopes that this becomes a moment when Indian politicians of all hues will come together to say, “Yes, we bungled. We should never have amended the tax law retrospectively to go after Vodafone. It cost us more in prestige than we could hope to win.” The quarrel goes back to Vodafone’s 2007 purchase of Li Ka-shing’s India wireless business. The Hong Kong tycoon sold a Cayman Islands-based investment firm to the UK operator. That firm controlled, via other offshore entities, CK Hutchison Holdings Ltd.’s  67% stake in Hutchison Essar Ltd., the Indian unit. The taxman wanted a share of CK’s vast capital gains and asked Vodafone to settle the bill from the amount it had withheld from Li’s check. But Vodafone’s lawyers had advised that no tax was applicable. The dispute went to India’s Supreme Court, which held that the government’s tax jurisdiction didn’t extend to the Cayman Islands. Then came the ugly part. The Indian government’s 2012 budget retrospectively amended the tax code, giving itself the power to go after M&A deals all the way back to 1962 if the underlying asset was in India. The vindictiveness was targeted at Vodafone, but also ensnared the U.K.’s Cairn Energy Plc, which in 2006 had transferred ownership of its Rajasthan oil field, the country's biggest onshore discovery in two decades, to Cairn India Ltd., to prepare for the local unit’s initial public offering. What’s worse, the $4.3 billion final assessment order for Cairn Energy came in February 2016. By that time, Modi’s government had been in power for almost two years, giving it ample time to fulfill its promise of a non-adversarial tax regime. After Cairn disputed the levy, New Delhi expropriated its shares in Indian billionaire Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta Ltd., into which Cairn had merged the India unit. The government pocketed the dividends and then sold the stock. The application of the retrospective tax took a farcical turn when, around the Christmas holidays of 2016, a month after a draconian (and once again arbitrary) ban on 86% of the country’s banknotes, India began to instruct fund managers to withhold and pay taxes when investors made a profit selling units in offshore vehicles that had half or more of their investment in Indian securities. Thankfully, this impractical plan was dropped after it was pointed out that it would kill the India-focused funds industry. Cairn shares closed almost 13% higher in London on Friday. The Edinburgh-based company’s arbitration award is also expected soon. Investors have reason to be hopeful after it turned out that even India’s own nominee on the Vodafone tribunal rejected New Delhi’s claim. For Vodafone’s India unit, though, the victory is Pyrrhic. It’s now the victim of a different overreach: a life-threatening $7.8 billion demand for past use of airwaves. In a way, it’s good that data irregularities forced the World Bank to suspend its “Ease of Doing Business” survey, which saw India zoom past 79 nations between 2014 and 2019. The reality on the ground may be very different. Modi’s government didn’t invent the capricious Indian state, but it hasn’t lessened uncertainty or cut red tape. Neither for small startups, nor for large global investors. Appealing the Vodafone award will only mean that it’s once again failing to learn its lesson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modis-vodafone-loss-gives-india-a-stark-choice-894082.html
28-09-2020||Opinion||Too much theater, too little substance: The meaningless formality of US Presidential debates||The first column I ever wrote was about the April 2008 Democratic presidential debate between Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. It took place in the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia. The debate was a mess. As I wrote at the time: “The moderators spent about 40 minutes on a trite list of recriminations apparently intended to bait the candidates into a Jerry Springer-like brawl. Barack Obama was again asked to address the kerfuffle he caused by labeling rural voters ‘bitter’ and to explain his relationship with the frightening Reverend Wright, and Hillary Clinton was again pushed back on her heels for saying that she had ducked bullets in Bosnia.” I focused that column on the lack of discussion of environmental issues. Since then, I have covered many more presidential debates — sometimes writing about them, sometimes discussing them on television or social media. At one time, I was into the spectacle of it all as much as anyone else. I waited for the defining moments and the slip-ups, the best zingers and the worst flubs. But debates have come to be about sport and sparring rather than a true comparison of the relative readiness of the candidates. They are too much theater, too little substance. The debates test the performative aspect of leadership: stamina, mental agility, wit. Policy is discussed, but rarely if ever in greater depth than what the candidates have already published in some way. Times have changed. Candidates post their policy positions on their websites, readily accessible from voters’ phones. Furthermore, it’s not clear to what degree debates alter the trajectory of a race anyway. As John Sides wrote in Washington Monthly magazine in 2012: “That presidential debates can be ‘game changers’ is a belief almost universally held by political pundits and strategists. Political scientists, however, aren’t so sure. Indeed, scholars who have looked most carefully at the data have found that, when it comes to shifting enough votes to decide the outcome of the election, presidential debates have rarely, if ever, mattered.” Plus, nearly 900,000 Americans have already voted. And, according to CNN, there are “28 million ballots already requested and another 43 million set to be automatically mailed to voters.” Maybe there are true undecided voters who will use debate performance to make up their minds, but I simply do not believe this is a significant constituency. This election is already underway. People are already voting. Minds are already made up. For this reason, I’m not necessarily looking forward to Tuesday’s debate between Donald Trump and Joe Biden. Will it be entertaining? Likely. Will it change the contours of the race? Unlikely. These regular presidential debates are a relatively recent occurrence in American presidential politics. According to the Commission on Presidential Debates, “1948 and 1956 were the only public debates among presidential candidates prior to 1960.” Furthermore, there were no moderators in the 1948 debate. In fact, one of the most famous series of debates in history, the 1858 exchanges between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas that set the stage for Lincoln’s presidential run, had no moderator. In some ways, it is the moderators who complicate the debates, who add an extra element that is not always useful. One could argue that today’s candidates lack the decorum to pull off a no-moderator debate, but in some ways that would be the only way that they could engage each other on the topics they want to discuss, rather than those the moderators want them to discuss. For all these reasons, I’m not looking forward to Trump making a scene and telling lies. I’m not looking forward to the assessments of the moderators. I’m not looking forward to hype. We may learn things. We often do. And those things are worth learning. But, what is most important is policy and character. Indeed, we don’t need a debate. What will it really tell us that we don’t already know? What will it truly reveal? The debate will show us how the candidates converse and clash. It will show how they respond when attacked and how they recover — or not — when bruised. But none of this, at this late date, should be the determinant of how one votes. Trump is actively threatening to assault our democracy by refusing to say that he will accept the results of an election if he loses, by refusing to say that he would ensure a peaceful transfer of power from him to Biden. He is assaulting our democracy by undermining confidence in the election and by lying about mail-in voting, a necessity for many during a pandemic. Trump has done so much to degrade this country, to divide it, to destroy it, that there is nothing he can say or do during a debate to redeem himself. Debates are simply a formality, a modern ritual, one with far less meaning than people think. And this one will be even more useless. The choice is already clear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/too-much-theater-too-little-substance-the-meaningless-formality-of-us-presidential-debates-894095.html
28-09-2020||Opinion||An insensitive take on IPL’s weight-y issues||The pull off the front-foot, especially against an express pace bowler, is one of the most exhilarating sights on a cricket field. There is just the slightest transfer of weight as the bat comes down in a scything, horizontal arc. When executed flawlessly, it’s the stroke that breaks the heart of a fast bowler, more than any other. To charge in and bowl in excess of 140 kmph, and to then see the ball dismissively dispatched in front of mid-wicket, can be a particularly chastening experience. It requires a special skill to play the front-foot pull against sheer pace. The key ingredients to successful implementation all revolve around speed, ironically. The speed with which you pick up length. The speed with which you get into position. The speed with which the bat comes down so that it meets the ball at the top of its bounce, in a classic example of meeting fire with fire. Because of the positioning of the body in the execution of the shot, both the straight and square angles provide an unflattering picture if the batsman has anything less than the flattest of stomachs. It’s not the flatness of the stomach, mind, that facilitates the stroke. But the appearance of prosperity around the midriff is enough to set tongues wagging, as happened on the very first day of the Indian Premier League 2020. It was plain for all to see that not everyone was in the best physical shape. At so many levels, that was perfectly understandable, never mind if it didn’t make for the most edifying of images. Most of the Indian players were coming off lengthy, enforced absences from proper training facilities. For upwards of five months, several were left scrambling to improvise and customize their routines depending on what they could make do with. Certain body types can adapt to make-shift equipment, certain others need the paraphernalia that only fully-equipped gymnasia can offer. Three weeks of work, which could only steadily graduate to increasing degrees of difficulty for obvious reasons, can yield just that much result. As simple as that. For even retired professional sportspersons from other sport, therefore, to pass instant judgement based on physical appearance was certainly out of order. Would we like professional athletes to look the part, with no sign of attendant flab? Of course. Would these athletes themselves like that more than anyone else? Most certainly, goes without saying. But, at the end of the day, it’s not so much about looking fit alone as it is about being fit. Being fit to be able to discharge your responsibilities to the best possible extent. Or, in this instance, being cricket-fit. Not all fit-looking athletes are necessarily the fittest going around. More pertinently, the fitness required for one physical sport at the highest level doesn’t necessarily have to be the same for another. Despite its duration – the shortest game of cricket internationally lasts twice as long the regulation time of a football contest – cricket’s fitness demands are as unique as the sport itself. Physicality is a given, especially over the last couple of decades when the pace of the game has shot up exponentially. The advent of Twenty20 cricket has necessitated players to be quicker, stronger, nimbler and more agile so that they can be faster between the wickets and while chasing down balls in the outfield, more powerful in rifling in throws from the deep, and lithe and athletic in pulling off boundary-line catches that would leave a contortionist green with envy. Cricket’s very fabric demands mental fitness as much as it does its physical counterpart. A fit body helps in the process, it goes without saying, but it’s the fierce powers of concentration that allow a fielder to be equally switched on during the sixth playing hour of a day as he would have been at its very start. For all its recent explosiveness, cricket is more a skills rather than a power game. Citius, Altius, Fortius, the Olympic motto borrowed by Baron Pierre de Coubertin from the headmaster of a college in Paris, alone isn’t the bedrock on which cricketing edifices are built. Were that the case, beguiling spin would have disappeared from view a long while back. Admittedly, the sight of professional cricketers bursting at the seams, so to say, doesn’t make for a pretty picture. In the pre-pandemic era, ‘unfit looking’ cricketers were not a common sight. Indian cricket, especially, has come a long way in terms of both looking and being fit, driven as they are by their national captain who reinvented his lifestyle with fitness as the fulcrum a half-dozen years back. If, in these unprecedented times, there briefly are a few anachronistic throwbacks, they can do without the ridicule that’s becoming so shockingly commonplace. (R Kaushik is a Bangalore-based cricket writer with nearly three decades of experience)   Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/an-insensitive-take-on-ipl-s-weight-y-issues-894277.html
28-09-2020||Panorama||Govt must act to decommercialise health sector||I have got over the Covid-19 disease but not the shocks it created. Eight of our 10-member joint family had got afflicted from it. And our misfortune: the youngest of our brothers succumbed to the pandemic and the rest, like me, are safe. Achyuta Rao was dear, not only to all the family members and acquaintances but to many children, in the two Telugu speaking states, to protect whose rights he vowed to fight till his last breath and he kept his promise, no exaggeration! I am not detailing here on what he did as it falls outside the scope of this article. Our instant fear, after testing positive, was not about Covid per se but about facing the dreaded disease in the background of our poor healthcare system. Yes, our fears came true. When two of my brothers – including the one we lost – urgently needed hospitalisation, the actual trauma we experienced was much worse than what we had anticipated. Admitting the Covid patients into a hospital is not an easy task; the situation is not like: you call an emergency number and an ambulance appears at your doorsteps in good time and you get into a hospital where the medics take your full care and treat you with empathy. It needs a lot of effort to find a good hospital and enormous persuasion to get admitted into it; market forces principles of supply and demand strictly apply to health business and its profit maximisation approach becomes clearly visible when your need becomes compulsive like during Covid times.  Somehow, we could get both their admissions into two facilities of the same corporate hospital. But our ordeal did not end there. Things do not move fast enough, at the hospitals, to provide timely relief to the patients - procedures and financial matters take precedence over the patients’ health condition. We were asked to pay money in advance, before admitting and the beginning of every procedure and medication at the hospital.  The hospitalisation charges for seven days’ stay of my deceased brother was Rs 10 lakh. It would be higher by Rs 1,097.32 if the hospital were not generous enough to give that much discount in the end! The three days’ hospitalisation cost of the other brother was Rs 4.4 lakh! Given the state of our healthcare system, the hospital conditions could not be but hostile to the people. Before commenting on our healthcare system, let me detail my battle with Corona. I did not go to any hospital because of the fear of rejection there, ‘no room for a corona patient’ and the fear of inhospitable treatment at the hospitals. Fortunately, my ailment level was also not so dreadful as requiring inevitable hospitalisation although my family doctor on and off suggested of its impending need. It all began, during a midnight, with fever, chills and shaking, though for a brief spell. The temperature measured 102º F. The rapid test conducted next day shown me as Covid ‘positive’. The temperature continued unabated, peaked to 104.4º on the fifth day and settled at 103º for the next two days and turned normal from the eighth day. My sore throat which started mildly on Day-2, worsened and peaked on Day-3 when swallowing anything was a hell. But the pain started receding on Day 4 and totally disappeared on Day 5. The medicines my doctor gave were: 1. Azithromycin 500, 2. Dolo-650, 3. Levocet-M; 4. Vitamin-C, 5. Zincovit, 6. Fluvir, 7. Fabiflu, and Vit D3 60K. When the temperature was at its highest, 104.4, on the fifth day, the doctor gave me a course of Dexamethasone 6 mg/day. The first dose of this medicine caused some nausea but fortunately subsided with eating a clove. This was followed by a five-day course of Methylprednisolone – starting with a daily dose of 40 mg and tapering it off to 8 mg on the fifth day. So, the medicines given can be classified to include, antiviral, antibiotic, antipyretic, antihistamine, steroids and some vitamins. My diet included plenty of fruit, vegetables, curds and an egg a day and the other usual stuff. Consumed a lot of lemons, drank lukewarm water and regularly used steam inhalation during the first few days. Also, I kept ready with me a pulse oximeter and a thermometer to keep tracking my temperature and oxygen saturation levels. My oxygen saturation levels had been around 95 most of the time and never went below 90-92 making it compulsory to get admitted into a hospital. These are only my experiences and I don’t recommend to anyone to exactly follow what I did because the symptoms and treatment choices need not be the same for every Covid affected. The best thing is to follow your doctor’s advice.  New policies no solace!  The nexus between corporate hospitals, pharma companies and doctors have increased the risks and costs of healthcare to such an extent that millions of middle-class Indians descend into poverty when they fall sick; every year, more than 3.5 crore people fall below the poverty line due to illness. Unfortunately, the so-called health sector reforms do not address the root cause for the malady – commercialisation of the sector. The recently launched Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana-Ayushman Bharat (PMJAY-Ayushman Bharat), too, cannot be a substitute for universal healthcare. Similarly, the recently launched National Digital Health Mission and the National Health ID, which is going to be a repository of health-related information of the people, is unlikely to bring any positive changes in the healthcare system. If at all, the information will help the medical insurance companies to design their tariff policies and to reduce their risk, which means increasing the premium costs for users. Hope the Covid wrought destruction and the resultant indignation of the people would now make the governments rethink and act to decommercialise the health sector. Bringing in a universal healthcare system free from commercial insurance interest is not the government’s magnanimity but it is its duty since the health protection is people’s fundamental right under Article 21 as held by the Supreme Court. So, to act quickly is the government’s duty and not to act amounts to its continued dereliction. (The writer is a development economist and commentator on economic and social affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/govt-must-act-to-decommercialise-health-sector-894033.html
28-09-2020||Panorama||How do children fight off coronavirus?||Why the coronavirus affects children much less severely than adults has become an enduring mystery of the pandemic. The vast majority of children do not get sick; when they do, they usually recover. The first study to compare the immune response in children with that in adults suggests a reason for children’s relative good fortune. In children, a branch of the immune system that evolved to protect against unfamiliar pathogens rapidly destroys the coronavirus before it wreaks damage on their bodies, according to the research, published this week in Science Translational Medicine. “The bottom line is, yes, children do respond differently immunologically to this virus, and it seems to be protecting the kids,” said Dr. Betsy Herold, a pediatric infectious disease expert at Albert Einstein College of Medicine who led the study. In adults, the immune response is much more muted, she and her colleagues found. When the body encounters an unfamiliar pathogen, it responds within hours with a flurry of immune activity, called an innate immune response. The body’s defenders are quickly recruited to the fight and begin releasing signals calling for backup. Children more often encounter pathogens that are new to their immune systems. Their innate defense is fast and overwhelming. Over time, as the immune system encounters pathogen after pathogen, it builds up a repertoire of known villains. By the time the body reaches adulthood, it relies on a more sophisticated and specialized system adapted to remembering and fighting specific threats. If the innate immune system resembles emergency responders first on the scene, the adaptive system represents the skilled specialists at the hospital. The adaptive system makes sense biologically because adults rarely encounter a virus for the first time, said Dr. Michael Mina, a pediatric immunologist at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Epidemiology in Boston. But the coronavirus is new to everyone, and the innate system fades as adults grow older, leaving them more vulnerable. In the time it takes for an adult body to get the specialized adaptive system up and running, the virus has had time to do harm, Herold’s research suggests. She and her colleagues compared immune responses in 60 adults and 65 children and young adults under the age of 24, all of whom were hospitalized at the Montefiore Medical Center in New York City from March 13 to May 17. The patients included 20 children with multisystem inflammatory syndrome, the severe and sometimes deadly immune overreaction linked to the coronavirus. Overall, the children were only mildly affected by the virus, compared with adults, mostly reporting gastrointestinal symptoms like diarrhea and a loss of taste or smell. Only five children needed mechanical ventilation, compared with 22 of the adults; two children died, compared with 17 adults. Children had much higher blood levels of two particular immune molecules, interleukin 17A and interferon gamma, the researchers found. The molecules were most abundant in the youngest patients and decreased progressively with age. “We think that is protecting these younger children, particularly from severe respiratory disease, because that’s really the major difference between the adults and the kids,” Herold said. In some adult Covid-19 patients, she added, the lack of a strong early response also may be setting off an intense and unregulated adaptive reaction that may lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome and death. All viruses have tricks to evade the innate immune system, and the coronavirus is particularly adept. Produced early in the course of infection, interleukin 17A may help children thwart the virus’ attempts to evade the innate response and to ward off the later adaptive response. “We think that also protects them from sort of making the more vigorous adaptive immune response that’s associated with that hyper-inflammation,” Herold said. Other experts said the study was well done but suffered — as most studies of the coronavirus do — from enrolling patients too late in the infection. The innate immune response is set off hours after exposure to a pathogen, but people generally don’t come to the hospital until about a week after infection with the coronavirus, when symptoms are severe, said Akiko Iwasaki, an immunologist at Yale University. That’s too late to study how the innate immune system responds to the virus, she said, adding, “By the time people are sick, it’s way past that time point.” Still, the new data negate a couple of popular theories about why children are protected from the virus, she said. Some scientists have suspected that children may fare better because they tend to have had more recent exposure to coronaviruses that cause common colds, which might offer them some protection. But the new study found no significant differences in the immune responses to those viruses between the groups, Iwasaki noted. Another theory held that children generate a stronger antibody response that clears the virus more efficiently than in adults. But the new study found that the sickest older people actually produced the most powerful antibodies. That result may confirm a nagging worry among researchers: that the presence of those potent antibodies contributes to the illness in adults, instead of helping them fight the virus — a phenomenon called antibody-dependent enhancement. Vaccine manufacturers are carefully monitoring trial subjects for signs of this problem. “That’s a theme that everybody’s been dancing around,” said Dr. Jane C. Burns, a pediatric infectious disease expert at University of California, San Diego. “Is it possible that high titers of some antibodies actually are bad for you, as opposed to good for you?” Researchers also must learn what happens in children after the initial immune surge, Burns said. Children produce a strong immune response, but their bodies must turn it off quickly after the danger has passed. If this virus becomes endemic, like the coronaviruses causing common colds, children eventually will develop adaptive defenses so strong that they will not experience the problems that adults are having now, Mina said. “We will eventually age out of this virus.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-do-children-fight-off-coronavirus-894034.html
28-09-2020||Right in the Middle||A birthday bash||“Tomorrow is my birthday, I am thinking of skipping work”, my neighbour said.  “How do you wish to celebrate it?” I asked the forty-year-old man. “I guess I will relax by getting up late, go to a Chinese restaurant, watch a movie, and spend time with my friends after cutting a cake,” he replied. This reply triggered some memories. I remembered the birthdays I used to celebrate as a child. My mother would ask me what I wanted to eat and would cook that dish for me. She would spend a few days bent over a sewing machine, and stitch a dress and in the morning, she would wake me up early, and do “aarthi”. After an ‘oil bath’, she would light a lamp and ask me to pray. I would distribute candy to my classmates, and in the evening call all my friends in the neighbourhood and give them the special sweet that my mother had prepared.  In those days, no one knew of eating out or cutting cakes. Everything was freshly prepared with love and labour. Birthdays were busy days, we needed to take the blessings of the elders, pray and make a resolution for that year. It’s amazing to see the evolution of this homely affair to one that employs gigantic industries. Today people come up with novel ideas to celebrate the day. Arranging for a clown, a puppet show, magic show, movie, conducting orchestras, booking a swimming pool, boating etc. People celebrate on aeroplanes, hot air balloons, cruises etc.  Birthdays have become big business not just for card companies, but also for other businesses. People not only celebrate children’s birthdays, but there are also special events organised when one turns eighteen, twenty-one, forty and fifty. It is not uncommon to see people celebrating even pet birthdays. The dog wears designer clothes, a ribbon with a bow dog and a cake cutting ceremony follows--feeding the dog first and then the guests!  I have seen kids bringing a ‘loot bag’ after a party and dumping it as if they were not happy with the contents. What a colossal waste! Parents spend sleepless nights planning birthdays. The day is not far when one would plan a trip to the moon or a spacecraft for a birthday! Whatever way we celebrate it, birthdays are when we are grateful to God and our parents for bringing us into this world. Remembering them and saying thanks by doing charity should be a part of this celebration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-birthday-bash-894032.html
28-09-2020||Second Edit||Moral policing by Karnataka BJP chief||In what is a clear case of moral policing, BJP Karnataka unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel has demanded that all pubs be shut down in Mangaluru, the main city in the constituency he represents in Lok Sabha, as they are “spoiling” the youth.  Addressing party workers, Kateel who took pride in stopping the operation of clubs earlier, cautioned that if the government does not act, he would urge the youth wing of the party to take legal action. Coming as it does from the state chief of the ruling party, the warning cannot be dismissed lightly as direct action by vigilante groups is all too familiar in this district, be it the attack on a pub, or a homestay on the grounds that youngsters from two different communities were violating “Indian culture” by partying together. Kateel’s statement on pubs which appears to be an indirect prod to such elements to take law into their own hands is despicable and deserves to be condemned. While the sale and consumption of alcohol are not prohibited in Karnataka, the Constitution gives every citizen the right to pursue the vocation of his choice as long as it is legal. The liquor industry employs thousands of people and generates business worth millions, not to mention that the excise revenue accrued to the state exchequer is to the tune of around Rs 20,000 crore annually. A legally run business cannot be told to wind up, that too by a lawmaker, because he believes it is 'bad for the youth’. Youngsters, especially women who are the targets of vigilante groups, are perfectly capable of managing their lives and nobody has the right to impose their regressive mindsets on them.  What people eat or drink is their personal choice. By indulging in moral policing, Kateel is doing great injustice to coastal districts, once considered progressive due the large number of educational institutions and entrepreneurial spirit of the local population, but now seen as a hub of rabid communalism perpetuated by fringe elements. Mangaluru which is strategically located with a harbour and proximity to Mumbai could have emerged as one of the biggest commercial centres of the South, but the fair name of the coastal districts is so sullied by self-appointed conscience keepers of the society that business houses would think twice before investing there. Vigilantism has emerged as the biggest curse of the coast and if the reputation of the region has to be salvaged and once again made attractive to investors, Kateel and his ilk need to watch their words and actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/moral-policing-by-karnataka-bjp-chief-894030.html
28-09-2020||South||DH Radio | The Lead: IPS officer turned politician K Annamalai on the political landscape ahead||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, K Annamalai talks about politics in Tamil Nadu, his views on Hindi imposition and more.    E T B Sivapriyan: What is the difference between being an IPS officer and a politician, according to you, because both are involved in doing service to the people? K Annamalai: There is a lot of difference and it is almost like chalk and cheese. An IPS officer has a clear set of guidelines and he has to go by the law and implement it. As a politician the roles are very different and first of all we belong to a political party with a certain ideology. Secondly, the party is for everybody. The ecosystem of politics is entirely different, the thought process is different, and we got to balance the needs of everyone. And at the same time, we have to balance the country’s needs and need to be futuristic in our politics also. Politics is a slightly different cup of tea and not every time we look at efficiency and in politics, we have a word called efficacy. Sivapriyan: It has been a month since you joined the BJP. Which according to you is difficult – being a politician or being an IPS officer? Annamalai: Both are tough, extremely tough jobs. A police officer has to take risks head on and in a country like India where the system is imperfect, a police officer, unlike other professions, has to bear the brunt of what he is doing. When you are in the field, and you do not know when people will throw stones at you and invariably the leader has to lead the force. That is a different set of challenges, and we have got to lead a team with different sets of constables, sub-inspectors, and inspectors and people have different mindset. If you look at politics, as I said, it is an entirely different cup of tea. Both are equally tough and challenging. Tune in to the podcast to know more about the conversation. Deccan Herald's podcasts are now available on your favourite podcast platforms including Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, and many more. Do subscribe to our Podcast there! Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dh-radio-the-lead-ips-officer-turned-politician-k-annamalai-on-the-political-landscape-ahead-894040.html
28-09-2020||South||Telangana sees 1,378 new Covid-19 cases; 7 deaths push toll to 1,107||Telangana recorded 1,378 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 1,87,211, while the death toll rose to 1,107 with seven more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) saw 254 fresh cases, followed by Rangareddy (110), Karimnagar (78), Medchal Malkajgiri (73), Siddipet (61) and other districts, a state government bulletin said on Monday, providing data as of 8 pm on September 27. The bulletin said 35,465 samples were tested on September 27, a dip compared to more than 50,000 samples tested every day usually. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 28,86,334. The samples tested per million population was 77,743, the bulletin said. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,56,431, while 29,673 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 83.55 per cent, while it was 82.53 per cent in the country, it said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.59 per cent, while it was 1.57 per cent at the national level, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-sees-1378-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-push-toll-to-1107-894121.html
28-09-2020||South||Special NIA court sentences Subahani Haja Moideen to life in prison over ISIS links||A Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi has sentenced Subahani Haja Moideen to life imprisonment. He was arrested by the NIA  for allegedly supporting the activities of the terror outfit Islamic State (ISIS). The court also fined him of Rs 2.10 lakh.  Kerala: Special NIA court in Kochi sentences Subahani Haja Moideen, to life imprisonment. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly supporting the activities of the terror outfit Islamic State (ISIS). Court also fined him of Rs 2,10,000. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/special-nia-court-sentences-subahani-haja-moideen-to-life-in-prison-over-isis-links-894129.html
28-09-2020||South||Nearly 77,000 security personnel tested Covid-19 positive, 401 succumbed till August 21||As many as 76,768 police personnel all over the country including paramilitary forces such as CRPF, CISF, BSF and NSG tested positive for Covid-19 while 401 succumbed to the killer virus, according to a report by the Bureau of Police Research and Development. The report (compiled till August 21) titled Indian Police Response to Covid-19 Crisis said, Maharashtra topped the chart with 129 deaths due to Covid-19 and 12,760 positive cases among the police personnel. Telangana was in second place with 40 deaths due to the virus. Out of the over 75,000 positive cases, paramilitary forces accounted for 15,318 infections with Central Reserve Police Force leading the table with 5,467 cases and 24 deaths in the category. Digital tools were used by Telangana police to combat the spread of the coronavirus and maintain the public order and safety, it said adding the city police extensively used multimedia platforms to curb misinformation, fake news and rumours, the report which was released last week said. A camera-based detection of mask violations was done at various locations in the city. The systems provided the heat map of violations to understand and assess the areas of non-compliances and initiate corrective measures. The city police used crowd analytics with CCTV footage to identify the public gatherings beyond permissible limits besides using Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system to check vehicles in violation and generate challans and seizure of the automobiles if required, the report said. "Under a pioneering initiative of Rachakonda police in partnership with Tata Institute of Social Sciences, nearly 10,669 workers were interviewed personally and the requirements were assessed. Wherever interventions were required, they were provided with dry ration kits, medicines, health check ups specially to sick and pregnant women, water supply, rental issues with owners etc," the report pointed out. Lauding the efforts put in by the Andhra Pradesh police, the report said the technological advances that were brought in the police department during the previous few months served them during the pandemic. Launch of Disha app, women police stations, setting up labs and other technical units placed the state police on a firm footing to handle the crisis and made the police stand out at the national level||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nearly-77000-security-personnel-tested-covid-19-positive-401-succumbed-till-august-21-894163.html
28-09-2020||South||Congress, allies stage protests against farm laws in Puducherry||The ruling Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance staged demonstrations in Puducherry and Karaikal on Monday condemning the three Farm Reforms Bills the NDA government at the Centre had passed amid protests by opposition parties recently in Parliament. Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, legislators belonging to the ruling Congress and ally DMK, leaders and workers of the Left parties and other constituents of the alliance participated in the agitations. The participants including the Chief Minister were seen wearing masks and also adhered to safety norms while taking part in the demonstration at the head post office. The participants alleged the three Bills were "utterly injurious to farmers" and would give the upperhand to affluent farmers and big corporates to rule the roost, striking at the root of the well-being of the small and medium farmers. They also wanted the Centre to roll back the Bills without delay. Demonstrations were held in Karaikal with the Agriculture Minister R Kamalakannan and the DMK local leader A M H Nazeem attending, Congress sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-allies-stage-protests-against-farm-laws-in-puducherry-894183.html
28-09-2020||South||Kerala woman loses twins after being turned away by hospitals; govt orders probe||A pregnant woman was allegedly denied timely medical treatment at hospitals in north Kerala while she was in labour, resulting in the loss of twin babies she was carrying. Taking serious note of the incident, the state government on Monday ordered a high-level probe. The 20-year old woman hailing from Kondotty in Malappuram district was taken to three hospitals after she complained of labour pain in the wee hours on Saturday. Finally, she was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here in a serious condition on Saturday evening. She lost her twin babies on Sunday while being treated at the hospital. The woman, who continues to be in serious condition, is being treated at the intensive care unit of the Government Medical College Hospital, sources said. Describing the incident as "very painful", state Health Minister K K Shailaja directed the Principal Secretary (Health) to submit a report after conducting an inquiry. The government also assured stringent action against those who allegedly denied timely treatment to the pregnant woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-loses-twins-after-being-turned-away-by-hospitals-govt-orders-probe-894184.html
28-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu elections 2021: Amid EPS-OPS showdown, AIADMK buys time till Oct 7 for decision on CM candidate||Knives were out in the ruling AIADMK at its Executive Committee meeting on Monday with barbs being exchanged between Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam. The heated exchange of words led to postponement of the decision on the party’s Chief Ministerial candidate for the 2021 assembly polls yet again.  After a marathon five-hour discussion, AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munuswamy announced that the Chief Ministerial candidate will be announced by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami jointly on October 7. However, there were indications that there was a possibility of the decision being postponed on the aforementioned date as well, sources told Deccan Herald.  The sources said the majority of the party's district secretaries and ministers supported EPS, but OPS got the decision postponed yet again. The two leaders have been fighting with each other to be the party’s CM candidate and senior leaders have been trying to arrive at a consensus for the past two months but in vain. “Since a majority said a decision needs to be taken on the question of the CM candidate immediately, it was proposed to take a call in 10 days, and we zeroed in on October 7 for the meeting. Wait for that day,” a senior leader said, adding that three leaders from each side will meet “very soon” to arrive at a resolution. The meeting was a “stormy affair” with supporters of Palaniswami insisting that a decision on the Chief Ministerial candidate be taken immediately, while Panneerselvam questioned the CM’s reluctance in appointing a steering committee to run party affairs. At one point, Panneerselvam, the sources said, pointed out that he was “handpicked” by late J Jayalalithaa for the Chief Minister’s post twice, while Palaniswami was V K Sasikala’s choice. “The Chief Minister responding saying both were the choice of Sasikala,” a senior leader said, adding that the meeting was inconclusive. Panneerselvam is also understood to have told the meeting that he agreed to hold the post of Deputy Chief Minister only for the “current term” and sought his pound of flesh.  Leaders owing allegiance to Palaniswami, who has managed to run the government for over 3.5 years, said the Chief Minister should be declared as the “party’s face” for the 2021 assembly elections for keeping the party united. The impending release of Sasikala from a Bengaluru jail is also believed to have come up for discussions during the meeting. Some leaders, the sources said, suggested that Palaniswami and Panneerselvam should sit together and sort out their differences and come to a decision. Panneerselvam, though sidelined and having lost majority of his supporters, trying to assert his authority is significant given that he has opened a line of communication with AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala, for a patch-up. Deccan Herald had on September 24 reported that Panneerselvam, who rebelled against Sasikala in February 2017 before she surrendered before authorities at the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru, has dialed Dhinakaran in a bid to contain Palaniswami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-elections-2021-amid-eps-ops-showdown-aiadmk-buys-time-till-oct-7-for-decision-on-cm-candidate-894190.html
28-09-2020||South||Farmers in Karnataka stage protests against amendments to Land Reforms Act, APMC Act||Pro-farmer organisations backed by a number of other social and political outfits on Monday staged protests across Karnataka over the amendments to the APMC and land reforms act The demonstrations were against two important amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act passed by the Karnataka Assembly despite strong objection by the opposition parties, mainly the Congress and JD(S). The amendment to the KLR Act lifts restrictions on purchasing agricultural land and enables any individual to purchase it. Earlier, the law permitted only the farmers to purchase agricultural land in the state. The repeal of certain provisions in the APMC Act through an amendment allows private players to directly purchase agriculture produce from farmers, which was prohibited earlier. The protesters alleged that these laws will ruin the agriculture sector as people with moneybags will purchase agricultural land to convert their black money into white and turn agriculture land into real estate business. The farmers alleged that the amendment to the APMC Act will deprive them of the minimum support price and enable multinational companies and big corporate houses to directly procure produce at their rates. The call for a bandh given by the Karnataka Raitha Sangha (Karnataka Farmers' Association) and other farmer organisations is supported by the Congress, JD(S), Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) and the Left parties. The protests were staged at important locations in Bengaluru, Ramanagara, Mandya, Mysuru, Chamarajanagara, Kolar, Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru, Ballari, Raichur, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Vijayapura, Bagalkote, Bidar, Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dharwad and Davangere among others. Ignoring the coronavirus fear, farmers came on the roads in groups, raised slogans, took out bike rallies, burnt tyres in protest on the road and staged sit-in demonstrations. At many places, the demonstrators courted arrest. In Bengaluru, farmers and KRV members including its chief T A Narayana Gowda took out a rally and tried to stop buses when they were arrested. Protests were held at various places including Mysuru Bank circle, Town Hall, Yelahanka and Ballari Road in the city. The Congress, which has extended support to the protests, said it will stage a demonstration in front of its office on Race Course Road in Bengaluru. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday had appealed to the protestors not to create unnecessary confusion over the amendments. Stating that he had spoken to leaders of farmers organisations, Yediyurappa said his government's stand and the expectations of the Prime Minister were in favour of the farmers. Revenue Minister R Ashoka had said there would be no scope for the bandh from the government side. As there was a crackdown on the protesters, AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, Randeep Singh Surjewala, asked the Chief Minister to repeal the 'draconian amendments' instead of banning the bandh. "Dear B S Yediyurappa ji, Instead of banning the Farmers #Karnataka Bandh, 'ban' & 'banish' the anti farmer- labourer mindset. Withdraw the law & apologise for the blatant sell out by BJP on Land Reforms Bill. Repeal the draconian amendments to APMC Act. This is your litmus test!" he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farmers-in-karnataka-stage-protests-against-amendments-to-land-reforms-act-apmc-act-894214.html
28-09-2020||South||Kerala's 'Chota Rafi' lauded for rendition of maestro Mohammed Rafi's songs||A 23-year-old medical student from Kerala has become a sensation after his rendition of Mohammed Rafi's songs was widely appreciated and shared by scores of music lovers including noted personalities like Shankar Mahadevan and Anand Mahindra. The young singer, Saurav Kishan, has also been termed 'Chota Rafi' and 'new Rafi', earning him over 20,000 subscribers on YouTube. Hailing from Kerala's Kozhikode district, Kishan is an MBBS student who was studying in China but had to resort to online classes after being held up in his house owing to Covid-19. Owing to his passion for music, he used to sing popular songs and share it with his friends. It was based on a request from a social media group that he shared his rendition of Mohammed Rafi's popular song 'Teri aankhon ke siva' a couple of weeks ago. It created a sensation on social media with many noted personalities sharing it and appreciating him.  Anand Mahindra tweeted: "We have been waiting for decades for a new Mohammed Rafi. It sounds as if we may have to wait no longer... I couldn’t switch this clip off..." Kishan told DH that the appreciation from noted personalities has been the biggest recognition for his songs. "Now I am receiving more requests to render more Mohammed Rafi songs and share on social media. I've already done seven songs and shared amidst the MBBS studies and the appreciation is motivating me to do more," he said. Kishan has been focusing on Mohammed Rafi's songs on popular music composer Johnson's advice after he came across his rendition of a song by the legendary singer. Kishan now knows about 800 Mohammed Rafi songs by heart. The MBBS student, who got into Carnatic and Hindustani music during his childhood days, was pushed into the world of music by his grandparents. He has also participated in several competitions and has performed in various parts of India and abroad. Asked if he would wish to focus on the medical profession or music in the future, Saurav said he wished to take both ahead, parallelly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-chota-rafi-lauded-for-rendition-of-maestro-mohammed-rafis-songs-894263.html
28-09-2020||South||Jagan govt to dig free borewells, provide motors to needy farmers in Andhra Pradesh||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday introduced two farming support schemes costing about Rs 4000 crore. Under the scheme named 'YSR Jala Kala', borewells would be dug free of cost in the arid and uplands for needy farmers with an expenditure of Rs 2,340 crore over four years. The scheme, which will benefit around two lakh farmers, is expected to bring five lakh acres under cultivation through groundwater irrigation. YSR Jala Kala will be implemented in 144 rural constituencies and 19 semi-urban constituencies of the state by stationing one rig in each constituency. Reddy has also announced that free motors to pump water will be provided for the small and marginal farmers, a scheme that would cost Rs 1,600 crore. Speaking during the virtual launch on Monday from his camp office in Tadepalli, the Chief Minister said that he was extending the free motors scheme even though it was not part of the public promises he had made during his 3,648-km election padayatra in the state before the 2019 polls. The drilling of borewells will be carried out scientifically on the basis of the feasibility reports given after the hydrogeological and geophysical surveys. The farmers can also avail a second chance, in case of a failure to draw water in the first attempt. All the eligible farmers can use this initiative by applying either online or through the village secretariats. The status of their application can be monitored at every stage. The CM said that the new electricity meters to be installed (by the state government as per the Centre’s recent reform guidelines), would not burden the farmers. “The bill amount for the power consumed for farming purposes would be transferred to the ryots’ bank accounts and they can pay the same to the power distribution companies,” Reddy said while brushing aside the opposition charges. Reddy further stated that 10,000 MW of power in the form of solar energy is being brought in use in the state to aid the nine-hour per day free power scheme for the next 30 years. Recalling that the free farm power was initiated by his father, former Chief Minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy, Jaganmohan asserted that the YSRCP government is committed to farmers’ welfare. The CM reminded that his government had introduced the Rythu Bharosa Kendras to facilitate farmers with seeds, fertilizers, and also to operate as warehouses and crop procurement centers. “Besides, the government is providing Rs 13,500 annually for every farmer family under the YSR Rythu Bharosa (the farm incentive scheme)”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-govt-to-dig-free-borewells-provide-motors-to-needy-farmers-in-andhra-pradesh-894275.html
28-09-2020||South||Telangana Congress protests against farm law||The Congress in Telangana on Monday staged a protest against the farm bills which were recently passed in Parliament and urged the President to withdraw them. State Congress leaders and the new AICC in-charge for party affairs in Telangana Manickam Tagore sought to submit a memorandum to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at the Raj Bhavan here. However, they were taken into custody and shifted to Goshamahal police station in the city, as they did not have an appointment with the Governor, when they began proceeding to the Raj Bhavan from an adjacent government guest house, police said. They were released by police later. The Congress leaders raised slogans against the NDA government at the Centre and the TRS government in Telangana before being taken away in a van. Addressing the gathering before proceeding to Raj Bhavan, state Congress president and MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy claimed they were not being allowed to go up to the Raj Bhavan gate though they sought to submit a memorandum to an official in the Governor's office (in the absence of an appointment with the Governor). The Congress sought the withdrawal of the farm bills in the memorandum which was addressed to the President. Agriculture would be thrown into a crisis because of the farm bills, the Congress alleged in the memorandum whose Telugu translation was released to the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-congress-protests-against-farm-law-894281.html
28-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan writes to PM Modi seeking Bharat Ratna for late singing legend SPB||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has sought the Bharat Ratna award for late singing legend SP Balasubrahmanyam. The illustrious playback singer, music composer, actor breathed his last on Friday in a hospital in Chennai after battling Covid-19 and other ailments for over 50 days. On Monday, Reddy wrote to Modi listing out SPB’s achievements in a distinguished career of over five decades, making the case for the conferment of the highest civilian honor posthumously on SPB. SP Balu was awarded the Padma Shri in 2001 and Padma Bhushan in 2011. In 2016, SPB was honored with the Silver Peacock Medal as the Indian Film Personality of the year. “As a tribute to the legendary singer for his outstanding contribution in the field of music and art, I request you to confer Bharat Ratna award upon him. This will be the highest recognition of his remarkable work which lasted for five decades and stays in our memory forever,” Reddy stated.   Music stalwarts MS Subbulakshmi, Bismillah Khan, Bhimsen Joshi, Bhupen Hazarika, and Lata Mangeshkar were earlier conferred the Bharat Ratna by the government of India.   “Our state – Andhra Pradesh – is fortunate for being the birthplace (Nellore) of the great music maestro SP Balasubrahmanyam,” the CM said. “His untimely departure not only caused much distress to fans, celebrities in India but has also affected the international music fraternity.” SPB has sung over 40,000 tracks in his mother tongue Telugu and Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam, Hindi, and other languages. He won six national film awards as the best male playback singer, 25 Nandi awards from the Andhra Pradesh government for his work in the Telugu cinema, and numerous such awards from other states too like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu. The unending saga of his staggering achievements goes beyond music. With his unparalleled talent SPB has lifted compositions to sublime levels, Reddy said.         On Sunday, Telugu Desam Party chief and former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu demanded the Jaganmohan Reddy government to establish a music university in Nellore and institute a national award in commemoration of Balasubrahmanyam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-writes-to-pm-modi-seeking-bharat-ratna-for-late-singing-legend-spb-894291.html
28-09-2020||South||Chennai’s Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex reopens after four-month shutdown due to coronavirus||Four months after it was shut down due to its emergence as a “super-spreader” of the novel coronavirus, the sprawling Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) reopened on Monday with stringent safety measures in place. The KWMC, the largest in Asia, was closed down on May 5, 2020, and the market functioned from a makeshift complex on the outskirts of the city for the past four months. Following relaxation of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government had last month announced phased reopening of the market – the food grains market is functioning since September 18. The market was shut down after it became a major Covid-19 cluster as thousands of people converged there every day to buy vegetables during the first two phases of the lockdown. The market complex, which is spread over nearly 70 acres, came to life once again on Sunday evening as hundreds of vehicle came from across the state to unload vegetables. The government has, for now, allowed only 196 wholesale shops to function and has earmarked timings for vehicles to enter the complex for unloading and to load vegetables from the market. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which maintains the KWMC, has spruced up the entire complex by installing CCTV cameras, erecting new sheds and other facilities to ensure that the rules are followed. Entry of auto rickshaws and two-wheelers have been banned inside the complex, while entry and exit of vehicles will be regulated.    Additional security personnel have been posted to check the body temperature of those entering the complex using thermal scanners and the CMDA has installed sanitisers at vantage points to enable people to clean their hands. Arrangements have also been made to collect swab samples of traders and workers. “We allow only 50 vehicles inside the complex at once and disinfectant is sprayed on every vehicle that will enter the market. Unloading of vegetables will be allowed only from 6 pm to 12 am after which vehicles that come to take the supplies from here will be allowed,” a CMDA official said. Abdul Khader, secretary of Koyambedu Vegetable Wholesale Merchants’ Association, told Deccan Herald that the government should allow other shops also to function shortly so that the prices of vegetables come down considerably. “We agree with the government that safety measures should be given priority. We have instructed all wholesale traders to wear face masks and keep hand sanitisers prominently at their shops. We are happy with the arrangements done by the government, but we want all shops to open,” he added. However, there were complaints that physical distancing and other rules were not being followed. Another trader said the prices of vegetables would come down considerably in the next few days as the KWMC can accommodate more lorries when compared to the makeshift complex. “Already the prices of vegetables have come down and it will slide down further once the market here gets fully functional. The more the supplies we get, the more the prices will reduce,” he said.   The market consists of over 3,000 shops and employs 15,000 labourers, while the footfall is estimated to over 50,000 every day. The market complex, huge in size with 18 entry and exit points, was inaugurated in 1996 after which all wholesale vendors shifted here from the over-crowded market in the narrow lanes of Kothavalasavadi in the city. Since then, Koyambedu is the go-to place for any vegetable wholesale vendor in Tamil Nadu. It will not be an exaggeration to say that the market never sleeps as it is abuzz with some activity or the other round-the-clock. Koyambedu is one of the largest perishable markets in Asia, generating crores of rupees in revenue every day, as vegetables, fruits, and flowers are sold in tons. Supplies for the wholesale market come from across Tamil Nadu, neighbouring states like Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Telangana and even from far-away Maharashtra and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-s-koyambedu-wholesale-market-complex-reopens-after-four-month-shutdown-due-to-coronavirus-894333.html
28-09-2020||South||Allow us to grieve father’s death: SPB’s son makes an emotional appeal||S P Charan, son of late playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, on Monday, made an emotional appeal to those spreading “rumours” on the celebrity’s death to allow them to grieve his father’s death. He also said that the hospital refused to take money from the family when they asked for pending bills before transferring the mortal remains of the singer to his residence. Maintaining that the financial transactions between the family and the hospital were confidential, Charan refuted reports that the hospital refused to release his father’s body until the balance amount was paid. Charan maintained that SPB’s family was consulted at every stage on the late singer’s treatment protocol and that “we were and are happy” about the hospital stay. “After my father passed away, our accountant went and asked for the pending bills so that he can make the payment. But the hospital management told them they will not accept any money…We have been paying the bills every week and one portion of the treatment was covered by insurance,” he said. Charan was addressing a press conference along with doctors from MGM Healthcare, where SPB was treated for Covid-19 for 52 days after social media was flooded with messages that the family could not mobilise the balance amount to be paid to the hospital which had “refused to release the body” without making the payment. On Sunday, Charan had dismissed the messages as “hogwash” and had appealed to the people not to spread such rumours which were “hurtful.” He also contacted Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan to clarify whether the state government’s offer of “any help” included financial assistance too. “It has just been three days and we have been forced to come and clarify these things. Allow us to mourn…Do I take care of my mother or keep clarifying about rumours that keep coming on the social media. We should be allowed to grieve,” Charan said. He also said the family was planning to construct a grand memorial for SPB at the farmhouse where he was laid to rest on Saturday. “Till the time the memorial is up, we are also planning to open up the place for people to come and pay their respects. I will make an announcement in this regard in the next two to three days,” Charan said. To a question on demands for conferring Bharat Ratna on his father, he said it was for the government to decide. Dr Sabanayagam V, Senior Consultant & Clinical Lead-Multidisciplinary Intensive Care, MGM Healthcare, said a “severe infection” 48 hours before SPB’s death led to the deterioration in his health.  “There were signs of severe infection and usually antibiotics will be helpful in treating the infection, but in his case, it was not so. And 24 hours before his death, we noticed bleeding in his brain and finally he suffered a cardio-respiratory attack,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/allow-us-to-grieve-father-s-death-spb-s-son-makes-an-emotional-appeal-894339.html
28-09-2020||South||Malayali man who joined ISIS sentenced to life imprisonment by NIA court||A Malayali who joined the ISIS was sentenced to life term by the NIA special court in Kochi on Monday. Subahani Haja Moideen, a native of Thodupuzha in Idukki district, was found guilty by the court last week for offences including joining terrorist organisation and waging war against India and Iraq government. NIA special judge P Krishnakumar also imposed a fine of Rs 2.10 lakh on the accused under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. While life term was awarded under section 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for being member of terrorist organisation, Moideen was also awarded sentence ranging from five to seven years under UAPA section 38 for membership of a terrorist organisation, section 39 for support given to a terrorist organisation, IPC 125 for waging war against any Asiatic Power in alliance with the government of India and 120 (B) for criminal conspiracy. But he need to undergo all the sentence concurrently only. It is considered to be the first time that a person is being convicted under IPC section 125. It was also for the first time that a person who joined a terrorist organisation and carried out terrorist activities in another nation being convicted after returning to India, said NIA sources. Moideen maintained before the court that he never supported violence and did not wage war against any country. The prosecution case was that Subahani joined the ISIS in 2015 April and went to Iraq. He was trained in using weapons at Mosul in Iraq and waged war against Iraq. Later he left ISIS and he was allowed to return to India by 2015 September. But he continued to be an ISIS follower and was even suspected to be trying to procure explosives from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu while he was held from Tirunelveli in October 2016. He conspired with ISIS operatives through online platforms. NIA's Kochi unit investigated the case and advocate Arjun Ambalappatta was NIA prosecutor. Subahani, who is aged around 34, was earlier quizzed by the French anti-terrorism agency in connection with the probe into the 2015 Paris terrorist attack that claimed around 130 lives. He was suspected to have links with the Paris terror strike accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayali-man-who-joined-isis-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-by-nia-court-894357.html
28-09-2020||South||Sabarimala to open from October; pilgrims from other states to need two Covid-negative certificates||Pilgrims not infected with Covid-19 will be allowed at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala on a limited basis from next month. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who held a meeting over this on Monday said that there would be a restriction on the number of pilgrims from different states.  Pilgrims from other states have to come with a Covid-negative certificate and a test will be held in Kerala too. They will be allowed only through the existing virtual queue booking system.  Most devotees used to be from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamilnadu and Puducherry. Kerala ministers and officials would initiate a discussion with these states to impose restrictions on pilgrims. A five-member committee led by chief secretary Vishwas Mehta will prepare the modalities, said the Chief Minister. N Vasu, president of Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple, said that pilgrims will be allowed from October 16 when the temple opens for week long monthly pooja and during the two month long pilgrimage beginning from November 15. There will be a total bar on pilgrims staying back at 'Sannidhanam' (temple premises) even for performing offerings life 'Neyyabhishekam' (Ghee offering). It will be ensured that only those who were not infected with Covid-19 will be allowed and Covid protocols were strictly followed. It would be either by conducting antigen test at Pamba or any other manner to be suggested by the committee. The chief secretary led committee is expected to give report on modalities soon, said Vasu. Selection of chief priest ('Melshanti') for the Ayyappa temple will be also conducted when the temple opens for monthly pooja in October. Though the government and devaswom board earlier decided to allow pilgrims at the temple for monthly pooja and festival from June 14 by following safety measures like no-Covid-19 certificate for devotees from other states, it was later put off as the temple tantri (head priest) Mahesh Mohanaru raised concerns over Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-to-open-from-october-pilgrims-from-other-states-to-need-two-covid-negative-certificates-894376.html
28-09-2020||South||Approver in Kochi actor assault case complains of threats to change statement, case registered||An approver in the case related to the abduction and sexual assault of a popular south Indian actress at Kochi has reported threats seeking to alter his statement. Vipin Lal, a native of Bekal in Kasargod district, lodged a petition and a case was also registered. Actor Dileep is among the accused in the case. Many key witnesses have already turned hostile in the case. The prosecution has also alleged attempts to influence witnesses in the case. According to police, the complainant alleged that he received a letter threatening him for giving a statement against the accused. A probe was initiated into the complaint. The prosecution says the actress was abducted and sexually assaulted by a gang at the behest of Dileep in February 2017. Dileep was arrested in this connection in July 2017 and was granted bail in October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/approver-in-kochi-actor-assault-case-complains-of-threats-to-change-statement-case-registered-894385.html
28-09-2020||South||Kerala to strictly enforce social distancing amid rise in Covid-19 cases, oppn to keep off from stirs||While the Kerala government on Monday decided to strictly enforce social distance norms, Congress-led United Democratic Front, which is the opposition party, has decided to keep off from all public stirs to avoid gatherings in the wake of steep increase in Covid-19 cases in the state. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the fine for not wearing masks would be increased and strict action, including closure, would be initiated against shops that flout social distancing norms. An all party meeting will be convened on Tuesday to discuss measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. The opposition parties were earlier accused by the Chief Minister for staging stirs and gathering flouting Covid-19 social distance norms. Over 150 police personnel engaged for managing stirs and many party workers got infected. The BJP is also likely to keep off from stirs in view of the worsening Covid-19 scenario. The Chief Minister said that the number of Covid patients in Kerala had doubled in 20 days. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Kerala reached 57,879 by Monday. Flouting of social distancing norms was found to be the key reason for Covid-19 cases to increase alarmingly and hence stringent measures were being taken in this regard, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-strictly-enforce-social-distancing-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-oppn-to-keep-off-from-stirs-894409.html
28-09-2020||South||Five-year-old Kerala girl gets pat on the back from Rafael Nadal for her tennis skill||A five year old girl in Kerala has received an appreciation message from tennis player Rafael Nadal for her tennis skills. Viviktha Visakh, hailing from Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram, got the rare opportunity through a talent search by Kia Motors. Viviktha's father Visakh, who is a former state junior champion in tennis, told DH that he just posted a short video of Viviktha doing deft volley skills in house during the lockdown days on May 28, a few days ahead of her fifth birthday. "We were unaware of any such talent search going on. I got a message through Instagram other day from Kia Motors World Wide about the recognition and seeking permission for reposting the video. Subsequently a video of Nadal personally congratulating Viviktha was posted by Kia in the social media a few days back," said Visakh. Nadal says in the video that, “Hello Viviktha, how are you? I love seeing how dedicated you are to your tennis. You have some very good skills and you are only five years old. So Kia and I want to give you a gift to motivate you to keep working hard. I hope you enjoy the prize. Stay safe and see you soon.” Visakh, who is now working as project manager in an MNC, is an international certified tennis coach. He used to give coaching to Viviktha as she was showing in interest towards the game right from the age of three. She also used to regularly accompany her father to tennis court. "This certainly will be a huge motivation to the family and Viviktha. Such unbelievable appreciation and recognition for talents can only make kids believe in themselves and work hard," said Visakh who had played at the national level also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-year-old-kerala-girl-gets-pat-on-the-back-from-rafael-nadal-for-her-tennis-skill-894417.html
28-09-2020||South||New AICC leader stresses on team work, unity for win in 2023||AICCs new in-charge for Telangana and MP Manickam Tagore has emphasised on unity and team work among party leaders and workers to win the state Assembly elections in 2023. Tagore, who held a series of meetings with party leaders sincehe arrived here on Saturday evening, tweeted on Sunday: "From 10 am now, its the final meeting at 10 pm with the @INCTelangana Pradesh VP & GS ! Team work can only deliver 2023. In an informal interaction with reporters on Monday, Tagore, a Lok Sabha member from Tamil Nadu, said team work and unity among leaders and workers were needed to keep the party strong. During his three-day visit which concluded in the evening, the new AICC in-charge interacted with the party leaders on the forthcoming bypoll to Dubbak assembly constituency near Medak and elections for two MLC seats and also to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), besides separate meetings with party MLAs, District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents and others. The bypoll is necessitated in Dubbak following the death of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy recently. The schedule for the Dubbak bypoll has not yet been announced by the Election Commission. He held a meeting on Sunday with party leaders on the council poll to Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad and Nalgonda-Warangal- Khammam Graduates constituencies to be held next year. The GHMC polls are likely to be held early next year. Tagore recently replaced RC Khuntia as the new AICC in- charge of party affairs in Telangana. Though the Congress had hoped to assume power in Telangana in the wake of the previous UPA government at the Centre forming the separate state in 2014, it did not happen. The party had also lost the 2018 Assembly polls to the TRS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-aicc-leader-stresses-on-team-work-unity-for-win-in-2023-894456.html
28-09-2020||State||Udupi man allegedly shoots himself over Covid-induced losses||A 45-year-old entrepreneur ended his life by shooting himself at Chikkalabettu in Karkala taluk of Udupi district on Sunday late night. The deceased, Sunil Shetty ran a hotel in Pune and reportedly suffered a loss during the Covid-19 induced lockdown and his loan burden too had increased. Depressed over his financial condition, he took the extreme step to end his life, said the police. He had told his family members that he would be leaving for Pune on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/udupi-man-allegedly-shoots-himself-over-covid-induced-losses-894116.html
28-09-2020||State||Rs 5 cr proposal to develop Dakshina Kannada'sTannirbavi Beach submitted: DC||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that a proposal to develop Tannirbavi Beach at a cost of Rs 5 crore was submitted to the government for approval. The proposal aims to provide various basic amenities to promote tourism, he said during the Swacchata Pakwada 2020, organised as part of World Tourism Day at Tannirbavi Beach by the Tourism Department, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) and district administration on Sunday. This year, Tourism Day was observed on the theme, ‘tourism and rural development’. The Deputy Commissioner said that under the action plan of 2020-21, 27 works on basic facilities to promote tourism had been taken up at a cost of Rs 17.34 crore in the district and Rs 910.95 lakh was already released. Steps will be taken to complete the works at the earliest, the Deputy Commissioner said. To develop Sasihithlu Beach as an international tourist destination, he said works worth Rs 10 crore will be taken up under Karnataka Tourism Vision Group. Already, development of Someshwara, Uchila-Talapady beaches were taken up at a cost of Rs 1.50 crore, he said. Stating that measures will be taken for the comprehensive development of Nethravati Snanaghatta in Dharmasthala, the Deputy Commissioner said the government has sanctioned works worth Rs 4.83 crore for the proposal submitted by the Tourism Department. The works will be taken up shortly to benefit thousands of devotees who visit Dharmasthala. To promote tourism in urban and rural areas, the Tourism Department had given permission to 32 homestays to operate in the district. The District Tourism Development Committee had given permission to six tourism entrepreneurs to start water adventure activities on the banks of Nethravathi, Gurupura and Maravoor rivers. In addition, the committee has also given permission to start cruise restaurants in Sulthan Bathery and Old Port. Six Pravasi Mitra had been posted near beaches to ensure the safety of tourists. The maintenance of seashores in the district will be handed over to the eligible bidders. The Deputy Commissioner said that tourism projects need to be implemented in the district with community participation. Opinion from the people will be collected to promote tourism at various places of interest in the district and an action plan will be prepared accordingly in the future. As part of World Tourism Day, beach volleyball, self-protection training, fitness training, Swacchata Pakwada and other events were held. A warning board was installed at Tannirbavi Beach. Signboards installed by the Tourism Department were unveiled on the occasion. MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar, Tourism Department Assistant Director Somshekar, among others, were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-5-cr-proposal-to-develop-dakshina-kannadastannirbavi-beach-submitted-dc-894120.html
28-09-2020||State||Noted critic G S Amur passes away||Noted critic, writer Dr G S Amur passed away at a private hospital in Bengaluru on Monday. He was 96 years old. Gururaj Shyamachar Amur was born on May 8, 1925 at Bommanahalli in Haveri district and began his career as English professor at the prestigious Karnatak College in Dharwad. He has penned several books both in English and Kannada languages. He has also translated books in Kannada, Marathi and Sanskrit into English. He was recipient of Nrupatunga award, Pampa, Rajyotsava, Kendra Sahitya Akademi and other prestigious awards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/noted-critic-g-s-amur-passes-away-894161.html
28-09-2020||State||No bandh in Dakshina Kannada, farmers and others organisations to stage dharna||The Karnataka bandh call given by various farmers' organisations supported by the Congress, CPI, JD(S) and other organisations failed to evoke strong reaction in Dakshina Kannada on Monday. Buses including those by private operators and autorickshaws were running as usual in the district. Members of various organisations will stage a protest in front of the Mini Vidhana Soudha in Mangaluru. People to were unaffected by the bandh call and travelled to their work place without any problem. Markets and shops too have remained open. To check any untoward incidents, the police had strengthened security across the district. Three Assistant and Deputy Superintendents, 8 Inspectors, 25 Sub Inspectors, 45 ASIs, 320 police personnel and 50 home guards were deployed in district police jurisdiction in addition to 3 platoons of KSRP, 3 DAR platoons, at B C Road, Puttur, Kalladka, Uppinangady, Sullia and Belthangady, said DK SP B M Laxmi Prasad. In the Mangaluru City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction, 8 platoons of CAR and six platoons of KSRP were deployed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-bandh-in-dakshina-kannada-farmers-and-others-organisations-to-stage-dharna-894219.html
28-09-2020||State||Kudla artist Santhosh Andrade wins 1st place in ORA 2020||Mangaluru has added yet another feather to its cap. City-based artist Santhosh D Andrade emerged as the winner in ‘ORA 2020,' the country’s biggest online art contest conducted by Mojarto. He won the award for his painting titled ‘The Storytelling Wall: The Fallacies of Urbanization’. The prize comes with a certificate, a trophy and an award of Rs 3 lakh. Due to the constraints of the Covid-19 pandemic, instead of the planned award ceremony, the prizes were announced online. Artists were invited to submit their work under two categories: Emerging artist and professional artist. Santhosh Andrade, whose art career spans 15 years, won the contest in the ‘Professional artist’ category from among over 1,000 contestants. There were several elimination stages in the contest. In the final round, names of the ten finalists were released. Apart from the first, second and third place, seven special mentions were announced. In the concept note for his prize-winning entry, Santhosh Andrade explains that his painting depicts the fallacies of urbanisation. “Memories of my childhood comprise of picturesque scenes of Mangaluru tiled roof tops amidst vegetable gardens and fruit orchards atop a hill overlooking the Arabian Sea along the west coast of India,” he wrote in the concept note, “Today however, as I look out my window reminiscing the past, I am awakened by the harsh realities of our cities. India today faces unprecedented growth which has led to what experts may term as urbanisation. What only affected Metropolis’ in the past, today has also reached many tier two cities in our country, like mine. My painting depicts the juxtaposition between these two facets in time. The foreground of the Mangaluru tiles roofs represent the scenes of yore almost being suffocated  and engulfed by high rise buildings coming up right beside them. The staircase represents man’s desire to build and go higher and higher with no intention of stopping – depicted here as a circular staircase winding into the skies above the pitched rooftops with no landing in sight!” he noted.   The eminent judges for the contest were artists Arpana Caur, Brinda Miller, R M Palaniappan, sculptor Latika Katt, art historian Mitchell S Crites and Priya Pall, Curatorial Director of Bikaner House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kudla-artist-santhosh-andrade-wins-1st-place-in-ora-2020-894265.html
28-09-2020||State||Karnataka govt appoints Rohini Sindhuri as new Deputy Commissioner||Within a month, the Karnataka government has transferred Deputy Commissioner B Sharat and posted IAS Officer Rohini Sindhuri in his position, on Monday. Sindhuri of 2009 batch officer was serving as Commissioner for Religious and Charitable Endowments. She has served as Mandya Zilla Panchayat CEO, Hassan Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-appoints-rohini-sindhuri-as-new-deputy-commissioner-894372.html
28-09-2020||State||Five held for IPL cricket betting in Hassan||Hassan Badavane police arrested five persons on charges of online cricket betting using a mobile application, on the Indian Premier League (IPL) matches in the city on Monday. The police recovered Rs 5,450 and two mobile phones from them. It may be mentioned that the District Crime Information Bureau (DCIB) police had arrested five persons, involved in cricket betting for the ongoing IPL matches, in the city, a week ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/five-held-for-ipl-cricket-betting-in-hassan-894470.html
28-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to lease land to private players under new tourism policy||The state government has offered to lease land to private entrepreneurs, under the new Karnataka Tourism Policy 2020-25, to undertake various projects for the benefit of tourists. The ‘tourism land bank’ will be developed under the ‘tourism development fund,’ which will receive a budgetary allocation from the government, along with support from external sources. The fund will be utilised for the development of common infrastructure facilities in the land bank. “Further, (for) the development of common infrastructure facilities in the land bank, the land shall be leased out to private entrepreneurs under the land lease policy through a transparent tender process,” the policy says. The objective is to ensure ready land for entrepreneurs who want to invest in the tourism sector, according to Tourism Minister C T Ravi. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the state planned to attract foreign tourists. “We are introducing several programmes and will encourage investment in the tourism sector,” he said. According to the Tourism department, the government aimed to generate over 10 lakh direct and indirect jobs in the sector, along with investments to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore. An investment facilitation cell will come up under the Department of Tourism to act as the nodal agency for enabling, facilitating and monitoring investments. Infra assistance, concessions The policy also offers complementary infrastructure assistance (CIA) along with capital investment subsidy, interest subsidy and concessions such as stamp duty exemption provided in previous policies. The CIA of up to Rs 25 lakh “may be provided for tourism projects” for road access, last-mile connectivity, power connectivity, water supply or other essential infrastructure, says the policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-lease-land-to-private-players-under-new-tourism-policy-894024.html
28-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Senior Congress MLA H K Patil tests positive for coronavirus||Senior Congress MLA in Karnataka H K Patil on Monday said he had tested positive for coronavirus. "I have been tested positive for #Covid19. I am asymptomatic but quarantined myself for 10 days," Patil, a former minister and Congress in-charge of Maharashtra, tweeted this morning. Expressing hope that he would be perfectly alright soon, Patil requested all those who had come in his contact in the last few days to get themselves tested as a precaution. He is the third MLA to have attended the recently concluded Karnataka Assembly session and tested positive for Covid-19. Prior to him, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol and Gandhinagar MLA Dinesh Gundu Rao tested positive for coronavirus among those who had attended the assembly session recently. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Health Minister B Sriramulu, Forest Minister Anand Singh, Tourism Minister C T Ravi, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and Congress state chief D K Shivakumar are among those who were tested positive and recovered. Karnataka has lost the Belagavi BJP MP and former Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, BJP Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti and Basavakalyan Congress MLA B Narayan Rao due to coronavirus. A few former public representatives too died due to Covid-19 in Karnataka. As on Sunday evening, cumulatively 5,75,566 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 8,582 deaths and 4,62,241 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/senior-congress-mla-h-k-patil-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-894137.html
28-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Work on Central housing projects tardy in Karnataka: Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs||Implementation of the Centrally sponsored housing scheme - Prime Minister Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U) - seems to be poor in Karnataka. Though the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs sanctioned 6.63 lakh houses to the state, only 1.89 lakh houses are completed. Expressing unhappiness over the delay, Ministry officials told the state to expedite the works. The Ministry also asked the Karnataka to submit utilisation certificate for money sanctioned by the Centre. Though the Ministry had released Rs 2,711 crore to build the houses, Karnataka has submitted utilisation certificate to the Centre about the spending of only Rs 1,965 crore. The Ministry has asked the state to submit utilisation certificate for the remaining Rs 746 crore immediately. The state is also yet to provide Aadhaar number and bank account details of around 40% of the beneficiaries. The geo-tagging of 27% of the beneficiary-led construction category houses is yet to be completed. Karnataka has around 1,424 slums with 7.08 lakh slum dwellers. Apart from building houses under Rajiv Awas Yojana, the state has not prepared plan to eradicate slums and provide dignified living to slum dwellers, the Ministry said. Recently, Housing Minister V Somanna and Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya met Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri to take up  issues related to the state's issues with the ministry. Somanna also appraised the minister of the current position of the construction of houses in the state. He assured the union minister that the construction of houses and the delivery to beneficiaries would be expedited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/work-on-central-housing-projects-tardy-in-karnataka-union-ministry-of-housing-and-urban-affairs-894328.html
28-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Protests, rallies mark farmers' bandh in Karnataka, CM offers olive branch||Protests and rallies by farmers' bodies and opposition parties marked the Karnataka bandh on Monday against amendments to two state legislation related to the farm sector, while Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said he was ready to talk to farmers and allay their fears. The shutdown call evoked a mixed response and though markets were open, buses and metro trains were operated, the turnout was relatively low. The dawn-to-dusk bandh called by the Karnataka Raitha Sangha (farmers' association) and other farmer organisations was supported by the Congress, JD(S), Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) and the Left parties. Amid heavy police deployment, the protesters, waving party flags and raising slogans against the amendments to the APMC and land reforms acts courted arrest. Parts of the state, including the capital city, saw massive protests with public squares teeming with protesters. Tyres were set ablaze at some places to mark their opposition. Ignoring social distancing norms to contain the spread of coronavirus, farmers hit the streets in groups at many locations, raised slogans, took out bike rallies and staged demonstrations. In Bengaluru, farmers and Karnataka Rakshana Vedike members, including its chief T A Narayana Gowda, took out a rally and tried to stop buses when they were arrested. The demonstrations were against the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill and the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill passed in the Assembly on Saturday. The amendment to the land reforms act lifts restrictions on purchasing agricultural land and enables any individual to buy them. Earlier, the law permitted only farmers to purchase agricultural land in the state. The APMC amendment curtails the powers of local Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) and allows private individuals to start agricultural trading, if they hold a permanent account number (PAN).  Seeking to allay fears of farmers, the Chief Minister said: "sit with us and have a discussion. I am always ready to make changes for the benefit of farmers." He said the amendments to the two acts were aimed at benefiting the farmers and not the way projected by certain people. Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly Siddaramaiah claimed the amendments were unnecessary. "Both the amendments will have deadly effect on the farmers," he alleged during the agitation staged by his party in the city. AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, Randeep Singh Surjewala, asked the Chief Minister to repeal the 'draconian amendments' instead of banning the bandh. "Dear B S Yediyurappa ji, Instead of banning the Farmers #Karnataka Bandh, 'ban' & 'banish' the anti-farmer- labourer mindset. Withdraw the law & apologise for the blatant sell out by BJP on Land Reforms Bill. Repeal the draconian amendments to APMC Act. This is your litmus test!" he tweeted. The protesters alleged that the amendments would ruin agriculture as people with "moneybags" would purchase farmlands to convert their "black money into white." The agitations coincided with the nationwide protests against the three farm bills. Ramanagara, Mandya, Mysuru, Chamarajanagara, Kolar, Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru, Ballari, Raichur, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bagalkote were among the places that saw protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/protests-rallies-mark-farmers-bandh-in-karnataka-cm-offers-olive-branch-894418.html
28-09-2020||West||15 evacuated after fire breaks out in Kolhapur hospital||Fifteen persons were evacuated safely after a fire broke out at a hospital at Kolhapur in Western Maharashtra in the wee hours of Monday. The fire broke out between 0315 to 0330 hrs at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital. The hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 centre, where over 400 patients were undergoing treatment. The fire affected one unit – from where 15 persons were evacuated. The cause of the fire is suspected to be short-circuit. Kolhapur Collector Daulat Desai immediately rushed to the spot to know the on-ground situation and guide the operations. “Patients have been shifted to other wards,” said CPR Civil Hospital Dean Dr Chandrakant Mhaske.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/15-evacuated-after-fire-breaks-out-in-kolhapur-hospital-894059.html
28-09-2020||West||1st phase of Rajasthan gram panchayat election begins||The polling for the first phase of election of the sarpanch and panch in 947 gram panchayats in Rajasthan began on Monday morning. "The polling began at 7.30 am amid security arrangements. The polling will take place as per the guidelines related to Covid-19," state Election Commission secretary Shyam Singh Rajpurohit told PTI. He said elections in 55 village panchayats of the Sarada and the Gogunda panchayat samitis of Udaipur had been postponed in view of the prevailing situation in Dungarpur. Violence erupted last Thursday in Dungarpur district, where candidates of a recruitment exam blocked a highway. The situation remained tensed till Sunday. "Since the police force was engaged in law and order, and polling parties were facing problems in reaching the gram panachayats of Udaipur, the decision was taken to postpone the elections in 55 gram panchayats," he said. The commissioner said wearing a mask was mandatory during the election, while arrangements for ensuring compliance of social distancing had also been made at polling booths. The voting will take place from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm. After the voting is over, counting of votes will begin. The second phase of election will take place on October 3, third on October 6 and the fourth on October 10. In total, 3,848 gram panchayats will go to polls in the state in four phases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1st-phase-of-rajasthan-gram-panchayat-election-begins-894070.html
28-09-2020||West||Goa DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena tests positive for coronavirus||Goa's Director General of Police Mukesh Kumar Meena on Monday tested positive for coronavirus infection, a senior health department official said. Meena is admitted in a private hospital and his condition is stable, he said. "His test report came out positive on Monday morning. He has mild symptoms," the official said. Till Sunday, Goa reported 31,958 Covid-19 cases and 401 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-dgp-mukesh-kumar-meena-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-894134.html
28-09-2020||West||Gujarat Congress chief among 100 detained for protesting Farm Bills||Nearly 100 Gujarat Congress workers, including state party president Amit Chavda, were detained in Gandhinagar on Monday after they staged a protest against Farm Bills passed in Parliament, police said. In the morning, Chavda, Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani, Congress MLAs Baldevji Thakor, C J Chavda and other party workers gathered at the Ambedkar statue near the Assembly complex and raised slogans against the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in Gujarat. They claimed the Farm Bills recently passed by Parliament were "anti-farmer and will destroy APMCs". Later, the police detained the state Congress chief, Dhanani, MLAs Thakor and C J Chavda, and other party workers. Around 100 protesters were detained as soon as they started walking towards the Raj Bhavan, Deputy Superintendent of Police M K Rana said. "Since the Congress workers had not taken any permission for the rally, we detained them. We will take a decision about their release afterwards," Superintendent of Police Mayur Chavda said. Earlier, talking to reporters before his detention, Amit Chavda said, "Not just Congress workers, farmers too are demonstrating across the country against these Farm Bills, which will destroy APMCs and give wide powers to corporates in deciding the prices." "The government will now wash it hands from giving MSP (minimum support price) under provisions of these bills," he alleged. Dhanani alleged that the central government wants to hand over the agriculture sector to some selected companies. "Where would the small farmers would go to sell their produce in the absence of APMCs? The BJP government is anti-farmer and these bills will turn farmers into farm labourers," he said. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to three contentious Farm Bills that have triggered protests by farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-chief-among-100-detained-for-protesting-farm-bills-894178.html
28-09-2020||West||INS Viraat set for dismantling in Gujarat's Alang||It is an emotional and momentous occasion for Alang on Monday, as the dismantling of the world's longest-serving warship, INS Viraat, will begin here three years after it was decommissioned by the Indian Navy. This Centaur-class aircraft carrier of the Indian Navy that remained in service for almost 30 years and holds the Guinness record for the world's longest-serving warship will be dismantled here at Alang, one of the largest shipbreaking yards globally. "This historic warship has sailed almost 11 lakh kms, enough to travel the globe 27 times over", Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said addressing an event here to give farewell to the warship. "Today I pay homage to ex INS Viraat at Alang, Gujarat. INS Viraat served our nation for 30 glorious years and after decommissioning, She is moving towards her last journey for recycling at Alang," the Minister said. The Navy's pride has groomed 40 flag officers including five Chief of Naval Staffs. Mandaviya said Cochin Shipyard is building another huge warship. He said efforts were made to convert INS Viraat into a museum and several consultations were done but the plan could not materialise as an expert committee reported that it won't last for more than a decade. "The government was ready to spend Rs 400-Rs 500 crore to convert it into Museum but an expert committee said its ferrous won’t last and it may result in an accident. Under the circumstances, we had to bid tearful adieu to it," the Minister said. Mandaviya said around 30 per cent of the global ships numbering about 280 are recycled annually at Alang. "Alang provides employment to more than 30,000 people coming from Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Gujarat and other states and supports 3.5 Lakh people indirectly through other business activities," the Minister said. INS Viraat was commissioned in 1959 as Royal Navy's HMS Hermes and decommissioned in 1984 and subsequently it was sold to India and commissioned into Indian Navy on May 12, 1987. Capabilities of this mighty ship included maritime and land-based missions as well as engagements in anti-submarine warfare, officials said. The ship was extensively deployed for numerous operations notably 'Operation Jupiter' and the Sri Lankan Peace Keeping Force Operations in 1989, 'Ops Prakaram' following the 2001 attack on the Indian Parliament, they added. The officials said the ship was originally expected to be decommissioned in 2012, but was postponed due to delay in decommissioning of INS Vikramaditya, which was eventually inducted into Indian Navy in 2014. With mounting operations costs and age, the Navy announced the decision to decommission Viraat in 2015, and it was finally decommissioned on March 6, 2017. "There were plans and even some movements by state governments of Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh towards preserving it into a Museum. There were also crowdfunding efforts towards the same goal, which remained successful. Ultimately, the Center decided to auction the ship and sold it as scrap," Mandaviya said. The Minister said after the accession to Hong Kong Convention (HKC) 2009, by India and the Passing of Ships Recycling Bill 2019 this is one of the major ships that has come to Alang. He said Alang-based Shree ram Group has won the bid for dismantling the ship and the company's high capacity tugs towed the vessel from Mumbai to Alang on her last journey. Rear Admiral Puruvir Das Flag Officer Commanding, Gujarat Naval Area, who served on the warship as Navigating Officer termed it a "momentous" occasion and said it has trained thousands of officers and staff and a new Vikrant is getting ready at Cochin Shipyard. "It is a proud occasion for us. The ship had increased the navy's capabilities tremendously," he said. The aircraft carrier had begun its final journey from the Naval Dockyard in Mumbai on September 19, and reached the waters at Alang in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat on September 22 evening. "The Viraat spirit will remain in Alang forever as the old ships never die, their spirit lives on," Das said. The warship, which was inducted into the Indian Navy in 1987, was purchased by Shree Ram Group for a sum of Rs 38.54 crore at an auction in July this year. Shree Ram Group Chairman Mukesh Patel said after all the formalities are completed as per the ship breaking code, subject to weather conditions and tide, the company is scheduling its beaching at its yard for dismantling during high tide on Monday. There were proposals in the past to preserve it as a maritime museum. In July 2019, the central government said in the Parliament that the decision to scrap INS Viraat was taken in due consultation with the Indian Navy. It is the second aircraft carrier to be broken down in India. In 2014, INS Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai. The aircraft carrier, in its earlier avatar, had won the Falklands War against Argentina in 1982 for the Royal British Navy. It weighs about 27,800 tonnes. In the late 80s, the Indian Navy purchased it at a cost of USD 65 million and it was re-commissioned on May 12, 1987.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ins-viraat-set-for-dismantling-in-gujarats-alang-894211.html
28-09-2020||West||SSR death case: Maharashtra govt seeks answers from CBI, says actor's death probe has taken back seat||In a significant development, the Maharashtra government on Monday wanted to know from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the status of probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “You all are aware that the investigations of the Sushant Singh Rajput case were being done by the Maharashtra Police and Mumbai Police very professionally. But it was abruptly handed over to the CBI,” state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. “We eagerly want to know (the status of the investigations),” said Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader. “Even people are asking whether Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide or whether he was murdered…we want that the details of investigations should come out,” he said. However, the CBI immediately came out with a clarification. “The CBI is conducting a professional investigation related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date. Investigations are continuing,” a CBI statement said. The overall Sushant Singh Rajput probe is being carried out by the CBI, Enforcement Directorate, and Narcotics Control Bureau angle. While the CBI focused on the death, the NCB on the drug angle, and ED on the financial aspects. It may be recalled, last week, Sushant Singh Rajput’s father Krishna Kishore Singh’s lawyer Vikas Singh too expressed apprehensions over the way the probe is being carried out and the direction it was heading. "The family feels that the investigation is going in such a way that the truth is not coming out. The case has become like the Mumbai Police investigation, all stars are now being called. The people called in and not are a part of a syndicate and not distributors. It is just a Mumbai Police type of investigation. Sushant's case has taken a back seat," Singh said. In an NDPS Act case, everything depends on the quantity, the family feels it is being done to divert from the main issue, he said. He had also alleged that over a week had passed since the CBI team probing the case landed in Delhi but they haven't met the team of doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Meanwhile, the NCB is reviewing the investigations carried out for a month and will plan its future course of action based on that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ssr-death-case-maharashtra-govt-seeks-answers-from-cbi-says-actors-death-probe-has-taken-back-seat-894213.html
28-09-2020||West||Nagpur University to conduct exams via app from Oct 1||Nearly 78,000 students of the Nagpur University in Maharashtra will appear for their final year exams online through a mobile app from October 1 in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said on Monday. Students can download the 'RTMNU Pariksha' app from the Google Playstore or website of the Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University on Android-based phones, the university's board of examination director Prafulla Sabale told PTI. The online exams will consist of 50 multiple choice questions, out of which students will have to solve 25 questions, the official said. "Each question will carry two marks. Students can solve more than 25 questions, and the best 25 will be selected for evaluation. There is no negative marking," Sabale said. The app provides students all the necessary instructions regarding the exams and also a mock test, which the students can take for practice. The exams will be held from October 1 to 18 as per the university's timetable. Sabale said the university will conduct 186 exams of four faculties for which the question bank is ready and moderation is almost completed. "Around 1.82 lakh questions in various subjects have been set up by 1,852 teachers," he said. RTMNU Vice-Chancellor Subhash Chaudhari said the app will be convenient for students and also work in low internet connectivity. "We have tested the app in the interior areas with low network connectivity. Students can submit their papers in low network connectivity also," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-university-to-conduct-exams-via-app-from-oct-1-894240.html
28-09-2020||West||Another FIR against Bhiwandi AIMIM chief for extortion; 3 held||Police on Monday registered one more FIR against Bhiwandi unit president of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) for allegedly extorting money from a builder, an official said. A local journalist and two other persons have been arrested in this connection, he said. Mohammad Khalid Shaikh alias Guddu (47), who heads the AIMIM in Bhiwandi town here in Maharashtra, and his three associates were arrested last week for allegedly kidnapping and extorting money from a builder, police said. Based on a complaint filed by another builder, the Shanti Nagar police here in Maharashtra on Monday registered one more FIR against Shaikh and some of his aides under IPC sections for extortion, DCP (Bhiwandi) Rajkumar Shinde said. Three persons, including a local journalist, have been arrested in the new case, he said. Shaikh, who is already in the custody of the Crime Branch since last week, is yet to be arrested in the fresh case lodged against him, he said. A 43-year-old builder lodged a police complaint that Shaikh and the other accused allegedly demanded Rs 29 lakh from him over the last three years and threatened to kill him and his business partner if the money was not paid, he said. The accused also allegedly took Rs 12 lakh from the builder after repeatedly threatening him, the official said. Shaikh faces several criminal cases, including kidnapping, extortion and attempt to murder, in Bhiwandi, Pune, Mumbai, Raigad and also Gujarat, the police said. He was earlier a corporator and in the 2019 Assembly polls in Maharashtra, had filed his nomination from the Bhiwandi West constituency as the AIMIM candidate, but his papers were rejected during scrutiny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/another-fir-against-bhiwandi-aimim-chief-for-extortion-3-held-894249.html
28-09-2020||West||New bridge on Zuari river to be completed by April: Goa minister||A parallel bridge on Zuari River in North Goa will be completed by April next year as 70 per cent work has been completed, state public works department minister Deepak Pauskar said on Monday. The bridge, which will link the two districts of the state, was to be completed in December but timelines went awry due to the coronavirus outbreak, officials said. "Four out of eight lanes of the bridge and approach roads will be completed by April next year. The contractor has assured us he will complete work," the minister said. Queried on the bad condition of roads in the state, Pauskar blamed it on underground sewerage lines and said hot- mixing technology would be deployed to construct them with the Rs 150 crore sanctioned for the purpose by the Central government||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-bridge-on-zuari-river-to-be-completed-by-april-goa-minister-894258.html
28-09-2020||West||Maharashtra govt frames SOPs for reopening of restaurants: CM Uddhav Thackeray||With the present lockdown in Maharashtra coming to end on September 30, the state government has framed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of restaurants and a decision will be taken once these guidelines are finalised, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Monday. The chief minister interacted with representatives of associations of restaurateurs from Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur via video conferencing, an official statement said. "The state government has framed SOPs for reopening restaurants and those have been sent to the people concerned. "A decision about reopening restaurants will be taken once these (SOPs) are finalised," the statement quoted Thackeray as saying. The chief minister said that given the Covid-19 threat, his government was taking steps cautiously and SOPs have been framed accordingly. The SOPs are not for putting restaurateurs in trouble, he added. Thackeray laid emphasis on wearing masks, cleaning hands and maintaining physical distance while living with Covid-19 and added these precautions need to be taken when restaurants are reopened. "It will be important to take care of the health of chefs and other staffers in restaurants. They must wear masks, clean hands and ensure safety and cleanliness in restaurants," the chief minister said. He also spoke about the state government's 'My Family, My Responsibility' initiative and urged restaurateurs to join it. He also asked all the stake-holders to sit together and finalise SOPs. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sitaram Kunte said the SOPs will be finalised after holding another round of meeting with representatives of restaurants, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-frames-sops-for-reopening-of-restaurants-cm-uddhav-thackeray-894274.html
28-09-2020||West||Reunite with BJP to form government in Maharashtra: Ramdas Athawale to Shiv Sena||Union Minister Ramdas Athawale on Monday asked the Shiv Sena to reunite with the BJP to form government in Maharashtra and also suggested a power-sharing formula between the two saffron parties. Speaking to reporters here, Athawale said Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray should remain chief minister for one year and then the coveted post should go to BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis for the remaining three years (of current assembly term). Athawale also said that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should join the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the event of the Shiv Sena not forging ties with the BJP. The Union Minister, a BJP ally, made the remarks in the wake of the meeting between Fadnavis and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut at a city hotel on Saturday that had sparked a buzz in political circles. However, Fadnavis, a former chief minister, had later maintained that the meeting with Raut was in connection with an interview for Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana. Raut is also executive editor of the Marathi daily. Long-standing allies Shiv Sena and the BJP had severed ties after the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls over sharing the chief ministerial post for two-and-half years on a rotational basis. The Shiv Sena had then joined hands with ideological rivals NCP and the Congress and formed the present Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government with Thackeray as its head in November last year. It is my proposal that the Shiv Sena reunites with the BJP. Thackeray should become the chief minister for a year and Fadnavis for the rest of the three years. The Shiv Sena should be given one or two portfolios in Delhi (central government), too. The Shiv Sena should not stick in the NCP and Congresss labyrinth and come with us, he added. Athawale added that Pawar should join the NDA if the Shiv Sena is unwilling to be a part of the BJP-led coalition. The NCP patriarch may get "a big post" in the future if he joins the NDA, the Rajya Sabha MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/reunite-with-bjp-to-form-government-in-maharashtra-ramdas-athawale-to-shiv-sena-894342.html
28-09-2020||West||Kutch-based Dalit activist murdered for anti-Brahmin Facebook posts, say cops; family alleges larger conspiracy||A 22-year-old youth arrested for killing Kutch-based Dalit activist and lawyer Devji Maheshwari is learnt to have told the police that he allegedly killed the lawyer for repeatedly putting up "anti-Brahmin" posts on social media and that he "acted alone." The victim's family members and relatives, however, are doubting the police's findings, alleging that there was a larger conspiracy at play and that the suspect, Bharat Raval, worked with eight others involved in a land dispute who wanted to get rid of Maheshwari. The police sources said that Raval, a resident of Rapar town, had threatened Maheshwari at least three or four times on the phone, warning him to stop posting content on Facebook against the Brahmin community. Senior police officials said that Raval has allegedly confessed that he was angry with Maheshwari over such posts that showed the Brahmin community "in poor light". "We have recordings of phone conversations between Raval and Maheshwari that reveal the former threatening the latter over his posts against the Brahmin community," a police officer involved in the investigation told DH. The family members, however, have alleged that Maheshwari was killed for taking up a case related to a land dispute between two different communities in the town. They said that no advocate was willing to take up the matter due to fear from one of the communities. When one community approached Maheshwari and he agreed, it irked the other community that led to the conspiracy of killing the lawyer. "Kutch has a violent history of clashes between Dalits and other communities, specially Darbars, but we don't have a similar history with Brahmins in the whole region. We have a firm belief that Raval was motivated by the other suspects in order to kill Maheshwari," said a relative of Maheshwari. Maheshwari's dead body hasn't been accepted by the family members who are demanding the arrest of all the accused. Alleged to be an alcoholic, Raval is said to have had an altercation with Maheshwari even in the past. Maheshwari was an activist of the All India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation (BAMCEF) and an office-bearer of the Indian Legal Professionals Association. Local sources said that Raval and Maheshwari lived in Rapar town closeby and knew each other. "Raval is a notorious alcoholic. His wife committed suicide most likely due to his drinking habit but we don't know for sure. We are probing everything about this man," said a senior police officer. When asked, a senior police officer confirmed that Raval's wife died by suicide and they were looking into the reason. On Friday evening, Raval was seen standing outside Maheshwari's office in the CCTV footage. The footage shows Maheshwari entering his office and Raval following him inside. Within seconds, Raval can be seen rushing back while Maheshwari comes out with his white shirt soaked in blood after being allegedly stabbed by Raval multiple times. On Saturday, Raval was arrested by the Mumbai Crime Branch from the Malad locality where he had gone to see his former employee who also hails from Rapar. On Monday, he was produced before a local court where he was granted five-day police custody for further investigation. Sources said that the police have also rounded up Mahesh Bhoja from Mumbai who had employed Raval there. After stabbing Maheshwari, Raval had contacted him besides another person identified as Viral Patel. In all, the police have detained seven persons while have arrested Raval. "We are trying to find the motive as alleged by the victim's family members. As on today, all evidence suggests that Raval worked alone," said an official who is part of the investigation.  Over the past three days, Kutch has seen protests from the Dalit community demanding immediate arrest of all the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kutch-based-dalit-activist-murdered-for-anti-brahmin-facebook-posts-say-cops-family-alleges-larger-conspiracy-894350.html
28-09-2020||West||Something fishy going on in BMC over demolitions: Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Monday said there was something fishy going on in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) when it came to demolition of alleged illegal constructions, comments which came while hearing a writ petition filed by actor Kangana Ranaut. A bench of Justices SJ Kathawalla and RI Chagla said in Ranaut's case, the civic body did not follow its own practice of attaching photos of alleged illegal constructions with its stop-work notices and waiting for some days before carrying out demolitions. The HC made the remarks while hearing the writ petition filed by Ranaut challenging the demolition of a part of her bungalow in Pali Hill in suburban Bandra by the BMC on September 9. The judges were questioning the BMCs H Ward officer, Bhagyawant Late, a respondent in the writ petition under whose jurisdiction Ranaut's property falls. During the questioning, the bench noted that in cases of similar illegalities in buildings close to Ranauts, the BMC had waited for several days to carry out the demolition. Besides, in most other cases, it had attached photos of the alleged illegal constructions with its stop-work notices served to building owners, and in such cases, it did not often take the police along for demolition, it said. However, when it came to Ranauts case, the BMC did not have any photos with digital date and time stamps of the alleged illegalities, and the demolition had been carried out in the presence of a huge police force just 24 hours after the stop-work notice was served to the actor, the bench noted. The judges noted that in its reply, the BMC had claimed to have demolished a similar case of illegality on September 8. But when the bench asked Late for photos or records of the demolition, the latter said no such photos or documents existed. The ward officer also said the BMC team had not taken the police along for the September 8 demolition. This irked the bench. Mr Sakare, (BMCs standing counsel) here there is something absolutely fishy! There are no photos for the 8th. How come in the system, this demolition is not shown on 8 (September)? It is only when we asked for the file it is prepared. Is there any answer? it said. The bench also asked why the BMC had taken a huge police force along on September 9 to demolish Ranauts bungalow. To this Late said that Ranauts case was a "critical" one. What is the definition of critical cases? In cases of celebrities it becomes a critical case? the bench asked. Ranauts counsel Dr Birendra Saraf raised questions over the BMC's action at the actor's bungalow. Saraf argued that the manner in which the entire BMC team swooped in on September 7 in issuing the stop-work notice, and subsequently rejecting Ranauts reply to it and carrying out the demolition, the discrepancy in documents, among others, showed the action was vitiated by malice. Saraf pointed out that the demolition was followed by a news item (on September 10) in 'Saamana', where Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut is executive editor, that carried a headline showing as it were some rejoicing news. Saraf urged the court to ensure that the damage to Ranauts property was assessed by a qualified person and then to decide on a fair compensation amount for the same. In her plea, Ranaut hassought Rs 2 crore as damages from the BMC and its officials. In the course of the day-long hearing, Saraf also played a clip of a news interview where Raut had said that "Ranaut should be taught a lesson". The Sena MP is also a respondent in the writ petition. Rauts counsel Pradeep Thorat, though, argued that in the entire interview, the Sena leader had not referred to Ranaut by name. If it is your stand that, you (in the audio) have not called the petitioner a 'haramkhor', we will record it. Should we record your statement?" the court said, referring to an alleged comment Raut made in the interview. "Don't run around the bushes... Have guts to say (before the court) what you have tweeted or told a news channel, the court said to both Raut and Ranauts counsels. The BMC, meanwhile, denied all allegations of malice made by Ranaut. Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, who appeared for the BMC, urged the HC to dismiss the plea, or to hear Ranaut through a suit, and not a writ petition, saying that in a suit Ranaut would have to stand in the box (witness box), and clarify all facts. Let this be dealt with in a suit. Let her get into a box and let her establish these facts. Alternatively, this is a petition that deserves to be dismissed. "It lacks absolute candour. This petition is being portrayed as an individual being harassed because of her public utterances against a government and party in power, Chinoy said. The reality is slightly different. This is a case where the petitioner has unlawfully carried out substantial illegal alterations, he said. Referring to the courts previous remark on the swiftness shown by the BMC in Ranauts case, Chinoy said, I agree there is a quicker response in this case. "But that is not an answer (Ranauts plea). You cannot carry out illegal construction. The court will hear Rauts submissions on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/something-fishy-going-on-in-bmc-over-demolitions-bombay-high-court-894365.html
28-09-2020||West||Covid-19 patient dies by suicide in Maharashtra's Sangli||A 56-year-old Coivd-19 patient allegedly committed suicide by slitting his throat in Sangli after calling his son and asking him to take care of the family, police said on Monday. The incident happened late Sunday night at a Coivd facility in Miraj, some 240 kilometres from here, a Mahatma Gandhi Chowk police station official said. "The deceased called his son, asked him to take care of the family, and then slit his throat with a knife while sitting on his bed. Doctors tried to revive him but failed. The entire incident has been captured on CCTV cameras at the Coivd facility," he informed. He said no suicide note was found from the spot and a probe was underway to find out why he took this step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-dies-by-suicide-in-maharashtras-sangli-894387.html
28-09-2020||West||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai cross 2-lakh mark, death toll rises to 8,834||The Covid-19 cases in Mumbai crossed the two-lakh mark on Monday. As of now the deaths and progressive cases in Mumbai stand at 8,834 and 2,00,901 respectively. The first Covid-19 case in Mumbai was reported on March 11 and the first death was reported on March 17. Meanwhile, the number of deaths and new cases dropped significantly. The total deaths and cases reported during the day were 180 and 11,921, respectively. With this, the total number of deaths and cases in Maharashtra stood at 35,751 and 13,51,153, respectively. Out of 66,22,384 laboratory samples, 13,51,153 have been tested positive (20.40%) for Covid-19 until date. Currently, 19,75,923 people are under home quarantine and 29,922 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-cross-2-lakh-mark-death-toll-rises-to-8834-894396.html
28-09-2020||West||Drugs case accused Kshitij Ravi Prasad not ill-treated during custody: NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday denied ill-treating arrested drugs case accused Kshitij Ravi Prasad, a former Dharmatic Entertainment executive producer, in its custody. The drug law enforcement agency termed the allegations in this regard as "mischievous and completely untrue". In a press release, the NCB said it has come across a news item, purportedly quoting Satish Maneshinde, the advocate for Prasad, about the accused being "ill-treated" in its custody. Prasad was arrested by the NCB on Saturday after questioning in drugs case linked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. On Sunday, a city court remanded Prasad, a former executive producer at Dharmatic Entertainment (sister concern of filmmaker Karan Johar's Dharma Productions), in the NCB's custody till October 3. The news item alleged humiliation and mistreatment of Prasad at the hands of NCB officers. "It is very unambiguously stated here that the news item in circulation is mischievous and completely untrue. The NCB arrested Prasad as some incriminating evidences were recovered from him. "When the involvement of Prasad in offences under the NDPS Act was revealed, he was placed under arrest after following due process of law. His lawyer and his family (mother) were informed as per procedure," the release said. He was also allowed to meet his wife and father-in-law at the NCB office in south Mumbai, the central agency said. "As Prasad was not cooperating with the investigation, this fact was brought to the notice of the court with a request to grant NCB custody on Sunday when he was produced for remand after a medical check-up. He was sent to the NCB custody till October 3," the release said. The court has observed in its order on Sunday that no physical ill-treatment has been given to the accused, it said and quoted from the judge's observation. "From the submission of the accused, it reveals that, no physical ill-treatment (was) given to him during the course of his custody with the NCB authority. "Furthermore, he has no complaint about the physical ill-treatment," the NCB release said, quoting from the court observation. The NCB reiterates that the allegations circulating in the news item are baseless and devoid of any truth, the release said. Prasad's name had cropped up during the NCB's wider probe into the alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus. The probe agency had told the court on Sunday that Prasad, in his statement, said he had procured drugs from co- accused Karamjeet Singh Anand and his associates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-case-accused-kshitij-ravi-prasad-not-ill-treated-during-custody-ncb-894439.html
28-09-2020||West||89 Zilla Parishad doctors quit in Maharashtra, accuse collector of ill-treatment||Eighty-nine doctors of the Yavatmal Zilla Parishad on Monday tendered their resignations claiming ill-treatment at the hands of district collector MD Singh, a functionary of a medical officers' association said. The collector refuted the allegations and said some grievances may exist at the tehsil level and they would be sorted out. Dr Sangharsh Rathod, secretary of the Yavatmal unit of Maharashtra State Gazetted Medical Officers Group A Organisation (MAGMO) told PTI that its delegation had gone to meet Singh to demand reservation of 50 beds in government medical colleges for doctors and kin who had tested positive for coronavirus. The MAGMO delegation also sought one-day leave in a week and timeline to submit daily reports, he said. "The collector, instead of listening to issues of the five-member MAGMO delegation, started asking them about daily reports etc, and his behaviour was disrespectful," Rathod alleged. "A total of 89 doctors under MAGMO have submitted their written resignations to the CEO of Yavatmal Zilla Parishad. We will not resume duties till collector Singh is transferred from the district," he said. When contacted, Singh refuted allegations of being rude to doctors and in turn accused the latter of walking out of the meeting rather than being asked to leave. "They have seven to eight demands, of which some can be sorted out at the district level while others will have to be looked into by the state government," he told PTI. "Nobody was rude to the doctors. They left the meeting without submitting their demands. We were not rude nor did we ask them to leave the meeting. The resident district collector and other officials were present during this meeting. Higher authorities have been apprised of the situation," he added. He praised doctors and other frontline staff for bringing down the number of Covid-19 cases in Yavatmal. "There may be few grievances in some tehsils, which will be sorted out. However, nobody will be rude to efficient officials," Singh claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/89-zilla-parishad-doctors-quit-in-maharashtra-accuse-collector-of-ill-treatment-894450.html
