29-09-2020||First Edit||Much ground to recover in India-Sri Lanka ties||At their first virtual meeting on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa talked about an array of issues, including bilateral debt, infrastructural development and rights of minorities in Sri Lanka. On the agenda was Colombo’s request for deferring debt repayments. It owes India about $960 million. India has already agreed to a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka and the latter has now put in a request for an additional swap arrangement worth around $1 billion. The two leaders also discussed the status of several Indian infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka. Foremost among these is the Eastern Container Terminal in Colombo, a project that India and Japan are hoping to implement. Rajapaksa put this project on hold in the run-up to general elections in August. Colombo made no announcement on the revival of this key project. This was a bilateral summit. Yet it was a third country, China, the proverbial elephant in the room, that determined its content and outcome. China’s influence in Sri Lanka has grown manifold over the past decade, and India’s engagement of Rajapaksa, who during his 10-year stint as president put the island-nation in China’s orbit, is aimed at drawing it back into the Indian fold. India’s gestures with regard to the currency swap and easing Sri Lanka’s debt, for instance, are aimed at reducing its dependence on China. To counter China’s rising profile and presence in the Indian Ocean Region, India has agreed to further strengthen maritime cooperation with Sri Lanka, including personnel exchange and training. India has stepped up the exercise of soft power, too, by bonding with Sri Lanka over Buddhism, a link that Colombo shares with Beijing as well. India announced a $15 million grant for promotion of Buddhist ties. The China-centric Modi-Rajapaksa meeting indicates how much ground India has to recover in this relationship. On the Tamil question, a significant gap persists. While the Rajapaksa government is considering repealing the 13th Amendment to its Constitution, India wants it implemented. The joint statement issued at the end of the Modi-Rajapaksa meeting laid bare this difference; it stated the Indian and Sri Lankan positions. Significantly, the subsequent statement released by the Rajapaksa government made no mention of Modi’s call to Colombo to meet Tamil aspirations for justice and achieve reconciliation through implementation of the 13th Amendment. This does not bode well for minority rights in Sri Lanka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/much-ground-to-recover-in-india-sri-lanka-ties-894514.html
29-09-2020||In Perspective||When the volunteer does not want to volunteer any more||With the Covid-19 crisis stretching into months now, there is hardly any section of society that can claim to be untouched by the effects of this unfolding tragedy. Volunteers who made up the first wall of defence when the crisis began are among those now seeking relief. As it has with doctors, nurses and the medical safety workforce, the crisis has tested the limits of scores of volunteers who had taken the first tentative steps in April to become frontline corona warriors. Recently, when our team tried to elicit a conversation with a group of prospective volunteers in East Bengaluru, the reactions made us comprehend how ill-equipped we are in dealing with the tragedies facing frontline warriors. Discussions on the urgent need to re-focus attention to the escalating medical and societal effects of the Covid-19 crisis and the role of volunteers in obtaining firsthand information from within society were met with one stoic but direct question. “How much will we be paid?” followed by, “Is it a regular job?” and then painfully the third query, “We do not have jobs. Can we be assisted with jobs?” The volunteer is tired. The individual risked his/her life and safety in a scenario with several unknowns and jumped into the field when the first lockdown was announced. The individual went door to door, distributing masks and passionately imploring people to maintain physical distancing in April. Volunteers pooled their meagre resources together and distributed rations to the needy in May. Some of them were recognised by larger partners, the government, or donor agencies, and were involved in the screening and tracing of Covid-19 positive cases in June and July. The volunteer did yeoman service in the fight against coronavirus. But the volunteer is now tired. Several of them have been rendered or remained jobless in the past months. For those working presently, payment is woeful, and many feel that their present condition is no different from that of the victims of the migrant crisis in the now distant month of May. The volunteer is irritable, and an underlying feeling is that the individual does not feel appreciated. Neither by the government, nor by one’s local community and if not for their underlying passion, they would not even have attended the meeting. They feel that they are an invisible face of this fight and no one has stepped back and stopped for a moment to appreciate them. The bucket of passion that filled their energy levels have now depleted and all they want is the safety of a real job. This brings us to a strange conclusion. Perhaps an aberration, but a majority of the prospective volunteers we meet regularly are from low-income communities. There are maids who are juggling working in up to three houses in a day, there are salaried employees who come together with their ward members every evening to discuss matters of local and national importance, there are college students who believe in volunteering as a higher cause. However, across the larger tapestry, most volunteers come from simple backgrounds and aspire to fight the threat of the coronavirus but are being pulled back by their family and financial commitments. Tellingly, John says, as jobs have only just begun opening up, most people are scrambling to strive for whatever is on offer. People across the locality are travelling far or engaging in opportunities which would be scoffed at earlier. There is thus a complete loss of time management and many people are unable to afford a spare moment for community service or volunteerism. He mentioned that the overall pool of volunteers was already minuscule and now, with the lack of time in the hands of most residents, people would rather service their family needs than worry about the community. What is worth considering amid the all-pervasive corona crisis is the stigma and fear attached with the disease. Though personal safety measures are faltering across large parts of the city with mask-wearing decreasing, a parallel drama unfolds every day with the attrition rate of volunteers increasing. Whether out of fear or out of stigma, the young inexplicably drop out, perhaps pushing the spirit of volunteerism away from their systems, maybe never to allow it to return again. Not that the spirit has died. Farzana, who used to work in Benson Town, or Nishath, who is sitting at home with her college closed, have observed the work of civil society organisations in East Bengaluru and have taken up volunteerism with a fiery zeal. The empowerment they experience in contributing towards society and discovering themselves in the process is a sign that the spirit of volunteerism has a timeless quality about it. They are the new volunteers who will fight the threat of the virus and, hopefully, win. Emergencies and crises evoke far-reaching emotions in humankind and time and again, we have seen volunteers stepping up to save the unfortunate tsunami-struck victim or helping an injured stuck beneath a fallen building. However, in an experience as prolonged as the present crisis with few parallels in modern post-war history, the idea of volunteerism is up for change. As NGOs and agencies search for people who can spare their time to help the needy, perhaps it would be wise to spare a thought for these selfless people and consider providing material assistance to them as well, so that they can tide safely over the tough times along with the rest of us. (The writer is faculty at Azim Premji University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/when-the-volunteer-does-not-want-to-volunteer-any-more-894517.html
29-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||#RoadChallenge trends on social media to draw attention of Union Minister Gadkari on state of roads||With various challenges on social media, district Youth Congress President Mithun Rai has initiated #RoadChallenge, to bring the issue of unforgiving road condition in Dakshina Kannada to the notice of concerned authorities and also Union Minister Nitin Gadkari. The hashtag has gone viral on social media. Dakshina Kannada shares its border with Kasargod, Hassan and other districts. The district is known for its port and commercial activities. However, the roads that connect the district are crying for attention, said netizens who have supported the trend. Using the #RoadChallenge hashtag, many have shared and commented by uploading photos on the condition of the roads. Mithun Rai had posted the photographs of Hassan-Bengaluru National Highway and Bengaluru-Mangaluru road. Many have urged authorities to repair damaged roads at the earliest. Massive potholes on NH 75 that connects the port city to state capital Bengaluru, and NH 169 between Mangaluru and Solapur have developed potholes on various stretches. These potholes not only inconvenienced motorists but also add to their financial burden. Vehicle owners have to spend more on maintenance of vehicles that get damaged more often. Motorists are facing a tough time on the stretch from B C Road to Mani, Gundya, Kulashekar and Vamanjoor and other areas in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/roadchallenge-trends-on-social-media-to-draw-attention-of-union-minister-gadkari-on-state-of-roads-894613.html
29-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||CEN police arrest interstate ganja peddlers||The Cyber Crime, Economic Offences and Narcotics (CEN) police bust an interstate ganja racket in Mysuru. The police arrested four Keralites and seized 83 kilos of narcotic substances on Mysuru-Ooty national highway at Mandakalli, near Mysuru. The accused were transporting ganja in a good vehicle from Andra Pradesh to Kerala via Bengaluru, Mysuru. On a tip-off, the police stopped the vehicle near Mysuru Airport, on Mysuru-Ooty highway and recovered narcotic items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cen-police-arrest-interstate-ganja-peddlers-894731.html
29-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Former ISRO chairman Kiran to deliver Davangere University convocation address tomorrow||Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) former chairman A S Kiran Kumar will deliver convocation address in Davangere University's 7th annual convocation slated to be held on its campus at Shivagangotri, Tholahunase around 10 km from the city at 11:00 am. Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, he said as many as 10,033 students including degree and post-graduate courses are eligible to receive degree certificates. Of them, 8441 are degree students and 1592 are post-graduates.  Of the 1592 PG students, 1073 are women and 519 are male. Similarly, of the 8,441 degree students, 5,408 are female and 3,033 are male. Five M.Phil and 56 PhD degrees would be awarded on the occasion. He said K V Vinayavathi, PG holder in Kannada, emerged as the golden girl of the University with four gold medals. As many as 33 students have shared 62 gold medals. Of them, one male and eight female students of degree courses have bagged 15 gold medals. Similarly, 24 postgraduate students have bagged 47 gold medals. The pass percentage in degree is 56.55% and post-graduate is 82.87%. Honorary doctorate On honorary doctorate, he said the University has received 14 applications from eminent persons in various fields. The three-member scrutiny committee recommended three names to honorary doctorate to the Governor Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala. At last, he selected Kalaburgi-based Sharana Basava University Chairman Maathoshri Daakshayani Avvaji for an honorary doctorate for her service in the field of education and social welfare activities. He said in order to contain Covid-19, all necessary precautionary measures have been taken and the entry to the venue is restricted to 250 persons. Governor Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwathnarayan will be present online and ISRO former chairman A S Kiran Kumar will deliver the convocation address online. However, rank holders in degree and post-graduate, PhD holders would be present in the event. Davangere University Registrar (Evaluation) Anitha H S, Collegiate Education Department Joint Director Veerabhadraiah, syndicate members were present in the press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-isro-chairman-kiran-to-deliver-davangere-university-convocation-address-tomorrow-894801.html
29-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||4 accused of betting on IPL matches arrested||Khade Bazaar police arrested four persons accused of betting on IPL matches late on Tuesday. Cash to the tune of Rs 15,700 and four cell phones were recovered from their possession. Police identified the accused as Utsav Pramod Jadhav, a resident of Khadak Galli; Shakeel Shahspurwale, a resident of Khanjar Galli; Amir Mulla, a resident of Khanjar Galli; and Mujawar Chandwale, a resident of Chandu Galli. Khade Bazaar police are investigating the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-accused-of-betting-on-ipl-matches-arrested-894950.html
29-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress fuelling protests for being out of power, says Karnataka BJP president Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel alleged that Congress has been fuelling protests and instigating the farmers against land reforms and APMC Act for being out of power in the state and Centre and not being able to digest it. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, Kateel said APMC Act has given farmers power to decide the costs of their agricultural produce which earlier was with traders and commission agents. Land reforms act too was in favour of farmers. BJP leaders and workers will create awareness among the farmers and people regarding the benefits they enjoy due to the new laws, he added. Congress, when out of power, instigates people for protests and the same has been happening with the new laws. APMC Act and land reforms were in the manifesto of Congress, but being in the Opposition, it has been instigating people and farmers, he stated. He also alleged that Congress leaders had similarly fuelled protests against CAA while it was pending since the era of Mahatma Gandhi, and Indira Gandhi too wanted it. Allegations by the Congress that BJP has been murdering democracy were not acceptable. It was Congress that dislodged many state governments for power and Emergency by Indira Gandhi was an example of its mindset, Kateel said. Congress leader Siddharamaiah is a former chief minister and should behave respectfully. During his tenure as Chief Minister, more than 3000 farmers committed suicide, Hindu activists were murdered. Violence was instigated in the name of Tipu Sultan Jayanti and efforts were made to divide the society in the name of Veershaiva-Lingayat, he said. Siddharamaiah does not have any right to demand resignation of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa over protest by farmers. The Chief Minister has been working for the welfare of all. Siddharamaiah could not even win Assembly election from his home constituency in Mysuru and had to get elected from Badami in Bagalkot district, Kateel said. BJP will soon finalise candidates for Sira assembly constituency by-election. Names of four to five candidates have come forward. BJP was in commanding position in the constituency, he informed. He denied commenting on the candidate for the by-election for Belagavi parliamentary constituency that had got vacated due to the death of union minister Suresh Angadi. Kateel said he would be visiting the family of Angadi to console them. He recalled Angadi's contribution for the party's organisation and for the state as Railway Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-fuelling-protests-for-being-out-of-power-says-karnataka-bjp-president-kateel-894652.html
29-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||K R Nagar MLA Mahesh criticises Karnataka govt for transferring DC Sharat||K R Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh took exception against the state government for transferring Deputy Commissioner B Sharat. In a press conference, here, on Tuesday, Mahesh said, transferring officials is the biggest achievement of the BJP government. Sharat, who was posted as Mysuru DC on August 28, was transferred within a month. "It is an insult for a IAS Officer. Whether Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa running the administration or someone else,"(sic) he questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/k-r-nagar-mla-mahesh-criticises-karnataka-govt-for-transferring-dc-sharat-894694.html
29-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Suresh Angadi was tipped to be Karnataka Chief Minister, says relative||Lingaraj Patil, close relative of late union minister Suresh Angadi who passed away recently claimed that his nephew would have become chief minister of the state. Talks in this regard were held in New Delhi four months ago. Patil while speaking to reporters at Angadi’s residence here on Tuesday said, "Name of Angadi was in the lead for next chief minister of the state. The subject was proposed and supported by many MPs with meetings too being held at New Delhi residence. Angadi was good person and did not have enmity with anybody that had led in him being considered for chief ministers post at higher level."(sic) "In the upcoming byelection for Belagavi parliamentary constituency, BJP should give candidature for Angadi family members as they have support of all leaders and also sympathy of the people. Demand to give candidature to Angadi family members has been communicated to BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel during his visit to the family on Tuesday, but he did not respond and replied that it would be discussed with Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and all leaders,"(sic) he said. BJP leader Basangouda Chikkangoudar too urged Kateel to give candidature to Angadi's family members considering the contribution he made to the party. He also cautioned to stage protests if demand was not met.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/suresh-angadi-was-tipped-to-be-karnataka-chief-minister-says-relative-894716.html
29-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP to bring back anti-cow slaughter law in Karnataka: Nalin Kumar Kateel||State BJP Unit President Nailn Kumar Kateel stated that the government would bring back anti-cow slaughter law in the coming days. Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday evening , he said "the BJP-led government had brought anti-cow slaughter law in the past. But the Siddaramaiah-led government withdrew it. The number of cow theft cases was high during Congress-led government, but the state is not witnessing such cases now. However, the government would bring back the law in the near future." On by-poll to Sira assembly constituency, he exuded confidence that BJP would win the by-poll. There are five aspirants for the party ticket. "We would finalise the candidate after holding discussions with the party leaders." When questioned whether the government halted the telecast of private news channel to cover corruption charges, he said the party legislators have responded to corruption charges in the assembly session. The issue would be discussed with the party leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-to-bring-back-anti-cow-slaughter-law-in-karnataka-nalin-kumar-kateel-894914.html
29-09-2020||Main Article||Codify MSP, remove doubts||One silver lining to the 24% fall in quarterly GDP between April and June was that growth in the agriculture sector was positive at 3.4%. This is the first time in India’s history that we are experiencing a steep economic recession without any adverse shock of drought or a failed monsoon affecting agriculture. Another notable positive development was the robust procurement of the spring harvest (rabi crop), especially of wheat. Not just the frontrunners like Punjab and Haryana, but also states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh saw good rabi procurement by the Food Corporation of India (FCI). When FCI does procurement, usually through its designated agencies based in various states, it means that the farmer gets the assured price, called the Minimum Support Price (MSP). That was over Rs 1,900 per quintal this time. The MSP is determined as a political decision, based on inputs given by the Commission on Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). This commission was set up nearly 60 years ago, and provides a logical and scientific basis to costs, and hence a reasonable price to be paid for the crops. Due to input cost escalation, for seeds, pesticides, diesel, credit, fertilisers, etc., the MSP, too, needs to go up so that the farmer receives an adequate return. Otherwise, it is a loss-making proposition. In the past 50 years, the average escalation in MSP has been about 6% per year for wheat and similarly for rice. But the actual procurement by the government has gone up nearly 70 to 80 times during this period. This procurement by the FCI has three objectives: firstly, to give an adequate support price to the farmer; secondly, to ensure food security to the nation by keeping this in buffer storage; and thirdly, to provide this grain to the Public Distribution System (PDS), i.e., the ration shops, at very cheap prices to make it available to the poor and needy. The difference in price paid to the farmer and received from the PDS is the food subsidy budget of the central government, which has crossed Rs 2 lakh crore, ie., 1% of GDP. The procurement process is humongous, with a total crossing 90 million tonnes of wheat and paddy. Even though the MSP assurance covers 23 crops, including cereals, oilseeds, pulses and commercial crops like sugarcane and cotton, the bulk of the spending is on just two crops, wheat and paddy. Moreover, despite being a national policy, the farmers who sell their crop to FCI come from only half a dozen states. And these constitute barely 6% of all farmers in the country. The volume of procurement by FCI is huge and constitutes nearly a third of all grain production in the country. That is a big intervention in the agriculture economy, and something that displeased even the World Trade Organization. But back in 1994, India convinced the negotiators who were forming the WTO that on a net basis, the Indian farmer was not pampered but, in fact, had negative support from the government. The terms of trade are, in fact, tilted against the farmer vis-à-vis industry, and this has been sought to be compensated with measures like MSP. However, it is important to note that even if only 6% of farmers get paid from the FCI procurement process, the price floor established by the MSP does indirectly benefit a much greater proportion of farmers. Forty years ago, possibly for the first time, there was mass mobilisation and an agitation of farmers led by a most unlikely and uncharismatic leader called Sharad Joshi. He was a mathematics graduate who came from a family with no background in farming. Yet, he understood the farmers’ plight, and his earliest slogan was “give us a fair price for our sweat and toil”. This was the famous onion agitation of 1978-79 and then the tobacco farmers agitation in 1981. Getting a fair price, or some assurance is a basic need of the farmer. Suffering from the vagaries of nature, it is made worse due to the exploitative practices of middlemen, who enjoy disproportionate bargaining clout. They can and do resort to deceit and trickery to exploit the small farmer. This is the reason for the genesis of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), a system introduced nationwide in the early 1960s. The APMCs were supposed to be run democratically, with periodic elections, and a majority representation of farmers. The APMC was a formalisation of the mandi system, which has existed since centuries. But over the years, even the APMC system was captured by vested interests, with a political nexus and dynastic control. To this day, there are barely 4,000 APMC market yards, when the need is for maybe 40,000 market yards in the country. The licence raj of the APMC system has a stranglehold on the farmer as well as the buyer, who were compelled to only go through this statutory middleman. It is this middleman whose power has been diminished by the new farm laws. The farmer is now free to sell his produce within or without the APMC. If he has more choice, then that can only be a good thing. But for the full import of this reform to be felt, it will take some time. There is fear that a new class of middlemen representing corporate interests will emerge. But reform cannot be held hostage to imagined fears. However, what is needed is some price assurance scheme, which was administered using the FCI and MSP. In a fully developed market economy, price assurance is available to the farmer through the futures markets. But this is considered as speculation and forward/futures markets need to be more liquid and price discovery more transparent. Till then, some form of government intervention in MSP is needed. It is the fear that with the dilution of the APMC, even the MSP regime will go away that is currently fuelling farmers’ agitations. And this needs to be addressed not just by verbal assurances, but by some form of codified, written promise by lawmakers. With this important supplement, the new farm laws will represent a significant step in economic reforms in agriculture. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/codify-msp-remove-doubts-894515.html
29-09-2020||Mysuru||Rohini Sindhuri visits Chamundeshwari temple before taking charge as Deputy Commissioner||Newly appointed Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri visited Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamudi Hill, on Tuesday. The 2009 batch IAS officer Rohini replaced B Sharat, who appointed as DC on August 28. He was transferred within a month of his posting. According to authorities, Sindhuri will go to the DC office from the temple and take charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/rohini-sindhuri-visits-chamundeshwari-temple-before-taking-charge-as-deputy-commissioner-894641.html
29-09-2020||National||CLAT 2020 witness 78% turnout despite protests, Covid-19||Despite several hudles, the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 went on smoothly where 78% of the total registered 75,183 registered candidates appeared for the test on Monday. CLAT 2020 is a gateway for admissions into 22 National Law Universities across the country. Despite the bandh call given by various Farmers Organisations in Karnataka, students appeared for the test in across 18 centres in the state. The final results of the test will be announced on October 5 as per the schedule released by CLAT conductors. The number of candidates who appeared for the test was affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic and due to bandh in some states, including Karnataka. "As there was a bandh call given by farmers organisations I was scared if missing the test, but everything went on well," said a candidate. "Following the bandh call, fearing the road block, I had reached the centre 2 hours before the test time," revealed another candidate. However students who appeared for the test said that the paper was of moderate difficulty and lengthy. This year the CLAT conductors have increased the total numbers of test centres to 300 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A press release by the Consortium of National Law Universities stated that 100% attendance was recorded at four centres and no technical glitch was reported from any of the centres. The Consortium has mentioned that instead of only 50% of the fee shall be paid at the time of admission considering the pandemic. The consortium said that the number of questions for CLAT UG was reduced from 200 to 150. A grievance committee under the chairperson Justice Rajendra Babu, Former Chief Justice of India has been set up to look into the grievances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clat-2020-witness-78-turnout-despite-protests-covid-19-894488.html
29-09-2020||National||Former Assam CM Syeda Anwara Taimur passes away||Assam's only woman Chief Minister Syeda Anwara Taimur died on Monday due to a cardiac arrest in Australia, her family sources said. She was 83. Taimur was also the lone Muslim Chief Minister of the state. The former Chief Minister was staying in Australia with her son for the past few years, the sources said. Taimur had helmed a Congress government in Assam from December 6, 1980 to June 30, 1981 when her term ended with the state being put under President's rule for six months. She was later the PWD and agriculture minister of the state from 1983 to 1985. Elected four times to the state Assembly in 1972, 1978, 1983 and 1991, Taimur was a Rajya Sabha member in 1988. She quit the Congress and joined the AIDUF IN 2011. Before her foray into politics, the Aligarh Muslim University alumni was a lecturer of Economics in Debicharan Barua Girls College at Jorhat in 1956. Her name did not figure in the contentious National Register of Citizens (NRC) final list in 2018 as she was away in Australia and could not apply for it, her family members said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled her death. In a tweet he said "...Her contributions towards Assam's development will be remembered. May her soul rest in peace". Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal mourned the death of his predecessor. "Anwara Taimur, the lone woman Chief Minister of the state, was the people's Chief Minister who served the people of Assam with compassion," he said in a statement. "During her long political career she served the people of Assam as Chief Minister, minister with different portfolios as well as MLA and MP. Her contributions for the state as well as for the welfare of the people will be acknowledged and remembered by the posterity. Her death is a loss to the state," he added. Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said: "A big loss for us all as former CM Syeda Anwara Taimur breathed her last. An able administrator and affable people person, Syeda Mam was the only woman CM of Assam. A 4-term MLA, she had an illustrious political career spanning over 4 decades. My prayers and condolences". Ruling Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass in a message to Taimur's family said, "May my condolences bring you comfort and may my prayers ease the pain of this loss. I offer you my thoughts, prayers and well-wishes during this dark time in your life". Assam PCC president and Rajya Sabha member Ripun Bora said: "Saddened by the news of the demise of former Chief Minister of Assam Syeda Anwara Taimur. My heartfelt condolences to her family members in this hour of grief. May her soul rest in eternal peace". The AIUDF also mourned the demise of their member.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-assam-cm-syeda-anwara-taimur-passes-away-894490.html
29-09-2020||National||Language issue being whipped up by DMK, won't work this time: Annamalai||The politics over language being spearheaded by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) is a “dead horse” in Tamil Nadu and will not have any resonance with the people during the 2021 Assembly polls, former IPS officer and Tamil Nadu BJP Vice-President K Annamalai said. In an interview with Deccan Herald’s ETB Sivapriyan, the police officer-turned-politician spoke in detail about the BJP’s plan in Tamil Nadu, the language issue and relevance of social reformer E V R Periyar. Listen to the interview:  Edited excerpts: You have chosen a party, BJP, which is not quite popular in Tamil Nadu. You say you joined politics to bring about a change in the state but why choose a party which is not popular in the state? I do not see it the way you are seeing it. BJP is the largest political party in the world with over 11 crore members and possessing the largest number of elected representatives. In a state like Tamil Nadu, it is just a matter of time a party like BJP comes to power. All indicators point to the fact that people are fed up of Dravidian politics and BJP would take up the space that is being opened now. More importantly, politics is always about the call you take based on your heart because you got to align with the party. You say people in Tamil Nadu are fed up with the Dravidian parties. And what do you think should change in the state? In Tamil Nadu, for a long time, whether it is right or wrong, the politics was oriented around personalities. We had Annadurai, Kalaignar Karunanidhi, later MGR, and Jayalalithaa and what happened was that these personalities pulled most of the votes for their parties. For the first time, we do not have any political personalities in the frame now, and it is a fairly open contest. I also agree that the political parties have a certain core base of committed voters. But this core base is different from personalities who can pull votes. Secondly, the voters are pretty young now. Close to 42 per cent of voters are below the age of 39, and these young voters look at politics in a much different way than the people who voted for other parties previously. This 42 per cent can make the difference, though they do not vote much. I hope and pray that they are the natural voting base for the BJP. And I think a lot of differences will happen in the grassroots before 2026. You said 2026 is your target but if you just go back a year, the BJP could not win even a single seat in Tamil Nadu in 2019 polls. What do you think has changed drastically that BJP has gained ground now? 2019 was an abnormal election and not a normal election in Tamil Nadu. What happened was an artificial Modi was built inside the state by the very strong media portals, and opinion makers and everything was projected as anti-Tamil Nadu and it was done absolutely by pumping in loads of money. But if you look at the same voter who had preferred the DMK in 2019 over the BJP-AIADMK alliance, he now realises that they had made false promises. For the first time they are seeing that Modi ji’s schemes are reaching the nook and corner of Tamil Nadu. Lot of changes on the ground and this is the difference I am seeing. You mean to say that the anti-BJP and anti-Modi wave are a thing of the past and that the BJP is acceptable to the people of Tamil Nadu? 100 per cent. Not only is BJP acceptable, it is also becoming a party of choice for a lot of youngsters and other people. Because a lot of things like corruption and internal structure in political parties and if you look at everything in totality, the BJP is connecting to a common man now and the main reason is PM Modi’s scheme. Are you coming to say that the Dravidian parties are cut-off from the common man’s aspirations and the BJP is the only party which is reaching you to the common man? Dravidian parties are bearing a lot of things like family politics, corruption, scandals, fights within their own family and not having new faces in the party. They have MLAs who have served six to seven terms and who do not connect with the young voters. These are all tough things for a Dravidian party to bear and to overcome these and come to the battlefield and take on (BJP) electorally will be tough. Tamil Nadu had always flaunted its linguistic identity and Tamil pride. Off late, there have been a lot of instances of Hindi being imposed on non-Hindi speaking states. Do you think BJP can make a common cause with the people of Tamil Nadu where Hindi is not welcome? Hindi was never imposed in Tamil Nadu by the BJP. Hindi was imposed in Tamil Nadu in 1965, 1968 and 1986 by the Congress governments. The three-language formula proposed in the New Education Policy (NEP) does not impose Hindi and it is very clear that the third language is optional, and it could even be a regional language. The only thing that Dravidian parties do is to play with the Tamil pride. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the one who propagated Tamil by quoting Thirukkural and Kanian Poongundranar. If this is the case, how can BJP be anti-Tamil? These are absolutely baseless allegations and they do not have anything constructive to engage with us and they keep going back to the same old dead horse and keep flogging it. Do you think Hindi imposition issue is a dead horse? Because you talked about Modi taking Tamil to the UN, but the counterview is that will the language grow just because the Prime Minister recites a few verses in global forums? (M K) Stalin ji when he went to West Bengal for Mamata Banerjee’s swearing-in ceremony, in what language did he speak? He calls himself a proud Tamil and he then speaks a form of Bengali which nobody understood there. We are looking at the intention behind who we are. The Prime Minister, of course, is a Gujarati and he cannot recite all 1,330 Thirukkural or neither can he read Kamba Ramayanam. So, it is all the intention that counts. The intention of the PM is pro-Tamil and that is why he brought the Chinese President to Mamallapuram to see the Tamil culture. You mean to say that language issues may not strike a chord with Tamil people anymore? This election it is absolutely zero. People are seeing DMK for what it is. For example, see the recent campaign Hindi Theriyadhu Poda. People have whipped them, and they have really understood who started the campaign and who printed the t-shirts. Did you see any common man wearing the t-shirt in Chennai or Coimbatore? For the first time, DMK themselves understand that Tamil-Hindi divide might not work in 2021 elections. It is all about developmental politics. DMK themselves have realised this. The Hindi imposition resonated across the country and there are protests in Karnataka with people saying Hindi Gotila. How do you respond to these protests and are these also orchestrated? I have seen Karnataka and I have served there for some time and it is a state where a lot of people speak Hindi. If you look at Bengaluru city per se, the Kannadigas are in a minority because it is a city where North Indians, Tamils, Telugus, and others reside. I will not agree that Karnataka has said Hindi Gotila. It is also orchestrated. Because Karnataka is a state I understand and it is a more nationalistic state and if you take north Indian states, Karnataka equally contributes manpower to the Indian Army. So, the (protests in) Karnataka are fully orchestrated. In Tamil Nadu also it is managed because a few people can always be convinced. The common man wants to learn Hindi. They want to learn a language of choice and convenience. The BJP wants to overthrow Dravidian parties and the party has been opposing E V R Periyar. But now the state president L Murugan and you have praised him. Is it not a contradiction? I do not see it as a contradiction. Because we are not saying (Dravidian) leaders are 100 per cent bad. Periyar has done some good things. I look at Periyar in two dimensions. Before 1925 and after 1925. The Periyar before 1925 was different from the Periyar after he launched Dravidar Kazhagam and that is where the problem starts. All they did after that was abusing god and abusing women and Tamil literature. Please read our statements in context. Using very bad language or outdated language against Periyar is not what we believe in. Periyar is gone now. 2021 is all about Narendra Modi. It is all about developmental politics and what good can happen to Tamil Nadu. Do you mean to say Periyar is irrelevant? I am not saying he is irrelevant. We need not talk about him. What he has done, right or wrong, people know. The electoral space in 2021 has a different dimension and BJP is a party that stands by its core ideology. We will not use harsh language against anyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/language-issue-being-whipped-up-by-dmk-wont-work-this-time-annamalai-894356.html
29-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 29||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 62 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases.   Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  62,14,384 as of September 29 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  96,417  No. of people discharged: 51,01,397  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-29-894535.html
29-09-2020||National||Science institutes' ranking to depend on women workforce under new policy: Report||Under the policy, both public and private institutions will be graded based on criteria such as promotion opportunities, leadership positions, and other facilities like creches, that are offered to women. The policy is expected to be unveiled around December.  “The representation of women in engineering courses at IITs is around 10-12 per cent. Even in our own department, we have said that all the committees must have at least 25 per cent women. But the number of women in the sciences are so low, it is often difficult to fill these positions. Even when they do join the sciences, they tend to drop out at some stage due to socio-cultural reasons, family pressure, children, etc. And when that happens, those reaching leadership positions are very few,” Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology told the publication.  Committees looking at the workplace and sexual harassment would also be strengthened under the policy. It would also aim to create opportunities for women who are unable to thrive in science due to linguistic barriers and geographical limitations.  A task force on women in science, set up in 2005, found that the growth in enrollment of women in higher education had increased from 10.9 per cent in 1950-51 to 39.4 per cent in 2000-01. However, the individual differences in the representation of women across states varied drastically. From over 50 per cent enrollment in Goa, Kerala, Puducherry, and Punjab to less than 35 per cent in Bihar, Rajasthan, Odisha and Arunachal Pradesh.  It also found the situation in the IITs to be particularly alarming as less than 15 per cent women occupied faculty positions in these institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/science-institutes-ranking-to-depend-on-women-workforce-under-new-policy-report-894612.html
29-09-2020||National||India reports lowest daily Covid-19 deaths since August 3||India reported its lowest daily rise in coronavirus deaths since August 3 of 776, data from the health ministry showed on Tuesday, as global fatalities crossed 1 million and infections surged in several countries. The South Asian country's coronavirus case tally rose to 6.15 million after it reported 70,589 new infections in the last 24 hours, according to health ministry data, while total deaths stood at 96,318. Though India's death toll is a relatively low 1.6 per cent of total cases, the country, along with the United States and Brazil, account for nearly 45 per cent of global Covid-19 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-lowest-daily-covid-19-deaths-since-august-3-894627.html
29-09-2020||National||Single-day Covid-19 cases in India drop below 75,000; recovery rate rises to 83.01%||Daily Covid-19 cases in India dropped below 75,000 and less than 1,000 deaths were reported in a day after nearly a month, while total recoveries crossed the 51 lakh-mark, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. The total coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 61,45, 291 with 70,589 new infections, while the death toll reached 96,318 after 776 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries surged to 51,01,397 pushing the recovery rate to 83.01 per cent. There are 9,47,576 active cases in the country which comprise 15.42 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.57 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60-lakh mark on September 28. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 7,31,10,041 samples have been tested up to September 28 with 11,42,811 samples being tested on Monday. The 776 new fatalities include 180 from Maharashtra, 70 from Tamil Nadu, 59 from Karnataka, 58 from Uttar Pradesh, 56 from West Bengal, 46 from Punjab, 37 each from Andhra Pradesh and Delhi and 35 from Madhya Pradesh. Total 96,318 deaths reported so far in the country include 35,751 from Maharashtra followed by 9,383 from Tamil Nadu, 8,641 from Karnataka, 5,745 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,652 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,272 from Delhi, 4,837 from West Bengal, 3,428 from Gujarat, 3,284 from Punjab and 2,242 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-day-covid-19-cases-in-india-drop-below-75000-recovery-rate-rises-to-8301-894629.html
29-09-2020||National||Amnesty halts India operations alleging witch hunt by government||Amnesty International India (AII), a private human rights watchdog, on Tuesday said it is halting its operations in India and let go of its staff claiming that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) "froze" all its bank accounts earlier this month in what it called "incessant witch-hunt", remarks denied by the government. Claiming that the release of reports on human rights situation in Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi riots last month provided "fresh impetus" to "harass and intimidate", the AII said it came to know about the freezing of accounts over "unfounded and motivated" allegations on September 10. However, the Ministry of Home Affairs countered the AII saying its statement was "unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth" and human rights cannot be an "excuse for defying" the law of the land. AII Executive Director Avinash Kumar said the "continuing crackdown" on the AII over the last two years and the latest action was not "accidental". "The constant harassment by government agencies including the ED is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and Jammu and Kashmir. For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voices against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent,” Kumar said in a statement. The AII is facing multiple probes by the CBI and the ED, which accused it of violation of rules related to foreign funding and Foreign Exchange Management Act, charges which were denied by the international NGO. An MHA statement said that AII had received permission to receive foreign funds only once in 2000. However, Amnesty UK remitted a large amount of money to four entities registered in India by classifying it as Foreign Direct Investment besides transferring money to AII without MHA approval. It said the previous government had also rejected AII’s application for receiving foreign funds, leading to suspension of its India operations during that period as well. “This bipartisan and purely legal approach towards Amnesty, under different governments, makes it clear that the entire fault lies in the dubious processes adopted by Amnesty to secure funds for its operations," it said. "All the glossy statements about humanitarian work and speaking truth to power are nothing but a ploy to divert attention from their activities which were in clear contravention of laid down Indian laws. Such statements are also an attempt to extraneously influence the course of investigations by multiple agencies into the irregularities and illegalities carried out over the last few years," it added. For human rights work in India, the AII said it operates through a distinct model of raising funds domestically and more than four million Indians have supported AII's work in the last eight years and around one lakh Indians have made financial contributions. "These contributions evidently cannot have any relation with the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. The fact that the Government is now portraying this lawful fundraising model as money-laundering is evidence that the overboard legal framework is maliciously activated when human rights activists and groups challenge the government’s grave inactions and excesses," it said. It also said the action against AII and other "outspoken" human rights organisations, activists and human rights defenders was only an "extension of the various repressive policies and sustained assault" by the government on those who speak truth to power. “Treating human rights organisations like criminal enterprises and dissenting individuals as criminals without any credible evidence is a deliberate attempt by the ED and government to stoke a climate of fear and dismantle the critical voices in India. It reeks of fear and repression, ignores the human cost to this crackdown particularly during a pandemic and violates people’s basic rights to freedom of speech and expression, assembly, and association guaranteed by the Indian Constitution and international human rights law," Kumar said. In its statement, the AII also cited the actions taken by government agencies, including raids by CBI in October 2018 and November last year, freezing of bank accounts, Income Tax Department sending letters to over 30 "small regular donors" and denying permission to hold a press conference in Srinagar to release a report on misuse of Public Safety Act in Jammu and Kashmir. Government officials claimed that there is no investigation against AII but a private company linked to the NGO that allegedly received Rs 51.72 crore between 2013-14 and 2018-19 from Amnesty International, UK in violation of FEMA. Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd and Indians for Amnesty International Trust were under the scanner in this regard and a show cause notice was issued to the former in this regard. They claimed that no services were exported and the amount received was in contravention to the provisions of FEMA and PMLA. It led to the freezing of balance deposits in the bank accounts of the two firms, which challenged the ED order in Karnataka High Court but lost. "No other fund except for alleged export proceeds received from Amnesty International, UK is under investigation or freezing under the law," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amnesty-halts-india-operations-alleging-witch-hunt-by-government-894631.html
29-09-2020||National||Caught in worries of today, coronavirus, health, distant thoughts for pregnant labourers||Carrying bricks and cement by day and jerry cans of water when their shifts get over, the workday continues without end for thousands of pregnant labourers forced to live life on the precipice with little time to spare on thoughts of what the future holds – for themselves or their unborn child. Uncertainty has always been a subtext of their lives and the pandemic has only sharpened it. But thoughts of Covid-19 and the risks of stepping out to work as the disease rages are a luxury for these women, many of them migrants eking out a precarious existence as construction workers hundreds of miles from home. Some like Marjina, who is seven months pregnant, have taken a loan to tide over the difficult times when jobs and money are both scarce, others like Lalitha, approaching full-term pregnancy, continue to work with truncated wages because they have no other choice. Living in slums that have come up in the shadows of the high-rise buildings they are helping construct in Raj Nagar Extension in Delhi’s satellite town of Ghaziabad, the women know that regular doctor visits and medical checkups are not on the anvil at a time when even two square meals are difficult. They are lucky to just find work when they can, say the women, most in their 20s or even younger and in frail health after multiple pregnancies at a young age. Recounting her day, 27-year-old Marjina said she gets up earlier in the morning, cooks, finishes the household work and heads to the construction site with her eight-year-old daughter Marish and husband Mazru. The family eats just once a day. She gets tired but there is no option. “I have been working with my husband for six years. We always had two meals a day but can’t afford it any more,” Marjina told PTI. While Marjina makes Rs 250 a day, her husband gets Rs 300. “We have cut down our meals to one a day because we have taken a loan from a relative and need to repay it,” she said. Living one day at a time as jobs dwindle, the women are forced to step up to help their husbands bring in money and there is little thought for what will happen tomorrow. Not far away from Marjina’s tenement is Lalitha’s home. Emblematic of the still widespread practice of girls being married when barely in their teens, Lalitha, just 18 years old, is nine months pregnant and already has two children. She would earn Rs 300 a day and her husband Sanjay Rs 450 before the pandemic struck. The money was sufficient to feed their family of four. Now a third child is on its way and the couple is frantic about how they will manage. Lalitha got an ultrasound done in the early days of the lockdown but the savings have dwindled as have the daily wages and the work. She goes to the construction site but sometimes there is no work. “I have not been going to work for the past several days. Lalitha may have to be taken to the hospital anytime. These days are so difficult for everyone so we can’t even borrow from anyone and the contractor refuses to advance us any,” said Sanjay helplessly. Life was anyway a struggle and the last few months have just made things so much worse, added Saroj who also lives close by. She is 25 and is expecting her fifth child. Malnourished and weak, Saroj, who is five months pregnant. said she and her husband Pappu together made almost Rs 25,000 a month as daily wage masons. After the lockdown in March, the money has been cut by almost 60 per cent and now there isn’t enough to eat. But Saroj goes to work gamely in the hope that a day’s work will get some money in. The last few months have extracted a terrible toll on the families of the labourers. Gudiya, 19, is six months pregnant and exhausted. Soon after the lockdown, she went to her village in Aligarh but there was no work so she returned to Ghaziabad. Her husband Ravi and she manage to work for about four days a week as construction labourers, earning about Rs 400 a day. “But there is no money for medicines and there are days we go to sleep hungry,” she said. The couple has one child. Their stories find echo several kilometres away in the Red Fort area in Old Delhi, not new and upcoming like Raj Nagar Extension but old and historic where generations have lived. Sukhwati, who will be expecting a baby in three months, works at a construction site in the area. While she earns Rs 300 a day, her husband Kashiram gets Rs 400. “It is getting difficult to survive. The contractor doesn’t give us enough work,” the 21-year-old from Bihar who is expecting her fourth child said. How will these young women, battling ill-health and already burdened with debt and worries about feeding their children cope when another baby comes along? Caught in the stresses of today, there is little time to think of tomorrow or of the child born in a time of spiralling uncertainty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caught-in-worries-of-today-coronavirus-health-distant-thoughts-for-pregnant-labourers-894679.html
29-09-2020||National||Census may be delayed until 2022 if Covid-19 situation does not improve||“The Covid-19 situation in the coming months cannot be predicted at this juncture. Given that the Centre and states’ priority right now is tackling the pandemic and its impact, the states are in no mood for even discussions on the way forward on Census/National Population Register (NPR). In any case, Census is not an essential exercise and can wait,” an official is quoted as saying in the report. The Home Ministry’s notification outlines September 30, 2020, as the end-date for the first phase of the population count. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, even the updation of the NPR has been stalled. According to the report, sources said that the January 2020 notification indicating the stipulated time period for Census and house-listing operations will lapse on Wednesday, with informal discussions being held with the Law Ministry.  The talks revolve around the lack of need to issue fresh notifications with new timelines.  Even the July 31, 2019, notification declaring the Modi-led government’s decision to update the NPR between April 1 and September 30, 2020, in all states/ UTs except Assam will lapse. In March, the government has indefinitely postponed the first phase of Census 2021 and the updation of National Population Register (NPR) after the imposition of the lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/census-may-be-delayed-until-2022-if-covid-19-situation-does-not-improve-894686.html
29-09-2020||National||Delhi HC seeks Centre, PCI, NBA reply on action taken on Rakul Preet's plea on media reports||The Delhi High Court asked the Centre, PCI and NBA on Tuesday as to what steps they have taken on its order to aid actor Rakul Preet Singh's plea to stop media reports from connecting her with the Rhea Chakraborty drug case and take a decision on it. Justice Navin Chawla directed the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Press Council of India and National Broadcasting Association to file status reports indicating all the steps taken by them pursuant to the court's September 17 order to treat the contents of the actor's petition as a representation. The court issued notice to them and sought their replies on a fresh application moved by the actor seeking interim directions to them to ensure that the media does not broadcast any programme or publish any article connecting her with the case. The court declined to pass any interim directions but asked the NBA to take up her representation on October 3. It also told the ministry that merely because the probe in the drug case was "sensitive" or "at a crucial stage", the government cannot say it will not look into the alleged false reporting by the media. The court directed the ministry, PCI and NBA to file their replies to the application and the status reports on action taken before the next date of hearing on October 15. The actor, in her application, has sought an interim order against the media till the time the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Mumbai, completes the investigation in the drug case and files an appropriate report before the competent court. During the hearing via video conferencing, advocate Aman Hingorani, appearing for the actor, told the court that she was in Hyderabad for a film shoot and on the evening of September 23 she was shocked to see media reports that NCB has summoned her to appear before it in Mumbai the next morning in connection with the drug case. However, till then she had not received any summons either on her Hyderabad address or Mumbai address and remained in Hyderabad, he said.   Subsequently, the media started running fake news to the effect that she reached Mumbai on September 23 evening for the NCB investigation and was holed up in her house, he argued in court. Hingorani also told the court that the media allegedly falsely reported that she named others in connection with the case and that she also told NCB that she stocked and supplied drugs and was also a conduit. He said the media continued to allegedly maliciously broadcast and publish fake news against her in relation to the case. The high court on September 17 had said that the leaks to the media need to be investigated as "someone's reputation is totally destroyed by this". It had also expressed the hope that "media houses would show restraint in their reports and would abide by the cable TV regulations, programme code and various guidelines, statutory and self-regulatory while making any reports with regard to the petitioner". The application has been filed in the main petition by the actor to stop media reports from connecting her with the Rhea Chakraborty drug case. In her petition, she has claimed that Chakraborty had already retracted the statement in which she was allegedly named and yet the media reports were connecting her to the drug case. The NCB probe has stemmed from the investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case. She has contended that based on unsubstantiated allegations defamatory programmes were being run in the media against her which was causing irreparable harm and injury to her. The petition had also alleged that the ministry, PCI and NBA "have failed to discharge their statutory functions of ensuring compliance of their own directives, which has resulted in the flagrant violation of the fundamental rights of the petitioner".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-centre-pci-nba-reply-on-action-taken-on-rakul-preets-plea-on-media-reports-894699.html
29-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate climbs past 83%; recovered cases outnumber active ones by over 41.5 lakh||The number of people who have recuperated from Covid-19 in India crossed 51 lakh, improving the national recovery rate to over 83 per cent and outnumbering the active cases by more than 41.5 lakh, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. As much as 73 per cent of the new recovered cases were reported from 10 states and Union Territories -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Odisha, Kerala, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. Maharashtra topped the list with nearly 20,000 recoveries, while Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh contributed more than 7,000 to the single-day recoveries, the ministry said. The sustained high level of recoveries have led to a further widening of the gap between active and recovered cases, it said. "Recovered cases exceed the active cases by more than 41.5 lakh (41,53,831). The recovered cases are 5.38 times the active cases. The recoveries are consistently rising," the ministry underlined. There are 9,47,576 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently, which is "merely" 15.42 per cent of the total caseload and "is consistently declining". The daily new recovered cases again exceeded the new infections, the ministry said. While 84,877 patients recuperated from Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours in the country, 70,589 new infections were reported during the same period, according to the data updated at 8 am Tuesday. The total number of recoveries has touched 51,01,397 pushing the recovery rate to 83.01 per cent as on date. The recovery rate was 82.58 per cent on Monday. Ten states and UTs account for 73 per cent of the 70,589 new cases that have been reported in a span 24 hours in the country. Maharashtra continues to lead this tally, accounting for more than 11,000 cases, followed by Karnataka with more than 6,000. There have been 776 fatalities in a day, with 10 states and UTs accounting for 78 per cent of the deaths in a span of 24 hours due to coronavirus infection. Of the new fatalities, Maharashtra reported more than 23 per cent with 180 deaths, followed by Tamil Nadu with 70. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 61,45,291 with 70,589 new infections, while the death toll reached 96,318 after 776 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-climbs-past-83-recovered-cases-outnumber-active-ones-by-over-415-lakh-894735.html
29-09-2020||National||Babri Masjid demolition case: Court to pronounce verdict today, security tightened||Twenty-eight years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid by thousands of 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya, a special CBI court, on Wednesday, would pronounce its verdict in the case in which several senior BJP leaders, including L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, and Kalyan Singh were accused.  Special Judge (CBI) S K Yadav has directed all the thirty-two accused persons to be present in the court on that day. There were 49 accused persons in this case but 17 of them have died since then. The court had reserved its verdict in the case on September 1 after the conclusion of the hearing. Security has been tightened in and around the court as well as in different parts in the state in view of the verdict. ''We are taking every precautionary measure to ensure peace and tranquility in the state,'' said a senior police official on Tuesday. All the accused persons, many of whom were charged with conspiracy, denied the charges and claimed that they were falsely implicated in the matter by the then Congress regime. The accused persons, who died during the pendency of the trial, included former VHP international president Ashok Singhal, Giriraj Kishore, Vishnu Hari Dalmiya, Mahant Avaidyanath, and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's father Bala Saheb Thackeray. The Supreme Court had directed the special CBI judge to deliver the verdict by September 30. The judge S.K.Yadav would be retiring on Wednesday. The cases, which pertained to the demolition of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, by thousands of 'karsevaks', were heard on a daily basis by the special CBI judge.  Soon after the demolition of the disputed structure, two FIRs were registered at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station in Ayodhya against unidentified 'karsevaks', Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), and BJP leaders. Forty-seven other FIRs were also registered later. The CBI, which was handed over the investigation of the cases, had filed a single charge sheet in all the cases. The Allahabad High Court, upon being approached by the BJP leaders, ordered to drop proceedings against them as the state government had not issued a fresh notification transferring the trial of FIR no 198 in which their names were mentioned to the special CBI court.  The keenly awaited verdict assumes significance as it comes barely two months after the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya.   Incidentally, a court would be hearing a petition claiming ownership of Srikrishna Janmabhoomi and seeking removal of the Shahi Idgah Masjid from the complex in Mathura on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-masjid-demolition-case-court-to-pronounce-verdict-today-security-tightened-894736.html
29-09-2020||National||Don't deprive employees of joy of Diwali, HC tells NrDMC on non-payment of salaries||Diwali is round the corner and no employee should be deprived of the joy of festivity, the Delhi High Court observed on Tuesday while asking the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) to disburse pending salaries of 9,000 teachers engaged by the civic body. The court was informed by the NrDMC counsel that on September 8, the civic body has released salaries of June to its teachers. The court was also informed by the Delhi government's advocate that it has released Rs 98.35 crore to NrDMC on September 3 and the amount will cover the salaries of teachers for September and October. “Don’t forget the festival of Diwali is round the corner. We will not allow you (NrDMC) to deprive any employee of that little joy of festivity,” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said, adding that many people are already heartbroken and under depression due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The court also asked the civic agency to disburse the salaries of teachers for the pending months. The NrDMC counsel said he will seek instructions as to whether the civic body has received the amount from the Delhi government and that they are working on the issue of releasing salaries. The court asked the civic body to file a status report in this regard and listed the matter for further hearing on November 5. The bench was hearing a suo motu PIL initiated by the high court with regard to the disbursement of unpaid salaries of teachers employed in schools run by the NrDMC. The high court had initiated the PIL in June after hearing the petition filed on behalf of North Delhi Municipal Corporation teachers by Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, seeking direction to the authorities to pay their salaries which were due since March, when the nationwide lockdown was imposed. The court was earlier informed by the NrDMC that it had paid salaries to all 9000 teachers engaged by the civic body till March and 5406 teachers, who are put on COVID-19 duty, have been given their dues for April. The NrDMC had blamed the Delhi government for not releasing Grant-In-Aid to the civic body due to which it is unable to pay the salaries of its employees. The Delhi government had said that the Grant-In-Aid payable by it to the NrDMC for release of salaries to its teachers was Rs147 crores for the first quarter of this year, that is, from April to June and it has been released in three monthly tranches. It had in August informed the high court that it had released Rs 98.35 crore to NrDMC for paying salaries to 9000 teachers for July and August. While initiating the PIL on June 26, the bench had remarked that teachers deployed on COVID-19 duty can be equated to corona warriors and was displeased that their salaries have not been paid since March. The bench had earlier directed the NrDMC to pay arrears of salaries, saying the teachers cannot be made to run from pillar to post for their lawful dues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-deprive-employees-of-joy-of-diwali-hc-tells-nrdmc-on-non-payment-of-salaries-894737.html
29-09-2020||National||China nudges Pakistan to turn Gilgit-Baltistan into province; India opposes||With Beijing nudging Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government to elevate Gilgit-Baltistan as the fifth province of Pakistan, New Delhi on Tuesday underlined that Islamabad had no locus standi on the region as it was an integral part of India. New Delhi conveyed its strong protest to Islamabad over the Khan Government’s recent move to hold polls on November 15 next to elect the third legislative assembly of Gilgit-Baltistan, which India claims to be its own and accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying. "The Government of India has conveyed its strong protest to the Government of Pakistan and reiterated that the entire Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh, including the areas of so-called Gilgit and Baltistan are an integral part of India by virtue of its accession in 1947,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement issued in New Delhi on Tuesday. “The Government of Pakistan has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it.” The Pakistan Government held polls in Gilgit-Baltistan in 2009 and 2015 – electing a legislative assembly, despite protests from New Delhi. It is now preparing to hold the third assembly elections in the region on November 15. The Khan Government recently decided to elevate the status of Gilgit-Baltistan to a fully-fledged province of Pakistan with all constitutional rights, including representation in the upper and lower houses of parliament of the country. New Delhi suspects that Islamabad’s all-weather ally Beijing may have nudged the Khan Government to turn Gilgit-Baltistan into a province of Pakistan. With several projects of the controversial China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) located in Gilgit-Baltistan, Beijing wants Islamabad to end the ambiguity about the status of the region. Islamabad’s move on Gilgit-Baltistan appears to be an attempt to respond to New Delhi’s August 5, 2019 decision to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganise the erstwhile state into two Union Territories. New Delhi earlier rejected the recent actions by Pakistan Government on Gilgit-Baltistan, including the so-called “Gilgit-Baltistan (Elections and Caretaker Government) Amendment Order 2020”. It also opposed continued attempts by Islamabad to bring “material changes in areas under illegal and forcible occupation” of Pakistan. Such actions can hide neither the illegal occupation of parts of Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom to the people residing in territories illegally occupied by Pakistan for the past 70 years, Anurag Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson in New Delhi, said. “These are cosmetic exercises intended to camouflage its illegal occupation. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-nudges-pakistan-to-turn-gilgit-baltistan-into-province-india-opposes-894740.html
29-09-2020||National||Waiting eagerly for CBI probe outcome in Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday sought to know what happened after the probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajputs death was given to the CBI, and said he is eagerly waiting to know the outcome of the agency's investigation. Deshmukh's comments came a day after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said it has not reached any conclusion in the death Rajput and that all aspects are under investigation. The CBI started a probe into the high-profile case last month following the Supreme Court's nod. Earlier, the Mumbai Police had filed an accidental death report and were investigating the matter after Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Bandra area here on June 14 this year. Taking to Twitter, Deshmukh said, "What happened after the Sushant Singh death case probe was handed over to the CBI? People have been asking whether the actor committed suicide or was killed." "We are also waiting eagerly to know the outcome of the CBI probe," he added. The Supreme Court last month upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged in Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting Rajput's suicide, to the CBI. Deshmukh had in the past defended the Mumbai Polices investigation into the case, saying the force conducted the probe in a "professional manner". The CBI in a statement on Monday said it is "conducting professional investigation related to death of Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date." The central agency had taken over the probe from Bihar Police into the alleged abetment to suicide case filed by the actor's father K K Singh in Patna against Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family. Singh in his complaint to Bihar Police had alleged that Chakraborty along with her family members had misappropriated Rajput's wealth, which was denied by Chakraborty in TV interviews. Last week, Singh's lawyer Vikas Singh expressed "helplessness" over the slow pace of the CBI probe into Rajput's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/waiting-eagerly-for-cbi-probe-outcome-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-anil-deshmukh-894741.html
29-09-2020||National||Grief, outrage over brutal gang rape of Dalit girl in Hathras||(Warning: Story contains some graphic details, reader discretion advised) A girl from a scheduled caste, who was brutally assaulted after being gang-raped by four youths in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district, a few days ago, died at a hospital in Delhi on Tuesday. According to the police sources, all the four accused, who hailed from the native village of the victim, have been arrested. The victim had suffered serious injuries on her neck, face, back and stomach and was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Monday, after her condition worsened. The perpetrators tried to strangle her and a portion of her tongue was also chopped. She was paralysed and had to be put on a ventilator. The family members alleged that the police registered the case of gang-rape almost a week after the incident. The police, however, denied any laxity in this regard. The incident triggered a massive outrage with the opposition leaders targeting chief minister Yogi Adityanath for failing to ensure the safety of the women in the state. ''Recurring incidents of rapes have shaken the state....the responsibility lies with the CM,'' Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in a tweet. ...यूपी में कानून व्यवस्था हद से ज्यादा बिगड़ चुकी है। महिलाओं की सुरक्षा का नाम-ओ-निशान नहीं है।अपराधी खुले आम अपराध कर रहे हैं। Priyanka, who spoke to the family members of the victim on telephone, was likely to visit them in the next few days, sources in the UP Congress said. ''We can not expect anything from this government....it is an insensitive government,'' Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav said. हाथरस की गैंग रेप एवं दरिंदगी की शिकार एक बेबस दलित बेटी ने आख़िरकार दम तोड़ दिया. नम आँखों से पु्ष्पांजलि! आज की असंवेदनशील सत्ता से अब कोई उम्मीद नहीं बची. BSP supremo Mayawati demanded stern punishment be meted out to the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/grief-outrage-over-brutal-gang-rape-of-dalit-girl-in-hathras-894759.html
29-09-2020||National||Supreme Court directs states to provide dry rations to sex workers without insisting on identity proof||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered all states and Union Territories to provide dry ration to all sex workers without insisting on a ration card or any other identity proof. A bench, presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao, considered the hardships faced by sex workers as they have been rendered almost destitute because of no work during the Covid-19 pandemic. The court asked each state and Union Territory to file an affidavit within four weeks giving information on the number of sex workers having been provided dry ration. The bench also asked the Union government to tell if it can extend the financial assistance given to transgenders during the pandemic to sex workers as well. "We understand that Rs 1,500 is to be provided to transgenders, amid the pandemic. Can it be extended to sex workers?" the bench asked the Centre.  The court was hearing a plea filed on behalf of the Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee, seeking monetary assistance to the sum of Rs 5,000 per month, dry rations along with masks, soaps, hand sanitisers etc to sex workers amid the pandemic situation without insistence on identity proof. The plea said a large number of sex workers have been excluded from aid measures due to the lack of or deficiencies in their identity documents. "Though the 'unlock' process has been underway since June 2020, sex workers have not recovered their earnings. With the exodus of migrant workers from cities, there is hardly any work. Like everyone else, sex workers are afraid of contracting Covid-19 and are hesitant to get back to work," the plea stated. Additional Solicitor General R S Suri said the Centre would have no objection if dry rations were provided by the states without an identity proof. He said a scheme prepared by the National Legal Services Authority can be activated for the purpose. He sought time to take instructions on extending monetary relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-directs-states-to-provide-dry-rations-to-sex-workers-without-insisting-on-identity-proof-894764.html
29-09-2020||National||Trump ups spending on lawyers as US election legal battles heat up||President Donald Trump's campaign is spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on lawyers to litigate voting by mail, including in the battleground state of Pennsylvania, Federal Election Commission (FEC) data showed. The campaign paid more than $250,000 to Porter Wright Morris & Arthur, the law firm representing it in lawsuits over the use of drop boxes and other changes to Pennsylvania's mail-balloting procedures, according to the data. In the Nov. 3 elections, more voters are expected to cast their ballots by mail instead of in person because of the novel coronavirus pandemic but Republican Trump has repeatedly linked mail-in voting to voter fraud without providing evidence. More than 200 election-related lawsuits have been filed, many of them focusing on mail-in ballots, which Democrats are more likely to use, according to some opinion polls. Porter Wright did not respond to requests for comment. Trump campaign spokeswoman Thea McDonald declined to comment. The Trump campaign in August paid out over $980,000 for legal services that month compared to about $332,000 in July, FEC data showed. It has spent over $3.9 million on legal services between March, when Biden began to emerge as the leading Democratic presidential contender, and August, according to the data. Democratic candidate Joe Biden's campaign by comparison spent about $660,000 on legal services during that period, the data showed. Nearly $472,000, went to the campaign's outside general counsel firm Covington & Burling, home to former Obama administration Attorney General Eric Holder. A Biden campaign representative declined to comment on the data. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled on Sept. 17 that state officials could accept mail-in ballots up to three days after Nov. 3, as long as they were mailed by Election Day. Pennsylvania Republicans indicated in court filings this week that they would ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the case. Porter Wright represents state Republicans in that lawsuit, which was filed against Pennsylvania by the state Democratic party, and in a separate lawsuit brought by the Trump campaign in Pittsburgh federal court over mail-in voting. Porter Wright - which has most of its offices in election battleground states Pennsylvania, Florida and Ohio - was in August the Trump campaign's second-highest-paid firm. The top paid firm was Jones Day, the campaign's outside general counsel. Jones Day, which also has attorneys working on the Pennsylvania litigation, court records show, got nearly $350,000 in August - its biggest monthly payment from the Trump campaign this year, according to FEC data. Jones Day did not respond to request for comment. Reuters analyzed the campaign's spending on lawyers using reports submitted to the FEC on Sept. 20, which cover spending up to Aug. 31. Those reports do not include spending by political action committees. The legal services funding data isn't broken down to show what litigation money was spent on, but it can be parsed by which law firm was paid, how much a firm received and when. Porter Wright began receiving payments from the Trump campaign in June 2020, when it filed the Pittsburgh federal lawsuit. The Trump campaign paid the firm $25,000 in June and about $37,000 in July, FEC data shows. Trump has declined to commit to a peaceful transfer of power if he loses the election to Biden and has said he expects the election battle to end up before the U.S. Supreme Court. The Biden campaign has added top lawyers to its staff and established a "special litigation" team as it braces for potential legal fights. Those additions include former Obama administration attorneys and Marc Elias, a top elections lawyer at Perkins Coie, the Democratic Party's go-to law firm. Covington spokesman David Schaefer confirmed the firm is serving as the Biden campaign's outside counsel but declined further comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trump-ups-spending-on-lawyers-as-us-election-legal-battles-heat-up-894785.html
29-09-2020||National||Linked private company under ED probe, not Amnesty: Govt sources||There is no ED investigation against Amnesty International India Foundation, which on Tuesday declared halting its operations in the country, but against a private company linked to the NGO that allegedly received dubious export proceeds worth over Rs 51 crore, government sources said. They said the Enforcement Directorate, a federal probe agency to check money laundering and forex violation crimes, is investigating two entities -- Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd and Indians for Amnesty International Trust. Both are being probed under the criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and under the civil proceedings of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), they said. The agency had issued a show-cause notice to Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd last September for alleged contravention of FEMA to the tune of over Rs 51 crore. "Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd has allegedly received export proceeds of Rs 51.72 crore during the financial year 2013-14 to 2018-19 from Amnesty International, UK." "Investigation proved that no services were exported and the amounts so received were in contravention to the provisions of the FEMA and PMLA," a senior officer said. The contravention has led to the "freezing" of balance deposit in the bank accounts of Amnesty India International Pvt Ltd and Indians for Amnesty International Trust, the officer said. Sources said this freezing order was challenged by the two entities before the Karnataka High Court and the ED order was upheld by the court. "No other fund except for alleged export proceeds received from Amnesty International, UK is under investigation or freezing under the law," the officer said. The human rights NGO on Tuesday said it was halting all its activities in India due to the freezing of its accounts and claimed that it is being subjected to an "incessant witch-hunt" over unfounded and motivated allegations. "Treating human rights organisations like criminal enterprises and dissenting individuals as criminals without any credible evidence is a deliberate attempt by the Enforcement Directorate and government of India to stoke a climate of fear and dismantle the critical voices in India," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/linked-private-company-under-ed-probe-not-amnesty-govt-sources-894798.html
29-09-2020||National||Victims of Mumbai, Pathankot terror attacks yet to get justice due to Pakistan's unwillingness: India||India has said that the victims of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks and the 2016 Pathankot strike are yet to get justice because of the "unwillingness" and "non-cooperative" attitude of a particular country, in a clear reference to Pakistan. At a virtual ministerial meeting of the 'Group of Friends of Victims of terrorism', India has strongly pitched for concerted global actions to effectively deal with terrorism and said it continues to pose a critical threat to international peace and security even in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. Representing India at the meeting on Monday, Secretary (East) in the Ministry of External Affairs Vijay Thakur Singh also called for "redressing deficiencies" in the international efforts to ensure that perpetrators of terrorism are brought to justice. "I would like to highlight that, for example, the victims of 2008 Mumbai terror attack and 2016 Pathankot terror attack are yet to get justice. This is due to the unwillingness and non-cooperative attitude of a particular country," Singh said. The meeting was organised by foreign ministers of Afghanistan and Spain, the two co-chairs of the grouping, and the UN Office of Counter-Terrorism (UNOCT). In her address, Singh said acts of terrorism not only violate the rights of individual victims but they also deeply affect the enjoyment of a range of rights by the families of the victims and society as a whole. "Even, amidst the ongoing pandemic, terrorism continues to pose a critical threat to international peace and security," Singh said in an oblique reference to Pakistan. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic, Pakistan has not stopped pushing terrorists to Jammu and Kashmir in the last few months, according to military officials. Singh also talked about the danger of terrorists stepping up the use of information and communication technology networks for propaganda and for issuing threats, further exacerbating the stress on victims of terror. She highlighted the pain and suffering of the innocent victims of terrorism across the world and said while terrorists can never succeed in achieving their "nefarious objectives", they leave behind a trail of death and destruction. "Measures aimed at addressing the needs of the victims of terrorism, therefore, should factor in the sensitivities of these vulnerable sections of the society. Efforts should also be made to work with the victims to build a counter-narrative against the hateful propaganda of terrorism," she said. The Secretary (East) appreciated the UN for establishing August 21 as the 'International Day of Remembrance of and Tribute to the Victims of Terrorism', and hoped the UN would continue its work related to addressing the needs of victims of terrorism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/victims-of-mumbai-pathankot-terror-attacks-yet-to-get-justice-due-to-pakistans-unwillingness-india-894803.html
29-09-2020||National||2G scam: Delhi HC fixes October 5 as date for hearing of appeals by CBI, ED||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday decided to expedite its hearing on appeals by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate against acquittal of then Union Minister A Raja, DMK MP Kanimozhi and others in the 2G scam case in 2017. The court said though records of the case are voluminous, advanced technology could be used in holding the hearing through video conferencing, saying it is "folly not to make an attempt and to sit idle abdicating one’s duty". Acting on early hearing plea by the CBI and the ED, Justice Brijesh Sethi, who is to demit office on November 30, fixed October 5 as the date for starting day-to-day hearing in the matter, which could not be taken up since March 2020, due to Covid-19 pandemic. The court rejected contentions by the counsel for accused, that there was no need for out of turn hearing. Further, the records of the case were voluminous, which would be difficult to refer to during the hearing through video conferencing. They also asked why their case should be given preference over appeals in which accused persons are in jails. "No doubt there may be delay in filing the applications for early hearing; no doubt the documents are voluminous in nature; no doubt the evidence runs into thousands of pages; no doubt one of the judgment also runs into 1,552 pages, but that does not mean that this should deter this court in hearing the criminal leave petitions," the court said. The judicial discipline demands that the judge should do his duty and must not succumb to pessimism and it is not expected from him to sit leisurely with his pen down and to say that he will not hear the cases because the record is voluminous and the time at his disposal is limited, Justice Sethi added. The agencies contended that the matter was of great public importance involving issues of integrity amongst the government functioning. They said the case has put the country in a vulnerable position globally, and therefore, these petitions should be heard and decided early to maintain deterrent effect on the society. They also pointed out since Justice Sethi was to demit office on November 30 and if arguments remain inconclusive, they will have to address the arguments afresh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2g-scam-delhi-hc-fixes-october-5-as-date-for-hearing-of-appeals-by-cbi-ed-894809.html
29-09-2020||National||Allow research scholars to return in a phased manner: JNU students' body to admin||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union on Tuesday demanded that research scholars be allowed to return to the campus in a phased manner while following all Covid-19 protocols. It said many MPhil and Ph.D. students had left behind their laptops and research material when they went home during the coronavirus-induced lockdown and were unable to work on their projects. The JNUSU also alleged that the dates of the university's entrance exams were finalised without planning and they clashed with exam dates of other universities. JNU's entrance exams will be held between October 5 and October 8. The JNUSU demanded that the university administration works out a protocol to ensure that MPhil and PhD students can return to the campus in a phased manner. When the research scholars left for their homes, they left behind their laptops and research material and have not been able to work properly, it said. "Many other universities have allowed research scholars to return and we have been asking the administration to allow a phased return of research scholars," JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said. "We have also written to the Delhi government and told the administration that we are ready to work with them to make it possible by following all the Covid-19 protocols," she said. JNUSU general secretary Satish Chandra Yadav claimed that students are also facing issues as the university has not disbursed fellowships. The JNUSU said many students had been left in the lurch as the dates for JNU entrance exams were announced at a short notice and without planning. "We have been getting messages from students saying that those from the northeast will have to travel to other states and might have to be quarantined. They will miss their exams," Ghosh said. She said the dates of JNU entrance exams are clashing with exam dates of Calcutta University, and North East Hill University, etc. JNUSU vice president Saket Moon claimed that many students who have opted to take entrance exams for multiple subjects have been allotted different exam centres. They won't be able to travel to different centres within a day considering the current pandemic situation. The students' body also said JNU announced the dates only 15 days' before the exams, catching students unawares. It said the university should have given at least a month's time to students to make travel arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allow-research-scholars-to-return-in-a-phased-manner-jnu-students-body-to-admin-894810.html
29-09-2020||National||Female workforce participation increased in India during lockdown: LinkedIn report||Female workforce participation increased in India during the coronavirus-induced lockdown as the share of female hires increased from around 30 per cent in April to 37 per cent at the end of July, says a LinkedIn report. According to the second edition of LinkedIn ‘Labour Market Update’, hiring continues to recover in the country and the gender parity has improved. Female workforce participation increased from 30 per cent in April to 37 per cent at the end of July and hiring has picked up by 25 percentage points by the end of July as compared to June, the report said. However, risks of second-wave of infections still remain, and further recovery may also be tempered by the weak economic outlook, it added. Globally, lockdown measures put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19 had a more severe impact on the share of women being hired. LinkedIn's global analysis showed that the hiring of women in many developed countries followed a U-shaped trajectory in 2020, dipping in April before recovering in June and July. However, India bucked the trend in maintaining and even increasing gender parity, it noted. "In India, work from home has certainly boosted gender parity and emerged as a great equaliser in terms of gender diversity with an increase in female representation across key sectors. "The lockdown, which promoted acceptance of the work from home concept supported by flexible work hours, has emerged as an opportunity for women to rebuild their careers and start afresh," said Pei Ying Chua, APAC Lead Economist, Economic Graph team at LinkedIn. Gender parity has improved across many industries. Female representation grew by 8 percentage points across Corporate Services, Education, Health Care and Media and Communications, the report noted. With the exception of the manufacturing sector, female representation across most industries increased during the lockdown period. Increase in female representation was more pronounced in industries which already had higher gender parity, to begin with (such as Corporate Services, Education, Health Care and Media & Communications) - female representation grew by 8 percentage points on average, in contrast with the 4 percentage points rise seen for industries that started out with lower gender parity (like Consumer Goods, Finance, Manufacturing and Software & IT). The report further noted that talent with more advanced digital skills has weathered the Covid-19 storm better than those with basic digital skills - the hiring dip for talent with advanced digital skills was 1.8x less than talent with basic digital skills. Basic digital skills are defined as digital literacy skills to access e-mail and basic applications such as Microsoft Office, versus advanced disruptive digital skills (defined as skills required for designing and developing new technologies, such as artificial intelligence and robotics).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/female-workforce-participation-increased-in-india-during-lockdown-linkedin-report-894811.html
29-09-2020||National||India rejects China's move to legitimize its 1959 claim-line as LAC||Even as New Delhi on Tuesday rejected Beijing’s move to legitimise its 1959 claim-line as the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations in the western sector, the communist country continued to take a maximalist position, stating that it did not recognise Ladakh as a Union Territory of India. Though both sides are in touch to schedule the next rounds of talks between senior military commanders and the diplomats to resolve the stand-off along the LAC, China on Tuesday accused India of “illegally” creating its Union Territory of Ladakh. Wang Wenbin, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said that Beijing also opposed New Delhi’s move to build military infrastructure near India-China LAC in eastern Ladakh. China had joined Pakistan to oppose India’s August 5, 2019 move to strip the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) of its special status and reorganise in into two Union Territories – Ladakh and J&K. Beijing’s latest statement to question the status of the Union Territory of Ladakh of India, however, came even as New Delhi rejected the Chinese Government’s move to unilaterally define the LAC as the line mentioned in the letter Premier Zhou Enlai of the communist country had written to the then Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, on November 7, 1959 – three years before the two nations had a military conflict. New Delhi had never accepted Zhou’s definition of the LAC. Nehru had publicly rejected it in 1963. The subsequent governments in New Delhi also consistently rejected the Chinese Government’s definition of the LAC. “India has never accepted the so-called unilaterally defined 1959 LAC. This position has been consistent and well known, including to China,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi. When Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao had visited Beijing and met Chinese Premier Li Peng in September 1993, the two sides had inked the Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the India-China Border Areas. It had for the first time officially recognised the LAC. New Delhi, however, subsequently maintained that the LAC mention in the 1993 agreement was not the same as the line referred to in Zhou’s November 1959 letter to Nehru. Srivastava on Tuesday pointed out that China had rather joined India to commit in the bilateral agreements inked in 1993, 1996 and 2005 “to clarification and confirmation of the LAC” in order to reach “a common understanding of the alignment” of the line. The two sides had engaged in an exercise to clarify and confirm the LAC, but the process could not proceed after 2003 as the Chinese Government dragged its feet. New Delhi pointed out that China’s recent insistence on accepting only one unilaterally defined line as the real LAC was “contrary to the solemn commitments” made by the communist country in the agreements with India. The MEA spokesperson said that India had always respected and abided by its LAC with China. He, however, quoted Defence Minister Rajnath Singh stating in Parliament recently that China had sought to unilaterally alter the status quo by making attempts to transgress its LAC with India in eastern Ladakh. He reminded China that it had reiterated its commitment to abide by the existing agreements with India during bilateral engagements over the past few months. Though almost five months passed since the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) started in late April and early May, the two sides could not yet resolve it. They, however, agreed on September 21 to stop sending more troops to the face-off points on the LAC. They, however, could not end the stalemate over withdrawal of large numbers of troops the two sides already deployed since the stand-off started. Srivastava said that New Delhi would expect Beijing to sincerely and faithfully abide by all agreements and understandings in entirety and refrain from advancing an untenable unilateral interpretation of the LAC. The stand-off brought India-China relations to a new low, particularly after the June 15 clash along the LAC in Galwan Valley. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the violent face-off. The Chinese PLA too had suffered casualties but never made public the number of its soldiers injured or killed in the clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-chinas-move-to-legitimize-its-1959-claim-line-as-lac-894821.html
29-09-2020||National||Farm laws to curb black money, says PM Narendra Modi||Slamming the Opposition for holding protests against three new agriculture-related laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that through these laws, the government has ended one more way of creating black money. "Some persons are unable to tolerate this freedom (of farmers). One more way for them to earn black money has ended," PM Modi said while inaugurating six projects under the 'Namami Gange' project to treat sewage in Uttarakhand. Taking a dig at the Opposition, Modi said, "Farmers can now sell their produce to anyone, anywhere. But when the Centre is giving farmers their rights, these people are opposing it. They don't want farmers to sell their produce in the open market, they want middlemen to earn profit. They're opposing the freedom of farmers." Insisting that the minimum support price system (MSP) would continue, the Prime Minister said with new laws, farmers would get the freedom to sell their produce anywhere they wished to. Without naming the Congress, PM Modi criticised the incident of burning of a tractor at the India Gate on Monday morning by Indian Youth Congress workers. "They are insulting the farmers by setting fire to the machines and equipment that are worshipped by them," the PM said. "Those now opposing the new farm laws spoke in favour of implementing the MSP when in power but never did so. It has been done by our NDA government as per the MS Swaminathan Commission recommendations," the Prime Minister said. Allaying fear over the new laws on the farming sector and labour reforms, the PM said, "Many reforms related to farmers, labourers and health were brought during the Parliament's Monsoon Session. All these reforms will only strengthen the labourers, youths, women, and farmers. The country is also witnessing how some people are opposing these just for the sake of opposing." Attacking the Congress, the PM said they demand evidence of the Indian Army’s surgical strike in PoK, installation of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's statue in Gujarat and Yoga Day. "For years these people (Opposition) didn't do anything to empower our security forces. The Air Force kept asking for Rafale but they never listened to them. When our govt signed a contract with France government for Rafale aircraft, they started having a problem," the PM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-to-curb-black-money-says-pm-narendra-modi-894823.html
29-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Outrage over gang rape of 19-year-old in UP; Serum Institute to make 100mn more doses of its Covid-19 vaccine||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, outrage over the gang-rape of 19-year-old in UP; Serum Institute to make 100 million more doses for low-income nations and a special CBI court to pronounce its verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case tomorrow. Hi, this is Akash Sriram and you are listening to From The Newsroom, your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.    Here are the top stories of the day, September 29, 2020: The Serum Institute of India said it will produce 100 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine for India and low and middle-income countries in 2021. They will be priced at a maximum of $3 per dose, it said in a statement. In August, SII had announced it would deliver 100 million doses. The current production acceleration will take it up to 200 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine.   A girl from a scheduled caste, who was brutally assaulted after being gang-raped by four youths in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district, about 400 kilometres from Lucknow, a few days ago, died at a hospital in Delhi. According to police sources, all four men accused, who hailed from the native village of the victim, have been arrested. The family members alleged that the police registered the case of gang-rape almost a week after the incident. The incident triggered a massive outrage with opposition leaders targeting chief minister Yogi Adityanath for failing to ensure the safety of women in the state.   Twenty-eight years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid by thousands of 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya, a special CBI court, on Wednesday, would pronounce its verdict in the case in which several senior BJP leaders, including L K ganAdvani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, and Kalyan Singh were accused. The court had reserved its verdict in the case on September 1 after the conclusion of the hearing.   Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the new farm laws will have to be opposed not just for farmers but for the future of the country, as he alleged that they were like a "stab in the farmers' hearts". Interacting with a group of farmers from across the country, he said the GST and demonetisation were also attacks on farmers, but these three laws will prove to be more detrimental.   That is it today, From the Newsroom. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-outrage-over-gang-rape-of-19-year-old-in-up-serum-institute-to-make-100mn-more-doses-of-its-covid-19-vaccine-894826.html
29-09-2020||National||Indian-origin academic Swati Dhingra on UK's new expert trade panel||A London-based Indian-origin economics professor has been appointed to a new expert panel set up by the UK government to advise on the use of "cutting-edge" trade models and techniques as it moves towards clinching post-Brexit Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with countries. Dr Swati Dhingra, Assistant Professor of Economics at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) and a former alumnus of the Delhi School of Economics, University of Delhi, is part of the five-member panel set up by the Department for International Trade (DIT). Dhingra's research focus is on globalisation and industrial policy and she has also been awarded the FIW Young Economist Award and the Chair Jacquemin Award by the European Trade Study Group for her work on firms and globalisation. "Her work has informed bodies such as the Parliamentary International Trade Committee, Confederation of Indian Industry (CBI), Treasury, Social Enterprise UK, Credit Suisse and Sunderland City Council," the DIT said. The department said it uses trade modelling to identify the potential impacts of its trade agreements. Modelling supports decision-making and prioritisation in trade negotiations to get a better understanding of the areas of potential mutual benefit for all parties involved. “The department is updating its modelling to reflect the modern economy and seismic changes we’ve seen over the past decade – not least the impact of tech, rising protectionism and coronavirus,” said UK International Trade Secretary Liz Truss. “Deep and dynamic free trade deals are even more valuable when trade barriers elsewhere are high, and we want our economic assessments to reflect that. Better modelling will help us capture the full benefits of free trade agreements and strike British-shaped deals that suit our economy and deliver for the whole country,” she said. The new panel will advise the DIT’s Chief Economist on how best to incorporate wider global economic developments – including the impact of COVID-19 and increased protectionism – into its economic and trade modelling. “Trade policy modelling provides the tools for thinking through possible effects on the UK of changes in trade policy and in the world economy at large,” said Professor Tony Venables, BP Professor of Economics at Oxford University and head of the expert panel. “The panel will provide DIT with analysis and recommendations on how best to use these tools to fully capture effects, while being evidence based and presenting findings in a comprehensible and transparent manner,” he said. The government department noted that conventional assessments can often understate the benefits of innovation, trade in services and the longer-term trends reshaping the global economy and international trading system. Therefore, DIT has established the “bespoke panel”, which will take these factors into account and advise on how to reflect them in future trade models. By establishing the expert panel now, the DIT said it can build on the success of a recent trade agreement with Japan and ensure that trade negotiators have access to the most "robust analysis" which can support ongoing negotiations with the US, Australia, New Zealand and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) free trade area. It comes as the Brexit transition period comes to a close at the end of this year, with the UK able to strike trade deals free from the European Union (EU) rules from January 2021. India is among the list of countries the UK hopes to strike an FTA with and talks remain ongoing to strike so-called "early harvest" deals ahead of a wider agreement. The new panel includes Professor Michael Plummer, Eni Professor of International Economics at the Bologna Institute for Policy Research at the Johns Hopkins University SAIS Europe, Dr Graham Gudgin, Honorary Research Associate at the Centre for Business Research (CBR) in the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge and Dr Christine McDaniel, Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. The panellists are scheduled to hold meetings once a month over the next year. It comes as the UK government said it is committed to seeking consultation in advance of launching trade negotiations, as well as publishing the DIT's negotiating objectives and a scoping assessment assessing the potential impact of a deal before beginning negotiations with a country for an FTA. The department said it will publish the impact assessments at the end of each negotiation besides the already released scoping assessments for its negotiations with the US, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, which are the first set of target countries for post-Brexit FTAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-academic-swati-dhingra-on-uks-new-expert-trade-panel-894849.html
29-09-2020||National||Covid-19 prevalence among adults increased 10 times in last three months: ICMR sero-survey||The prevalence of Covid-19 among Indian adults has increased by nearly 10 times in the last three months, signalling exposure to the novel coronavirus by crores of people even though the majority of them did not contract the disease. The results of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) second serological survey showed more than nine crore Indians aged 10 years and above were exposed to the virus as Covid-19-specific antibodies were found in their blood. When compared with the first sero-survey, the jump is 10 times. Carried out between May 11 and June 10, the first survey presented a prevalence figure of 0.73% whereas the second survey conducted between August 17 and September 22 threw up a figure of 7.1% prevalence among adults — a tenfold rise. Not to miss out on children, ICMR and health ministry researchers this time expanded the surveillance net to include individuals aged 10 years and above. With their inclusion, the prevalence was 6.6%. When estimated on the base of India’s 138 crore population, this means over nine crore Indians were exposed to the novel coronavirus but the total Covid-19 cases stands at only 61 lakh plus. "In a pandemic situation, you can never identify every asymptomatic individual. The purpose of a sero-survey is to reconcile and plan for the future,” said Vinod Paul, NITI Aayog member and a former professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The second survey relied on blood samples taken from 29,082 people from the same 700 villages in the same 70 districts in 21 states that were covered in the first round. “The results show susceptibility of a considerable section of people, yet unexposed to SARS-Cov-2, exists. The risk in urban slums (15.6%) is twice than that in non-slum areas (8.2%) and four times than the risk in rural (4.4%),” ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said at a press conference. The survey results show that for every reported case in August, there were 26-32 infections that escaped the testing net. But the number of such unreported cases was 81-130 in May, signifying a decline, which the government officials said was due to the effect of scaled-up testing, tracking and treating strategy. “The survey is very important to understand the trajectory of the pandemic. The case to infection ratio has dropped nearly three times, suggesting there has been a significant improvement in the testing rates in the country,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, told DH. The national prevalence is much less than what has been reported from a few states, but it is similar to the prevalence seen in the USA, Brazil and Spain. For the first time in September, India’s daily Covid-19 toll fell below 1,000 with the reporting of 776 deaths on Monday. The total death count stands at 96,318 as per the official estimate. The number of active cases stands at 9.47 lakh, out of which 70,589 new cases were added in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-prevalence-among-adults-increased-10-times-in-last-three-months-icmr-sero-survey-894853.html
29-09-2020||National||Women spend double the time than men on unpaid household chores: Govt study||A woman in India spent an average over seven hours in a day cooking, cleaning, washing clothes and looking after children and adults without being paid a single penny last year while a man gave just over three hours of his time for the same. At the same time, the first-ever 'Time Use Survey in India 2019' by the National Statistical Office (NSO) says, men spent more time at work compared to women, a statistics that unravel the skewed numbers of women in the workplace. Altogether, both men and women in both urban and rural areas spent an average 248 minutes for unpaid domestic services -- cooking, cleaning, pet care, washing clothes among others -- while another 114 minutes are spent on unpaid caregiving services, which includes child care, helping dependent adults and travelling with them among others. Of the 248 minutes or 4:08 hours spent on domestic chores, a woman gives three times the time -- 299 minutes or nearly three hours -- while a man gives only 97 minutes of his day. The women in urban space spent 293 minutes for domestic work while rural women gave 301 minutes for running the house-hold. In rural areas, men spent 98 minutes on average on domestic services while in cities, it was 94 minutes. On unpaid care-giving services for household members, 114 minutes are spent on a day. Of this, a woman spent 134 minutes while a man spent 76 minutes. The survey covered 4.47 lakh people in 1.38 lakh households and information of time use during January-December 2019 was collected from each member of age 6 years and above of the selected households. Of the 1,440 minutes available in a day, the survey says, the maximum amount of time -- 429 minutes or 7:09 hours -- is spent by both men and women in employment and related activities. In rural India, a man spent 434 minutes (7:14 hours) on work while it was 317 minutes (5:17 hours) for women. In urban areas, the gap was wider with men spending 514 minutes (8:34 hours) while women spent 375 minutes (6:15 hours). For "learning", 424 minutes were spent on average by a person in the country a day. The gap between male (426 minutes) and female (423 minutes) was very miniscule both in rural and urban areas. People in rural areas spent a little more time on self-care and maintenance -- sleeping, eating, personal hygiene and healthcare among others -- compared to urban areas. A rural person spent 731 minutes on this count while it was 715 minutes for one who lives in cities and towns. Indians spent only 165 minutes a day for cultural and sports activities, reading newspapers and weeklies and watching TV among others. Those in cities spent 16 more minutes in such activities compared to those in rural India -- 176 minutes against 159 minutes.  Average time spent (in minutes) in a day per activities:  Activity   Men   Women   Person Production of goods for own final use 198  Unpaid domestic services Unpaid caregiving services Unpaid volunteer, trainee and other unpaid work Learning Socialising and communication, community participation and religious practice Culture, Leisure, mass media and sports practices Self-care and maintenance||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-spend-double-the-time-than-men-on-unpaid-household-chores-govt-study-894862.html
29-09-2020||National||HAL rolls out 300th Advanced Light Helicopter||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) rolled out its 300th Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH-Dhruv) here on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, R Madhavan, Chairman and Managing Director of HAL said that the ALH had never looked back from the day when the prototype took its maiden flight on August 30, 1992. He described the machine as having evolved into a world class helicopter with its unparalleled performance. “The evolution from ALH Mark I to Mark IV has been phenomenal and is a boost to the indigenous design and development of helicopters,” he added. The Roll-out certificate of the 300th helicopter was handed over to G V S Bhaskar, Chief Executive Officer, Helicopter Complex by Y K Sharma, Additional Director General (South Zone), Directorate General of Aeronautical Quality Assurance (DGAQA) at a programme held at HAL’s Helicopter Division. “With more ALH getting inducted into the services our focus on customer support is ever increasing. With over 2,80,000 flying hours, ALH has proven to be a multirole helicopter for ‘Any Mission, Any Place, Any Time’,” Bhaskar said. Currently, HAL is producing 73 ALHs contracted for Army (41), Indian Navy (16) and Indian Coast Guard (16). Out of this, 38 ALHs have already been produced and the remaining will be completed by 2022. LCH Ground Run As part of this occasion, the first Limited Series Production (LSP) of the Light Combat Helicopter-Limited Series Production (LCH-LSP) was put through a “Ground Run.” HAL said that project has been taken up by the Company proactively while the order from Services on HAL is in process. The LCH was piloted by Group Captain (Retd) Hari Krishnan Nair S, Chief Test Pilot and Group Captain (Retd) C G Narasimha Prasad, Senior Flight Test Engineer of Flight Operations, Rotary Wing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hal-rolls-out-300th-advanced-light-helicopter-894863.html
29-09-2020||National||Gati founder Mahendra Agarwal resigns from board||Supply chain solutions provider Gati Ltd on Tuesday said its founder and Managing Director Mahendra Agarwal has resigned from the board. Agarwal has also resigned from the board of Gati-KWE and Gati-Kausar, a release said. "During board meetings held on September 28, 2020, Mahendra Agarwal, Founder and Managing Director of Gati Ltd, resigned from the Boards of Gati, Gati-KWE, and Gati-Kausar," the company said in the release. Allcargo Logistics is now the promoter and single-largest shareholder of the Hyderabad-based Gati Ltd with 47 per cent ownership, followed by KWE with about 3.5 per cent share in the company. "We acknowledge  Agarwal's efforts to bring Gati to its current position in India's express distribution market and wish him the best in his future endeavours," said Shashi Kiran Shetty, Chairman, Allcargo Logistics. While Gati-KWE is a 70:30 joint venture between Gati and Kintetsu World Express (KWE), which is a part of Japan's Kintetsu Group Holdings, Gati Kausar is the cold chain solutions vertical of the Hyderabad-based firm. Agarwal, who is considered as a pioneer of express cargo business in India, had set up Gati in 1989. "Owing to these recent developments, the ongoing court case has been rendered infructuous and is now being withdrawn," the company said. Gati's extensive network spans more than 19,800 PIN Codes across 735 out of India's 739 districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gati-founder-mahendra-agarwal-resigns-from-board-894871.html
29-09-2020||National||Hathras gangrape goes beyond cruelty: Virat Kohli||India cricket captain Virat Kohli on Tuesday hoped that justice would be done to the Hathras gangrape victim, who died of her injuries in Delhi, saying that the incident "goes beyond cruelty". The 19-year-old woman, who was brutally gang-raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras on September 14, was brought to a Delhi hospital on Monday for treatment but could not survive. "What happened in #Hathras is inhumane and goes beyond cruelty. Hope the culprits of this heinous crime will be brought to justice. #JusticeForManishaValmiki," Kohli, who is in the UAE for the ongoing IPL, tweeted. The gangrape and the victim's death has sparked outrage and protests. All the four men alleged to have committed the crime have been arrested. The young woman was left paralysed by the attack and her tongue was also cut when the accused attempted to strangle her, Hathras Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir has stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-gangrape-goes-beyond-cruelty-virat-kohli-894873.html
29-09-2020||National||Haven't recognised 'illegal' Ladakh UT; oppose India’s infrastructure development at borders in Ladakh, says China||China on Tuesday voiced its opposition to India undertaking infrastructure development for military purposes in the border areas of Ladakh, and maintained that both countries should avoid any activities that might complicate the situation upsetting the consensus reached between them to ease the situation. “China has not recognised Ladakh Union Territory illegally set up by the Indian side”, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a press briefing here while replying to a question by a western media journalist that India was prioritising construction of high altitude road network on its border with China in the Ladakh region. It may be recalled that when China first expressed its opposition to India’s move to create a separate Union Territory of Ladakh, a day after the state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two union territories on August 5, 2019, the then External Affairs Ministry spokesperson had said India does not comment on the internal affairs of other countries and similarly expects other countries to do likewise. “We are opposed to conducting infrastructure development for military purposes in the border area. Based on the two sides' consensus no side should engage in the border areas in any activities that might complicate the situation to avoid undermining efforts by the two sides to ease the situation”, Wang said. To another question on reports that China has carried out massive development of border infrastructure, Wang said reports released by “some institutions” stating that China has built new military bases on its side is “completely false”. “First some institutions once released the so-called information on new military bases or facilities China has built on its side. Such reports are completely false. They are driven by ulterior motives”, he said. “Second China consistently and strictly abides by the agreements signed with the Indian side. We are committed to maintaining peace and stability along the border with India and at the same time we firmly safeguard our sovereignty, territorial integrity and security”, he added. Wang said that for a long time China has been conducting activities on its side of the Line of Actual Control(LAC) and they have always complied with relevant agreements. “We hope the Indian side to work for the same purpose, together with China to achieve the cooling of temperature on the ground and to prevent adding complex factors to the concerted efforts by the two sides to ease the situation”, he said. India and China are locked in a nearly five-month-long border standoff in eastern Ladakh. After marathon 14-hour talks between India and China at the Corps Commander level on September 21, both sides released a joint statement saying the two countries had decided to stop sending more troops to the frontline in eastern Ladakh. The joint statement had also stated that both sides will enhance communication to avoid misunderstandings and also implement the five-point consensus reached by their foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Wang Yi on the sidelines of the SCO meet in Moscow on September 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/havent-recognised-illegal-ladakh-ut-oppose-india-s-infrastructure-development-at-borders-in-ladakh-says-china-894876.html
29-09-2020||National||Farmers decide to intensify 'rail roko' agitation||Farmers agitating over the three agricultural laws enacted by Parliament recently continued their 'rail roko' stir on Tuesday for the sixth day and decided to extend it for an indefinite period. The farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been squatting on rail tracks at various places in the state since September 24. They said they have decided to intensify their protest against the Centre and will continue to block rail tracks at Tanda, Mukerian, Jalandhar, Amritsar, and Ferozepur. The protesters are demanding the rollback of the three “anti-farmer” legislations. The train service, meanwhile, continued to remain suspended in Punjab amid the farmers' stir. Under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, the farmers on Tuesday also unanimously resolved to boycott some private companies, alleging that the Centre's farm bills were intended to benefit some private players. State general secretary of the committee, Sarwan Singh Pandher, dubbed the farm laws as “anti-farmers” and said the private firms will exploit farmers. Another farmer leader Sawinder Singh Chautala said the rail roko protest would be further intensified next month and urged people from all sections of the society to come forward and support the farmers' cause. In the Ferozepur district too, the protesting farmers vowed to boycott some private companies. They continued to block the railway track near Basti Tankan Wali for the sixth consecutive day. While addressing farmers, union leaders Satnam Singh Pannu, state president of the Sangharsh Committee, said the farmers have pledged to boycott each of the products that come from some of the corporate houses.  Pannu claimed that the central government wants to promote the interests of some corporate houses in the country. He said the farmers are already reeling under financial crunch and these new agricultural bills would further aggravate their misery. Pannu said Punjab has always played a pivotal role as the food bowl of the nation. The farmers of the state will be the worst hit by these central laws, he claimed. He announced that the farmers would oppose the laws tooth and nail.  President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday assented to the three contentious bills -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-decide-to-intensify-rail-roko-agitation-894877.html
29-09-2020||National||India provides Dornier aircraft to Maldives in sync with growing strategic ties||India has provided a Dornier aircraft to the Maldives to help the island nation enhance surveillance over its exclusive economic zone as well as to keep an eye on sea-borne terrorists, government sources said on Tuesday. The aircraft will be operated by the Maldives National Defence Force (MDNF). The Dornier and its running costs will be borne by India, they said. The requirement for the Dornier maritime surveillance aircraft was raised by the then Maldivian President Abdulla Yameen during a visit to India in 2016. Seven Maldivian military personnel including pilots, air observers and engineers are being trained by the Indian Navy to operate the aircraft, the sources said. "The aircraft will also be used in operations against drug trafficking and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. India has been regularly sharing information with the Maldives on the movement of drug traffickers," said a source. The sources said the aircraft will assist in ongoing joint surveillance by India and Maldives over the exclusive economic zone of the island nation. "In light of the Mahibadhoo and Laamu attacks by suspected terrorists, the Dornier aircraft will also be useful in the counter-terrorism sphere. The isolated and dispersed nature of islands and resorts can be safeguarded only by a technologically capable fixed-wing aircraft," said the source. In mid-April, five speedboats and two dinghies at the harbour of Mahibadhoo island in the Maldives were set ablaze by suspected terrorists. "As per Govt-to-Govt Agreement & discussions started in 2016, the Dornier arrives! It will engage in humanitarian relief efforts & joint-EEZ surveillance under command & control of #MNDF; It proudly dons #MNDF colours & crest, and will involve Maldivian pilots in its operations," the Indian High Commission in Male tweeted. Ties between India and the Maldives were back on track after Ibrahim Mohamed Solih became president of the country in November 2018. The relations between two countries deteriorated during Yameen's tenure as he was seen as close to Beijing. The ties came under severe strain after Yameen imposed emergency in the Maldives on February 5, 2018. India had criticised his decision and asked his government to restore the credibility of the electoral and political process by releasing political prisoners. The emergency lasted 45 days. Solih became president after he defeated Yameen in the presidential polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-provides-dornier-aircraft-to-maldives-in-sync-with-growing-strategic-ties-894890.html
29-09-2020||National||Don't agree that Rs 80k cr needed for Covid-19 vaccine distribution in India, says Health ministry||The government on Tuesday said that it does not agree with the calculation that Rs 80,000 crore is needed for the distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine in India. Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan was responding to a question tweeted by Serum Institute of India Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla who asked the government whether it had Rs 80,000 crore over the next one year for distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine. "Quick question; will the government of India have 80,000 crores available, over the next one year? Because that's what @MoHFW_INDIA  needs, to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India. This is the next concerning challenge we need to tackle," Poonawalla had tweeted. Responding, Bhushan said, "We do not agree by the calculation of Rs 80,000 crore. The government has made a national committee on vaccine experts and five meetings have taken place till now." "In these meetings, we have mulled over the process of Covid-19 vaccine distribution and the amount required for it in terms of prioritisation of population and the staggered immunisation for this prioritisation. "We have calculated the amount required in the meetings and currently, that amount is available with the government," said Bhushan||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-agree-that-rs-80k-cr-needed-for-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-in-india-says-health-ministry-894894.html
29-09-2020||National||Lokayukta declares Goa minister 'unfit' to hold office||The Goa Lokayukta has held Solid Waste Management Minister Michael Lobo to be "unfit to hold his post" while passing an order on a complaint against him and said it should be conveyed to the chief minister. Though making such recommendations is `futile', it is the duty of the anti-corruption institution to do it, said Lokayukta Justice P K Misra (retd) in his order of September 17, made public last week. The order also indicted Sarpanch and Secretary of Arpora panchayat and Member Secretary of the North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) for maladministration and vengeful action against the complainant. Rose de Souza, the complainant, had applied to the NGPDA -- Lobo was then its chairman -- for a construction license. But the authority delayed the sanction of license out of vengefulness, she alleged. The Lokayukta held that the "obvious maladministration and vengeful action" on the part of Sarpanch, Secretary and Lobo resulted in causing loss to the complainant. "If any declaration is made (under section 16-A of the Lokayukta Act) that he should not continue as a minister, and such declaration is accepted or deemed to be accepted, the matter is left to the discretion of the concerned minister to resign or not to resign," the order said. "Therefore, in the present political scenario possibly no useful purpose would be served by giving a declaration that Lobo is unfit to continue as a Minister. "In spite of such stark reality of futility of making such a declaration, the institution considers that it is a solemn duty to give a declaration that Lobo should not continue to hold the office of Minister," the order said. Since chief minister is the competent authority in respect of a minister, the order should be forwarded to the CM along with relevant materials on record, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lokayukta-declares-goa-minister-unfit-to-hold-office-894895.html
29-09-2020||National||Rs 15,000 cr loan sanctioned for projects: Urban Affairs Ministry||NCR Planning Board has sanctioned over Rs 15,000 crore loan for projects worth Rs 31,000 crore, a top official of the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said on Tuesday. According to a statement, ministry Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said that 265 projects worth over Rs 18,500 crore are complete and the rest are under construction.  At an event, the secretary said that NCRPB approves regional and sub-regional plans in the national capital region, and funds project at affordable rates by raising bonds from the market or taking loans from bilateral and multilateral agencies. At the event, Mishra launched a portal - Project-Management Information System (P-MIS) of the National Capital Regional Planning Board and said this a major step in using digital technology to improve transparency and accountability in monitoring the progress of projects and administering loans. "P-MIS will bring ease in review and management of projects and provide information and opportunity to give feedback to the citizens," he also said. The statement said that explaining the features of the software, Mishra added that the P-MIS has a unique feature of doing calculations at the back end for monitoring various critical financial events for guarantee validity date and a monthly repayment of loan due date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-15000-cr-loan-sanctioned-for-projects-urban-affairs-ministry-894908.html
29-09-2020||National||Fresh row over killing of Maoist activist in Kerala||A fresh row is brewing in Kerala over the killing of a Maoist activist C P Jaleel at Wayanad in 2019 as a forensic report that says Jaleel did not use firearms has not been put out in public. Jaleel's family alleged that the forensic report contradicts the police claims that they were forced to open firing for self-defence after the Maoists opened fire. The police maintained that it was not Jaleel but other Maoists who managed to escape from the spot who opened the firing. Jaleel's brother and human rights activist C P Rasheed told DH that the forensic report strengthens the family's suspicion that it was a fake encounter aimed at murdering Jaleel. The family will move court seeking a fair probe into the incident, he said. The forensic report, which was accessed by Rasheed through court, said that there was no evidence of Jaleel using firearms. Police sources said that some used cartridges recovered from the spot did not match with the arms recovered. Hence the Maoists who managed to escape from the post could have opened the firing that prompted the police to return fire for self-defence, said the police. The encounter took place at a resort close to the forest at Lakkidi in Wayanad on the night of March 6, 2019. A four-member Maoist team allegedly demanded food and money from the resort authorities. Resort employees alerted the police and the Thunderbolt commando team of the Kerala Police. Subsequently, the firing took place. Jaleel's body was later recovered from the spot. Soon after the incident, Jaleel's family alleged that it was a fake encounter and demanded a probe. A magisterial probe by the district collector was conducted as per the mandatory norm. While the police maintain that the magisterial probe did not find the encounter to be fake, Jaleel's family pointed out that the government has not yet made the magisterial probe report public, and it was not even produced in the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-row-over-killing-of-maoist-activist-in-kerala-894915.html
29-09-2020||National||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu tests positive for Covid-19||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19 and is in home quarantine. The 71-year-old Vice President underwent a routine Covid-19 test in the morning and test results showed he had contracted the virus. "He is however, asymptomatic and in good health. He has been advised home quarantine," the Vice President's office said. His wife, Usha Naidu, has tested negative and is in self-isolation, it added. The Vice President of India who underwent a routine COVID-19 test today morning has been tested positive. He is however, asymptomatic and in good health. He has been advised home quarantine. His wife Smt. Usha Naidu has been tested negative and is in self-isolation. Naidu joins the list of high-profile Indians to test positive for Covid-19.  Earlier, Home Minister Amit Shah and several union ministers, including Dharmendra Pradhan, and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had contracted the virus and recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-tests-positive-for-covid-19-894920.html
29-09-2020||National||Mamata Banerjee announces housing programme for tea workers||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced a slew of measures for the people ahead of the 2021 state assembly polls and said that her government will build brick houses for at least 3,694 workers in seven sick tea gardens in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts under the 'Chai Sundari' scheme. Banerjee, in another announcement, said that her government will regularise all refugee colonies in West Bengal, including those on land belonging to the state and the central governments. From now on self-attestation would be accepted in all government offices even for issuance of caste certificates, she said at an administrative review meeting with officials of the tea-growing districts of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri. Work for building houses for tea workers of sick gardens will start within two months and the government will incur an expenditure of Rs 500 crore. The project which has been named 'Chai Sundari' will be completed in three years, she said. "We have planned the Chai Sundari scheme to build homes for the tea garden workers who have no homes. We have tried our best to help them but the tea garden workers are still neglected. People talk about their welfare whenever the elections are around. The tea workers have been demanding brick houses for a long time. Those workers who have no homes will be covered under the scheme," she said. In phase one, the state government will build houses for at least 3,694 for seven sick tea gardens in Jalpaiguri (1,053) and Alipurduar (2,641) districts, she said. "We will cover all the rest of the tea gardens in the state in the next three years," Banerjee said adding that the housing department will be building the house in an arrangement with the land and labour department. The chief minister said that all the refugee colonies in West Bengal including those on state and central government lands besides on private lands will be regularised soon. For private and central government lands, the state cabinet has approved a new format. Banerjee directed all senior officials, including district magistrates to put up signboards on such lands stating the government's decision to regularise them. She also said, "I do not want any tribal and SC/ST people to face any problem to get their (caste) certificates. There is no need to run after the officials to get attestation, self-attestation is enough. "We have decided to allow self-declaration. It's our policy to end the ploy to block development and we will not allow it. I ask the DMs to look into this," she said. The chief minister asked the police of the two north Bengal districts to be "more active" since the area has international and inter-state borders and people from outside frequently visit the region with various intentions. She also asked the police to build a strong social network to combat the circulation of fake news. "Local people like Rajbanshis and Adivasis are very simple people. If there is a small fight, there are those who try to take advantage of it and create disturbances", she said and referred to incidences in North Dinajpur. In July BJP MLA Debendra Nath Ray was found hanging near his Hemtabad home in North Dinajpur district. Though the post mortem report had said that Ray had committed suicide, the party and the deceased's family members have demanded a CBI probe into the death. "There was a big difference between what had actually happened and what was spread. We have to look into it. We have to keep a close eye on the social networking sites," she said. Banerjee also alleged that a WhatsApp group was created to spread fake news on a temple demolition in Malda though there was no such incident. "We have to strengthen our watch on social networking platforms. We are planning to deploy two policemen in every block to counter such attempts ... We have to prove the fake as fake. Every IC and BDO will have to look into it," she said. The Trinamool Congress government of Mamata Banerjee will seek to return to power for the third consecutive time in the state assembly poll due in April-May in 2021||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-announces-housing-programme-for-tea-workers-894938.html
29-09-2020||National||Court dismisses bail plea of scribe Rajeev Sharma in espionage case||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma arrested in an espionage case under the Official Secrets Act, saying if released on bail, he may attempt to hamper the investigation. Delhi Police Special Cell had said that Sharma, arrested on September 14, was "found to be in possession of some defense-related classified documents". It said that the other two accused -- a Chinese woman and a Nepalese man - were paying Sharma large amounts of money routed through shell companies. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat, who passed the order on Monday, observed “If a journalist who is an important brick in the Fourth pillar of democracy decides to act with the intention to destabilize and negatively impact the sustainability and survival of democracy, that would be the darkest day in the Free Press Movement,”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-scribe-rajeev-sharma-in-espionage-case-894941.html
29-09-2020||National||Amendments to companies law get President Ram Nath Kovind's assent||A Bill that provides for a slew of amendments to the companies law, mainly to decriminalise various compoundable offences, has received the assent of the President. The corporate affairs ministry will now notify separately when various provisions would be coming into force, according to an official. The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- that also seeks to promote ease of doing business in the country -- was cleared by Parliament on September 22 when Rajya Sabha gave its nod. Lok Sabha had passed the Bill on September 19. President of India Ram Nath Kovind has accorded assent to the bill, according to a notification dated September 28. The Bill has now become an Act, the official said. There will be changes by way of 65 clauses, including amendments to 61 sections of the Companies Act, 2013. Besides, a new chapter related to producer organisation is being introduced in the Act, the official added. Decriminalisation of various offences and a provision to permit direct overseas listing of Indian corporates are part of the legislation. Reduction in penalties for certain offences as well as in timeline for rights issues, relaxation in CSR compliance requirements and creation of separate benches at the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) are also among the amendments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amendments-to-companies-law-get-president-ram-nath-kovinds-assent-894949.html
29-09-2020||National||Kuwait Amir always took special care of the Indian community: PM Modi||Condoling the death of Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, the ruler of Kuwait, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that the Arab world has lost a beloved leader, India a close friend, and the world a great statesman. Modi said Sheikh Sabah played a leading role in strengthening the bilateral relations and always took special care of the Indian community in Kuwait.  "My heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir of the State of Kuwait. In this moment of grief our thoughts are with the Al-Sabah family and the people of the State of Kuwait," the Prime Minister said. Sheikh Sabah, who drew on his decades as the oil-rich nation's top diplomat to push for closer ties with Iraq after the 1990 Gulf War and solutions to other regional crises, died Tuesday. He was 91. My heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir of the State of Kuwait. In this moment of grief our thoughts are with the Al-Sabah family and the people of the State of Kuwait. In his tweets, Modi said, "Today, the State of Kuwait and the Arab world has lost a beloved leader, India a close friend, and the world a great statesman. His Highness played a leading role in strengthening our bilateral relations, and always took special care of the Indian community in Kuwait." In a Middle East replete with elderly rulers, Sheikh Sabah stood out for his efforts at pushing for diplomacy to resolve a bitter dispute between Qatar and other Arab nations that continues to this day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kuwait-amir-always-took-special-care-of-the-indian-community-pm-modi-894955.html
29-09-2020||National||India, Bangladesh carry out comprehensive review of bilateral ties||A high-level mechanism to monitor implementation of development projects funded by India in Bangladesh will be put in place soon, the two countries said after a virtual ministerial meeting on Tuesday while reaffirming their commitment to finalise an interim agreement on sharing of Teesta river water. The sixth meeting of the India-Bangladesh Joint Consultative Commission (JCC) also reiterated the importance of the safe, speedy and sustainable return to Myanmar of the forcibly displaced persons from the Rakhine State of that country who are being sheltered by Bangladesh, according to the Ministry of External Affairs. The meeting, co-chaired by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Bangladeshi counterpart A K Abdul Momen, carried out a comprehensive review of bilateral ties ahead of a virtual summit between prime ministers of the two countries in December. On the Rohingya issue, a joint statement issued by the MEA said the Bangladesh foreign minister emphasised that unless the "problem is resolved quickly, there are possibilities of pockets of radicalism disrupting economic growth, peace and stability in the region, and requested India's leverage to address the crisis." Recognising that terrorism remains a significant threat to global peace and security, both sides reiterated their strong commitment to eliminate it in all its forms and manifestations, it said. In the talks, the two ministers noted that India and Bangladesh are currently the top two economies in South Asia and greater measures could be taken for mutually beneficial enhancement of trade and investment between the two countries, including the removal of all forms of barriers to trade. The joint statement said both sides decided to form a 'high-level monitoring committee' headed by the economic relations secretary of Bangladesh and the Indian high commissioner in Dhaka to regularly review the progress of projects being implemented under India's Line of Credit to Bangladesh. It sad the ministers also stressed on the need to further strengthen the implementation of the coordinated border management plan (CBMP) to effectively guard the frontier between the two countries. "Both sides agreed that the loss of civilian lives at the border is a matter of concern and urged the concerned border forces to enhance coordinated measures to bring such border incidents down to zero," the statement said. "The Indian side also requested for an expeditious approval to erecting the single row fencing in vulnerable patches along the border, within 150 yards, that will help contain border crimes," it added. Bangladesh and India share a 4096-km-long border and a large section of it is porous. According to the joint statement, the two ministers also reiterated their commitment to finalisation of the interim agreement for the sharing of waters of the Teesta river. "They also underscored the need for early conclusion of the framework of an interim agreement on sharing of waters of six other joint rivers, namely, Manu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gumti, Dharla and Dudhkumar," it said. The long-pending Teesta water-sharing deal was set to be inked during the then prime minister Manmohan Singh's visit to Bangladesh in September 2011 but was postponed at the last minute due to objections by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. During discussions on the coronavirus pandemic, Jaishankar reiterated India's priority to supply COVID-19 vaccines to Bangladesh while talking about the importance of the country in New Delhi's 'Neighbourhood First' policy. "In this context, the ministers directed their officials to expedite the exchange of required information regarding Phase-III testing, vaccine distribution, co-production and delivery in Bangladesh," the joint statement said. It said both sides expressed satisfaction at the increasing pace of defence cooperation including in training, exchanges and capacity building, while emphasising on an early implementation of the defence Line of Credit. On the economic front, Bangladesh appreciated India for duty free access of Bangladeshi products into the Indian market under SAFTA as a result of which the exports from the country to India could cross the USD 1 billion dollar mark in 2018-19. "It was highlighted that for Bangladesh to better utilise the concessions under SAFTA, both sides need to focus on adequate trade facilitation," the statement said. The South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) is a free trade arrangement under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). It said Momen reiterated the request to the Indian side for informing in advance of amendments in export policy that India may initiate which could impact India's export of essential commodities to Bangladesh since such exports are an important factor influencing Bangladesh's domestic market. The Bangladeshi foreign minister also requested the Indian side to extend uniform treatment to investors from his country under India's FDI policy so that they can invest under the automatic route. According to the joint statement, both ministers tasked officials concerned to work closely to avoid disruption of supply chains, particularly in the post-COVID period. "They emphasised the need to resume unhindered two-way trade through the land ports while optimising the use of the four trans-border railway connections as well as inland and coastal waterways," it said. Both countries agreed to initiate ‘air travel bubble’ flights to meet the urgent requirements of certain categories of travellers on both sides during the pandemic. The Bangladesh side also requested the Indian side to resume regular travel through land ports at the earliest. The statement said Momen requested the Indian side to consider resuming issuance of visa to Bangladeshi nationals, including medical patients seeking urgent treatment and students studying in various educational institutes in India. At the meeting, the two ministers also jointly unveiled a commemorative postal stamp issued by Bangladesh on the occasion of the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The External Affairs Minister announced India's decision to launch a commemorative postal stamp on the occasion of the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on December 16. The statement said both countries decided to jointly celebrate the golden jubilee of the 'Liberation War' and 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries in India, Bangladesh and in select third countries. The joint statement also said that Jaishankar and Momen underscored the value of positive media reporting on the bilateral engagements between the two countries and agreed to call upon their respective media communities to play more responsible roles in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-carry-out-comprehensive-review-of-bilateral-ties-894959.html
29-09-2020||National||AIADMK symbol fraud case: SC grants interim bail to 'conman' from Bengaluru||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted a two-week interim bail to a Bengaluru man, who was accused of making a deal of Rs 50 crore with V K Sasikala's nephew TTV Dhinakaran for getting him AIADMK's 'two leaves' symbol.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee allowed the plea by 28-year-old Sukash alias Sukesh Chandrasekhar for visiting his father suffering from stage IV cancer. The court directed him to deposit Rs 5 lakh as fees for the Delhi police personnel, who would escort him for his travel to Chennai and return to Delhi. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Sukesh, sought interim bail for him on the ground that his father is suffering from Leukemia and is in Stage-IV. He relied upon records from Apollo Hospital, Chennai and the Cancer Institute in Chennai's Adyar. Sukesh was arrested by Delhi police on April 16, 2017. It was alleged that there were 24 FIRs of cheating lodged against him. In the instant case, it was alleged the deal was struck between him and Dhinakaran to bribe Election Commission officials to get 'two leaves' for their party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiadmk-symbol-fraud-case-sc-grants-interim-bail-to-conman-from-bengaluru-894970.html
29-09-2020||National||India to join US, Japan, Australia to call for free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific||India will join the United States, Japan and Australia on October 6 to call for a “free, open and inclusive” Indo-Pacific, sending out a message to China. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will hold a meeting with United States Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, and Foreign Ministers of Japan and Australia, Toshimitsu Motegi and Maris Payne, during his visit to Tokyo on October 6 and 7. The meeting of the foreign ministers of the ‘Quad’ – a coalition of India, Japan, Australia and the US – was initially proposed to be held in New Delhi, but the venue has now been shifted to Tokyo. The meeting of the Quad Foreign Ministers is being planned amid China’s growing belligerence, not only along its disputed boundary with India, but also in South China Sea, East China Sea and elsewhere in Indo-Pacific. Beijing did take note of the latest move by the four nations to give a fillip to the Quad, which is largely seen as a US-led move to bring the democratic countries of the Indo-Pacific region together in order to build a bulwark against expansionist and hegemonic aspirations of China. “We believe the world's overriding trend is peace, development and win-win cooperation. Instead of forming exclusive cliques, multilateral and plurilateral cooperation should be open, inclusive and transparent,” Wang Wenbin, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said. “Instead of targeting at third parties or undermining third parties' interests, cooperation should be conducive to mutual understanding and trust between regional countries.” Jaishankar and his counterparts from the US, Japan and Australia will discuss the post-Covid-19 international order and the need for a coordinated response to the various challenges emerging from the pandemic, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. “They will also discuss regional issues and collectively affirm the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific,” said the MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. Jaishankar will hold a bilateral meeting with the Japanese Foreign Minister and discuss bilateral and regional issues of mutual interest. He will also hold similar bilateral meetings with Pompeo and Payne on the side-line of the meeting of the Quad Foreign Ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-join-us-japan-australia-to-call-for-free-open-and-inclusive-indo-pacific-894972.html
29-09-2020||National||Average 87 rape cases recorded daily; over 7% rise in crimes against women in 2019: NCRB data||India recorded an average of 87 rape cases daily in 2019 and overall 4,05,861 cases of crime against women during the year, a rise of over 7 per cent from 2018, a latest government data showed Tuesday. The country recorded 3,78,236 cases of crimes against women in 2018, the data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) showed. A total of 32,033 cases of rape were lodged in 2019, which was 7.3 per cent of all crimes against women during the year, the data showed. In 2018, 33,356 rapes were recorded across the country, up from 32,559 in 2017, according to the data from corresponding years. “Majority of these cases under Indian Penal Code were registered under 'cruelty by husband or his relatives' (30.9 per cent) followed by 'Assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty' (21.8 per cent), 'kidnapping and abduction of women' (17.9 per cent),” the NCRB data for 2019 showed. The crime rate registered per lakh women population stood at 62.4 in 2019 in comparison with 58.8 in 2018, it showed. The NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry, is tasked with collecting and analysing crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code and special and local laws in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/average-87-rape-cases-recorded-daily-over-7-rise-in-crimes-against-women-in-2019-ncrb-data-894992.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||DH Radio | The Lead: Congress leader Manish Tewari on the politics behind farm laws and protests||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, get to know the politics behind the farm laws and listen to what Congress leader Manish Tiwari has to say about it.  Ahmed: Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to The Lead. We have been witnessing protests over farm bills which were recently passed by the Parliament and have received the presidential nod. While some say that these will empower the farmers, others claim that corporates will benefit the most. In today's episode and tomorrow's, we will probe the bills and the politics behind them.To discuss the politics of it, joining me today is our correspondent from Delhi, Sagar Kulkarni. Hi Sagar, and welcome to DH Radio. Sagar Kulkarni: Hi. Ahmed: Now that the farm bills have got the presidential assent, what does the Opposition plan to do? Sagar: The Opposition has taken the protest to the streets and they are also looking at legal options to circumvent the laws. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has asked Congress-ruled states to enact state laws under Article 254(2) of the constitution that allows states to circumvent the Central laws. The catch here is that when the laws are passed by Congress-ruled states they will have to be approved by the president again and which may not be forthcoming. So it could just be a gesture to the farmers that look we are willing to move heaven and earth to protect you from the central laws and that's about it that we can do... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-radio-the-lead-congress-leader-manish-tewari-on-the-politics-behind-farm-laws-and-protests-894533.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||FM Nirmala Sitharaman says govt willing to give more stimulus if required||The Modi government had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package in May 2020 to subdue the effects of the pandemic on the economy. Sitharaman said that the emergency liquidity guarantee was expanded from MSMEs to cover proprietorships, partnerships and even individual professionals. Even the funding of NBFCs was increased and banks were given more liquidity, she said. Sitharaman said that she wasn't closed to the option of spending further. "I am not closed (on) the option… doing all this, we have kept ourselves open to the idea of… in case, there is any need for further stimulus," she told the publication. When asked about risk aversion on pushing expenditure this year, the finance minister denied any such tendencies.  Sitharaman further said that India has the tool of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), an instrument that no other country has, and that the government wasn't worried about whether the money will reach the person who needs the benefit. When asked about the lack of spending from Jan Dhan accounts, she said the additional Rs 2,000 for farmers that was released is reaching people. "Otherwise why do you think the rural economy is all robust?" she asked.  Stressing that businesses in rural areas are doing well, she said that tractor sales, agriculture equipment sales, have gone up in these areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-says-govt-willing-to-give-more-stimulus-if-required-894621.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||There is no end to the debate on farm laws, says Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||Amendments to farm laws were met with responses of agitation and protests across the country, and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman lauded Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar for having done all the groundwork and sourcing inputs and suggesting it to the Cabinet. According to the Union Minister, the farm laws were what “most parties had committed themselves to” and the incumbent government managed to pull off this feat. PM Narendra Modi assured the farmers and reiterated on Monday that the mechanism of minimum support price (MSP) will not be affected and continue to stay.  “The Government will continue to purchase farm produce, the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism will continue and the ‘Krishi mandi’ (agriculture markets) will continue to work as it has been working,” said Modi. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar too followed suit and said that the amendments made are in the interest of farmers, adding that it will raise their income. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the agriculture-related laws are a "death sentence" for farmers and that their voice has been crushed both inside and outside Parliament. "The agriculture laws are a death sentence to our farmers. Their voice is crushed in Parliament and outside. Here is proof that democracy in India is dead," Gandhi said on Twitter. The Aam Aadmi Party, however, refuted the claims would benefit farmers, and claimed that the farm reform laws will push the farming sector into the hands of private firms. "The central government brought those bills to hand over the reins of agriculture from farmer to corporate houses,” AAP's Gautam Buddh Nagar unit president Bhupendra Judaun alleged.  (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/there-is-no-end-to-the-debate-on-farm-laws-says-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-894626.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Maturity of self-appointed liberals must be questioned: Sitharaman||Calling recent the anti-government protests “gilt-edged” and a determined move to oppose the Modi government particularly, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the current regime is being constantly targeted by intellectuals and the opposition alike. The minister also said that while atrocities in non-BJP states such as Rajasthan, Kerala, Maharashtra and West Bengal get ignored by scholars, professors and thinkers, the intellectual fraternity seems to be out for the current government. She alleged that crimes against journalists in non-BJP states have been on the rise while no journalist who has “attacked” Modi has been chargesheeted. Sitharaman also said that the Modi government has been following due process throughout its term no matter how long courts take to come to a conclusion. Referring to the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, she said that due process was followed at every stage of the case. The Finance Minister also said that the BJP government does not label anyone as anti-national for raising the voice of dissent. Taking a strong stand against intellectuals and liberals quashing opinions of pro-BJP followers, Sitharaman alleged “Today when people are (speaking out), everybody is their own lord,… everybody’s flashing their own opinion, you call them the unbound unwashed masses.” Adding that these "long silenced voices" are not being heard by intellectuals, she said, "The maturity level of our so-called self-appointed liberals is to be questioned."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maturity-of-self-appointed-liberals-must-be-questioned-sitharaman-894643.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Farm laws, noteban, GST to disempower farmers, workers: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday likened the three farm sector reform laws to the noteban and GST initiatives of the Modi government, claiming that their sole intention was to disempower the farmers and workers. In an interaction with farmers from across the country, Rahul recalled his agitation against the land acquisition laws in Bhatta Parsaul in Uttar Pradesh in 2011 and called for a fresh campaign against the contentious farm sector laws. “There is no difference between the agriculture laws and demonetisation & GST. The noteban and GST struck at your feet, while farm sector laws sent a dagger through your heart,” the former Congress President told the farmers. Rahul Gandhi is also expected to join the protesting farmers in Punjab and take out a tractor rally demanding roll back of the farm sector reforms. The Congress’s agitation with Rahul at the helm comes at a time the party eyes his comeback as President early next year.   During the 10-minute interaction, farmers from Maharashtra, Haryana and Delhi told Rahul that the new laws enacted by the Modi government would lead to middlemen of corporate giants dominating the wholesale markets and deny farmers their rights. A farmer from Maharashtra told Rahul that had Mahatma Gandhi been alive he too would have opposed the farm sector reforms. “During the freedom struggle, Mahatma Gandhi stood with the farmers, while these people (RSS) stood with the British,” Rahul said. Congress has planned protests and dharnas in every assembly constituency across the country on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The day would be observed as ‘Kisan Mazdoor Bachao Diwas’ (Save Farmers and Labourers Day). On October 10, state Congress units will organise farmers’ conventions across all states and also start a signature campaign against the farm sector laws and present it to President Ram Nath Kovind on November 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-noteban-gst-to-disempower-farmers-workers-rahul-gandhi-894646.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Opposition wants only middlemen to thrive, not farmers: PM Modi||In a scathing attack on those opposing the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said they wanted only the middlemen to thrive and referred to the burning of a tractor in Delhi by Congress workers as an insult to farmers. "They are opposing the freedom of farmers and want their problems to continue forever. By torching farming equipment, which the agriculturists worship, these people are now insulting farmers," he said without naming the Congress. The Congress' youth wing activists on Monday morning set a tractor ablaze near India Gate, a few hundred metres from the Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament, to protest the contentious farm laws. Modi said the opposition has only one way of doing politics in the country and that is by opposing things. Terming it "opposition for the sake of opposition", the prime minister said that by opposing big reformative steps by the Centre such as the farm laws, these forces were making themselves irrelevant in the society and in the country. He accused the opposition of opposing everything from GST, One Rank One Pension, Rafale deal, Statue of Unity, 10 per cent reservation for the poor and celebration of November 26 as Samvidhan Diwas. He said that this politics of the opposition for opposition's sake was the root of the frustration of a party which had ruled for four generations. "Frustration of a party which has ended up riding the shoulders of others despite wielding power for four generations is behind this politics of the opposition for opposition's sake, Modi said. He said none of the leaders of the political party had till date visited the Statue of Unity, built to honour the memory of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel whose contribution to unifying the country is well known. "Why? Because they had to oppose," he said. He said people had seen for themselves the role Jan Dhan accounts played in direct benefit transfer schemes during the coronavirus pandemic and they could also remember how it was opposed while being introduced by the Centre. He said after opposing the Ram Mandir in the Supreme Court for decades, they even began opposing its foundation stone laying in Ayodhya.  Without naming the Congress, he accused it of being neither with the farmers nor with the youth nor the soldiers and recalled that the party had demanded proof of surgical strikes instead of praising the bravehearts who carried out the exercise. He also recalled how it opposed the purchase of Rafale fighter jets. "They did not do anything for years to strengthen the Air Force, ignoring its pleas for being better equipped and modernised. I am pleased to see that Rafale fighter jets are strengthening our Air Force today. He said the farm laws were meant to set farmers free from restrictions which they had suffered for decades. "They will have both MSP and the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the open market but there are people who are spreading lies about the bills. "They only want middlemen to thrive and want the problems of farmers to be perpetuated. The real reason behind the ongoing protests is that yet another source of black money has been closed for them," the prime minister said. Modi was inaugurating six ambitious sewage treatment plants in Haridwar, Rishikesh, Muni-ki-Reti town and Badrinath under Namami Gange through video conference. He said the process of empowering people, farmers and the youth, and making the country self-reliant through big reforms will continue relentlessly. Modi also attacked the previous governments for wasting too much money over Ganga rejuvenation, drinking water and irrigations schemes without any results, claiming there was no coordination between the government departments involved. "This led to further aggravation of the problems instead of resolving them. But today the work culture has changed and every penny is going into the implementation of the projects," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-wants-only-middlemen-to-thrive-not-farmers-pm-modi-894658.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Election Commission not to hold assembly bypolls to 7 seats across 4 states ‘at this stage'||The Election Commission on Tuesday decided not to hold Assembly bypolls in seven seats across Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and West Bengal “at this stage” after a specific request from the states. In a statement, the EC said it had received inputs from poll officials and chief secretaries of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. "In view of the above, the Commission has decided not to announce the conduct of elections at this stage in the seven vacancies in legislative assemblies of the states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/election-commission-not-to-hold-assembly-bypolls-to-7-seats-across-4-states-at-this-stage-894718.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Farm laws like a stab in farmers' hearts; West India company has come in: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the new farm laws will have to be opposed not just for farmers but for the future of the country, as he alleged that they were like a "stab in the farmers' hearts". Interacting with a group of farmers from across the country, he said the GST and the noteban were also attacks on farmers, but these three laws will prove to be more detrimental. Gandhi also claimed the laws will foster an East India company-like culture and this time, a "West India company" has come in. "There is no difference between GST, noteban and these three laws. The only difference is that this is directly stabbing your heart with a knife," he said during the virtual meeting with the group of farmers. "But I have clarity that this has to be opposed. Not for farmers, but for the future of India," he told the farmers in a nearly 11-minute long video shared on social media. The Congress has opposed the new farm laws and the party is protesting across the country, even as farmers’ unions have launched a stir in Punjab and Haryana. "The farmer is not just a farmer, the voice of farmers is in the youth, in the Army, the police and the voice of farmers has a lot of strength. It is with the help of this voice that India attained independence and once again India will become independent through the farmers' voice," Gandhi said. The former Congress chief said he had seen in Uttar Pradesh’s Bhatta Parsaul village that businessmen wanted the farmers' land as well as their farm produce. "The first fight I fought was of land acquisition and the entire media attacked me," he said. "They said this is a fight against black money but it was not true. The purpose was to weaken our unorganised sector and the poor, farmers and labourers," Gandhi alleged, adding that the purpose of GST was also the same. Talking to Gandhi, Dhirender Kumar, a farmer from Champaran in Bihar, said farmers are being exploited in the name of these laws and they will be forced to commit suicide due to hunger. Ashok Bootra from Yavatmal in Maharashtra feared that no one would buy the farm produce at minimum support price (MSP). "I feel any farmer who protests will be put in jail. In 1840, the East India company used to put out the price of cotton from England and the entire world would buy at that rate. But the businessmen would know of the price in advance," he said. "The way East India Company used to do business, I feel the same pattern is being followed again. Farmers and small businessmen will be looted. When farmers will not get the rates for their produce, suicides will increase," Bootra said. Replying to this, Gandhi said, "You want to say earlier it was East India Company, now a West India company has come in."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-like-a-stab-in-farmers-hearts-west-india-company-has-come-in-rahul-gandhi-894755.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to hold talks with Toshimitsu Motegi in Japan from October 6 to 7||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will visit Tokyo from October 6 to 7 during which he will hold talks with his Japanese counterpart Toshimitsu Motegi and attend a ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral coalition. Announcing the visit, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said Jaishankar and Motegi are expected to discuss bilateral and regional issues of mutual interest. "During the visit, the External Affairs Minister will also participate in the second India-Australia-Japan-USA ministerial meeting on October 6 in which the Foreign ministers of the respective countries will participate," the MEA said. It said the foreign ministers will discuss the post-Covid-19 international order and the need for a coordinated response to the various challenges emerging from the pandemic. "They will also discuss regional issues and collectively affirm the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific," it said. The MEA said Jaishankar will also hold bilateral consultations with the foreign ministers of Australia and the US during the visit to Japan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-to-hold-talks-with-toshimitsu-motegi-in-japan-from-october-6-to-7-894758.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Uddhav Thackeray will decide if Shiv Sena will contest in Bihar elections: Sanjay Raut||The Shiv Sena will soon take a decision on contesting the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections, party MP and Chief Spokesperson Sanjay Raut said here on Tuesday. "There are a lot of demands from our people there,” he said. He said Shiv Sena President and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will soon decide on whether to contest the Bihar assembly polls or not. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, accused the then Bihar Director General of Police and now JD (U) member Gupteshwar Pandey for portraying Mumbai police in a bad light in the wake of investigations into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. On his joining politics, Raut said he was free to do whatever he wants since that’s his personal choice. "Our objection was to the manner in which he painted the Mumbai Police in a bad light in the Sushant Singh Rajput case," he said. To a question whether there was a conspiracy to tarnish the image of Thackeray's son and Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray, Raut replied in the affirmative but declined to elaborate. "Those who throw muck at the party, screaming at the top of their lungs on television channels, will meet a similar fate," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uddhav-thackeray-will-decide-if-shiv-sena-will-contest-in-bihar-elections-sanjay-raut-894799.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||EC announces bypolls in 56 Assembly constituencies, including Sira, RR Nagar in Karnataka||The Election Commission will hold bypolls to fill up 56 vacancies in the Legislative Assemblies in 10 states on November 3 and 7 respectively.  The 54 constituencies, where by-elections will be held on November 3, include two in Karnataka – Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar (RR Nagar) – and 28 in Madhya Pradesh. The bypolls to fill two vacancies in the Legislative Assembly of Manipur will be held on November 7. The EC also decided to hold by-election in Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency in Bihar to fill up a vacancy in the Lok Sabha on November 7. The bypolls will be held along with the second and the third phases of polling for the general election to the Legislative Assembly in Bihar. The votes cast in all the by-elections will be counted on November 10, along with the ones cast in 243 assembly constituencies in Bihar, the EC stated in New Delhi on Tuesday. The EC was initially planning to hold pending bye-elections in the 63 assembly constituencies in 14 states along with the Assembly polls in Bihar. But the governments of Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal wrote to the Commission, expressing difficulties for holding elections in October and November. Though the Commission announced the schedule of the general elections to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar last Friday, it refrained to do so for the bypolls. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and the two other Election Commissioners, Rajiv Kumar and Sushil Chandra had a meeting on Tuesday, along with the other officials of the poll panel. The Commission decided not to announce bypolls in the seven assembly constituencies in the four states – Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu – now, in view of the difficulties conveyed by the governments of the four states, according to a press release issued by the EC. The poll panel, however, announced the by-elections in the 56 other assembly constituencies in the 10 states as well as the one in Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency in Bihar. Most of the 28 vacancies in the Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh in Madhya Pradesh. Most of the vacancies in the state were created in March as the MLAs followed Jyotiraditya Scindia to leave the Congress to join the Bharatiya Janata Party leading to a change of regime in Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-announces-bypolls-in-56-assembly-constituencies-including-sira-rr-nagar-in-karnataka-894808.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Now, Upendra Kushwaha dumps Grand Alliance; says Tejashwi Yadav 'not a patch' on Nitish Kumar||Former Union Minister and president of the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP), Upendra Kushwaha, on Tuesday dumped the Grand Alliance (GA), also called the Mahagatbandhan. Before deserting the RJD-led alliance, Kushwaha came down heavily on Opposition’s Chief Ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav and said he (Lalu’s son) was not a patch on Nitish Kumar and therefore “not competent enough to give Bihar Chief Minister a run for his money.” Lashing out at the Lalu-Rabri youngest son Tejashwi, Kushwaha, who was junior HRD Minister in the previous Narendra Modi regime, said, “The Mahagatbandhan in general and the RJD, in particular, should change its Chief Ministerial candidate as the leader, who has not even passed his Class Xth, can’t give Bihar a proper education policy nor ensure good governance in the state. ‘Nitish ko takkar dene ke liye Nitish ke takkar ka leader hona chahiye.’ (To give Nitish a tough challenge, one should have a calibre like Nitish).” DH had recently reported how Grand Alliance was on the verge of collapse and a ‘reshaped’ Mahagatbandhan, with new allies of RJD-Congress like CPI-ML, CPI, CPM, NCP and JMM, will be formalised in a couple of days. Kushwaha’s exit comes close on the heels of former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi crossing over from Mahagatbandhan to the NDA last month. Kushwaha, too tried his entry into the NDA, but sources said it was Nitish Kumar who slammed the door on his former protege. Left to fend for himself, Kushwaha has now tied up with Mayawati’s BSP in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/now-upendra-kushwaha-dumps-grand-alliance-says-tejashwi-yadav-not-a-patch-on-nitish-kumar-894898.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||BJP latches on to tractor burning by Congress to justify farm laws||As Opposition parties have kept up the farm protest momentum on, BJP top leadership has latched on to the tractor burning incident at India Gate on Friday to turn the table on them, seeking to project protests as political in nature and questioning how can farmers burn the farm tools that they venerate. On Tuesday Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the Congress without naming it saying, “they are insulting the farmers by torching the machines and equipment that are worshipped by them.” Ever since a group of Youth Congress workers set a tractor ablaze near India Gate on Monday morning while protesting against the farm laws, the Congress and the BJP have engaged in a battle of hyperboles on the issue. BJP's Kisan Morcha national president Rajkumar Chahar on Tuesday took part in a 'tractor rally' in Chandigarh in support of farm laws and slammed the tractor-burning incident in Delhi by Punjab Youth Congress worker as “insult” to farmers. A day after the group of nearly two dozen youths carried a tractor on truck to Rajpath and set it on fire after uploading it, Delhi Police on Tuesday detained Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) president Brinder Dhillon. This is not the first time the BJP has sought to turn a campaign of Congress upside down. Modi is adept at turning similar incidents or remarks like he had done with Rahul Gandhi’s Chowkidar Chor Hai barb, countering it with BJP’s "Main Bhi Chowkidar" campaign and projecting the Congress leader’s remarks as an insult to millions of security guards in the country. The BJP and Modi in particular had also turned the seemingly innocuous "Hua To Hua" remarks made by Sam Pitroda in response to a question about 1984 anti-Sikh riots into a major campaign during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Congress, whose Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri had given the ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ slogan during 1965 war with Pakistan, has sought to revive the sentiment during the farm protest arguing “our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation's backbone." Countering the campaign immediately, BJP pressed a number of its senior leaders, who called the Congress move to burn the tractor a “drama” Modi, whose party has repeatedly accuse the Congress of ignoring non Nehru-Gandhi leaders like Shastri and Sardar Patel, also said none of the leaders of the political party (Congress) had till date visited the Statue of Unity, built to honour the memory of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel whose contribution to unifying the country is well known. "Why? Because they had to oppose," he said. "Taking a jibe at the incident, former Delhi BJP chief MP Manoj Tiwari said the Congress torched a tractor which is a source of prosperity for farmers and that the Opposition party is "expert in burning things".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-latches-on-to-tractor-burning-by-congress-to-justify-farm-laws-894903.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Hathras gang rape: Congress slams Yogi Adityanath, PM Narendra Modi's silence||Congress leaders on Tuesday hit the streets to protest against the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the death of Hathras gang-rape victim, seeking to recreate the agitation over a similar incident in 2012 that eventually brought down the UPA-II government. The victim, hailing from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, breathed her last at AIIMS on Tuesday, a fortnight after the teenager was found with brutal injuries in the fields. हाथरस में हैवानियत झेलने वाली दलित बच्ची ने सफदरजंग अस्पताल में दम तोड़ दिया। दो हफ्ते तक वह अस्पतालों में जिंदगी और मौत से जूझती रही। हाथरस, शाहजहांपुर और गोरखपुर में एक के बाद एक रेप की घटनाओं ने राज्य को हिला दिया है। ..1/2 Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi slammed the Uttar Pradesh government helmed by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the “deterioration of law and order” in the state. “There is no semblance of safety for women. Criminals are committing crimes in the open,” Priyanka, AICC General Secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, said referring to incidents of gang rape in Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur. “Yogi Adityanath, you are accountable for the safety of women in UP,” she said. Congress leaders, including P L Punia, Udit Raj and Amrita Dhawan and a group of party workers carried out flash protests near Parliament and were whisked away by the Delhi Police. “It is unfortunate that the Uttar Pradesh government has now become synonymous with atrocities against Dalits, crimes against women. There is no redressal of grievances,” Punia, a Rajya Sabha member, said. “Where is Yogi? Where is Modi? We spit on such governments that cannot protect women,” Amrita Dhawan, president of the Delhi unit of the Mahila Congress told reporters as she was whisked away by the police from near Parliament. In Lucknow, Congress workers carried out a protest march demanding justice for the “Dalit victim”, but were caned by the police before being detained. “The Prime Minister cannot just shut his eyes and sit tight. Yogi Adityanath, who spoke of crime-free Uttar Pradesh, has turned the state into a den of criminal activities,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told reporters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hathras-gang-rape-congress-slams-yogi-adityanath-pm-narendra-modis-silence-894911.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Sushant Singh Rajput case probe has gone in different direction: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said the investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case has gone in "different direction". Speaking to reporters in Pandharpur in Solapur district, Pawar appeared questioning the progress made by the CBI in its investigation of the case, which was initially probed by the Mumbai Police. He also ruled out any politics behind the much-talked meeting between Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis last week. When asked about Union minister Ramdas Athawale's suggestion that Pawar joins the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the event of the Shiv Sena not forging ties with former ally BJP, Pawar said nobody takes the RPI (A) chief seriously inside as well as outside Parliament. Speaking on Sushant Singh Rajput case, he said, "It could be because the Central government did not have trust in Mumbai Police that is why the probe in the case was given to another agency (CBI). "What light they (CBI) have shed on the case, we have not yet seen. Suicide (angle) aside, now strange things are coming to the fore. Now the investigation in the case has gone in a different direction," he said, adding that things will become clear once the truth comes out. The veteran politician was apparently referring to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) widening its probe into alleged Bollywood-drug nexus arising out of the Rajput death case. Asked about Athawale's comments, Pawar said, "Does his (Ramdas Athawale's) party have a single MLA or an MP? He speaks, gives advice, but nobody takes him seriously, neither in Parliament nor outside". Athawale had asked the Shiv Sena to reunite with the BJP to form a government in Maharashtra and also suggested a power-sharing formula between the two saffron parties. Replying to a question on Fadnavis-Raut meeting, Pawar, whose party is part of the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, said, "If a reporter or an editor of a newspaper takes interview of leaders from different parties, it does not mean that he gets associated with that party". "When Raut had interviewed me (for Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'), he had announced that he would interview Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Raut had also clarified that he would interview BJP leaders. I don't think there is any need to comment on that," he said. Pawar said the interview (of Fadnavis) will take place and get published, "but it will not have any effect on politics of the state". Speaking about Maratha reservation, which was stayed by the supreme court recently, the NCP chief said the Central government and BJP are supporting Rajya Sabha MPs Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje and Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Bhosale, and "they should take lead in resolving this issue".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sushant-singh-rajput-case-probe-has-gone-in-different-direction-sharad-pawar-894919.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Shashi Tharoor, Jairam Ramesh retain Parliament panel chairs||Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal was on Tuesday nominated to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on External Affairs as Lok Sabha Speaker re-constituted the panels known as ‘mini parliaments’.  Contrary to the speculation, Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor, Jairam Ramesh and Anand Sharma have retained their posts as chairmen of the standing committees on Information Technology, Science & Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change and Home Affairs respectively.  Tharoor was in the BJP crosshairs over his pursuit of the allegations of bias against Facebook and WhatsApp, as reported in a section of the international media. BJP leaders Nishikant Dubey and Rajyavardhan Rathore had demanded Tharoor’s ouster.  Ramesh was under attack from BJP members over the deliberations on the Environment Impact Assessment notifications and the face-off with Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar.  Congress President Sonia Gandhi is not a member of any of the Parliamentary standing committees, while former Congress President Rahul Gandhi is a member of the Committee on Defence.  YSRCP member V Vijaysai Reddy has retained his post as Chairman of the Committee on Commerce. Others are Vinay Sahasrabuddhe (HRD), K Keshav Rao (Industry), T G Venkatesh (Transport, Tourism and Culture), Ram Gopal Yadav (Health), Bhupender Yadav (Law and Justice), P C Gaddigoudar (Agriculture), Jual Oram (Defence), Rajiv Ranjan Singh (Energy), P P Chaudhary (External Affairs).  Former junior Finance Minister Jayant Sinha will chair the committee on Finance. Others are Sudip Bandyopadhyay (Food, Consumer Affairs & PublicDistribution), B Mahtab (Labour), Ramesh Bidhuri (Petroleum and Natural Gas), Radha Mohan Singh (Railways), Jagadambika Pal (Urban Affairs), Sanjay Jaiswal (Water Resources), Kanimozhi (Chemical and Fertilisers), Pratap Jadhav (Rural Development), Rakesh Singh (Coal and Steel), Rama Devi (Social Justice and Empowerment).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shashi-tharoor-jairam-ramesh-retain-parliament-panel-chairs-894922.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Sushant Singh Rajput case used for political gains in Bihar: Anil Deshmukh||Referring to reports claiming that doctors did not find poison in Sushant Singh Rajput's viscera, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said "some parties" defamed the state for gains in Bihar. He also said he was "eagerly waiting" for the outcome of the Central Bureau of Investigation's (CBI) probe into the case. The NCP leader's comments came a day after the CBI said it had not reached any conclusions in the case yet. "The AIIMS report which has come today (as claimed by some media outlets) says there was no poison in Sushant Singh Rajput's viscera," Deshmukh told reporters here. "The Mumbai police were probing the matter quite professionally, but suddenly the probe was handed over to the CBI," he said.Even the Supreme Court, which upheld the transfer of the case to the central agency last month, had observed that the Mumbai police had investigated the matter properly, he said. "It seems some political parties conspired to defame Maharashtra and Mumbai Police. Allegations were levelled against several people," Deshmukh, an NCP leader, said. "All this was done to seek political benefit out of Sushant Singh death case during the (coming) Bihar elections," he alleged. He also noted that former Bihar director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey joined the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) after seeking voluntary retirement ahead of the polls. "Pandey too was used for political purposes," Deshmukh alleged. Earlier in the day, Deshmukh had taken to Twitter to ask, "What happened after the Sushant Singh death case probe was handed over to the CBI? People have been asking whether the actor committed suicide or was killed. "We are also waiting eagerly to know the outcome of the CBI probe," he added. The Supreme Court last month upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged in Patna by the actor's parents against his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting the suicide, to the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sushant-singh-rajput-case-used-for-political-gains-in-bihar-anil-deshmukh-894939.html
29-09-2020||National Politics||Focus on 'crime-free city' not 'film city': Anil Deshmukh to UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday expressed pain over the death of Hathras gang-rape victim and demanded that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ensure the culprits are punished soon. Deshmukh also took a dig at Adityanath on Twitter, saying it would be better if the BJP Chief Minister focused on making crime-free city than film city in the northern state so that women feel safe. The 19-year-old woman, who was brutally gang-raped in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district two weeks ago, died of her grievous injuries at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday morning. The four men alleged to be involved in the crime have been arrested and will now face charges under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir said. "Pained by tragic demise of the Hathras gang-rape victim. @myogiadityanath Ji, hope the culprits will be put behind bars soon. "It would be better if you focus on making Crime free city instead of Film city so that our sisters can be safe, the NCP minister tweeted. Adityanath had on September 22 unveiled an ambitious plan to set up a film city in Uttar Pradesh and rolled out an open offer to the movie fraternity to come to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/focus-on-crime-free-city-not-film-city-anil-deshmukh-to-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-894962.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Ahead of Babri Masjid demolition case verdict, Centre asks states to be alert||A day before the verdict in Babri Masjid demolition case by a special court in Lucknow, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked states to be extra vigilant to ensure that no untoward incident takes place and maintain law and order.  The MHA has asked the states to keep an extra vigil in communally-sensitive areas and districts as it fears that the fringe elements may use the verdict to fuel tension.  Issuing an alert, the MHA said some radical groups may attempt to drive a wedge between two groups of people and look for an opportunity to revive the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act movement if the verdict goes against a particular community.  State police forces have also been asked to keep a close watch on social media.  Officials said local police should deploy adequate force in communally-sensitive localities. They have also been asked to keep in touch with community leaders to maintain peace in their areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-babri-masjid-demolition-case-verdict-centre-asks-states-to-be-alert-894619.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Dalit woman gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras dies||A 19-year-old Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras died at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Tuesday morning, days after she was raped by four men here. The family of the woman said she died around 3 am, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir said. The woman was gang-raped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh. She was referred to the Delhi hospital on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement. The accused had also tried to strangulate her to death as she resisted their attempt and in the process, she had also ended up biting her tongue and suffering a severe cut on it. A spokesman of the Aligarh hospital had said that the woman's legs were completely paralysed and arms partially paralysed. The four accused who have already been arrested will now also face charges under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, according to the Hathras SP. Opposition leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Mayawati have condemned the incident and demanded strict punishment for the culprits of the heinous crime. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet, said, "A Dalit girl who was victim of demoniac behaviour in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks she kept struggling between life and death in hospitals." She said incidents of rape one after another, in Hathras, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur have shaken the state. "Law and order in UP has deteriorated to a great extent. There is no semblance of safety for women. The criminals are committing crimes in the open," Priyanka Gandhi said. The killers of this girl should be punished severely, she demanded. BSP president Mayawati also demanded stringent punishment by prosecuting the accused in a fast track court. In a tweet in Hindi, she said, "The news of the death of Dalit victim after gangrape in Hathras, UP is very saddening. The government should provide all possible help to the victim's family and ensure fast punishment to the culprits by prosecuting them in a fast track court. This is the demand of the BSP." On September 14, the woman had gone to the fields with her mother and had gone missing soon after. She was later found brutally injured, with her tongue having a serious cut as she bit it while the accused attempted to strangulate her, the SP had said while giving details of the incident. The Hathras SP said initially they came to know that Sandip, 20, had tried to kill her following which he was arrested the same day. Later in her statement to the magistrate, the woman had said that besides Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi had raped her and when she resisted their attempts, they tried to strangulate her, leading to the cut in the tongue. The next day the woman was admitted to J N Medical College hospital in Aligarh where she was put on a ventilator, the Hathras SP had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-woman-gang-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-hathras-dies-894636.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||IPS officer in viral video 'is like father', calls me 'beta', says news anchor||The news anchor of a regional TV channel here has filed a police complaint against the wife and son of an IPS officer, accusing them of tarnishing her reputation. Purushottam Sharma, a 1986 batch IPS officer, was transferred following a viral video which showed him thrashing his wife, soon after she confronted him at the anchor's flat. The anchor submitted a complaint against Sharma's wife and son at the Shahpura police station, and claimed that the IPS officer is "like a father" to her and calls her 'beta'. "The complaint states that her privacy and image has suffered a lot in the society and caused disrepute to her name," Shahpura police station in-charge Jitendra Patel said. The anchor has demanded that police take appropriate action in the matter and protect her from undergoing "mental torture." "As I am associated with journalism, I keep meeting officials and politicians quite often," she said in her complaint. "On Sunday (September 27), DG Purushottam Sharma called me around 7 pm, saying he is near my place (residence), so I invited him over for a cup of tea," she said. The anchor said some time later, Sharma's wife also reached her flat and rang the doorbell. "I dont know her but I opened the door out of courtesy, after which she forcibly entered the flat," she added. Sharma and his wife had a fight, after which the IPS officer went out of the house," she said. She claimed that Sharmas wife stayed back and asked her "unnecessary questions" and also made a video-recording of her bedroom, which was made viral on social media by Sharma's son, making "baseless allegations" against her. "DG Saab (Sharma) is like my father and he used to call me 'beta'," the anchor said. "I never realised that his coming to my home for a cup of tea will become such a big issue. It has tarnished my image and compromised my privacy," she said in the complaint. The police station in-charge said that as this is a matter of causing disrepute to someones image, a complaint can be filed only in court. The order to remove Sharma from the post of Director Public Prosecution and transfer him to the state secretariat without assigning him any post was issued by the state home department Under Secretary Annu Bhalavi on Monday. "Two videos related to you went viral on social media in which prima facie you are seen engaging in immoral behaviour and domestic violence with your wife," a show-cause notice issued by Bhalavi to Sharma had said. "Your actions are in violation of the All India Services rules and therefore, you are directed to give your clarification on why disciplinary action should not be taken against you for your acts," it had said. The government has asked Sharma to submit his reply by 5.30 pm on Tuesday, failing which it will be construed that he doesn't have any response to file and accordingly action will be initiated against him, the order said. Sharma's son Parth, a deputy commissioner in the Income Tax Department, sent the video to state Home Minister Narottam Mishra and some senior bureaucrats, and requested that a complaint be registered against his father. Sharma, who has been married for 32 years, had said, "This is a family matter, not a crime...I am not a criminal. My wife stalks me wherever I go. I am dealing with this." The state women's commission has summoned Sharma on October five and also directed it to provide security to his wife.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ips-officer-in-viral-video-is-like-father-calls-me-beta-says-news-anchor-894645.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Religious places reopen in Indore after six months||Religious places have reopened in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district after nearly six months, and devotees have been asked to strictly follow all guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In an order issued late Monday evening, district Collector Manish Singh asked devotees and priests to wear masks properly covering the nose and mouth and follow the social distancing norms. Sanitisers and use of soap will be mandatory at all religious places in the district, the order said. Devotees will not be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of temples, it said. People will have to maintain a distance of six feet from each other while attending feasts at religious places, the order said. Managements of temples and other religious places in the district will have to ensure that all guidelines are followed, it further said. The district administration has also allowed reopening of the Sarafa night food market in the city only for takeaways, officials said. The permission to open religious places in Indore comes at a time when there is a surge in Covid-19 cases in the worst-hit district of the state. The district has till now reported 23,524 Covid-19 cases and 558 deaths due to the disease, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/religious-places-reopen-in-indore-after-six-months-894660.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi cop arrested for allegedly shooting at female friend, killing father-in-law||The Delhi Police has arrested its sub-inspector Sandeep Dahiya who allegedly shot at and injured his female friend here and later also killed his father-in-law in Rohtak, officials said on Tuesday. "Sandeep Dahiya has been arrested. He was picked up from Rohini. He is being interrogated and will be produced before the magistrate concerned,” a senior police official said. Dahiya (35) was posted at Lahori Gate police station from December 21, 2017. He had joined the Delhi Police in 2006 as a constable and became a sub-inspector in 2010 after clearing an examination. According to the Delhi Police, Dahiya had on Sunday allegedly shot at his woman friend during a quarrel with her in his car in north Delhi's Alipur. He was on the run after this incident and allegedly also shot dead his 60-year-old father-in-law outside his house in Haryana's Rohtak on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cop-arrested-for-allegedly-shooting-at-female-friend-killing-father-in-law-894690.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||2013 Jheeram Ghati naxal attack: Supreme Court dismisses Chhattisgarh government's plea||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea by the Chhattisgarh government against a refusal by the Special Judicial Inquiry Commission to examine additional witnesses in its inquiry into the 2013 Jheeram Ghati incident, in which top leaders of state Congress party were killed in a Maoist attack. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah declined to entertain the plea by the Congress government, while noting that five additional witnesses who sought to depose, did not file affidavits before the deadline of September 30, 2019. The Bhupesh Baghel government, which came into power in December 2018, gave additional terms of reference to the Commission. It challenged the High Court's judgement of January 29, 2020, dismissing the petition against the Commission's decision. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the state government, submitted that the Commission did not allow five additional witnesses to record their statements. The bench, however, pointed out to the Commission's direction for those who wanted to be examined to file affidavits and noted that no one did it. How can they be examined now, it asked, rejecting the plea. The state government was aggrieved by the refusal of the Commission headed by Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra to summon Director, Jungle Warfare Training School, Kanker to record his statement and close the proceedings. A deadly ambush on May 25, 2013, during Assembly election campaign had killed 29 people, including then-state Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel, former leader of Opposition Mahendra Karma, and former Union Minister Vidyacharan Shukla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2013-jheeram-ghati-naxal-attack-supreme-court-dismisses-chhattisgarh-governments-plea-894698.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality in 'moderate' category||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the “moderate” category on Tuesday morning. A government forecasting agency said it will remain in the same category for the next two days. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 170 at 10:30 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 159 on Monday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe’. “Favorable ventilation condition is likely to keep Delhi's AQI in the moderate category for the next two days,” the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said. However, it said, the late withdrawal of monsoon and associated stagnant winds are likely to influence Delhi's air quality negatively by the weekend. The monsoon started receding from Rajasthan on Monday. It is expected to withdraw from the rest of northwest India in the next three days, according to an India Meteorological Department official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-in-moderate-category-894702.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||How long can Mehbooba Mufti be detained, asks Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought to know from the Centre as to how long the former Chief Minister of erstwhile state Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti can be detained under the Public Safety Act. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul also sought to know from Solicitor General Tushar Mehta the duration for which the government proposed to extend the period of detention. The court said some via media has to be found out. "Detention can't go on forever," the court said. The court also declined to grant blanket permission to Mehbooba Mufti to attend party meetings. During the hearing, advocate Nithya Ramakrishnan, appearing for Mufti's daughter Iltija, said that she has not been allowed to meet her family members. The court asked her how that can be possible as she was in detention. It granted time to Mehta to file a reply to the amended plea by Mufti within a week. The court put the matter for consideration on October 15. Mufti has been under detention since August 5, 2019 after the Centre withdrew special status of Jammu and Kashmir. She was shifted to Guptar home on April 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-long-can-mehbooba-mufti-be-detained-asks-supreme-court-894738.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||India builds Himalayan bridges, highways to match China||Ligen Eliyas deftly turns the excavator's hydraulic arm to push a huge boulder into the Zanskar river below in a cloud of dust, clearing another bit of land for a strategic highway that India is hurriedly building near the Chinese border. The construction site near the hamlet of Chilling in the Ladakh region is around 250 km (150 miles) west of the area where Indian and Chinese troops are locked in the most serious confrontation in decades. But when ready, the road will provide the only year-round access to large parts of Ladakh, including the border zone. That will go some way to bringing India on par with China, which has a network of roads and helipads on its side of the border. "It will become a lot easier for the army after this road is finished," Eliyas said, with parts of his face and khaki uniform caked in fine stone dust. The protracted standoff in the remote western Himalayan region erupted into a bloody hand-to-hand clash in June in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed and China suffered an unspecified number of casualties. The Asian giants fought a brief but bloody border war in 1962. The 283-km (175-mile)-long Nimmu-Padam-Darcha (NPD) highway, where Eliyas is working, is expected to be completed in three years, officials said. It highlights the efforts by India, which have been redoubled after the latest tensions, to develop key infrastructure - roads, tunnels, bridges and airfields - along the unsettled 3,500 km (2,170 mile) border with China. The road will link up with an 8.8-km (5.5-mile) tunnel that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate in coming weeks, opening the snow deserts of Ladakh to the rest of the country all year round. There are two main highways that connect Ladakh to the rest of India, but they are closed for at least four months every winter. The only way urgent supplies are sent to Ladakh during these months is by air. With thousands of its troops amassed at the border and no sign of a drawdown, India is now pushing harder to blast and smash its way through the Himalayas. "We will not back down from taking any big and tough step in the interest of our country," Indian Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told parliament this month, adding the government had doubled the budget for infrastructure work on the China border. The frenetic construction itself has become a thorny issue this summer with the Chinese complaining that the Indian activity in the mountains was destabilising, Indian officials said. But China built its infrastructure in the area years ago, and it needs to be matched, they said. "China does not recognise the so-called 'Ladakh Union Territory' illegally set up by India and is opposed to infrastructure building at the border area for the purpose of military control," the office of China's foreign ministry spokesperson said. It added that according to a recent consensus by both sides, no side should be taking any action that complicates the situation at the border area. China's Defence Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Matter of hours China's network of roads and railways, logistics depots and helipads mean that it can move troops to forward areas in a matter of hours, said Rajeswari Pillai Rajagopalan, a distinguished fellow at New Delhi think-tank Observer Research Foundation. For India, it would take days to match those deployments, she said. "The infrastructure buildup by the Chinese is not only aiming at the quick deployment of forces but also to sustain them for a relatively longer period of time," Rajagopalan said. Conceived in 1999, India's NPD project moved at a glacial pace till work picked just a couple of year ago, said N.K. Jain, a commander in the state-run Border Roads Organisation (BRO). Since then, the BRO has built some 100 km of the NPD project, and constructed 11 of the 15 major bridges on the route. "Our work is happening at double the speed in the last two years," Jain said. New drilling machines that push dynamite sticks deeper and faster into hard rock to blow them apart have improved the speed of construction, said B. Kishen, a BRO executive engineer who is supervising the project near Chilling. On a recent afternoon, dozens of workers cleared debris from a freshly blasted section of the road. A few kilometres away, another group crouched under an excavator as explosives went off to clear land for another section of the highway. Work will continue through the bitter winter, when temperatures drop to below minus 40 Celsius (minus 40 Fahrenheit) and biting winds at altitudes above 11,000 feet (3,300 m) make road construction even more challenging, Kishen said. The government has identified 73 strategically important roads along the Chinese border, of which 61 are with the BRO, running over 3,300 km (2,000 miles). A parliamentary committee report in March noted that 75 per cent of the work under BRO had been completed. The full network of roads will cut down travel time between key Indian military bases, allowing for quicker mobilisation of troops and ease patrolling in some forward areas, an Indian official said. "It will also lead to lower expenditure for the forces," the official said, with all-weather roads replacing the need for expensive airlift operations during the winter months. "We will have a better chance of catching up with the Chinese."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-builds-himalayan-bridges-highways-to-match-china-894747.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||HC seeks AAP MLA's reply on plea challenging her election over educational information||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought response of AAP MLA Preeti Tomar on a plea challenging her election from the Tri Nagar assembly constituency on the ground that she allegedly gave false declaration about her educational qualifications in her nomination form, a lawyer associated with the case said. Preeti is the wife of Jitender Singh Tomar, a former cabinet minister in the Delhi government, who was found guilty by the high court of furnishing a fake degree in his election nomination of 2015 and his election as AAP MLA that year was set aside. Justice Rajiv Shakdher issued notice to Preeti and the Returning Officer (RO) and sought their stand by the next date of hearing on December 9, said advocate Anil Soni, who represented the petitioner. The court also directed the RO to preserve the AAP MLA's nomination papers, which contain her declaration regarding her educational qualifications, he said. The order came on the election petition moved by Tri Nagar constituent Naveen Parashar, who has alleged that Preeti misrepresented herself to be "M.Sc and B.Ed passed" and "thus, was successful in exercising undue influence over the voters, which amounts to corrupt practice within the meaning of the Representation of the Peoples Act". The petition further alleges that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA was not even a graduate. The plea alleges that Chaudhary Charan Singh University, from where the AAP MLA claims to have completed her B.Ed in 1994, did not have that course in that year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-aap-mlas-reply-on-plea-challenging-her-election-over-educational-information-894751.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Environment ministers of Delhi, 4 neighbouring states to discuss stubble burning on October 1||The Environment Ministers of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will meet on October 1 to discuss and tackle the problem of stubble-burning which causes pollution every year, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday. The virtual meeting will also be attended by the environment secretaries of Delhi and the four neighbouring states along with the members of the pollution control boards and corporations like the NDMC and the DDA, he said. The Union Environment Minister told a press conference here that meeting will review the work done by the states in the last two years to handle the issue of crop residue burning. “At the onset of winter in Delhi, which is October 15 onwards, stubble burning commences and causes pollution throughout the winter season,” he said. “This is not just confined to Delhi, but an air shade which extends to the NCR cities, places in Haryana, UP, Punjab and Rajasthan. Everyone bears the brunt of this air shade. So with the cooperation of all these five states we started tackling this issue in 2016,” he added. “For this cause, a virtual meeting of the environment ministers of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will be held on October 1. Besides the environment ministers, the meeting will be attended by state environment secretaries, pollution control board members and municipal corporations, DDA and NDMC,” Javadekar told the media. “In 2016, the PM launched the National Air Quality Index (NAQI). We believe that acceptance of a problem is the beginning of its solution. So, this is a significant meeting. I am confident everyone will participate in the meeting,” he said. Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Rajasthan attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15. Farmers set their crop residue on fire to quickly clear off their fields after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution levels in Delhi-NCR during the winter season. Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue and the farmers there burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it. The farmers in Haryana burnt 1.23 million tonnes out of the 7 million tonnes of paddy residue. Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat. The minister also told the press conference that the meeting will review the action taken by states in the last two years. “First, we will review the short term plan, medium and long term plans made in 2016. CPCB's 50 teams visit spots and assess the situations October 15 onwards every year. The meeting will review their work in the last two years. A review of the work done by the states will also be done," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/environment-ministers-of-delhi-4-neighbouring-states-to-discuss-stubble-burning-on-october-1-894757.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Man arrested for supplying illegal arms to gangsters in Delhi-NCR||A 42-year-old man who allegedly used to supply arms and ammunition to gangsters in Delhi and its neigbhouring states has been arrested with illegal countrymade pistols, police said on Tuesday. Besides five illegal pistols, 10 live catridges and a motorcycle have also been seized from Ameer Ahmad, a resident of Kairana in Shamli district of the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, they said. The accused confessed he allegedly supplied more than 50 pieces of illegal arms in Delhi-NCR, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana in the past five years, police said. His involvement came to light on September 17 after the police arrested one Sunil with an illicit countrymade pistol and two live cartdriges. He allegedly disclosed that he had procured the seized arms and ammunition from a supplier in Kairana.    Later, a team was sent to Kairana to identify the supplier of illegal weapon, the police said. "On September 25, we received a tip-off that Ameer, who is an interstate arms and ammunition supplier, would come to deliver a huge cache of illicit arms and ammunition to a gangster in Najafgarh, near Dhaula Kuan. “A trap was laid and the accused was apprehended while he was waiting for the consignee at the expected place of delivery with a black colour bag," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Devender Arya said. During interrogation, Ameer disclosed he had procured the recovered illicit firearms and ammunition from one Bilal, a resident of Shamli, and had come to deliver it to a person connected with the gangsters of Najafgarh. Ameer used to pay Rs. 2,500 for each illegal countrymade firearm and Rs 300 for one cartridges to Bilal, and sell them at higher rates -- Rs 8,000 and Rs 500 respectively -- to criminals, the officer said. Ameer used to earlier work as an iron welder at his hometown, but later shifted to illegal business of supplying weapon after he came in contact with some persons engaged in sale of countrymade pistols, the officer said. He was earlier arrested by Kairana police in 2013 in NDPS (The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) act case, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-supplying-illegal-arms-to-gangsters-in-delhi-ncr-894761.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia tests negative for Covid-19, discharged from hospital||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who was suffering from Covid-19 and dengue, was discharged from hospital on Tuesday, officials said. Sisodia, 48, was shifted to a hospital in Saket on Thursday evening, considering his "falling" blood platelet count and low oxygen level. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the private health facility in south Delhi and later administered plasma therapy. "He was tested negative today and his condition is better. He has been discharged from the hospital," said an official from the Deputy Chief Minister's Office. The Aam Aadmi Party leader had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 and was in home isolation. On Wednesday, he was shifted to the LNJP Hospital for treatment and tested positive for dengue a day later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-tests-negative-for-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital-894813.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Duo arrested in connection with Shopian fake encounter sent to judicial remand||A local court sent two suspects arrested by Jammu and Kashmir police in connection with the Shopian fake encounter case to eight days of judicial remand on Tuesday. While confirming the arrests, a police official said the duo was sent to eight days of judicial remand. Sources told DH the arrested persons are local collaborators who have been detained by the police on charges of “criminal conspiracy” under relevant sections in an FIR. “They are being questioned to reveal the chain of events. They were also questioned for their involvement in the fake encounter by the Army’s court of inquiry,” they said. Three labourers from Rajouri district of Jammu region, whose identities have been established after DNA matching with their family members, were killed by the Army’s 62-Rashtriya Rifles in Amshipora village of Shopian district on July 18 in a fake encounter. However, the Amshipora encounter came under scrutiny after families from Rajouri claimed that the three killed were their kin and labourers by profession. Following these claims, the Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police ordered separate inquiries into the matter. The DNA samples of the families were lifted on August 13 and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination and comparison with the “three unidentified slain militants”. On September 25, the DNA sample reports of the three slain persons matched with their parents. On September 18, the Army initiated disciplinary action against unnamed soldiers and officers involved in the Amshipora encounter. In a brief statement, the Army accepted that its men ‘prima facie’ violated powers under Armed Forces Special Powers Acts (AFSPA). Soon after the Army’s statement, the families of slain youth had demanded immediate exhumation of the bodies of their loved ones for proper burial at Rajouri. The three families from Rajouri had identified their sons through pictures that went viral on social media. On September 28, J&K police chief Dilbag Singh said the investigation into Amshipora encounter is in the final stages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/duo-arrested-in-connection-with-shopian-fake-encounter-sent-to-judicial-remand-894847.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police detains Punjab Youth Congress chief in tractor-burning incident near India Gate||The Delhi Police on Tuesday detained Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) president Brinder Dhillon in connection with the tractor-burning incident near India Gate, officials said. The Congress' youth wing activists on Monday morning set a tractor ablaze near India Gate, a few hundred metres from the Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament, to protest the contentious farm laws. A senior police officer said that Dhillon has been detained in the case. Six of the PYC activists were arrested on Monday and police had also seized two vehicles in the matter. Police had said that around 20 people carried a tractor on a truck to Rajpath, Man Singh Crossing, unloaded it from the truck and set it on fire. According to police sources, the Punjab Youth Congress activists entered Lutyens' Delhi along with a Punjab Police car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-detains-punjab-youth-congress-chief-in-tractor-burning-incident-near-india-gate-894852.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi inaugurates six STPs in Uttarakhand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated six sewage treatment plants worth over Rs 500 crore in Uttarakhand under the Namami Gange mission, saying with the projects' completion the sewage treatment capacity of the state has gone up nearly four-fold in six years.  The six STPs were inaugurated at Haridwar, Rishikesh, Muni-ki-Reti and Badrinath via video conference. Describing Ganga as a symbol of the country's cultural glory and faith, Modi said that from the point of the river's origin at Gaumukh in Uttarakhand to where it merged with the sea in West Bengal, the mighty river enriched the lives of half of the country's population.  The six projects are a big step towards ensuring the cleanliness of the river, he said. A 68 MLD STP has been established at Jagjeetpur in Haridwar, a 27 MLD STP upgraded there, an 18 MLD STP at Sarai in the district, a 26 MLD STP at Lakksadghat in Rishikesh, the country's first four-storeyed STP has been set up at Muni-ki-Reti near Rishikesh with a capacity of 7.5 MLD, a five MLD STP at Chorpani in Muni-ki-Reti and two STPs with capacities of 1 MLD and 0.01 MLD have been set up at Badrinath. The prime minister also inaugurated 'Ganga Avalokan', the first museum on the river located at Chandi ghat in Haridwar, saying it was an added attraction for tourists coming to the district. It is aimed at showcasing the culture, biodiversity and rejuvenation activities done in the river, he said. Modi also launched a pictorial book on the river, titled 'Rowing down the Ganges', illustrating what one would see while rowing down from Gaumukh to Ganga Sagar, besides releasing the logo of Jal Jeevan Mission. Modi said the logo of the Jal Jeevan Mission will remind people of the importance of every drop of water.  The prime minister said the Namami Gange mission is not confined to just cleaning  the Ganga but has been expanded into the country's biggest river conservation programme. "The government has acted simultaneously on the mission in all directions. We first began creating a network of STPs on the Ganga to stop the release of polluted water into it. "The STPs have been made in a manner so as to take care of our needs for the next 15 years. We also started making ODF a 100 big cities and 5,000 villages located on the banks of the Ganga, besides stopping pollution in its tributaries," he said. Modi also attacked the previous governments for wasting too much money over Ganga rejuvenation, drinking water and irrigations schemes without any results, claiming there was no coordination between the government departments involved nor was there any people's participation. "This led to further aggravation of the problems. But today  the work culture has changed and every penny is going into the implementation of the projects," he said. The prime minister praised the Jal Shakti Ministry for dealing well with the country's water-related problems  and wished it all the success for its 100-day programme that is to be launched from October 2 under which tap water is to be made available at all schools and anganwadi centres. Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat  and Union Minister for Human Resource Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank also joined the programme via video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-six-stps-in-uttarakhand-894864.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Four-year-old girl burnt alive as thatched-roof house catches fire in Rajasthan||A four-year-old girl was burnt alive when her thatched-roof house in a village in Bikaner district of Rajasthan caught fire on Tuesday. The incident occurred in Sova village under Nokha police station area where the girl was sleeping in her house in an agriculture farm. Her parents and other family members were working in the field when the fire broke out, police said. “The girl could not come out and was charred to death. Her postmortem was conducted on the spot and the body was handed over to family members,” the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-year-old-girl-burnt-alive-as-thatched-roof-house-catches-fire-in-rajasthan-894885.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Hindu Rao doctors plan strike from next week over pending salaries||Resident doctors at the civic body-run Hindu Rao Hospital plan to go on a strike from next week over their salaries not being paid for three months, one of their representatives said Tuesday. It is the largest municipal hospital in Delhi and has been declared as a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Many of its healthcare workers had contracted the infection earlier. "We have been doing the symbolic pen down from 9 AM to 12 noon for the last several days but no one is listening to us. Now, the plan is to go on strike from coming Monday, meaning only emergency services will be available," said Abhimanyu Sardana, the president of the Resident Doctors Association of the facility. It is only a tentative decision and hopefully, authorities will listen to the genuine demands of the doctors, he said. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said, "We are doing everything possible to resolve the issue". "Since it's a Covid-19 facility, only about 50 patients at maximum are there per day in the 900-bed hospital. So, not all doctors are on duty. But yes doctors are on duty on a rotation basis," he said. Sources said the doctors have not received salaries since July. "We are humans too and have a family to run. We are risking our lives for humanity during this pandemic. Is it too much to ask for our due salaries," Sardana said. Resident doctors on Monday had continued their protest over the issue, and some even held out posters bearing messages to highlight their situation. One doctor in full PPE kit, held out a poster that said "Doctors on Covid duty, unpaid days 105, Hindu Rao Hospital, Delhi" and was widely circulating on social media. On September 23, the Resident Doctor's Association had issued a statement and threatened to go on an "indefinite protest" till their demands were unmet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-rao-doctors-plan-strike-from-next-week-over-pending-salaries-894923.html
29-09-2020||North and Central||Hathras DM announces Rs 10 lakh compensation for family of dead Dalit woman||The Hathras district administration on Tuesday announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the family of a Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital while undergoing treatment after her alleged gang-rape and brutal physical assault in a village near here. The compensation was announced by Hatras district magistrate, shortly after she died in Delhi. The 19-year-old woman, who was allegedly gang-raped in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district two weeks ago, died of her grievous injuries at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning, prompting outrage and angry protests. In a replication of the Nirbhaya case horrors, the Dalit teen was allegedly sexually assaulted by four men on September 14 and referred to the Delhi hospital on Monday in an extremely critical condition with spinal injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She couldn't survive the night and died at 3 am, Hathras Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir quoted her family as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-dm-announces-rs-10-lakh-compensation-for-family-of-dead-dalit-woman-894956.html
29-09-2020||Opinion||'If you are part of NDA, abide by the coalition dharma and show respect towards other alliance partners'||Former Bihar Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi recently re-joined the NDA after singing paeans to his mentor Nitish Kumar. The first Mahadalit leader to become Bihar CM in May 2014, Manjhi has the rare distinction of being a cabinet colleague of seven chief ministers of Bihar in the last four decades. President of the Hindustan Awam Morcha (HAM), Manjhi tells DH’s Abhay Kumar that his return to the NDA fold is unconditional and he will, for the rest of his life, stand by Nitish Kumar like a rock. You were one of the senior-most leaders of the Mahagatbandhan. Why did you leave the RJD-led alliance in a huff? I joined the Mahagatbandhan hoping that Lalu Prasad’s son and former deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav, a young leader, could usher in rapid transformation in the state if he comes to power. Tejashwi looked promising. But once I joined the RJD-led alliance, I realised my folly. The RJD had not changed one bit. From Lalu-Rabri era to Tejashwi era, it remains the same loot and scam-tainted party. During the recent Rajya Sabha election, it became all the more apparent when moneybags got more weightage than genuine party leaders. Similar was the case during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. So is the case with the ensuing Assembly election. The RJD has shown no sign of improving its tainted image. It was better to sever ties with such leaders who promote only family and talk about dynasty. But the RJD has made similar charges (of promoting family) against you and said that you joined the Mahagatbandhan only because you wanted your son to be made an MLC? If my son Santosh Suman has become an MLC, it’s due to his merit. Mera beta koi saatwa pass nahin hain (My son is not a Class VII-pass politician). He is a PhD. You had worked under six CMs before becoming Bihar CM yourself in May 2014. You have also worked closely with Tejashwi Yadav… First, a correction. In the last four decades, I had worked under seven CMs -- Chandrashekhar Singh, Bindeshwari Dubey, Satyendra Narain Sinha, Jagannath Mishra, Lalu Prasad, Rabri Devi and Nitish Kumar -- before becoming CM myself. Tejashwi is not a patch on Nitish Kumar. Can anyone deny that it was Nitish ji who established the rule of law in a lawless state and put the state back on the fast track of development? Ask anyone how Bihar was before 2005. The annual budget of the state in 2005 was Rs 22,000 crore. Today, Bihar’s budget is more than Rs 2 lakh crore, a quantum jump in the last 15 years. If someone can’t see how IIT-Patna, IIM-Bodh Gaya, Chanakya Law University, Chandragupta Institute of Management, NIFT, two central universities, road connectivity and several mega bridges came up, then you are turning a blind eye towards the huge development that has taken place in the last one-and-a-half decades. Suddenly, you are showering encomiums on your mentor Nitish Kumar, with whom you had a running feud ever since he threw you out of the JD(U) when you refused to resign as CM in February 2015. Now that you have shifted your allegiance and joined the Nitish-led alliance, what exactly is the deal? No deal at all. My re-joining NDA is unconditional and my loyalty towards Nitish unflinching. I have never asked for X number of seats or Y post. I will work under Nitish’s stewardship and stand by him like a rock for the rest of my life. Is that why you admonished LJP president Chirag Paswan when he questioned Nitish poor law and order, migrant workers’ plight and Covid-19? You even targeted his father Ram Vilas Paswan and questioned what the senior Paswan has done for his Dalit community. Forget media reports. Can anyone deny that it was Nitish who made Manjhi the first Mahadalit (the most marginalised section within the society) Chief Minister of Bihar? It will take reams of newsprint to tell you what Nitish has done for the Mahadalits and Dalits since 2005...So, my unsolicited advice to the young LJP chief Chirag Paswan is: You are young and promising. But don’t spoil your future by slamming leaders of the stature of Nitish. If you are part of the NDA, abide by the coalition dharma and show respect towards other alliance partners. It’s just not possible that your father remains a senior minister in the NDA government and you keep speaking against the NDA. My personal feeling is that one should not sail in two boats at a time. Chirag has time and age. His time will come. At present, he should desist from speaking against the Bihar CM. After you dumped Mahagatbandhan, one of your former allies, Upendra Kushwaha (ex-Union minister and RLSP president), is also likely to follow suit. Reports suggest he, like you, is nursing grudges and questioning Tejashwi’s leadership. Is Kushwaha, too, preparing the ground to join the NDA bandwagon? Honestly, I have no idea about Kushwaha’s next move. Whether Kushwaha will join the NDA or not is for the top leadership to decide. I am not competent to even hazard a guess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/if-you-are-part-of-nda-abide-by-the-coalition-dharma-and-show-respect-towards-other-alliance-partners-894522.html
29-09-2020||Opinion||Covid-19 vaccine? Not for me, thank you||Why would anybody even think about refusing the vaccine?  People are entitled to make decisions about their own health; in medical ethics, this is known as autonomy. However, what if their choices result in harm to others? Reasons for refusing vaccination This leads to the matter of why people refuse vaccines, and why some are militant anti-vaxxers. Lack of proper education about vaccination, misunderstanding or misinterpreting media and scientific information, and being deliberately misled by anti-vaxxer activists or even by religious leaders all play a role. The reasons for vaccine refusal are many and are not mutually exclusive. Several vaccines have common adverse effects, such as pain and discomfort at the site of administration and short-lasting malaise or fever. Some vaccines have rare but potentially serious adverse effects. Some vaccines are expensive and are hence inaccessible to poorer segments of society. Getting vaccinated requires time and may entail some inconvenience.  There are other problems, too. Getting vaccinated may be against religious beliefs for people belonging to certain religious denominations, even in Western countries. In some African countries such as Nigeria, and in some Asian countries such as Pakistan, vaccination programs have been surrounded by conspiracy theories and they were or still are widely shunned.  People have also been found to harbour false beliefs, such as that the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine can cause autism in children who receive it (it does not); that vaccines contain mercury in the form of thiomersal, and this is potentially toxic (it is not); that postponing vaccination is acceptable (it is not); or even that it is better to acquire immunity by contracting the disease than by receiving a vaccine against the disease (it is not). Vaccine safety considerations Concerns about vaccine safety, however, are perhaps the most important reason why some people refuse vaccination. There is a long history for this. In 1955, some children who received the polio vaccine developed polio with paralytic complications. In 1976, panic over a flu virus resulted in the early release of a vaccine that caused Guillain-Barré syndrome, a serious neuromuscular disease, in some vaccine recipients. About 20 years ago, a rotavirus vaccine was withdrawn because it caused intussusception in some infants. Very recently, a vaccine against dengue fever was found to result in worse illness and even in death in children who had never been exposed to the disease. Such instances are seized by mass media and by social media and are widely disseminated. This is understandable; why should a healthy child or an adult run the risk of potentially serious adverse effects? However, the sensationalisation of actual or imaginary risk results in distrust of all vaccines. With specific reference to the Covid-19 vaccine, distrust may already have been created, and perhaps understandably so. In India, the ICMR seemed to want to bypass safety issues and bring out a vaccine by August 15, 2020. In the USA, President Trump appears to want the US to have an Operation Warp Speed vaccine ready before the election. In Russia, the Sputnik V vaccine was approved apparently after being studied in only 76 patients. In China, at least one vaccine has already been approved for emergency use although safety data are so far unavailable. The Oxford vaccine trial had to be suspended because one patient developed transverse myelitis, a serious spinal cord disease (the trial has now been resumed in most but not all countries).  While it usually takes many years, such as five years or longer, to bring out a safe and effective vaccine, the rush to bring out a Covid-19 vaccine may make even the ordinary reader nervous and, of course, it provides grist to the mill of the anti-vaxxers. Need for universal immunisation Opting out of universal immunisation programmes is dangerous because if too many persons in the population do so, herd immunity will not develop, and pockets of illness may periodically break out. This has been happening even in developed countries, such as the UK and the USA, where the misplaced belief that the MMR vaccine causes autism led to vaccine refusal and to outbreaks of measles in many places. What should we do? Simply stated, read the reports on safety and efficacy and trust the health organisations whose word carries credibility. It can reasonably be assumed that the chances of benefit will outweigh the risks. On a parting note, vaccine freeloaders are persons who do not get vaccinated but who nevertheless reap the benefits of vaccination. The benefits of freeloading arise when the rest of the population is vaccinated and immune; then, the disease does not spread, and so the freeloaders do not contract the disease. The desire to reap the indirect benefit, however, is not a usual reason for refusing vaccination. (Dr Chittaranjan Andrade is Professor, Department of Clinical Psychopharmacology and Neurotoxicology, Nimhans, Bengaluru) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-vaccine-not-for-me-thank-you-894674.html
29-09-2020||Panorama||As Covid-19 closes schools, world’s children go to work||Every morning in front of the Devaraj Urs public housing apartment blocks on the outskirts of Tumakuru, a swarm of children pours into the street. They are not going to school. Instead of backpacks or books, each child carries a filthy plastic sack. These children, from 6 to 14 years old, have been sent by their parents to rummage through garbage dumps littered with broken glass and concrete shards in search of recyclable plastic. They earn a few cents per hour, and most wear no gloves or masks. Many cannot afford shoes and make their rounds barefoot, with bleeding feet. “I hate it,” said Rahul, an 11-year-old boy praised by his teacher as bright. But in March, India closed its schools because of the coronavirus pandemic, and Rahul had to go to work. In many parts of the developing world, school closures put children on the streets. Families are desperate for money. Children are an easy source of cheap labour. While the United States and other developed countries debate the effectiveness of online schooling, hundreds of millions of children in poorer countries lack computers or the internet and have no schooling at all. UN officials estimate that at least 24 million children will drop out and that millions could be sucked into work. Ten-year-olds are now mining sand in Kenya. Children the same age are chopping weeds on cocoa plantations in West Africa. In Indonesia, boys and girls as young as 8 are painted silver and pressed into service as living statues who beg for money. The surge in child labour could erode the progress achieved in recent years in school enrollment, literacy, social mobility and children’s health. “All the gains that have been made, all this work we have been doing, will be rolled back, especially in places like India,” said Cornelius Williams, a high-ranking UNICEF official. Child labour is just one piece of a looming global disaster. Severe hunger is stalking children from Afghanistan to South Sudan. Forced marriages for girls are rising across Africa and Asia, according to UN officials, as is child trafficking. Data from Uganda showed teen pregnancies shooting up during pandemic-related school closures. Aid workers in Kenya said that many families were sending their teenage girls into sex work to feed the family. Other aspects of society have been allowed to reopen. Why is it, frustrated children’s advocates ask, that bars, gyms, restaurants and subway systems are now operating but not schools? Williams said leaders who “really believe in education” should use those resources on schools, and he questioned why they were not. “Is it because adults have agency and have the louder voice — and the power to vote?” he asked. In Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, Surlina, 14, paints herself silver to resemble a statue and hangs around a gas station with an outstretched hand. Her mother is a maid, and her father sold small sculptures before the pandemic robbed him of a job. At the end of each day she gives her earnings to her mother, who supplies her and her two siblings, 11 and 8, with the paint. In India, the government has also shut down early childhood development centres for the poor. In recent decades, India had built a nationwide network of more than 1 million anganwadis, which means courtyard shelter in Hindi, that provided millions of young children with food, immunizations, clothes and some schooling, and contraceptives for poor women. But most anganwadis remain closed. School-age children in India are now performing all kinds of work, from rolling cigarettes and stacking bricks to serving tea outside brothels, according to more than 50 interviews conducted with the children, their parents, teachers, labor contractors and child activists. Most of it is illegal. Much of it is hazardous. Saurabh Kumar, a sixth-grader from a struggling family in Jharkhand, works as a helper at a garage at the urging of his father. A few months ago, he tried to unfasten some sharp engine bolts and sliced his hand open. “I could see down to the bone,” he said. India already had a serious child labour problem because of high poverty levels, its population of 1.3 billion and its dependence on cheap labour. Shadowy fireworks and cigarette factories, textile sweatshops and loosely regulated construction sites often employ children. Authorities had been cracking down and enrolling children, especially girls, in school. But as Nahida Ismail, a teacher in Bihar state, said, “The whole ecosystem around kids is breaking down.” On a construction site near Gaya, a town in Bihar, Mumtaz, 12, and his brother Shahnawaz, 10, struggled under heavy loads of gravel. With a grimace, Shahnawaz hoisted a bucket atop his head. His skinny legs nearly buckled. He squinched his eyes tight, looking like he was about to cry. Around him stood men three times his age, just watching. “I get headaches,” Shahnawaz said. “I can’t sleep at night. My body tingles.” His older brother seems to have glimpsed his new future. “I fear that even if school reopens, I will have to keep doing this because of the family’s debt,” Mumtaz said. “I wanted to join the army,” he added, using the past tense. Many child experts said that once children drop out and start making money, it is very difficult to get them back in school. India has ordered elementary and middle schools to remain closed indefinitely, affecting more than 200 million children, although some government teachers are making house calls and teaching in small groups. The central government has allowed high school students to visit teachers on campus, but many states have said no to that as well. Government officials say the coronavirus leaves them little choice. New infections sometimes reach nearly 100,000 per day. Officials say children would have difficulty maintaining social distancing. “They can end up becoming vectors of virus,” said Rajesh Naithani, an adviser to the education ministry. Child rights activists say it is remarkable how little the school closures are being discussed. Speeches by India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, and top ministers usually focus on opening up the economy, not the schools. Many of the parents interviewed said they were under tremendous pressure to put their idle children to work. (The children in this article were interviewed with permission from a parent.) “We need their wages,” said Mohammad Mustakim Ansari, an underemployed mason and the father of Mumtaz and Shahnawaz. “Without them, I wouldn’t be able to cobble together two meals.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/as-covid-19-closes-schools-world-s-children-go-to-work-894521.html
29-09-2020||Panorama||Telehealth and medicine||For centuries, it has been a well-known fact that meeting a doctor in person has the potential to heal most illnesses. In fact, doctors also like meeting patients in person. In the pandemic, we now live in a different world. In-person visits are no longer possible, we are left to lean on to new forms of technology-- telehealth and online medicine. This technology has found a new boom during the pandemic. Who knew this would become the norm in medicine? On the other hand, if we were to face the pandemic in the 60s or 70s, before internet connectivity, what would have happened? In developed countries, due to advances in medicine, there is reduced opportunity for essential procedures, hence, there is a huge push to practice these skills on plastic dolls (mannequins) that resemble human patients. It is worrisome that one may stand to lose physical examination and communication skills on patients. If a newborn baby not passed urine for several hours, how can a paediatrician be expected to examine this newborn on camera? Maybe he could, but how effective that would be? Could one assess an elderly with joint pain or severe back-ache? How do you come up with a good list of differential diagnosis? How is one supposed to feel the pulse and listen to the heartbeat to diagnose heart failure or if a patient is slipping into shock? The list goes on. This could lead to either over-treatment, since doctors may try to curtail the anxiety of patients or under-treatment if the patient does not understand the gravity of the situation. Some patients may not communicate well with doctors leading to disastrous consequences. This technology can be a double-edged sword. But, how can we solve this new mode of consultation, especially with an uneducated population that resides in underprivileged areas of cities and villages? Doctor-patient interaction in-person not only builds trust but also creates a lasting bonding between them. An experienced doctor may see a rash or a particular finding and be done with it in a few seconds. Now, with online consults, he may have to spend more time depending on the connectivity, camera resolution etc. Then the question of time spent and payment options arise. Many doctors may not even like to connect to those patients who do not have the option to pay digitally. Patients in resource-poor areas may have no online facility to pay the doctors. The next issue challenge for is that the new method of interacting with patients to diagnose and treat patients puts the physician into a realm of losing his or her bedside manner and physical examination skills to diagnose a mass, cyst, abscess, sinus. Can these practices continue with online technology? Are patients ready for this and is the medical community? Or do both the parties have no choice until the pandemic is completely brought under control? In India, where doctors are revered, will this technology transform doctors into godlike figures who can be reached only via phones? Of course, technology has benefits. Patients can communicate with their doctors from their homes and get treated without risking themselves to exposure to the pandemic. Other advantages can be saving money and time on travel, lodging or boarding. But, while we may exhale in relief, we must worry about freshly graduate doctors who are coming to hospitals and communities without much training from experienced seniors and losing out on learning crucial communication skills with patients. However, there is always a brighter side to every story. As we pray and watch carefully how things unfold, time may heal everything and time will teach us new things to get used to new challenges. One thing is for sure, we need medical institutions to adapt to these rapidly changing times and incorporate these deficiencies into medical school and residency curriculums so that graduating doctors come with confidence and continue to provide best possible care to patients. (The writers are doctors based in Dallas, Texas)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/telehealth-and-medicine-894524.html
29-09-2020||Right in the Middle||Parrot or sparrow?||In the days of lockdown, we could hear birds tweeting in the loudest pitch. My difficulty is that having lived in a noisy environment, I could not make out the difference between them. The other day, I saw a black bird diving in the air, down to our lawn and I shouted to my wife, "Look, look, how the crow is diving down."  She shot me a look and told me that it was not a crow but a hawk and added that crows don’t dive down but hawks do. They can spot their prey from a long distance. I am also taking lessons to differentiate between the delicate noises that sparrows make and loud ones that koels make. I know that I will fail the test in a matter of days when the noise is back. Lockdown also gave me the ability to invade the privacy of our neighbours. When I hear a grinder in action, I know that coconut chutney is being made and as I am walking around, I can smell dosas and my mouth begins to water. One morning, I was on my walk, when I smelt butter and thought the neighbour's cook was most likely making bene dosa. I even know the names of their helpers because I can hear the shouts, "Raghu, oota barsi" (Raghu, serve food). Basvaraj, Manjunath and Shankar are other helpers in the neighbourhood. As for relationships, these come by and large in four categories. The fighting category when the husband shouts and the wife replies, "stop this nonsense otherwise I will leave for my parent’s place once the lockdown is lifted. I have had enough of this nonsense." The second category is the couple in which the wife is extremely resilient. The husband shouts and the wife continues to play on the piano regardless of the constant shouting. The third is the loving category, I hear the wife ask the husband what he would like for breakfast and the husband replies that whatever you make for yourself is okay with me. Then, there are couples that maintain noble silence. You don’t hear a word even when they are standing on their balcony. I was listing these categories to my wife and asked her which category she thought we belonged to. Her reply took me by surprise when she replied we don’t belong any of these categories. We are two separate pillars under the same roof. I sighed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/parrot-or-sparrow-894519.html
29-09-2020||Second Edit||Sushant Singh Rajput case: A probe gone wayward?||An investigation into the death of film actor Sushant Singh Rajput, which was considered to be a suicide, has taken turns which are rarely seen even in movies. Weeks after the country’s premier investigation agency took over the case from Mumbai police, its purpose seems to have been forgotten or sidelined. The probe is now on the drug-taking habit and drug deals of Bollywood stars, especially women actors. Deepika Padukone has been grilled for hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), whose remit is to check drug trafficking across national borders and not to track movement of grams of it between individuals. Along with Padukone, others like Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor are also under the scanner. The investigation has now become a witch hunt, and it may not be an accident that some of those under the scanner are on the wrong side of the politics of the ruling party at the Centre. Nor that Rakesh Asthana, an officer with a history, helms the NCB.  In the first phase of the investigation, the charges of murder or abetment to suicide seem to have been dropped by the wayside after many trails were created and then abandoned. Subsequently, agencies like the NCB and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) came into the picture. Sushant Singh’s friend Rhea Chakraborty and her brother were probed. After charges of illegal diversion of funds and financial wrongdoing were not supported on scrutiny, drug-related charges have been invoked. The NCB has arrested 19 persons, including Rhea Chakraborty, and it says it has seized some quantity of narcotics from one person. The NCB says it will go after the “drug citadel in Mumbai, especially Bollywood.’’ There are two streams of drug cases now, which apparently are not related to each other. It is also not clear how they are related to the death of Sushant Singh, from where the original investigation started.  What drove the case first was, and perhaps drives it even now is, politics. Elections in Bihar were a consideration for the central government in pushing for a CBI probe because Sushant Singh was from that state. Its strained relations with the Maharashtra government also had a role in that. Other themes like mental health issues of actors, nepotism and rivalry in Bollywood also went into the cocktail of the case. Selective leaks of information from “reliable” sources made it murkier. WhatsApp messages and even “body language” were presented as evidence. A most unhealthy media trial, which passed judgements and demonised people, was staged on TV channels every day. It is an investigation gone wayward, and when important investigative agencies conduct themselves in such an unseemly manner, the rule of law goes into stupor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/sushant-singh-rajput-case-a-probe-gone-wayward-894513.html
29-09-2020||South||Panneerselvam skips review meeting called by Edappadi K Palaniswami, holds discussion with supporters||The rift between Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his Deputy O Panneerselvam over the Chief Ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assembly polls appeared to have widened on Tuesday. Panneerselvam, who usually attends review meeting along with Palaniswami, did not go to Secretariat on Tuesday. He chose to stay put at his residence. As the review meeting at the Secretariat started, Panneerselvam held discussions with his close aides K P Munuswamy and P H Manoj Pandian. Later, Rajya Sabha MP and deputy coordinator R Vaithilingam, who is understood to have taken up the task of finding a resolution to differences between Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, joined the meeting at Panneerselvam's residence.  “He (Panneerselvam) did not attend the review meeting. He is at his official residence and is meeting party leaders. They are discussing the happenings at the AIADMK Executive Committee on Monday,” a source close to Panneerselvam told DH. After a marathon five-hour discussions on Monday, Munuswamy had announced that the Chief Ministerial candidate will be announced by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami jointly on October 7. Sources told DH though a majority of the party’s district secretaries and ministers supported EPS, OPS got the decision postponed yet again on Monday. The two leaders have been fighting with each other to be the party’s CM candidate and senior leaders have been trying to arrive at a consensus for the past two months but it has been in vain. Panneerselvam, though sidelined and having lost majority of his supporters, has been trying to assert his authority. And it is significant given that he has opened a line of communication with AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala, to patch up differences. DH had on September 24 reported that Panneerselvam, who rebelled against Sasikala in February 2017 before she surrendered to authorities at the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru, had dialled Dhinakaran in a bid to contain Palaniswami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panneerselvam-skips-review-meeting-called-by-edappadi-k-palaniswami-holds-discussion-with-supporters-894661.html
29-09-2020||South||Two more die of Covid-19 in Puducherry, toll mounts to 517||Two people succumbed to Covid- 19 infection in Puducherry on Tuesday, taking the toll in the union territory to 517. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that 387 fresh cases were reported after examination of 5,031 samples during last 24 hours pushing the total caseload to 27,066.       He said 460 patients recovered and were discharged during last 24 hours from hospitals. The fatality rate was 1.91 per cent while the recovery rate was 79.86 per cent. Kumar said 1.79 lakh samples have been tested so far and it was found that 1.49 lakh out of them were negative and result of examination of remaining samples was awaited. Of the total 27,066 positive cases, 4,933 were active, the number of patients who recovered and were discharged stood at 21,616. The two deceased hailed from Puducherry region and were in the age group ranging between 68 and 70 years. They both had co-morbidities. While Puducherry region reported 312 new cases out of the total 387 fresh cases, Karaikal had 48 while Yanam recorded 17 and Mahe 10, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-die-of-covid-19-in-puducherry-toll-mounts-to-517-894724.html
29-09-2020||South||EC says no bypolls in two Tamil Nadu assembly seats 'at this stage'||Election Commission on Tuesday decided not to hold assembly bypolls in two constituencies in Tamil Nadu, whose tenure of the current assembly ends in May next year. Bypolls to Gudiyattam and Thiruvottriyur were necessitated after the legislators – both belonging to Opposition DMK- passed away within a gap of two days in February. The bypolls were postponed due to Covid-19 restrictions and the decision not to hold the polls “at this stage” comes after opinion from the Tamil Nadu government which was against holding polls now. The current term of the Tamil Nadu assembly expires on May 24, 2021. “The Commission has decided not to announce the conduct of elections at this stage in the seven vacancies in legislative assemblies of the states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal," a notification from the EC said. The announcement comes as a reprieve to political parties in Tamil Nadu who are preparing for the 2021 Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ec-says-no-bypolls-in-two-tamil-nadu-assembly-seats-at-this-stage-894782.html
29-09-2020||South||Hiring rate, female workforce participation increase in India||Hiring rate and female workforce participation have increased in India, according to a 'Labour Market Update' put out by online professional network LinkedIn. Hiring picked up by 25 percentage points by end of July as compared to June, it said. Female workforce participation increased from 30 per cent in April to reach 37 per cent at the end of July. 'Labour Market Update' is a monthly update on hiring trends and insights based on LinkedIn's 'Economic Graph', a digital representation of the Indian economy built by conducting a close analysis of actions of more than 69 million members in India, it said in a statement.     Insights from its second edition show that hiring continues to recover, gender parity has improved, and disruptive digital skills can help to increase the resilience of professionals to challenges in the current job market, it said. One possible reason for an increase in female workforce participation could be the strong support from live-in help and grandparents, as well as more flexible working hours with remote working schemes, which has allowed more women to enter the workforce despite schools and childcare facilities being closed during the lock-down, it said. "The lockdown, which promoted acceptance of the work from home concept supported by flexible work hours, has emerged as an opportunity for women to rebuild their careers and start afresh," said Pei Ying Chua, APAC Lead Economist, Economic Graph team at LinkedIn. With the exception of the manufacturing sector, female representation across most industries increased during the lockdown period and continued to rise in subsequent months. The increase in female representation was also more pronounced in industries which already had higher gender parity to begin with (such as Corporate Services, Education, Health Care and Media & Communications). The data also showed that talent with more advanced digital skills have weathered the Covid-19 storm better than those with basic digital skills, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hiring-rate-female-workforce-participation-increase-in-india-894786.html
29-09-2020||South||Exoneration of Sekar Reddy BJP’s gift to AIADMK: DMK chief Stalin||Nearly four years after wads of then newly-released Rs 2000 notes were recovered from industrialist J Sekar Reddy's residence, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a closure report in the case relating to seizure of money from Reddy , considered close to a few AIADMK ministers. Reddy, a member of the influential Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that manages the famous Lord Venkateshwara Temple in Tirupati, has been accused of “causing wrongful loss” to the Government of India to the tune of Rs 247.13 crore by illegally converting demonetised currency into new notes. The Income Tax sleuths had recovered Rs 33.89 crore in Rs 2,000 notes from premises belonging to him during a raid on December 8, 2016. The seizure sent shockwaves across Tamil Nadu as Reddy shared close ties with several AIADMK ministers and the raid came just three days after the death of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. Based on “documents” recovered from Reddy’s premises, the Income Tax department had also raided the then Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary P Ramamohana Rao leading to his shunting down from the post. Last week, the CBI filed a closure report for lack of “sufficient evidence” against Reddy and five others who were named in the case, and the court agreed to allow the plea. “The evidence on record is not adequate to launch prosecutable case against the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt to establish that they fraudulently converted the unauthorised cash held by them in old currency notes in to NHD, thereby depriving the public, in enforcing their right and thus, the accused 1 to 6 had in conspiracy with unknown bank officials and public servants cheated the Government of India,” the XI Additional Special Judge for CBI cases, Chennai, said in his order dated September 25. In a statement, DMK President M K Stalin termed Reddy’s discharge from the case as “BJP’s gift” to the AIADMK and questioned why the saffron party was saving the ruling party in the state from court cases. “CBI admitting before the court that there is no evidence (against Sekar Reddy) is the BJP’s gift to AIADMK on the day the latter held its Executive Committee meet. Even after going through 800 documents and investigating 170 witnesses, the CBI was not able to find which bank converted the notes,” Stalin said. He also alleged that the BJP has been saving AIADMK in a slew of court cases like seizure of Rs 570 crore from a container on the eve of the 2021 assembly polls, the Kodanad break-in case, and the case relating to bribing voters during the 2017 by-polls to R K Nagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/exoneration-of-sekar-reddy-bjp-s-gift-to-aiadmk-dmk-chief-stalin-894791.html
29-09-2020||South||Manager of lab in Kerala held for issuing fake Covid-19 certificates to travellers||A manager of a private lab in Valanchery in the district was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly issuing fake Covid-19 negative certificates to those travelling to various Middle East countries. Arma lab in Valanchery, a franchise of a Kozhikode-based reputed Laboratory, allegedly collected lakhs of rupees from people for conducting a test for coronavirus, police said. The lab in Valanchery also allegedly issued fake Covid-19 negative certificates to around 2,000 people without actually testing their samples at the Kozhikode-based laboratory, which was given license by ICMR to conduct a test for Covid-19. As per the agreement between the labs, the Valanchery- based Arma lab has been designated as an agency to collect samples, which will be sent to the Kozhikode-based laboratory for testing. The Kozhikode-based lab was authorised to issue COVID-19 certificates. Police said the Arma lab authorities, who had allegedly collected 2,500 samples in the past few months, did not send all of them to the Kozhikode-based laboratory for testing. "Instead they had sent only about 500 samples for testing and issued fake Covid-19 negative certificates in about 2000 cases. The Arma lab authorities made 'fake' letterheads of the Kozhikode-based laboratory and issued the Covid-19 certificates. The Arma lab allegedly charged up to Rs,2750 for each test and attained between Rs 40 to 45 lakhs," police said. Many NRIs who landed in Saudi Arabia with Covid-19 certificates provided by the Arma lab in the name of Kozhikode-based laboratory were tested positive there. This made the Saudi Arabian authorities to ban the Kozhikode-based laboratory. Consequently, many passengers who obtained Covid-19 negative certificates from the Kozhikode-based lab were denied travel to Saudi Arabia. Acting on a complaint filed by a person allegedly cheated by the lab, the police launched an investigation and arrested the manager of Arma lab. The case was registered last week and the manager of the Arma lab was arrested on Tuesday. He has been remanded to judicial custody, said Muralikrishnan, SI of police, Valanchery police station. The owner of Arma Lab is reported to have approached the High Court for anticipatory bail. The lab owner is tested positive for Covid-19 and now under quarantine, police said, adding stringent action will be taken against the Valanchery-based lab for committing fraud on Covid-19 test and cheating public with lakhs of rupees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/manager-of-lab-in-kerala-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-certificates-to-travellers-894796.html
29-09-2020||South||Fresh row brews over 2019 Maoist killing in Kerala||A fresh row is brewing in Kerala over the killing of a Maoist activist C P Jaleel at Wayanad in 2019 as a forensic report that says Jaleel did not use firearms has not been put out in public. Jaleel's family alleged that the forensic report contradicts the police claims that they were forced to open firing for self-defence after the Maoists opened fire. The police maintained that it was not Jaleel, but other Maoists who managed to escape from the spot who opened the firing. Jaleel's brother and human rights activist C P Rasheed told DH that the forensic report strengthens the family's suspicion that it was a fake encounter aimed at murdering Jaleel. The family will move court seeking a fair probe into the incident, he said. The forensic report, which was accessed by Rasheed through court, said that there was no evidence of Jaleel using firearms. Police sources said that some used cartridges recovered from the spot did not match with the arms recovered. Hence the Maoists who managed to escape from the post could have opened the firing that prompted the police to return fire for self-defence, said the police. The encounter took place at a resort close to the forest at Lakkidi in Wayanad on the night of March 6, 2019. A four-member Maoist team allegedly demanded food and money from the resort authorities. Resort employees alerted the police and the Thunderbolt commando team of the Kerala Police. Subsequently, the firing took place. Jaleel's body was later recovered from the spot. Soon after the incident, Jaleel's family alleged that it was a fake encounter and demanded a probe. A magisterial probe by the district collector was conducted as per the mandatory norm. While the police maintain that the magisterial probe did not find the encounter to be fake, Jaleel's family pointed out that the government has not yet made the magisterial probe report public, and it was not even produced in the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fresh-row-brews-over-2019-maoist-killing-in-kerala-894850.html
29-09-2020||South||Kerala MLA launches search for 'girl' who accused Congress of sabotaging housing scheme||An MLA in Kerala has launched a search for a girl who made an emotional post accusing the Congress in Kerala of sabotaging a housing scheme for the homeless. Suspicions that the complainant was a fictitious one planted by the Left cadres prompted the MLA to launch the search. Congress MLA Anil Akkara, who represents the Wadakkancherry constituency in Thrissur district, staged the waiting demonstration on Tuesday. The row is over a UAE agency-funded Rs 20-crore housing project for the homeless at Wadakancherry, stalled following allegations of commissions in the deal. The Congress party has been taking up the issue. The CBI has registered a case on the basis of a petition given by him. The Left parties and activists attacked Akkara on the social media accusing him of tarnishing dreams of families yearning for a home. Coinciding with this, a social media post in the name of one 'Neethu Johnson' surfaced. The girl said that the project was a dream of many poor families like hers who lacked secure homes. CPM cadres circulated it widely to attack the Congress, especially Akkara. Akkara made a preliminary inquiry and confirmed that it was a fictitious person. He gave a political counter-attack by urging through social media to 'Neethu Johnson' to come and meet him and promised to support her family by providing a house. He staged a wait with party workers for two hours in the town on Tuesday. However, Neethu Johnson did not turn up. The MLA is planning to approach the police to see if social media was being misused by fake profiles. Meanwhile, unconfirmed reports say that the people who created the fictitious person have been traced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mla-launches-search-for-girl-who-accused-congress-of-sabotaging-housing-scheme-894868.html
29-09-2020||South||TTD begins renovation of Alipiri footpath leading to Tirumala with Rs 25-crore donation from Reliance Industries||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on Monday initiated the works on refurbishing the 7.6-km-long Alipiri footpath used by over 20,000 pilgrims daily to reach the abode of Lord Venkateshwara in Tirumala from Alipiri in Tirupati. The Rs 25-crore expenditure estimated for the total overhaul of the footpath, including a roof slab, drinking water pipelines, toilets, health centers, security outposts, electricity and Public Address System cables, would be borne by the Reliance Industries Limited. The bhoomi puja of the project was performed at Alipiri yesterday by the TTD trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy along with Andhra Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister K Narayana Swamy, RIL’s AVVS Rao and others. Reddy said that the commencement of the footpath works was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The project is expected to be completed within a year. Speaking on the occasion, Reddy said that the footpath route, constructed decades ago, had fallen into disrepair. “So, the TTD had decided to revive the path all along the 7.6-km trek route from Alipiri to the entry toll gate at Tirumala for the safety and security of the devotees,” Reddy said. While on normal days over 20,000 devotees walk to Tirumala via this footpath, during the summer vacation and auspicious days the number doubles to over 40,000. The TTD engineering department had made an estimation of Rs 25 crore for the complete overhaul of the footpath. Reliance Industries Limited had come forward to take up the works on a donation basis. The TTD chairman said that the Srivari Mettu (another footpath route to the Tirumala temple) renovation project was completed when YS Rajasekhara Reddy was the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. “And now, as per the wish of Lord Venkateswara, the Alipiri footpath renovation is taken up during YSR's son's regime," Subba Reddy observed.  Subba Reddy, a former YSRCP Lok Sabha MP, was made the TTD board chairman last September, after Jaganmohan Reddy assumed power in May 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-begins-renovation-of-alipiri-footpath-leading-to-tirumala-with-rs-25-crore-donation-from-reliance-industries-894869.html
29-09-2020||South||Anna University professors write to TN Governor Banwarilal Purohit against renaming of varsity||Professors of Anna University, the premier engineering institute in the state, on Tuesday appealed to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit not to give his assent to a bill bifurcating the institution passed by the Assembly. According to the Bill, four institutes, including the prestigious College of Engineering, Guindy (CEG) and the Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), that are originally part of the varsity will now be known as Anna Technological and Research University (ARTU), while all affiliated colleges would come under Anna University. Professors and former Vice-Chancellors of the Anna University scoff at the renaming of the “parent institute” saying the move would only benefit private colleges as the name “Anna University” is known worldwide. As a mark of their opposition to the move, professors wore black badges on Monday. After wearing black badges to work, the Anna University Teachers’ Association (AUTA) on Tuesday wrote to Purohit asking him to advise the Tamil Nadu Government to make “appropriate amendments” to the Bill. “We submit our strong objection to the recent passing of the Bill in the Tamil Nadu Assembly giving away the name of 'Anna University to the proposed new affiliating University in the process of bifurcation,” Prof. Arul Aram, President of Anna University Teachers’ Association (AUTA), wrote in the letter. Giving away the name of Anna University to the affiliating colleges amounts to robbing of the intellectual property rights, he said the research is redundant for a university's name. “Besides, it is a wise convention to retain the name of a parent university, and give a new name to the offspring,” the letter said. Certificates of students who graduate from CEG, MIT, School of Architecture and Planning (SAP) and Alagappa College of Technology (ACTECH) will no more carry the tag “Anna University”, the professors say, adding that it will be the “biggest injustice” to the students and the university as a whole. Anna University was formed in the 1970s by bringing CEG, MIT, SAP and ACTECH under it, while private engineering colleges were affiliated to University of Madras and other varsities that functioned in various cities of the state. In 2002, all engineering colleges in the state were brought under the control of Anna University and the government had last week moved a bill in the Assembly seeking to bifurcate the varsity for “administrative purposes.”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anna-university-professors-write-to-tn-governor-banwarilal-purohit-against-renaming-of-varsity-894872.html
29-09-2020||South||Tamil Nadu extends coronavirus lockdown; cinema theatres, educational institutions to remain shut||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday extended the Covid-19 lockdown till October 31 with more relaxations, even as it announced that the ban on opening of cinema theatres, educational institutions, and running of sub-urban trains will continue. The government also increased the number of flights allowed to land at the Chennai Airport from the current 50 to 100 from October 1, while the ban on international flights barring for services allowed by the Centre will continue. A statement issued by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the government will allow resumption of cinema shooting, capping the number of people at the spot to 100 persons, while weekly markets in rural areas and towns can function with regulations. Palaniswami also said the government has withdrawn an earlier order allowing students from 10th to 12th standard to visit school on voluntary basis for guidance from teachers, making it clear that schools and colleges will continue to remain shut till further orders. It also extended the timings of restaurants for dine-in facility by one hour – they can now function till 9 pm and take orders for parcels till 10 pm. The ban on cinema theatres, amusement parks and sub-urban trains will continue. The ban on religious functions and other meetings will continue, Palaniswami said, appealing to people to continue wearing face masks while stepping out of their homes. “They should also keep washing their hands regularly and maintain physical distancing,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-cinema-theatres-educational-institutions-to-remain-shut-894884.html
29-09-2020||South||O Panneerselvam skips review meeting called by Tamil Nadu CM; holds discussion with supporters||The rift between Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam on who will be the Chief Ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assembly polls widened further on Tuesday. A day after the AIADMK Executive Committee witnessed heated exchanges between the two leaders, Panneerselvam skipped two meetings on Covid-19 that Palaniswami chaired at the Secretariat here. Panneerselvam, who usually attends review meetings along with Palaniswami, did not go to the Secretariat on Tuesday and chose to stay put at his residence. As the review meeting at the Secretariat got underway, Panneerselvam was closeted with his close aides K P Munuswamy and P H Manoj Pandian. They were later joined by Rajya Sabha MP and deputy coordinator R Vaithilingam, who is understood to have taken up the task of finding a resolution to differences between Panneerselvam and Palaniswami. “He (Panneerselvam) did not attend the review meeting. He was at his official residence the whole day and met party leaders. They discussed happenings at the AIADMK Executive Committee on Monday and the future course of action,” a source close to Panneerselvam told Deccan Herald. Ramanathapuram MLA, Dr M Manikandan, who was sacked from the Cabinet last year, met Panneerselvam fueling speculation. In the evening, Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar met Panneerselvam and was closeted with him for over an hour after which he drove straight to Palaniswami’s residence, a stone’s throw distance from there to brief the latter about his discussions with the former. Palaniswami too held meetings with his supporters, especially Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani. Sources told Deccan Herald that Panneerselvam is questioning the need for announcing the Chief Ministerial candidate beforehand and is of the opinion that new legislators should elect their leader. However, Palaniswami and his supporters feel the face of the party should be announced much before elections to take on a resurgent DMK, whose candidate is M K Stalin. The back-to-back meetings on Tuesday assume significance in the wake of AIADMK’s announcement on Monday that the Chief Ministerial candidate will be announced by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami jointly on October 7. The sources added that Tuesday’s meetings were part of the efforts by senior leaders of the AIADMK to sign a truce between Palaniswami and Panneerselvam. “The meetings will continue for the next few days. Party leaders feel a resolution should be found sooner than later as such a public fight is not good for the party in the long run,” a senior leader said. The two leaders have been fighting with each other to be the party’s CM candidate and senior leaders have been trying to arrive at a consensus for the past two months but in vain. At Monday’s meeting, the majority of the party's district secretaries and ministers supported EPS, but OPS got the decision postponed yet again. The meeting was a “stormy affair” with supporters of Palaniswami insisting that a decision on the Chief Ministerial candidate be taken immediately, while Panneerselvam questioned the CM’s reluctance in appointing a steering committee to run party affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/o-panneerselvam-skips-review-meeting-called-by-tamil-nadu-cm-holds-discussion-with-supporters-894916.html
29-09-2020||South||Covid-19: All-party meeting decides against further total shutdown in Kerala||Despite an alarming increase in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, an all-party meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided not to go for any further total shutdown in the near future. All the parties were of the opinion that further total shutdown would cause severe inconvenience to the people. However, social distancing norms and restrictions on gatherings would be strictly enforced, and strict restrictions will be imposed at areas were the spread of Covid-19 was severe, said the Chief Minister. With 7,354 more fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the number of active cases crossed the 60,000 mark and reached 61,791. Meanwhile, BJP state leadership said that the party did not plan to stop the stirs against government in view of the spread of Covid-19 . BJP state president K Surendran said that stirs would be carried out by strictly following social distancing norms. The Congress-led United Democratic Front on Monday announced that it would keep off from public stirs to avoid the spread of Covid-19. There were reports that over 150 police personnel enaged for managing stirs were infected with the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-all-party-meeting-decides-against-further-total-shutdown-in-kerala-894918.html
29-09-2020||South||Dussera gift: Telangana govt to distribute nearly one crore sarees to women||The Telangana government will be distributing nearly one crore sarees worth about Rs 318 crore to women in the state this year as part of 'Bathukamma sarees' initiative, an official release said on Tuesday. Telangana Ministers K T Rama Rao, Sabitha Indra Reddy, and Satyavathi Rathod inspected the display of 'Bathukamma sarees' at Haritha Plaza here, it said. Rama Rao said the state government has distributed four crore sarees by spending Rs 1,033 crore since the Bathukamma distribution programme was launched in 2017. "This year, the government has spent Rs 317.81 crore on Bathukamma sarees. This year, the Bathukamma sarees distribution will begin on October 9 under the supervision of District Collectors. "The sarees will be distributed through local women groups. The sarees have been produced with 287 kinds of designs. A total of 99 lakh sarees will be distributed this time," it said. Rama Rao said the state government is ensuring that uniforms for students studying in state-run schools and sarees in KCR Kits were given to Telangana weavers. He further said the Telangana government had been working towards the welfare of the weavers' community and in the past six years had introduced many welfare schemes exclusively for the weavers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dussera-gift-telangana-govt-to-distribute-nearly-one-crore-sarees-to-women-894968.html
29-09-2020||State||History-making NLSIU topper's Cambridge call a tale of grit||Listening to courtroom stories during her school holidays from a neighbour who was practising at the Supreme Court, 24-year-old Yamuna Menon had dreamt of donning the black coat. While Yamuna worked earnestly over one decade to realise her dream, little did the 24-year-old know that she would script history at the National Law School of India University with a record haul of gold medals. Growing up in Thrippunithura in Ernakulam, Kerala, in a family of limited means, Yamuna had pinned her hopes on hard work and merit. “Courtroom stories narrated by our neighbour inspired me to pursue law as a  career,” she recalled. Her sheer grit and determination helped her secure the 28th Rank in CLAT-2015. In fact, yet another surprise was awaiting Yamuna when she stepped into NLSIU in Bengaluru. The premier law school, which adopted a new scholarship programme during the same time, chose Yamuna and another student and waived their fees completely. A few steps away from her dream, Yamuna stood focused all through the course by topping every year. “I knew I would be the topper, but the news about 18 medals, the highest ever in NLSIU’s history, was indeed a surprise to me as well,” she told DH from Kerala. While Yamuna and her family are happy about the achievement, they were disappointed at receiving the degree in a virtual convocation due to the Covid pandemic. “We missed the opportunity to attend the actual convocation on NLSIU’s premises. Receiving degrees and medals offline is a different experience,” she said. While offers from corporates and major law firms are pouring in, Yamuna is focused on higher studies and preparing to leave for England to pursue her masters. “I got scholarships from two international universities including Oxford Law University and Trinity College, Cambridge. I chose Trinity College,” said Yamuna who wishes to return to India to gain more experience before joining global organisations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/history-making-nlsiu-toppers-cambridge-call-a-tale-of-grit-894506.html
29-09-2020||State||Imposter posing as police constable in Hassan and stealing held||The Holenarasipur Police arrested an imposter for duping a man by posing as a police constable. The Police also seized gold ornaments worth Rs 1.73 lakh from him. The accused, Shiva, from Maragowdanahalli, posed as a constable and stole Rs 16,000 cash, a gold finger ring and a two-wheeler from a youth. The victim, Kumar, of Muddanakoppalu, had parked his motorbike on Mysuru Road, when Shiva approached him as Holenarasipur police and summoned him to the police station for inquiry. On the way, Shiva took him to a desolate place and threatened him with a knife and snatched Rs 16,000 cash, and a ring weighing four gram. Then, he escaped with the motorbike, worth Rs 45,000. Shiva confessed to the crime, after the police traced him at Channarayapatna. He also confessed to committing a robbery at Holenarasipur, a year ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/imposter-posing-as-police-constable-in-hassan-and-stealing-held-894653.html
29-09-2020||State||Bypolls in Sira, RR Nagar constituencies to be held on November 3||The Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar assembly constituencies will have bypolls on November 3, the Election Commission has announced, setting the stage for state Congress president DK Shivakumar’s first electoral litmus test. The bypoll to Sira in Tumakuru was necessitated due to the death of its JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana, whereas Rajarajeshwarinagar in Bengaluru will vote again after its MLA Munirathna was disqualified under the anti-defection law last year. He later joined the BJP. The bypolls will be notified on October 9 and the last date for candidates to file nominations is October 16. The results of the November 3 bypoll will be out on November 10, the EC said. Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar both have a significant number of Vokkaliga voters. For Shivakumar, the Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll is seen as a matter of prestige since the segment falls under the Bangalore Rural Lok Sabha constituency represented by his brother DK Suresh. The party is also mindful that the BJP bagged a lead in the Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which Suresh ultimately won. Former Magadi MLA HC Balakrishna, late IAS officer DK Ravi’s father-in-law Hanumantharayappa and Bengaluru North Congress president Rajkumar M are said to be in the race for the Rajarajeshwarinagar ticket. Munirathna, a film producer who was one of the 17 rebels who helped the BJP come to power, is expecting the party’s ticket. However, Tulsi Muniraju Gowda, the BJP’s 2018 candidate whose legal battle challenging Munirathna’s win is still in court, remains a ticket aspirant. “I'm confident the party will stand by me. Having said that, I will not work against the party's interests," Gowda said. If Munirathna gets the BJP ticket, he will rely on his own personal clout besides the support he is likely to get from Cooperation Minister ST Somashekhar and Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj - the trio dubbed as ‘SBM’ during last year’s political crisis - and they will look to challenge Shivakumar, their old party mate. In Sira, the Congress wants to field former minister TB Jayachandra, who lost the 2018 polls and has been camping in the constituency. The BJP is trying to build a base here with party vice-president BY Vijayendra, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s son, looking to repeat last year’s victory in the KR Pet constituency, its first victory in the JD(S) bastion of Mandya. For the JD(S), the bypolls are a matter of survival given that both seats are dominated by Vokkaligas, a community it banks on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bypolls-in-sira-rr-nagar-constituencies-to-be-held-on-november-3-894883.html
29-09-2020||State||Kannada Development Authority complains to Centre about 'linguistic discrimination'||The Kannada Development Authority (KDA) has lodged a strong protest with the Centre over the UGC-National Eligibility Test not being translated in Kannada, a facility it said was available to Hindi speaking candidates. KDA Chairman T S Nagabharana, in a letter to Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank', said a woman candidate had brought to the notice of the Authority that those writing the exam using the question paper prepared in English have the facility to get it translated to Hindi to clear their doubts. She went through immense difficulties to understand a couple of questions in English and no facility was provided to translate it to Kannada, as was made available for Hindi speaking candidates, he said. The KDA also wrote to the Secretary in the Department of Higher Education, Amit Khare, and University Grants Commission Chairman Prof D P Singh over the matter. "We lodge our strong protest for this discriminatory policy that has pushed candidates into serious handicap and disadvantage as compared to candidates who have access to translation in Hindi language," he said in his letter sent on Monday. The KDA chairman alleged that this was a gross violation of Article 14 and 15 of the Constitution. Article 14 says "The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India." Article 15 prohibits discrimination of Indians on basis of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth. Nagabharana urged the authorities concerned to provide a detailed report on the issue and quickly set it right for the remaining students who will be writing their exams over the next two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannada-development-authority-complains-to-centre-about-linguistic-discrimination-894966.html
29-09-2020||State||Schools in Karnataka unlikely to open for another month||Following opposition, the state government has decided not to allow schools to open for "consultation" even after September 30. A week ago, following the Centre’s Unlock 4.0 guidelines that allowed reopening of schools for consultation, the government had refused to allow the reopening of schools till September 30.  Sources in the education department revealed to DH that the earlier order barring schools from reopening till September 30 will be extended by at least a month. "Considering the spike in cases, it is not advisable to allow students to visit schools for academic consultation. We will consider extending the existing order in the interest and safety of students," an official from the department said. The official said the earlier order would lapse on Wednesday and a fresh one will be issued after a meeting with the state government. "We have convened a meeting. As the minister is on a tour, the meeting will be held on Wednesday and an order will be issued the same day," the officer said. While the state government had received flak from private school managements for its previous order, schools have appealed to the government to make its stand clear well in advance. "Be it opening or continuing with the restrictions, the government must issue the order at the earliest as we have to communicate it to parents and teachers besides taking up safety measures," said a principal of a private school in Bengaluru south.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/schools-in-karnataka-unlikely-to-open-for-another-month-894982.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DSERT issues SOP on reopening of schools in Karnataka||The Department of School Education Research and Training (DSERT) has prepared standard operating procedure (SOP) for re-opening of schools in Karnataka. Even though the state government is yet to decide on the reopening of schools anytime soon, the DSERT has come up with the SOP on how to conduct classes, if at all the Centre allows reopening of schools for the current academic year--2020-21. As per the SOP prepared, there shall be one meter distance between every student and the classes should be conducted in shifts. An official source from DSERT told DH, "This does not mean we are reopening the schools. Instead, this would only be a suggestion on procedures to be followed in case if the Centre allows us to open." It can be recalled the state government had sought opinion from the parents, teachers and other stakeholders on re opening of the schools. Contrary to the expectations, several parents refused to send their kids to the school citing alarming spike in the Covid-19 cases. Further, despite the Centre's direction to open up the schools for 'consultation' spanning a few hours to address academic queries, the Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education department did not even permit the schools to allow students to visit campuses. However, the state government schools are functioning under the Vidyagama Scheme where teachers would go to the doorstep of students and teach them. At the same time, the private schools have been engaging kids via online classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dsert-issues-sop-on-reopening-of-schools-in-karnataka-894489.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre’s restrictions hit purchase of electric buses||A year after the Centre sanctioned 400 electric buses for BMTC, KSRTC and NWKRTC, the transport corporations are struggling to procure the vehicles as the government’s restrictions on companies from neighbouring countries is proving to be a major hurdle. Tenders were invited in September 2019 to procure the buses. However, the BMTC had to cancel the same for the reason that the lone bidder who qualified in the technical round had quoted exorbitant rates - to run buses at a cost of about Rs 68per km.  “BMTC and KSRTC run air-conditioned diesel buses at about Rs 54 per km, which also covers employee and maintenance cost. Paying Rs 68 per km to electric bus after providing all the facilities and spending another Rs 7 on employee was against the interest of the exchequer,” sources in governmentsaid. Covid-19 pandemic and finally the restrictions imposed by the Centre delayed the processing of three fresh tenders floated in March -  one to procure 300 buses for BMTC, two tenders seeking 50 buses each for KSRTC and NWKRTC. “Before we can open the financial bid, the Karnataka government notified the restrictions issued by the Centre. As per the instructions, we have taken declarations from the two companies about their products,” an official from one of the corporations told DH. The source said Hyderabad-based EV Trans Limited and the National Thermal Power Corporation had qualified in the technical bid. “The buses they are offering consist parts from China. They have written to the government seeking clarification on the way forward,” thesource said. A senior official said Indian companies were struggling to offer efficient batteries. “When it comes to batteries, China seems to have mastered the technology. They say they are ready to provide batteries that can run up to 300 km on a single charge. None of the Indian companies which participated in the bid came close to that mark,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-s-restrictions-hit-purchase-of-electric-buses-894499.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Panel to frame new Karnataka Assembly rules soon: Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri||The Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly will be revisited by a committee formed for this purpose, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said on Monday.  “There’s a need to bring some changes to the rules. The Assembly has authorised me to constitute a committee,” he said, adding that opinions will be sought from citizens from all walks of life.  During the six-day Assembly session that concluded Saturday, Kageri said 28 MLAs were absent - 12 from BJP, 10 Congress and six JD(S). “Many didn’t come because they were Covid-19 positive. Others haven’t stated why they were absent,” he said.  The Assembly conducted business for 40 hours and 37 Bills were tabled. While one Bill was withheld, 36 were passed. Members spent 14.22 hours discussing these Bills, Kageri said.  Of the 3,071 questions asked by the members, answers to 1,109 questions were tabled in the Assembly. Nine out of 129 calling attention notices were discussed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panel-to-frame-new-karnataka-assembly-rules-soon-speaker-vishweshwar-hegde-kageri-894504.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet expansion: CM B S Yediyurappa to visit Delhi, C T Ravi may quit||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Monday he will go to New Delhi to finalise the expansion of his Cabinet, which will make this his second visit to the national capital in less than a month’s time.  “There is no problem now. I will go to Delhi in the next three days. I will come back and expand the Cabinet,” Yediyurappa told reporters when asked if the exercise will happen at all now that the legislature session is over.  Earlier this month, Yediyurappa visited the national capital and held talks with BJP national president J P Nadda on Cabinet expansion. Yediyurappa was keen on expanding his Cabinet before September 21, when the legislature session was scheduled to start. However, Nadda did not give Yediyurappa a green signal and asked him to wait for further instructions.  Meanwhile, Tourism Minister C T Ravi, who has been elevated as the BJP national general secretary, is expected to resign in line with the “one person, one post” policy. This will leave Yediyurappa with seven vacant Cabinet berths with at least twice the number of ministerial aspirants. “In line with the ‘one person, one post’ policy, I have told the party that my choice will be the organisation,” Ravi said. “Whenever they ask me to resign, I will.”  Yediyurappa is under pressure to accommodate MLCs M T B Nagaraj, R Shankar and H Vishwanath.  It is also said that the BJP central leadership favoured the induction of Nagaraj, Shankar and another MLC C P Yogeshwar. The CM had assured a berth to ‘disgruntled’ MLA Umesh Katti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-visit-delhi-c-t-ravi-may-quit-894509.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC dismisses plea for SIT to probe drugs case||The High Court on Monday declined to entertain a PIL seeking direction to constitute a Special Investigating Team (SIT) to probe into the drug case, involving celebrities and VIPs. The PIL was filed by Geeta Misra, a city-based advocate. The petition has cited several road accidents involving people from the film industry and people with close connections to politics. The petitioner stated that all those cases were hushed up in spite of initial reports about drug abuse. The petition sought direction for setting up of SIT to probe into the recent case and a NIA probe into the other incidents. Though the petitioner appreciated the investigation being carried out by the CCB, she said the CCB police is not making any arrests of the kingpins of the drug racket. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay S Oka said that no documents were placed to show whether investigations were carried out or not in the cases of road accidents quoted by the petitioner. Observing that the FIR in regard to the case being investigated by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) is registered recently, the court said it was not proper to go into the question on whether the case needs to be transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and also on setting up of an SIT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-dismisses-plea-for-sit-to-probe-drugs-case-894511.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NDPS court rejects bail pleas of Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani||A special NDPS court here on Monday, rejected the bail pleas of Sandalwood actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, who have been arrested in the drug scandal. Reported to have links with the drug peddlers, the actors were arrested by the Central Crime Branch a few weeks ago. The court rejected the bail pleas of the actors, submitted by their advocates. It also rejected the bail petition of Rahul Tonse, another accused in the case. With the rejection of the bail pleas, the actors will continue to stay in the Parappana Agrahara central prison. All the accused are said to be contemplating on approaching the High Court, seeking bail in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ndps-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-ragini-dwivedi-sanjjanaa-galrani-894520.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Toon | Karnataka Bandh: Organisers shoo away political parties||Protests and rallies by farmers' bodies and opposition parties marked the Karnataka bandh on Monday against amendments to two state legislation related to the farm sector, while Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said he was ready to talk to farmers and allay their fears.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-toon-karnataka-bandh-organisers-shoo-away-political-parties-894539.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Legislative Council polls to 4 seats to be held on October 28||Karnataka Legislative Council elections to four Graduate Constituency seats will be held on October 28. As per the announcement of Election Commission of India, the polls are to be held for following Graduate Constituencies: South East, Karnataka West,  North East and Bengaluru's Teachers Constituency. The last date for filing nominations is October 8 and the counting of votes will be on November 2. The seats became vacant after R Chowda Reddy Toopahalli, Sharanappa Mattur, S V Sankanur and Puttanna retired on June 30. The Election Commission had deferred the elections earlier due to Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-legislative-council-polls-to-4-seats-to-be-held-on-october-28-894691.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government yet to take decision on reopening schools: Karnataka Education Minister S Suresh Kumar||The Karnataka government on Tuesday sought to assure parents of students that it was not in a hurry to reopen schools in the state and said there was no need for them to panic. The government said it was not mulling resumption of schools in the near future. Addressing reporters here, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said, "Let there be no panic. The state government has not yet taken a call on reopening the schools. There is no thought on starting them in the near future." The minister's statement comes as the reports emerged that he was seeking the opinion of other ministers and MLAs about reopening schools, which are not conducting regular classes due to coronavirus scare since the lockdown was clamped in the state. Most of the schools barring the state-run are holding online classes through video conferences. A section of private school teachers have appealed to the government to resume classes as they were rendered jobless after the closure of schools. The minister clarified that he will seek the opinion of the academicians and parents on October 5. "After getting everyone's views, we will take a decision. We are not rushing, there is no hurry. Keeping the future of our children and the concerns of their parents in mind, we will move forward," the minister said. There should not be any room for confusion as the government was not mulling reopening schools in the near future. The Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) or the 10th examination was conducted successfully without any hassle from June 25 to July 4 amid coronavirus scare. The government has already issued an order that the teachers handling classes for grade nine, 10, 11 and 12 should be present in the school from September 21 onwards. The arrangement is not to run regular classes but to clarify the doubts of the students if they wish to approach them directly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-yet-to-take-decision-on-reopening-schools-karnataka-education-minister-s-suresh-kumar-894733.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC quashes 25% horizontal domicile reservation in NLSIU||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday quashed the 25 per cent horizontal domicile reservation in National Law School of India University, Bengaluru. The state government had introduced the reservation for students from Karnataka through the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) Amendment Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-quashes-25-horizontal-domicile-reservation-in-nlsiu-894816.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Legislative Council polls to be held on Oct 28: EC||The elections for 4 seats of the Karnataka Legislative Council will be held on October 28. As per the announcement of the Election Commission of India, the polls will be held for the following segments: South East Graduate  Constituency, West Graduate Constituency,  North East Teachers Constituency, and Bengaluru's Teachers Constituency. The last date for filing nominations will be on October 8 and counting of the vote will be on November 2. R Chowda Reddy Toopahalli, S V Sankanur, Sharanappa Mattur, and Puttanna were retired on June 30. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the Election Commission deferred the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-legislative-council-polls-to-be-held-on-oct-28-ec-894830.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka not in a hurry to reopen schools: Suresh Kumar||Putting an end to the rumours that schools will reopen soon, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar clarified on Tuesday that the government is not in a hurry to reopen the schools in view of a spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. Speaking to reporters here, he said letters have been written to the MPs, MLAs and MLCs of the state seeking their opinion on commencing the schools. Interaction with the leaders of education organisations will be held on September 30 at Bengaluru over the same issue. "The opinion of the educationists and the doctors will be elicited on October 5. A final call will be taken on the basis of their feedback, the minister explained. Actions against tin-shed schools Suresh Kumar said that a list of schools deprived of basic infrastructure and running in tin-sheds in Kalyana Karnataka region will be made in a month and disciplinary action will be taken against the concerned education institutions and the officials who accorded permission for such schools. Expressing his discontent after inspecting tin-shed schools in Bidar taluk, he said: "I have visited four schools of the district and got a clear picture of the district". "The officials didn't check whether the school has required infrastructure before according permission. Hence, disciplinary action will be taken against them even though they were transferred out of the district. The details on the schools deprived of the basic infrastructure will be collected from the gram panchayat also. After preparing a list of such schools, the commissioner of the public instructions department will be empowered to take action against the concerned education institutions," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-not-in-a-hurry-to-reopen-schools-suresh-kumar-894835.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stakes high for BJP, Congress, JDS in Karnataka assembly bypolls||Stakes will be high for the ruling BJP and Opposition Congress and JDS in the November 3 byelections to two assembly segments in Karnataka, announced by the Election Commission on Tuesday. The outcome would be seen in many quarters as a reflection on the performance of the B S Yediyurappa government, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, while the opposition parties would be keen to strike after the December 2019 bypolls in which the BJP had triumphed. As per the EC's schedule, the election notification for the bypolls in Sira in Tumakuru district and Rajarajeshwari Nagar in the city will be issued on October 9, the last date for the filing of nomination is October 16 and the scrutiny will take place on the next day. The last day for withdrawal of nomination is October 19, and the counting of votes will take place on November 10. The bypolls had been necessitated in Sira following the death of B Sathyanarayana (JDS) last month, while the Rajarajeshwari Nagar seat fell vacant following the disqualification of Congress MLA N Munirathna under the anti-defection law last year. Munirathna is now with the BJP, which will be aiming to bag both the seats. Stakes will be more for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa amid intense speculation that BJP high command is mulling leadership change considering his age. The 77-year-old leader during his reply to the debate on the no-confidence against his government in the assembly last week had declared that his party will win the bypolls, as he hit out at the opposition Congress for levelling allegations of corruption and misrule against his administration. For Congress and JDS, too, the bypolls are crucial as they are keen on retaining the Rajarajesjwari Nagar and the Sira seats which they had won respectively in the 2018 assembly polls, and will be focusing on gaining an additional seat. It is also equally significant for state Congress President D K Shivakumar and JDS leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy to assert their command over the Vokkaliga vote bank in the old Mysuru region. Vokkaligas have considerable presence in both the seats. Within the Congress too, winning both seats will be important for Shivakumar in consolidating his position. Congress has already announced that it will be fielding former Minister T B Jayachandra as party candidate from Sira. Jayachandra had represented the constituency twice in 2008 and 2013, by defeating JDS' B Sathyanarayana, who in turn had trounced him in the 2018 assembly polls.  Congress and JDS are traditional rivals for the seat, which the BJP has never won. If the BJP fields a strong candidate, Sira bypolls is likely to see a three-cornered contest. According to JDS sources, the party is likely to name a family member of late MLA Sathyanarayana, eyeing sympathy votes. BJP, which is confident after winning K R Pet assembly seat in Mandya during December 2019 bypolls, is now working at making inroads in the old Mysuru region, where the party had been weak. It is now keen on increasing its tally in the region by winning Sira. Yediyurappa's son and state BJP Vice President B Y Vijayendra, who played a key role in winning K R Pet, will be camping in the Sira constituency, party sources said. Bypolls for Rajarajeshwari Nagar will also be significant as the ruling BJP is likely to give ticket to Munirathna, keeping up its promise to field disqualified Congress-JDS legislators who had played a key role in the party coming to power. Munirathna had won the seat in 2018 on a Congress ticket by a margin of over 25,400 votes. According to sources, several local BJP leaders are opposed to Munirathna, as the party had bitterly contested against him and had even accused him of electoral malpractices in 2018 as nearly 10,000 voter ID cards were allegedly seized from an apartment in the constituency. Rajarajeshwari Nagar along with Maski represented by disqualified Congress legislators have been vacant for some time now, due to pending election petitions in the Karnataka High Court. The schedule is yet to be announced for the Maski assembly seat. Congress and JDS are also yet to finalise their candidates for Rajarajeshwari Nagar. The constituency is key for Congress as it comes under the Bengaluru Rural Lok Sabha segment represented by D K Shivakumar's brother D K Suresh, while JDS will be looking at banking on Vokkaligas, who have a considerable presence there. The bypolls will increase the legislative assembly strength to 223. Currently, in the 225-member assembly, the BJP has 116 members, Congress 67, JDS 33, BSP and nominated 1 and independents 2 besides the Speaker. Four seats --- Sira, Basavakalyana, Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Maski --- are vacant. Basavakalyana fell vacant recently following the death of Congress MLA Narayan Rao, due to Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stakes-high-for-bjp-congress-jds-in-karnataka-assembly-bypolls-894896.html
29-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa's political secretary M P Renukacharya tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's political Secretary and MLA M P Renukacharya on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. The MLA from Honnalli constituency said he underwent a test as some changes were observed in his health conditions this morning, and the report showed him to be positive. Appealing all those who had come in contact with him in the last four-five days to get tested, he said, he was doing fine. Chief Minister Yediyurappa tweeted wishing for Renukacharya's speedy recovery. Several Ministers and legislators in Karnataka including Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy, senior Congress MLAs H K Patil and Diensh Gundu Rao are among those who have tested positive for Covid in the last few days. The state recently lost the Belagavi BJP MP and Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, BJP Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti and Basavakalyan Congress MLA B Narayan Rao due to coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-political-secretary-m-p-renukacharya-tests-positive-for-covid-19-894945.html
29-09-2020||West||Mumbai hostel evacuated after bomb scare||An MLA hostel in south Mumbai was evacuated after the city police received a phone call about a bomb being placed in the building, an official said on Tuesday. However, no bomb was found after a search in the premises and the phone call turned out to be a hoax, he said. The incident took place on Monday night when an unidentified person called the police, saying a bomb was placed inside the Akashvani MLA hostel, located near the state secretariat, the official said. Police rushed to the spot and around 150 people, who were occupying rooms in the hostel, were moved out, he said. A Bomb Disposal and Detection Squad (BDDS) accompanied by sniffer dogs carried out an extensive search in the building till the early hours of Tuesday. However, the police and the BDDS team did not find anything suspicious and the call turned out to be a false alarm, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-hostel-evacuated-after-bomb-scare-894606.html
29-09-2020||West||Rhea, Showik Chakraborty active members of drug syndicate: NCB to Bombay HC||Describing Sushant Singh Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik as “active members of drug syndicate”, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) opposed their bail plea in the Bombay High Court on Tuesday. The bail pleas are being heard by Justice Sarang V Kotwal of the Bombay High Court. The bail plea of the Chakraborty sister-brother duo has earlier been rejected by the Metropolitan Magistrate’s Court and the Special NDPS Court – following which their counsel Satish Maneshinde has moved the Bombay High Court. Appearing for the NCB, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh has opposed the bail applications. “This is sort of a crime, as interpreted by the Supreme Court, which is worse than murder or culpable homicide. Murder affects one person or a family. However, this (drug cases) affects the entire society,” Singh has told the court. “The present applicant (Rhea) is a prominent member of the supply chain of drugs and majorly she is handling finance also…and used to manage finance for drug procurement along with Sushant Singh Rajput,” the NCB said in its affidavit opposing Rhea’s bail application.  Rhea and Showik are among the 20 who have been arrested by the NCB in the past few weeks in the probe surrounding the drugs angle linked with Sushant’s death case. Both siblings are currently in judicial custody till 6 October. While Rhea is in Women’s Prison in Byculla, Showik is lodged in the Taloja Jail in neighbouring Raigad district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rhea-showik-chakraborty-active-members-of-drug-syndicate-ncb-to-bombay-hc-894644.html
29-09-2020||West||Maharashtra Governor promulgates notification amending Forest Rights Act 2006||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has issued a notification modifying the Forest Rights Act, 2006 that will enable forest-dwelling Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest-dwelling families to build houses in the neighbourhood forest areas. The decision will provide a major relief to Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest-dwelling families living in the scheduled areas of the state. It will importantly prevent the migration of forest-dwelling families outside their native villages and provide them housing areas by extending the village site into forest land in their neighbourhood. The notification has been issued by the Governor using his powers under sub paragraph (1) of paragraph 5 of the Schedule V of the Constitution. During his visits to Palghar, Nandurbar, Gadchiroli and other districts having Scheduled Areas, it had come to the notice of the Governor that certain Scheduled Tribes and forest-dwelling families in the Scheduled Areas were moving outside their native villages and migrating elsewhere in the absence of housing areas for their growing families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-promulgates-notification-amending-forest-rights-act-2006-894657.html
29-09-2020||West||Thane records 1,658 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 1,71,815||Thane district in Maharashtra has recorded 1,658 new Covid-19 cases, pushing its caseload to 1,71,815, an official said on Tuesday. The district also reported 31 deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 4,396, he said. So far, maximum Covid-19 cases have been reported from Kalyan at 41,773, followed by Thane city-35,983 and Navi Mumbai-35,934, the official said. As of now, there are 17,787 active Covid-19 cases in the district while 1,49,632 patients have recovered from the viral infection, he said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district is 87.09 per cent, while the mortality rate is 2.56 per cent, he said. The neighbouring Palghar district has so far reported 34,449 Covid-19 cases and 666 deaths due to the disease, an official from the district administration said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-records-1658-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-171815-894667.html
29-09-2020||West||Food stall worker kidnapped, murdered in Thane||An 18-year-old man who worked at a stall selling Chinese food was allegedly kidnapped and killed by some unidentified persons in Maharashtra's Thane district, police said on Tuesday. The body of the victim, identified as Bharat Parihar, was found near Nevali village on Monday morning, an official at Vitthalwadi police station said. He was picked up from the food stall in Chinchpada area of Ulhasnagar on Sunday night by an unidentified man and his two accomplices on the pretext of taking him to police for allegedly stealing the man's scooter, he said.     However, the victim did not return to the stall and his body was later found in the village on Monday, he said. The victim's co-workers could not identify the persons who picked him up from the stall, the official said. The body was sent for postmortem and an FIR was registered against unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code Sections 302 (murder) and 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/food-stall-worker-kidnapped-murdered-in-thane-894678.html
29-09-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks to preserve Gilbert Hill in Mumbai||The Gilbert Hill, which is evidence of molten lava that came out of the Earth’s clefts 66 million years ago, may get a lease of life as Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has made a strong pitch for its preservation. “In the United States, such a structure has been preserved and converted into a national monument and tourist attraction,” Thackeray said. Located in the hustling-bustling suburbs of Andheri, this 200-feet (around 61 metres) monolith column of black basalt rock is unique in many respects. It is actually the vertical remaining face of molten lava that came out of the Earth during the Mesozoic Era. The lava covered an area of over 50,000 sq km in what is today Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. It was declared a National Park under the Forest Act in 1952, while the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai categorised it as a Grade II heritage structure in 2007. There are two temples - a Hanuman mandir and Gaondevi Durgadevi mandir - on the top of the Hill.  There are two more similar structures on Earth, both in the United States - Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming and Devils Postpile National Monument in California.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-to-preserve-gilbert-hill-in-mumbai-894774.html
29-09-2020||West||Payal Ghosh meets Maharashtra Governor Koshyari||Days after she filed a complaint of sexual harassment against filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, actor Payal Ghosh on Tuesday met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan in Mumbai. She was accompanied by RPI (A) President and Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale, a key ally of the BJP and her lawyer Nitin Satpute. Payal Ghosh has started the #MeToo movement again in Bollywood, and has got support from various quarters including a section of the film industry. “We had a great meeting with the Governor. He had supported me and we have to go all the way. The naysayers will be there but I will not stop, not stop and not stop.  Bring it on!!,” Payal Ghosh said. The FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty,), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) against Bollywood filmmaker Anurag Kashyap for making unwarranted sexual advances towards Payal Ghosh in 2013 at his Yari Road house. Kashyap, however, had denied the charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/payal-ghosh-meets-maharashtra-governor-koshyari-894775.html
29-09-2020||West||Gujarat: Three labourers killed in building collapse in Vadodara||Three labourers were killed after a three-storey under-construction building collapsed in Gujarat's Vadodara city in the early hours of Tuesday, an official said. Besides, one labourer was rescued from the debris, fire officer Amit Chaudhary said. The under-construction building collapsed around 12.30 am in Bavamanapura area of Vadodara, located around 110 km from Ahmedabad, he said. "Three labourers, including a woman, died in the collapse, while the fire brigade managed to pull out one labourer alive," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-three-labourers-killed-in-building-collapse-in-vadodara-894792.html
29-09-2020||West||Maharashtra tribals can now build houses near forest areas: Govt order||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday issued a notification modifying the Forest Rights Act, 2006 that will enable tribals and other traditional forest dwellers to "build houses in the neighbourhood forest areas". It will prevent migration of those living in forests and provide them housing areas by extending the village site into forest land in their neighbourhood, a statement issued by the Raj Bhavan said. The notification has been issued by the governor using his powers under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 5 of Schedule V of the Constitution. This will "enable the forest-dwelling Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest-dwelling families to build houses in the neighbourhood forest areas," the statement said. The decision will provide a major relief to the scheduled tribes (STs) and others living in forests in the scheduled areas of the state, it said. During his visits to Palghar, Nandurbar, Gadchiroli and other districts having scheduled areas, it came to the governor's notice that certain STs and forest-dwelling families in the scheduled areas were moving out of their native villages and migrating elsewhere in the absence of housing areas for their growing families, it said. The governor in May this year issued a notification under which tribals whose individual or community forest rights have been rejected by District Level Committees constituted under a special Act can appeal against the decision. The notification provides a relief to tribals whose individual or community forest rights have been rejected under the Forest Rights Act (FRA), a landmark legislation enacted by the Centre in 2006. The FRA seeks to restore rights of tribes living in forests for generations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-tribals-can-now-build-houses-near-forest-areas-govt-order-894793.html
29-09-2020||West||Gujarat: 4.1 magnitude quake recorded in Rajkot, no casualties||An earthquake of 4.1 magnitude was experienced in Rajkot district in Gujarat on Tuesday afternoon, the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said. There were no reports of casualties or damage to property. As per the ISR, which is located in Gandhinagar, the epicentre of the tremor, which was recorded at 3:49 pm, was located 25 kms east-northeast from Upleta town in the district, which is at a distance of 215 kms from here, and it was recorded 14.5 kms deep in the earth's crust. "No police station in the area has received any report of damage or injury due to the quake," an official of Rajkot rural police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-41-magnitude-quake-recorded-in-rajkot-no-casualties-894846.html
29-09-2020||West||Maharashtra govt will last full term, no mid-term polls: Sanjay Raut||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete its five-year term, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday while ruling out possibility of mid-term elections in the state. Raut told reporters that people of the state do not want polls now. His comment came a day after Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil said that "there will be no option if no combination works out", while replying to a query on possibility of mid-term polls in the state. "Nobody wants mid-term polls. But one also cannot figure out a solution to instability. Hence, something may happen one fine morning. All will try to see nothing happens But if no combination works out, then there will be no option," Patil had told reporters, adding that no party wanted polls now. Addressing media persons here, Raut sarcastically said the Election Commission, which announces poll schedule, might have given Patil "some responsibility" and the latter might be having more information in this regard. "But I take Chandrakant Patil's comments positively. He said people of Maharashtra don't want polls. I am also saying there should be no elections. Hence, the Thackeray government will run for five years and there will be no elections," Raut said. To a question about former Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey joining the Nitish Kumar-led JD (U) after taking voluntary retirement last week, Raut said one has the right to join politics after resigning from service. "We had no personal enmity with Pandey saheb, who was Bihar DGP. We were against the statements made against Mumbai Police while he was on the post. You don't insult the Mumbai Police," Raut said. Pandey came under attack from leaders of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadai government after he sought a CBI probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death at a time when the Mumbai Police was investigating the matter. "Now, the CBI is here (investing the matter). The entire country is waiting to see what the CBI does in this case. I think Pandey too should wait for some time," the Sena chief spokesperson said. He also asked news channels "which raised questions over Mumbai Polices probe" to now ask questions to the CBI. The central agency has been probing the actors death for over a month now. "Channels questioned us. They should now ask questions to the CBI, Pandey, Nitish Kumar," he said, alleging the charges were part of a conspiracy to defame the Shiv Sena. The CBI on Monday said it had not reached any conclusion in the death of Rajput and that all aspects are under investigation. Asked whether the MVA government will not implement new farm laws, Raut said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is holding discussions on the issue with the NCP and Congress. "It is being discussed at the government's level. Let the government talk about it," the Rajya Sabha member said and added the Sena had opposed the bills in Parliament during the monsoon session. Raut, whose meeting with BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis caused flutter last Saturday, said he will again meet the former chief minister to finalise the schedule for the latter's interview (to Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'). He also said no discussion was held between himself and Fadnavis on upcoming Bihar Assembly elections during that meeting. "However, I expressed joy that a Maharashtra leader got charge of Bihar polls," Raut recalled. He said Sena workers from Bihar wanted to contest the Assembly polls in the eastern state and added he will hold discussions with CM Thackeray, who heads the party, on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-will-last-full-term-no-mid-term-polls-sanjay-raut-894848.html
29-09-2020||West||We don't agree with what Kangana said, but is this the way to react: HC to Raut||Referring to an alleged threat given by Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut to actor Kangana Ranaut in an interview, the Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked if this was the way a parliamentarian should react. Raut has been made a respondent to the petition filed by Ranaut against the demolition carried out at her bungalow here by the Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on September 9. "Even we don't agree with a word of what the petitioner (Ranaut) has said. But is this the way to address?" the court said. "We are also Maharashtrians. We are all proud Maharashtrians. But we don't go and break someone's house. Is this the way to react? Don't you have any grace?" asked a division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla. The high court, which stayed the demolition, is now conducting a final hearing on the actor's petition which has sought damages of Rs 2 crore for the `illegal' action. Earlier during the hearing on Tuesday, Raut submitted an affidavit where he denied that he had threatened Ranaut. While he had made a reference to Ranaut, it "wasn't in the way that the petitioner had alleged", it said. At this the court said that at least Raut accepted that he had been talking about Ranaut in the interview, as at an earlier hearing, his lawyer had denied that Raut had made any reference to her at all. In an interview to a newschannel, Raut had allegedly used an objectionable word while referring to the actor, and further said "What is law? Ukhad denge (we will demolish it)". "You are a parliamentarian. You have no respect for the law? You ask what is law?" the bench said. Raut's lawyer conceded that the Rajya Sabha member should have been more responsible. "He should not have said that. But there was no threatening message. He only said that the petitioner is very dishonest....That was a remark made after the petitioner said that Maharashtra is not safe," she said. The BMC's `H' ward officer Bhagyawant Late, also made a respondent to the case, stated that Ranaut's allegations of malice against him and the BMC were an attempt to divert the attention from the illegal construction at her Pali Hill bungalow. Senior counsel Anil Sakhre, who appeared for Late, said the officer was only performing his statutory duty in carrying out the demolition. But the court asked what the BMC was doing when the alleged illegal construction going on. "Why did you wait to take any action until September 5 or September 7? You had turned a blind eye to it," the bench said. Ranaut's counsel Dr Birendra Saraf reiterated that the actor had not constructed anything illegally, and even if there were some irregularities, those could have been regularised by the civic body. Saraf had alleged earlier that the BMC carried out the demolition out of malice and vendetta after Ranaut made some comments against the Mumbai police that irked the Shiv Sena- led government in Maharashtra. The court adjourned the hearing to October 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-dont-agree-with-what-kangana-said-but-is-this-the-way-to-react-hc-to-raut-894851.html
29-09-2020||West||Maharashtra: Palghar alert over Congo fever amid Covid-19 pandemic||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Palghar district administration has sounded an alert for possible cases of the viral Congo fever. The district which has a mix of urban, semi-urban and tribal population, adjoins Maharashtra’s financial capital of Mumbai and borders Gujarat. At least four cases of Congo fever were reported from Gujarat’s Valsad district leading to one casualty, following which the alert was sounded. However, not a single case has been reported in Palghar and the alert has been sounded as a precautionary measure. The Crimean Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF), commonly known as the Congo fever, is one of the deadly hemorrhagic fevers that are endemic in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, and West Asia. It is a tick-borne zoonotic viral disease caused by CCHF virus of the genus Nairovirus (family Bunyaviridae). It typically spread through tick-bites or contact with livestock carrying the disease. Palghar district Animal Husbandry Department Deputy Commissioner Dr PD Kamble, in a circular, cautioned that since CCHF cases have been found in some districts of south Gujarat, it could spread in Maharashtra. “We have asked all the meat-sellers to take necessary measures including hygiene, cleanliness, spraying insecticides, using gloves, gumboots, masks, proper checking of all animals arriving in Maharashtra via Gujarat border, in consultation with various departments concerned,” officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-palghar-alert-over-congo-fever-amid-covid-19-pandemic-894921.html
29-09-2020||West||Deny bail to Rhea, others to send message to society: NCB to HC||Strongly opposing the bail pleas filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and other co-accused in a drug case, the NCB told the Bombay High Court Tuesday a strong message needed to be sent out to the society, especially youngsters, to ensure they did not consume drugs. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) said the siblings and others arrested were "active members of a drug syndicate" and vowed to go to the roots of the case, an offshoot of a probe into filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput's death in June. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh, who appeared for the NCB, said a deterrent was required from the court since, considering the current situation of Covid-19, and the country's internal security, we need our youngsters to take care of their health, and not consume drugs. "If young people go on consuming drugs then who will look after our country. This episode should serve as a lesson to all, the ASG said. And with the present situation of internal and external conflict in the country... There is a pandemic. This should be a lesson for others. "I agree there should be sympathy for the youth. But those who are involved in this (drugs consumption, manufacture, procurement etc) must be punished, Singh said. The ASG went on to say that the NCB was going to go to the roots of the present case to ensure the chain of drugs was broken. Considering the overall case and circumstances, I would submit that this drug abuse has to be controlled in the country, in all sectors whether college, schools or, Bollywood. "Our leaders, say our country is dependent on the young generation, Singh said. The ASG was making his submissions before a bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal who was hearing pleas filed by Rhea, Showik, and co-accused Samuel Miranda, Dipesh Sawant, both aides of Rajput, alleged drug dealer Abdul Parihar, and one Zaid Vilatra. All the accused have challenged the orders of a special NDPS court that had rejected their bail pleas earlier this month. Earlier, during the day-long hearing, the NCB had submitted that there existed ample material to show that Rhea, Showik, and others arrested in the case, represented a "chain, an active syndicate that was involved in procuring, financing, harbouring, and abetting drugs and its consumption". Singh said Rhea (28) had knowingly paid for her boyfriend Rajputs drugs and had concealed the information regarding his drug habit. These qualified as the stringent charges of financing and harbouring drug consumption as define under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act, he said. The ASG was referring to the court's query on the application of the stringent section 27A of the NDPS Act in the case. The section deals with financing illicit traffic and harbouring drug offenders and entails imprisonment of up to ten years. It also carries a bar on the grant of bail. All the applicants had opposed the slapping of the section (27A) in the present case. Rheas counsel Satish Maneshinde had argued that she had only occasionally paid for Rajput's drugs and this did not amount to financing. All the accused had also argued that the drugs seized by the NCB in the case was in small quantity and did not qualify as a commercial quantity that could attract stringent sections under the Act. The ASG, however, argued that the Act did not prescribe a quantity for attracting charges of financing and harbouring. "This is not the case which is filed individually. This is a syndicate," Singh said. "Rhea did not disclose due to fear of arrest. So it is harbouring. She knew it was illegal but she continued. Giving shelter is not letting Rajput in her house, it is a shelter for the purpose of protecting from arrest," the ASG said. Earlier, during the day, Singh said a case of drugs was worse than an offence of murder for while the latter involved just one person or one family, the former related to the entire society. On the applicant's argument that the NCB did not have the jurisdiction to probe the case, the ASG said, It is nobody's case that Sushant Rajput died of drugs. This case is not about his death. "It might have a five or 10 per cent connection to Sushant as he used to consume drugs. Therefore, while the CBI is probing his death case, we (NCB) are investigating a case involving drugs, he said. The ASG went on to say that while Rajput did not die of drug abuse, the 34-year-old filmstar did consume drugs. And only because the consumer was dead, those who procured drugs for him could not go scot-free", Singh said. All counsels for the accused persons, however, reiterated that all the arguments and judgements that the NCB had cited to support its case dealt with commercial quantities of drugs. Advocate Taraq Sayed, the counsel for alleged drug dealer Parihar, said the accused persons should not be used as a pawn to send out a strong message to the society. At this stage we should not be used as a pawn for teaching a lesson, Sayed said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deny-bail-to-rhea-others-to-send-message-to-society-ncb-to-hc-894944.html
29-09-2020||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt issues guidelines for Navratri, Dussehra||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday urged people to celebrate the upcoming Navratri and Dussehra festivals in a low-key manner due to the coronavirus outbreak and suggested the organisation of health and blood donation camps instead of dandiya, Garba and cultural events involving mass participation. In guidelines issued during the day by the state home department, festivals organisers, also called mandals in local parlance, were asked to spread awareness on Covid-19, malaria and dengue among other diseases. As per the guidelines, the height of Goddess Durga idols installed by mandals (during Navratri) have been capped at four feet and household ones at two feet, and immersion procession, crowded affairs during normal times, have been disallowed. It also suggested that devotees opt for metal idols this time, and digital darshan through local cable networks, streaming formats and social media. It instructed mandals to arrange for thermal screening at pandals (festival arena), which must be disinfected. Devotees desirous of darshan should strictly adhere to social distancing norms and wear masks, the government said. Immersion should be done in artificial ponds created with the help of municipal corporations, housing societies, public representatives and NGOs, while clay or eco-friendly idols can be immersed at the household level, the government said. Immersion of household and mandal idols from containment zones at public places has been disallowed, it said. The traditional Dussehra event of burning the effigy of demon king Ravana should be held observing social distancing norms, without spectators, and in a symbolic manner, as per the guidelines. "Spectators should not be invited. (Organisers) should arrange for live broadcast through social media platforms like Facebook," the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-govt-issues-guidelines-for-navratri-dussehra-894946.html
29-09-2020||West||Man arrested in Kota for making hoax calls about bombs in Mumbai hostel, Bengaluru office||A 36-year-old man was detained from a hotel here on Tuesday for allegedly making hoax calls threatening to blow up an MLA hostel in Mumbai and a software firm's office in Bengaluru, police said. The man allegedly called up Mumbai and Bengaluru police on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday and told them that bombs kept at the hostel and the software company's office would detonate in two hours, they said. Kota Police was informed about the presence of the caller in the city's railway station area later in the night, Superintendent of Police (SP) Gourav Yadav said. A police team led by Assistant Superintendent of Police Praveen Kumar Jain and Deputy Superintendent of Police Bhagwat Singh Hingad detained the caller, identified as Piyush Purohit, from a hotel near the railway station under the Bhimganjmandi police station area on Tuesday morning, the SP said. He is a native of Rajasthan's Sikar district and lives with his parents in Maharashtra's Dhule, he added. On initial interrogation, the man admitted that he had made the hoax calls under the influence of alcohol and to gain sympathy from his family, Yadav said. No criminal background of the hoax caller has come up so far, and Mumbai and Bengaluru police have been informed about his detention, the SP added. Purohit used to work at a call centre but is unemployed at present, Sub-Inspector Chetan Sharma of Bhimganjmandi police station said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-arrested-in-kota-for-making-hoax-calls-about-bombs-in-mumbai-hostel-bengaluru-office-894980.html
29-09-2020||West||Coronavirus: No mask, no entry into public transport, says BMC to Mumbaikars||The civic corporation in Mumbai on Tuesday announced that people not wearing masks will not be allowed entry inside public transport buses, taxis and rickshaws. Officials said malls, offices, societies etc will paste 'no mask, no entry' stickers as part of measures taken to increase awareness among people about coronavirus outbreak norms involving face coverings. The decisions were taken in an e-meeting chaired by Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, they said. Ward offices will convey the decision to taxi and autorickshaw unions as well as the management of other establishments, they added. Chahal also asked civic officials to enforce fines for mask violations, currently Rs 200, strictly. Between April 1 and September 26, the civic body has fined 14,000 people in the metropolis for not wearing masks in public and collected Rs 52.76 lakh. BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde said the decision would be implemented strictly on the civic-run metropolitan bus service. Mumbai is the country's premier hotspot with over two lakh COVID-19 cases, with 8,800 people having succumbed to the infection so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-no-mask-no-entry-into-public-transport-says-bmc-to-mumbaikars-894987.html
