30-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||Criminal cases filed against duo for illegal mining in Mandya||Town police filed criminal cases against two persons for illegal mining activity at a restricted area, in Kaveripura village, Pandavapura taluk, in Mandya district. Two compressor tractors have been seized. It is alleged that the duo were involved in illegal mining using compressor tractors and breaking rocks turning it into gravel for transport. On a tip-off, the KRS police team raided the quarry. The two accused fled the spot later after which tractors have been seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/criminal-cases-filed-against-duo-for-illegal-mining-in-mandya-895133.html
30-09-2020||Karnataka Districts||IAS officer B Sharat approaches CAT over transfer||IAS officer B Sharat has approached the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), questioning the state government for transferring him within 29 days of him taking charge as the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru. The CAT, which heard the plea, has adjourned it until October 7. Speaking to DH, Sharat said, "I have been transferred before completing the tenure. Hence, I had appealed to the CAT seeking a stay on the order." The new DC Rohini Sindhuri, had also approached the CAT, questioning the transfer, while she was serving as the Deputy Commissioner of Hassan district. "I have also appealed in a similar manner," she said. B Sharat, who took charge as the DC of Mysuru on August 29, was transferred on September 28. Rohini Sindhuri took charge as the new DC of Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ias-officer-b-sharat-approaches-cat-over-transfer-895466.html
30-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Will abide by BJP high command decision on cabinet expansion: Poojary||Fisheries Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the BJP highcommand would decide who will be included and excluded from the cabinet. "I will abide by the High Command's decision," he stressed. Poojary told mediapersons in Karkala "CM B S Yediyurappa has built the BJP from scratch in Karnataka. The CM will leave for Delhi within two to three days and will discuss cabinet expansion with the party high command."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-abide-by-bjp-high-command-decision-on-cabinet-expansion-poojary-895058.html
30-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress' DK Shivakumar criticises Karnataka govt's school opening plan amid Covid-19 pandemic||Criticising Karnataka's BJP government's attempt to reopen schools in the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic, state Congress president D K Shivakumar has said the state government is playing with the lives of children. "When Covid-19 cases are rising in the state, how can the government be planning to open schools?" he asked, speaking to reporters here. He also said he had not received any letter written by Primary Education Minister Suresh Kumar seeking legislators' opinions about the reopening of schools. Attacking the government, he said the BJP government has totally failed to take steps to stop the spread of coronavirus. The state government's failure in handling the coronavirus crisis and corruption by ministers in purchasing hospital material will be the main issues in the upcoming Assembly bypolls, he said. Shivakumar, who came to Delhi to meet party leaders to make a strategy to fight against new agriculture-related laws, said the amendment to the APMC Act will also be an election issue and the Congress will expose the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-dk-shivakumar-criticises-karnataka-govts-school-opening-plan-amid-covid-19-pandemic-895314.html
30-09-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah rules out truce with JD(S) for Karnataka bypolls||The legendary Congress-JD(S) rivalry is all set to come to fore during the upcoming bypolls with Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah on Wednesday ruling out any alliance or truce with the regional party. The Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies will have bypolls on November 3. Asked about taking support from the JD(S) locally to defeat the BJP, Siddaramaiah said: “There will not be any alliance with the JD(S). We will fight the polls on our own. The Congress is a national party and we have our own strength.” Siddaramaiah said there was no shortage of candidates for the Rajarajeshwarinagar seat, which was vacated after its MLA Munirathna was disqualified last year. Munirathna was with the Congress before jumping ship to the BJP. “The Congress is never short of candidates. Every seat will have 8-10 candidates. We’re confident of winning both Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar,” he said. Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh, under whose constituency Rajarajeshwarinagar is located, said the party is considering fielding a ‘surprise’ candidate. Meanwhile, addressing party workers in Sira, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy hit out at the BJP and the Congress. “The people of Sira should decide whether or not I should continue in politics,” he said.  Wooing the Muslim community, Kumaraswamy said it was former PM H D Deve Gowda, the JD(S) supremo, who introduced 4% reservation for them. “So, Muslims should decide if they want to leave Deve Gowda. How long will you fall for the propaganda that JD(S) is the BJP’s ‘B’ team? Who caused the DJ Halli riots? Who went to release those languishing in Ballari jail? Did your Congress leaders do anything? They’ll come now to seek your votes,” he said and also appealed to the STs, Gollas and Madiwalas.  Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy said it was a “big challenge” for the JD(S) to face the BJP and the Congress. “We’re mentally ready.” The JD(S) is expected to finalise a candidate for Sira over the weekend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-rules-out-truce-with-jds-for-karnataka-bypolls-895448.html
30-09-2020||Mysuru||Security intensified in Mysuru ahead of Babri Masjid demolition verdict||Ahead of the Babri Masjid demolition case verdict, city Police intensified security across Mysuru. Processions, celebration and public gatherings were banned to ensure peace. Two KSRP, two CAR and commando forceteams were deputed across the city to maintain law and order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/security-intensified-in-mysuru-ahead-of-babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-895090.html
30-09-2020||Mysuru||Man found dead in a Mysuru bus shelter||A person suspected to be a destitute was murdered at a bus shelter in the city on Wednesday. The police suspect that the culprits killed him using lethal weapons while he was asleep at the shelter on Hunsur Road, at Metropole Circle in the city. The police recovered multiple identity cards which were lying near the dead body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/man-found-dead-in-a-mysuru-bus-shelter-895128.html
30-09-2020||National||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla's father passes away||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla's father Shrikrishna Birla died here on Tuesday. He was 92. Shreekrishna Birla was sick for the last few days, said family sources in Kota, as well as Lok Sabha officials in New Delhi. His cremation will take place on Wednesday morning at Kishorepura cremation ground in Kota, they added. Om Birla represents Kota parliamentary seat in the Lok sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birlas-father-passes-away-895007.html
30-09-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on September 30||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 63 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  63,01,156 as of September 30 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):     98,585  No. of people discharged:  51,87,825  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-september-30-895040.html
30-09-2020||National||DH Toon | Amnesty halts India operations after accounts frozen||Amnesty International India (AII), a private human rights watchdog, on Tuesday said it is halting its operations in India and let go of its staff claiming that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) "froze" all its bank accounts earlier this month in what it called "incessant witch-hunt", remarks denied by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-amnesty-halts-india-operations-after-accounts-frozen-895042.html
30-09-2020||National||Rahul, Priyanka slam 'forceful cremation' of Hathras rape victim||Congress has slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for the “forceful cremation" of the Hathras gangrape victim in the wee hours of Wednesday in the absence of her family members. “A daughter of India is raped and killed, the facts are suppressed and the right to perform the last rites is taken away from the family. This is insulting and unjust,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said.   भारत की एक बेटी का रेप-क़त्ल किया जाता है, तथ्य दबाए जाते हैं और अन्त में उसके परिवार से अंतिम संस्कार का हक़ भी छीन लिया जाता है। The family members of the gangrape victim alleged the Uttar Pradesh police had forcefully taken her mortal remains away from Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday night and cremated at 2:30 a.m. on Wednesday. AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the inhuman treatment meted out by the state administration to the gangrape victim and her family. “At 2:30 in the night, the UP administration forcibly cremated the dead body of the victim despite protests by the family,” Priyanka said. “The government did not protect her when she was alive. The government did not provide her timely treatment when she was attacked. After her death, the government snatched away the rights of the family to perform the last rites and denied dignity to the dead,” Priyanka said. He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night he was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites. 2/3 “There is no justice under your rule, injustice prevails every where. Yogi Adityanath should resign,” the Congress leader said. He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night he was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites. 2/3   Congress workers took out a candle march in the national capital on Tuesday night to demand justice for the gangrape victim and slam the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-priyanka-slam-forceful-cremation-of-hathras-rape-victim-895084.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri Masjid verdict: BJP leaders LK Advani, MM Joshi, Uma Bharti unlikely to be present in court||BJP veterans LK Advani, MM Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh, all accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, are unlikely to be present in the trial court on Wednesday at the time of delivery of verdict in the matter.         Their advocate KK Mishra also said that Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas chief, Nritya Gopal Das, too is unlikely to be present in the CBI special court here.       Of the other accused Vinay Katiyar, Dharamdas, Vedanti, Lallu Singh, Champat Rai and Pawan Pandey have reached Lucknow ahead of the pronouncement of the verdict.          The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.         The Supreme Court had fixed September 30 as the deadline for the trial court to pronounce its judgement in the nearly three-decade-old case.         The 32 accused include former deputy prime minister Advani, former Union ministers Joshi and Uma Bharti, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, during whose tenure the structure was pulled down, besides Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-masjid-verdict-bjp-leaders-lk-advani-mm-joshi-uma-bharti-unlikely-to-be-present-in-court-895096.html
30-09-2020||National||UP CM Yogi Adityanath directs trial of Hathras rape case in fast track court||UP CM Yogi Adityanath has directed trial of the Hathras gang-rape case in fast track court. He also constituted a three-member SIT to probe the matter and directed it to submit a report in seven days. SIT अपनी रिपोर्ट 7 दिन में प्रस्तुत करेगी। Adityanath said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to him over the incident and said that strictest of action should be taken against the culprits.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-directs-trial-of-hathras-rape-case-in-fast-track-court-895098.html
30-09-2020||National||Centre may probe Chinese investment pacts, private JVs: Report||“With the emphasis on Atmanirbhar Bharat, there is greater scrutiny of investments from some of our neighbouring countries. As we have already enunciated, any opportunistic takeover in the financial sector cannot be allowed and the investors should not hesitate in subjecting themselves to scrutiny under the rules and regulations,” a senior government official told the publication. The decision comes after intelligence reports suggested that some Indian firms with Chinese investments may be violating tax laws as well as local data storage norms, according to the report. Sources told the publication that although the priority of the probe will be vetting documents and agreements of companies in the information technology and finance sector, the scope might be expanded to cover other strategic and non-strategic sectors. China is the biggest of these investors and the rules drew criticism from Chinese investors and Beijing, which called the policy discriminatory. “There is no harm in going over these agreements with a fine comb once again just to ensure there have been no violations. If any discrepancies are found, we will take a call on the future course of action,” another official said. Earlier in June, an analysis of the deals database of GlobalData's Disruptor Intelligence Centre showed 12 times growth of Chinese investments in Indian startups over the past four years from $381 million in 2016 to $4.6 billion in 2019. Following which, traders' body CAIT urged the government in August to order an investigation into Chinese investments in Indian startups to determine their investment control in these firms. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-may-probe-chinese-investment-pacts-private-jvs-report-895105.html
30-09-2020||National||India's Covid-19 caseload races past 62 lakh, recoveries surge over 51 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload raced past 62 lakh on Wednesday with 80,472 infections being reported in a day, while the number of recoveries surged to 51,87,825 pushing the recovery rate to 83.33 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 62,25,763, while the death toll climbed to 97,497 with 1,179 people succumbing to the disease in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 9,40,441 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 15.11 per cent of the total caseload. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection stands at 1.57 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, on August 23 it crossed 30 lakh, and 40 lakh on September 5. The tally went past 50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), cumulatively 7,41,96,729 samples have been tested for detection of coronavirus infection up to September 29 with 10,86,688 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-caseload-races-past-62-lakh-recoveries-surge-over-51-lakh-895112.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri case verdict: Keeping tight vigil in national capital, says Delhi Police||The Delhi Police Wednesday said they will keep a strict vigil in the national capital in view of the judgement in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case which is slated to be announced during the day. "We will keep a watch on the security aspect across the city," a senior police officer said. The much-awaited judgment in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case in which BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi are among the accused will be pronounced on Wednesday. Advani, Joshi and other accused Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh are unlikely to be present in the trial court at the time of delivery of the verdict. Their advocate KK Mishra also said that Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas chief, Nritya Gopal Das, too is unlikely to be present in the CBI special court in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-case-verdict-keeping-tight-vigil-in-national-capital-says-delhi-police-895143.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri Masjid case verdict: After 28 years, all 32 accused acquitted; demolition in Ayodhya not pre-planned||Twenty-eight years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid by thousands of 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya, a special CBI court here on Wednesday acquitted all thirty-two accused, including senior BJP leaders L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh and others, who were charged with hatching a criminal conspiracy leading to the demolition of the Babri Mosque, citing lack of evidence against them. Special judge (CBI) S K Yadav, in his verdict, which ran into 2,300 pages, said that the demolition of the disputed structure was not ‘pre-planned’ and that it was the handiwork of some 'anti-social elements,' who were among thousands of ‘karsevaks’. 'There is not enough evidence to show that the demolition was pre-planned,' he remarked. The court said that the incident happened ‘spontaneously’ and, giving a clean chit to the accused persons, added that they had in fact tried to stop the ‘karsevaks’ from demolishing the structure. The special judge also said that the cassette of the speeches of the accused persons, which were introduced as evidence by the CBI, were 'tampered with' and were not ‘sealed’. The court also said that the negatives of the photographs of the accused persons were not furnished by the CBI. It also refused to accept the newspaper cuttings as evidence. Besides Advani, Murali Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh, those acquitted included Vinay Katyar, Sadhvi Ritambhara, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Ram Vilas Vedanti, Mahant Dharm Das, Satish Pradhan, Pawan Kumar Pandey, Lallu Singh, Prakash Verma, Vijay Bahadur Singh, Santosh Dubey, Gandhi Yadav, Ramji Gupta, Braj Bhushan Saran Singh,  Kamalesh Tripathi, Ramchandra Khatri, Jai Bhagwan Goyal, Om Prakash Pandey, Jaibhan Singh, Sakshi Maharaj, Vinay Kumar Rai, Naveen Shukla, R N .Srivastava, Acharya Dharmendra Dev, Sudhir Kakkad and Dharmendra Gujjar. As many as 26 of the 32 accused persons were in the court, when the verdict was pronounced. Six accused persons were granted exemption from physical presence on medical grounds. There were in all 49 accused persons in this case to start with but 17 of them have died since then. The court had reserved its verdict in the case on September one after conclusion of the hearing. All the accused denied the charges and claimed that they were falsely implicated in the matter by the then Congress regime. The accused persons, who died during the pendency of the trial, included, former VHP international president Ashok Singhal, Giriraj Kishore, Vishnu Hari Dalmiya, Mahant Avaidyanath and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's father Bala Saheb Thackeray. The supreme court had directed the special CBI judge to deliver the verdict by September 30. The cases, which pertained to the demolition of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992 by thousands of 'karsevaks', were heard on a daily basis by the special CBI judge. Soon after the demolition of the disputed structure, two FIRs were registered at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station in Ayodhya against unidentified 'karsevaks,' Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and BJP leaders. Forty seven other FIRs were also registered later. The CBI, which was handed over the investigation of the cases, had filed a single charge-sheet in all the cases. The Allahabad high court, upon being approached by the BJP leaders, ordered to drop proceedings against them as the state government had not issued fresh notification transferring the trial of FIR no 198 in which their names had found mention to the special CBI court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-masjid-case-verdict-after-28-years-all-32-accused-acquitted-demolition-in-ayodhya-not-pre-planned-895145.html
30-09-2020||National||Delhi accounted for highest number of crimes against foreigners in India in 2019: NCRB data||The highest number of crimes against foreigners in India in 2019 were recorded in Delhi (30.1 per cent), followed by Maharashtra (11.7 per cent) and Karnataka (11.2 per cent), the latest government data showed. A total of 409 cases of crimes against foreigners including rape, murder and theft were lodged in 2019, down from 517 in 2018 and 492 the year before, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. Delhi (123 cases), Maharashtra (48 cases) and Karnataka (46 cases) together formed 53 per cent of the total cases during the year, the data showed. They were followed by Tamil Nadu (5.6 per cent), Goa and Uttar Pradesh (both 5.1 per cent), Haryana (4.6 per cent), Rajasthan (3.9 per cent), Kerala and Assam (both 3.7 per cent) and Madhya Pradesh (3.2 per cent), it showed. Among the 409 cases lodged in 2019, the maximum 142 were for theft, 54 categorised as 'other IPC (Indian Penal Code) crimes', 41 cheating, 26 assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty, 14 simple hurt, the data showed. There were 13 cases of murder, 12 rape and five kidnappings lodged during the year, the NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry, stated. Also, 15 cases were lodged under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act during the year, according to the data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-accounted-for-highest-number-of-crimes-against-foreigners-in-india-in-2019-ncrb-data-895157.html
30-09-2020||National||SC refuses to postpone UPSC prelims examination scheduled on October 4||A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said that the UPSC has to ensure conformity of their guidelines with that of Ministry of Home Affairs, especially to see more than 100 candidates are not allowed in one centre.  If the guidelines, issued by the UPSC were not found in conformity, then supplementary Standard Operating Procedure can be issued, the court said, adding that the candidates having UPSC admit cards should be allowed to stay in local hotels.  "Allowing Covid-19 positive people inside the examination centres will expose other candidates which is avoidable. UPSC should ensure separate sitting arrangements for candidates who are suffering from cough and cold during the test," the court said. The court asked Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the Centre, to explore the possibility of one more opportunity to the candidates, who failed to take up the test in their last attempt. A petition was filed by Vasireddy Govardhana Sai Prakash and 19 other aspirants for deferring the examination for two-three months. During the hearing, senior advocate V K Shukla and others suggested for the merging of 2020 prelims and 2021 prelims, saying we were not impressed, as resorting to this will lead to cascading effect on other examinations. The UPSC, for its part, said that it has made all preparations for conducting the examinations on October 4, which can, in no way, be changed.  Delaying this examination would delay UPSC Prelims 2021 too which is scheduled for June 27. It also pointed candidates are graduates and can be expected of responsible behaviour. The UPSC also pointed out it has incurred a cost of Rs 50.30 crores for all arrangements. About 6 lakh aspirants are likely to appear in the seven-hour offline examination, at centres in 72 cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-postpone-upsc-prelims-examination-scheduled-on-october-4-895162.html
30-09-2020||National||India successfully test-fires BrahMos supersonic cruise missile||India on Wednesday successfully test-fired BrahMos supersonic cruise missile with a strike range of more than 400 km from a base in Odisha, defence sources said. The launch of the state-of-the-art missile from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) at Chandipur near here was successful, Defence Research and Development (DRDO) sources said. "All the parameters were met during the trial," a DRDO official said after the missile was test fired at 10.45 am. The missile can be launched from land, sea platforms as well as fighter jets, he said. The first extended version of the missile, which had a strike range of 450 km, was successfully tested on March 11, 2017. On September 30, 2019 a shorter range land version of BrahMos was successfully test fired from Chandipur ITR. Jointly developed by the DRDO and NPOM, a leading aerospace enterprise of Russia, the BrahMos missile is a medium-range ramjet supersonic cruise missile capable of being launched from submarines, warships, fighter jets or land. The missile, already operational with the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force, is regarded as the fastest supersonic cruise missile in the world, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-test-fires-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missile-895203.html
30-09-2020||National||Muslim leaders to challenge the Babri Masjid demolition verdict||Muslim leaders, who were associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi- Babri Masjid title suits, on Wednesday said that they would challenge the special CBI court's verdict acquitting all the 32 accused persons in the Babri Masjid demolition case. Babri Masjid Action Committee (BMAC) convener Zafaryab Jilani said that he was not 'satisfied' with the verdict and that it would be challenged in the high court. Jilani said that the CBI failed to put up a strong case despite there being enough evidence against the BJP and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leaders, who had been charged with conspiracy to bring down the disputed structure. He said that the Muslim leaders had been assured by the then prime minister P V Narsimha Rao and other central government officials that the disputed structure would be protected under all circumstances. ''There was no reason not to believe them,'' he remarked. Jilani said that he and other Muslims leaders from Ayodhya had made numerous telephone calls to the political leaders and the officials asking them to prevent the karsevaks from demolishing the Babri Masjid but nothing happened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-leaders-to-challenge-the-babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-895208.html
30-09-2020||National||RSS welcomes Babri case verdict, calls for harmony||The RSS on Wednesday welcomed the special CBI court's verdict acquitting all accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case and called for harmony in society to face challenges before the country. "Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh welcomes the special CBI court's decision to acquit all the accused in the demolition of the controversial structure. "After this decision, all sections of the society should come together in unity and harmony and work successfully to face the challenges before the country, and work towards the progress of this country," RSS general secretary Suresh 'Bhaiyyaji' Joshi tweeted. The special CBI court in Lucknow has acquitted all the 32 accused in the case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, saying there was no conclusive proof against them. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-welcomes-babri-case-verdict-calls-for-harmony-895214.html
30-09-2020||National||I am doing well, says VP M Venkaiah Naidu a day after he tested positive for Covid-19||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who has tested positive for Covid-19, on Wednesday thanked the vice president of Maldives for his message wishing him speedy recovery, and said he appreciates his spontaneous response and sincere concern. Responding to a message from Vice President Faisal Naseem of Maldives, Naidu said, "I am doing well and there is no cause for concern." "I am taking all necessary steps to combat the virus as per medical advice. I am indeed touched by your warm good wishes," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. The vice president also thanked ministers, chief ministers and legislators for their messages wishing him a speedy recovery. "I am indeed touched by your warm, good wishes," he responded on Twitter. Naidu had on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19. He is asymptomatic and in good health. Naidu, 71, has been advised home quarantine. His wife Usha Naidu has tested negative for Covid-19 and is in self-isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-am-doing-well-says-vp-m-venkaiah-naidu-a-day-after-he-tested-positive-for-covid-19-895216.html
30-09-2020||National||Truth has won again: MP CM on Babri case verdict||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday hailed as the "victory of truth" the special CBI court's verdict acquitting all accused in the Babri masjid demolition case. "Satya pareshan ho sakta hai, parajit nahi. Aaj ek baar phir satya ki jeet hui hai. Bharatiya nyaypalika ki Jai. (True can be troubled but it cannot be defeated. Today, the truth has won again. I hail the Indian judicial system," Chouhan tweeted in Hindi. Chouhan also released a video statement, saying the then Congress government was prejudiced and leveled false allegations against saints and senior leaders. "These allegations were proved baseless (in the court's judgment on Wednesday). Everything has become crystal clear now. We welcome the verdict of the court," Chouhan stated. The special CBI court in Lucknow has acquitted all the 32 accused in the case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, saying there was no conclusive proof against them. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truth-has-won-again-mp-cm-on-babri-case-verdict-895219.html
30-09-2020||National||SC issues notice to Maharashtra Assembly secretary on Arnab Goswami’s plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Maharashtra Assembly secretary's response on journalist Arnab Goswami's plea challenging the show cause notice for initiation of breach of privilege motion against him for the reportage on actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the secretary seeking his response within a week. The show-cause notice has been issued to Goswami for making certain remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackrey in his news debates on Rajput’s case. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV, said Goswami has not interfered with either the proceedings of any of the committees of the Assembly or the Assembly itself. “There is the only breach of privilege notice and there is no motion initiated,” said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. “Where is this that the committee of the privilege has deliberated upon and decided,” the bench asked Salve, adding, “Your contention is that an outsider cannot be summoned”. Salve said a defamation complaint could be filed and there is no interference in the proceedings of the house. “Interference is not needed to be physical only,” the bench said. Salve argued that there should be interference in the functioning of the committees of the House or the House itself for initiation of breach of privilege motion against an outsider. “Mr Salve, we still have the doubt that whether the matter has still gone to the privileges committee of the house,” the bench said, adding, “We will issue notice.” Salve said, “I (Goswami) hope I am fully protected”. He said Goswami would come back to the court if anything happens. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The CBI is probing the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-maharashtra-assembly-secretary-on-arnab-goswami-s-plea-895223.html
30-09-2020||National||With Babri Masjid demolition verdict, CBI judge S K Yadav calls it a day||With the verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case, Special CBI judge S K Yadav retired on Wednesday. In his last judgement, Yadav acquitted all the 32 accused persons. The judge was scheduled to retire on September 30, 2019, but was granted a year's extension by the Supreme Court to complete the hearing of the case and deliver the judgement. Yadav holds a long connection with Ayodhya as he was posted there as additional district and sessions judge from 2005 to 2009. He was transferred two years before the disputed structure was demolished at Ayodhya. Interestingly, Yadav had started his career in the judicial services from Faizabad as Additional Munsif in 1990. He started hearing the demolition case in 2015. In 2017, the judge started hearing the Babri Masjid demolition case daily on the direction of the apex court. Earlier this month, when the hearing concluded, he had reserved his verdict for today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-cbi-judge-s-k-yadav-calls-it-a-day-895225.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri Masjid demolition case verdict: What happened inside the court||It took special CBI judge S.K.Yadav only three minutes to read the operative portion of the Babri demolition case verdict that acquitted all 32 accused persons before a packed courtroom here on Wednesday. Though the judge had arrived at the court a little after 10, he remained inside his chambers and came to the court around quarter past 12 pm. As the special CBI judge started reading the verdict, a huge army of journalists from newspapers and TV channels from across the country also got into action and began filing alerts after being tipped off by the lawyers inside. Only the accused and their lawyers were allowed inside the court, which was turned into a fortress with hundreds of security personnel deployed in and around the premises. All roads leading to the court had been sealed and traffic was diverted. The accused persons had started arriving in the court after 10 am in ones and twos. Many of the accused, who were very old, were accompanied by attendants as they were unable to walk on their own. As many as 26 of the 32 accused were present in the court. Six were granted exemption from physical appearance. They had come prepared with bail bonds, which would have been required if they were convicted. As the news of acquittal came out, the supporters of the accused persons chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' and distributed sweets and garlanded each other.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-masjid-demolition-case-verdict-what-happened-inside-the-court-895230.html
30-09-2020||National||India's active Covid-19 cases constitute 15.11% of total caseload: Health Ministry||India's active Covid-19 cases constituted 15.11 per cent of the total caseload on as on Wednesday as against 33.32 per cent on August 1, the Union Health Ministry said. The ministry's data updated at 8 am showed there are 9,40,441 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country. "From 33.32 per cent on August 1 to 15.11 per cent on September 30, active cases have less than halved in two months," it said in a statement while highlighting that the country "continues to report a trend of steadily declining active cases as a percentage of the total caseload". Keeping a "continuous upward trajectory", India's recovery rate has touched 83.33 per cent with 86,428 patients having recuperated and discharged in a day. The total number of recoveries has surged to 51,87,825 and exceed active cases of Covid-19 by 42,47,384. "With an increasing number of recoveries, this gap is continuously widening," the ministry said. More than 76 per cent of the active cases of Covid-19 are concentrated in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. Maharashtra accounts for the maximum with over 2,60,000 active cases. Following the 'test, track, trace, treat, technology' strategy, states and Union Territories are registering speedy recoveries. Fourteen states and UTs have less than 5,000 active cases, the ministry said.  Also, 10 states and UTs contribute 78 per cent of the total recovered cases. Maharashtra leads the tally with more than 10,00,000 recoveries followed by Andhra Pradesh with over 6,00,000, it said. The Health Ministry said 76 per cent of the new 80,472 cases reported in a day are from 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra has contributed the maximum to the new infections with nearly 15,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 10,000 cases.  Besides, 1,179 fatalities have been reported in a day. Of these, nearly 85 per cent are concentrated in 10 state and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh.   More than 36 per cent of new fatalities are from Maharashtra, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 62,25,763 on Wednesday with 80,472 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 97,497 with 1,179 people succumbing to the disease during the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-constitute-1511-of-total-caseload-health-ministry-895247.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri demolition case: CBI to decide on challenging special court verdict after consulting legal department, says Counsel||The CBI will decide on filing an appeal against the special court verdict acquitting all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case after consulting the legal department, its counsel said on Wednesday. "After a copy of today's verdict is received, it would be sent to the CBI headquarters where it would be studied by the legal department and a decision on filing an appeal would be taken as per its suggestion," CBI counsel Lalit Singh said. He was replying to query on whether the investigating agency will challenge the verdict of the special court which had on Wednesday acquitted all the 32 accused, including BJP veterans LK Advani, M M Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh, in the politically sensitive case. Delivering the much-awaited verdict in the 28-year-old case, CBI judge S K Yadav held that there was no conclusive proof against the accused. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, which triggered riots for several months that left nearly 2,000 people dead across the country. The structure was demolished by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that the mosque was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple. The central agency produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-demolition-case-cbi-to-decide-on-challenging-special-court-verdict-after-consulting-legal-department-says-counsel-895251.html
30-09-2020||National||Acquittal of all accused in Babri demolition case travesty of justice: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) described the acquittal of all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case by a special CBI court in Lucknow on Wednesday as a "travesty of justice". The court acquitted all the 32 accused in the case, including BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, and Uma Bharti, in the absence of conclusive proof to suggest a criminal conspiracy. "The acquittals amount to a travesty of justice. It took 28 long years for this verdict but not justice to be delivered. All the top leaders of the BJP-VHP-RSS who were present at the scene guiding the criminal act have been found to be innocent of the charge of conspiracy to demolish the mosque. "The Supreme Court, in its Ayodhya judgment on November 9 last year, had called the demolition an egregious violation of the law. Now, the Lucknow court has found the main perpetrators of this crime not guilty," the CPI(M) politburo said in a statement. It said the verdict will "blemish the image of India as a secular-democratic country governed by the Constitution". "The CBI must immediately appeal against this judgment," the Left party added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/acquittal-of-all-accused-in-babri-demolition-case-travesty-of-justice-cpim-895253.html
30-09-2020||National||Victory of truth: VHP on Babri demolition case verdict||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Wednesday termed the Babri masjid demolition case verdict, in which all accused were acquitted by a special court, as the "victory of truth". Welcoming the verdict, VHP international president Vishnu Sadashiv Kokje told PTI that the demolition of the mosque on December 6, 1992 was not "pre-planned". "We welcome the court judgement. It is the victory of truth," Kokje said. "The court took nearly 28 years to give its judgement, but it was clear from the day one that it (demolition) was not a pre-planned incident. 'Karsevaks' were not called to Ayodhya for demolishing the mosque. Its razing was a sudden incident," he said. Recalling the charged-up atmosphere of 1990s, Kokje said the Hindu community was highly enraged over the attitude of the Congress. He said allegations levelled against the VHP were ridiculous. "Demonstrations organised by the VHP for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya were held respecting the Constitution and law," Kokje added. The special CBI court in Lucknow has acquitted all the 32 accused in the case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, saying there was no conclusive proof against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/victory-of-truth-vhp-on-babri-demolition-case-verdict-895256.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri verdict shocking, runs counter to SC: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said the special CBI court verdict in the Babri mosque demolition case, acquitting all the 32 accused, runs counter to the Supreme Court judgment which had termed the razing of the structure clear illegality and an “egregious violation of the rule of law”. “The Babri verdict is shocking, it goes contrary to principles of natural justice and even the Supreme Court’s observation,” senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said. The main Opposition party said it expected the state and the central government to file an appeal against the special CBI court verdict held that the demolition of the Babri mosque was not pre-planned and that the 32 accused had tried to stop anti-social elements from razing the structure. “The decision of the special court to acquit all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case runs counter to the Supreme Court judgment as also the Constitutional spirit,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters here. He said the entire country witnessed a “deep-rooted political conspiracy” by the BJP-RSS and its leaders to destroy the country’s communal amity and brotherhood for usurping power at any cost. “The then BJP government of Uttar Pradesh was a co-conspirator in the designed attack on India’s constitutional ethos,” Surjewala said. “So much so that the Supreme Court was misled by filing a wrong affidavit on oath. It is only after detailed examination of all these aspects, facts and evidence that the Supreme Court held the demolition of Masjid to be an egregious violation of the rule of law,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-verdict-shocking-runs-counter-to-sc-congress-895269.html
30-09-2020||National||Hathras gang rape: Rise in rape cases due to increasing unemployment, says Markandey Katju||Reacting to the recent gruesome Hathras gang rape, former Supreme Court judge, Markandey Katju in a Facebook post said that rising unemployment in the country is one of the reasons behind increase in rape cases. Katju said that a large number of young men in the country remain unmarried due to unemployment, resulting in rise in rape cases. However, he has strongly condemned the crime, and demanded harshest punishment for the culprits. "I condemn the Hathras gang rape, and call for harsh punishment of the culprits. However, having said that there is one aspect which also needs to be considered. Sex is a natural urge in men. It is sometimes said that after food, the next requirement is sex. In a conservative society like India, one can ordinarily have sex only through marriage. But when there is massive and rising unemployment, a large number of young men cannot marry ( as no girl will ordinarily marry an unemployed man ). Consequently a large number of young men remain deprived of sex, even though they have reached an age when it is a normal requirement. The population of undivided India before 1947 was about 42 crores. Today India alone has about 135 crore people, which means there has been a fourfold increase in population. But the number of jobs increased are far less than fourfold. In fact it is believed that in June 2020 alone 12 crore Indians lost their jobs. Therefore will there not be increase in rapes ? I once again make it clear that I am not justifying rapes, rather I condemn it. But considering the situation prevailing in the country they are bound to increase. So if we really want to end or reduce rapes we have to create a social and economic system in India in which there is no or little unemployment. I reiterate, I condemn the gang rape, and call for harshest punishment of the culprits. (sic)"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-gang-rape-rise-in-rape-cases-due-to-increasing-unemployment-says-markandey-katju-895274.html
30-09-2020||National||Chemical sector has huge growth potential in India, says Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda||Chemicals & Fertilizers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Wednesday said that the Indian chemical and petrochemical industry has huge potential to play a significant role by 2025 and the sector could alone contribute $300 billion to the GDP as compared to $160 billion at present. Addressing a webinar on "Specialty Chemicals" organised by the Department of Chemicals & Petrochemicals, the minister said that specialty chemicals was one of the areas where the huge potential for growth lies. The past couple of decades have seen a significant shift in the manufacturing of chemicals, particularly the specialty chemicals, from EU and North America to Asia, Gowda said. The minister said it is a good time to invest in India when the government is focussing on self-sufficiency in domestic production. Gowda said India is looking forward to incentivising manufacturers, through Production-Linked Incentives (PLIs) and development of infrastructure facilities, to set up the entire value chain of drug production in the upcoming three bulk drug parks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chemical-sector-has-huge-growth-potential-in-india-says-union-minister-d-v-sadananda-gowda-895286.html
30-09-2020||National||Neither Centre nor state have right to mine coal in eco-sensitive zones: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday observed that if an area falls under eco sensitive zone then neither the Centre nor the state government will have the right to mine it. The remark was made by the top court which was hearing Jharkhand government's pleas challenging the Centre's decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining. The apex court court said prima facie Central government is entitled to auction the coal blocks in the state. However, it said that to find out if the areas in question are eco-sensitive or not, it may send some experts.   A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked the Centre to file an affidavit within a week on whether these areas in question are eco-sensitive zones or not. During the hearing, the bench observed that “at the moment we are not dealing with whether the Centre has the right or the Jharkhand to do mining. If the area is eco sensitive then no one either the Centre or the state government have the right to mine”.  It said, “We are not experts to decide whether the areas are eco sensitive or not. What we will do is send some expert's to say on this”.   At the outset, senior advocate F S Nariman, appearing for Jharkhand, said that auction of coal blocks can be postponed for a few months and the suit under Article 131 they have filed needs to be decided. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, also appearing for the state government, said that the state has a large population of tribal people and 30 percent of area is a forest area and falls under eco sensitive zone. “I am challenging the coal auction as it is against the public interest and not the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act (MMDR Act),” he said. The bench told Singhvi that how can he say that the MMDR Act will not apply in the state on the ground that it is a scheduled area.   “Central government is prima facie entitled to auction the coal blocks”, the bench observed, and asked Singhvi that under which law there cannot be mining leases in eco-sensitive areas.   Singhvi said mining can be done in small areas far away from eco-sensitive zones.   The bench asked Singhvi to show the evidence that these areas in questions are eco-sensitive zones.   Nariman then referred to various areas including Hazaribagh wildlife sanctuary terming them eco-sensitive zones.   The bench said that what has the state been doing in these areas and it would like to hear whether they are eco sensitive areas.   Attorney General KK Venugopal, appearing for Centre, said that just 14 days before a suit is filed, they had filed a writ petition asking us to roll back auction of coal mine in Jharkhand for six to nine months or unless until Global investment climate improves, so that Jharkhand maximizes returns on natural resources. The bench said that at the moment it is not dealing with whether the Centre has the right or the Jharkhand has right to do the mining but if the area is eco sensitive then no one either the Centre or the state government have the right to mine. “Our experience shows that people want to exploit the eco sensitive zones and if the areas are eco sensitive then we will not allow either to mine,” it said, adding that as the courts are not an expert on the issue, it may send some experts to ascertain whether they are eco-sensitive areas or not.   Venugopal said that they are not eco sensitive areas and proposed to file an affidavit in this regard.   The bench then adjourned the hearing for two weeks and asked the Centre to file an affidavit within a week on the issue and permitted the state government to file a rejoinder thereafter.   On July 14, the top court had issued notice to the Centre on Jharkhand government's pleas challenging its decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining. The state government has alleged that the announcement was made by the Centre "unilaterally" without consulting it. On July 6, the top court had said it would hear this week the plea challenging the Centre's decision for virtual auction process of 41 coal blocks for commercial mining. It had also said the plea would be heard along with the original suit filed by the state questioning the Centre's coal block auction. The original suit under Article 131 of the Constitution provides for the state to move directly to the Supreme Court in matters of dispute with the Centre. In its suit, the state has claimed that it is "highly inappropriate" for the Centre to conduct an auction at this time of Covid-19 pandemic as all the machinery of the state and the Centre are to be enjoined to "alleviate the problems of citizen" caused due to the deadly virus.   "The defendant (Centre) has announced the impugned auction unilaterally without consultation with the plaintiff (Jharkhand). The plaintiff state is the owner of the mines and minerals situated within the territory of the plaintiff," said the suit. Referring to the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution, which deals with administration and control of Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes, it said that six of the nine coal blocks in Jharkhand - Chakla, Chitarpur, North Dhadu, Rajhara North, Seregarha and Urma Paharitola -- which have been put up for auction fall within the Schedule Fifth areas. It said out of the total population of 3,29,88,134 in Jharkhand, a total of 1,60,10,448 resides in the Schedule Areas and the impugned action impinges the rights of the indigenous people of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neither-centre-nor-state-have-right-to-mine-coal-in-eco-sensitive-zones-supreme-court-895288.html
30-09-2020||National||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari recovers from Covid-19||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said he has recovered from coronavirus. The Road Transport, Highways and MSME minister was tested positive on September 16. Thanking people for their prayers and wishes, the minister in a tweet said: "I am happy to say that I have recovered from coronavirus with the blessings and good wishes of all". The former BJP president also thanked well-wishers for their affection to him. On September 16 after contracting the virus, Gadkari had isolated himself. The minister had also requested all who had come in his contact to follow the protocol. The monsoon session of Parliament concluded on September 23, eight days ahead of the schedule, due to concerns over the spread of the coronavirus among members. The session, which started on September 14 amid Covid-19 pandemic, was otherwise scheduled to conclude on October 1. Many MPs, including some ministers, had tested positive for Covid-19. In a first in Indian parliamentary history, some members of the Lok Sabha were also seated in the Rajya Sabha chamber and visitor galleries to ensure social distancing. The Rajya Sabha also followed similar practice, with its members seated in the Lower House. During this session, while the Rajya Sabha met in the first half of the day, the Lok Sabha assembled at 3 pm. Members wore masks and face shields in both Houses. In the Lok Sabha, fibre glass shields were placed in front of the benches and on either side of the seats to prevent the spread of the virus. The members were not allowed to speak while standing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-nitin-gadkari-recovers-from-covid-19-895290.html
30-09-2020||National||Average 79 murder cases in India daily in 2019, kids victim in 66% kidnappings: NCRB data||India recorded an average of 79 murder cases daily in 2019, while children constituted almost 66 per cent of total kidnapping and abduction victims during the year, according to a latest government data. A total of 28,918 cases of murder were registered in 2019, showing a marginal decline of 0.3 per cent over 2018 (29,017 cases), the data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) showed. 'Dispute' (9,516 cases) was the motive in the highest number of murder cases followed by 'personal vendetta or enmity' (3,833 cases) and 'gain' (2,573 cases), it showed. The country also recorded a decline of 0.7 per cent in cases of kidnapping and abduction in 2019 over the previous year, even as women and girls were victims in 78.6 per cent of the overall cases. A total of 1,05,037 such cases with 1,08,025 victims were registered in 2019, down from 1,05,734 cases in 2018, the data showed. Of the total kidnapping and abduction victims, 23,104 were male and 84,921 female in 2019. Out of the total, 71,264 (15,894 male and 55,370 female) victims were children and 36,761 (7,210 male and 29,551 female) were adults, according to the data. During 2019, a total of 96,295 kidnapped or abducted persons (22,794 male and 73,501 female) were found, out of which 95,551 were rescued alive, it stated. In 2019, 2,260 cases of human trafficking were also registered as compared to 2,278 cases in 2018, showing a decrease of 0.8 per cent. A total of 6,616 victims were reported to be trafficked, including 2,914 children and 3,702 adults, the data showed. Apart from this, 6,571 victims were rescued from the clutches of traffickers. A total of 5,128 persons were arrested in 2,260 cases of trafficking, the NCRB said. The NCRB, which functions under the Union Home Ministry, is tasked with collecting and analysing crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code and special and local laws in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/average-79-murder-cases-in-india-daily-in-2019-kids-victim-in-66-kidnappings-ncrb-data-895294.html
30-09-2020||National||From The Newsroom: All 32 accused in Babri case acquitted; kin of Hathras gang rape victim allege forceful cremation||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Twenty-eight years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid by thousands of 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya, a special CBI court in Lucknow acquitted all thirty-two accused; Family members of the gang rape victim alleged the Uttar Pradesh police had forcefully cremated mortal remains in the wee hours of Wednesday; Donald Trump, Joe Biden exchange barbs and accusations in first US presidential debate.  Here are the top stories of the day, September 30, 2020: Twenty-eight years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid by thousands of 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya, a special CBI court in Lucknow acquitted all thirty-two accused, including senior BJP leaders L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh among others. I spoke to Deccan Herald correspondent in Lucknow Sanjay Pandey about the court’s verdict. Here’s what he said. The special judge also said that the cassette of the speeches of the accused persons, which were introduced as evidence by the CBI, were 'tampered with' and were not ‘sealed’. The court also said that the negatives of the photographs of the accused persons were not furnished by the CBI. It also refused to accept the newspaper cuttings as evidence. As many as 26 of the 32 accused persons were in the court when the verdict was pronounced. Six accused persons were granted exemption from a physical presence on medical grounds. There were in all 49 accused persons, in this case, to start with but 17 of them have died since then. The CBI, which was handed over the investigation of the cases, had filed a single charge-sheet in all the cases. The Allahabad high court, upon being approached by the BJP leaders, ordered to drop proceedings against them as the state government had not issued a fresh notification transferring the trial of FIR no 198 in which their names had found mention to the special CBI court. Family members of the gangrape victim alleged the Uttar Pradesh police had forcefully taken her mortal remains away from Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday night and cremated at 2:30 a.m. on Wednesday. Congress has slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for the “forceful cremation" of the Hathras gangrape victim in the wee hours of Wednesday in the absence of her family members. “A daughter of India is raped and killed, the facts are suppressed and the right to perform the last rites is taken away from the family. This is insulting and unjust,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and sought strict action against the accused, the Chief Minister's office said. President Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger, former Vice President Joe Biden, met in Cleveland for the first of three debates ahead of the November 3 election, when Trump is seeking a second term in office. Joe Biden called Republican Donald Trump a "clown" on Tuesday as tension boiled over in the pair's first televised debate. In what was a fiery encounter, the two exchanged barbs and accusations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-all-32-accused-in-babri-case-acquitted-kin-of-hathras-gang-rape-victim-allege-forceful-cremation-895301.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri case lost its relevance after 2019 Supreme Court verdict: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said the Babri masjid demolition case lost its relevance after the Supreme court settled the Ram Janmabhoomi title suit in 2019 even as he welcomed the special court's verdict acquitting all the 32 accused in the case. Speaking to reporters, Raut said the demolition episode needed to be forgotten now. The court in Lucknow has acquitted the accused, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, saying there was no conclusive proof against them. "The (demolition) case in the special court lost its relevance after the supreme court's verdict on Ram temple and bhoomi pujan of the temple performed by prime minister (in August)," Raut said. "This verdict was expected. I, on behalf of Shiv Sena and party president Uddhav Thackeray, welcome this decision of the court," he added. Raut also said that had Babri (mosque) not been razed, the 'bhoomi pujan' of Ram temple in Ayodhya wouldn't have been possible. "...We have to forget that episode now," he added. In its final judgement in the Ayodhya dispute case, the supreme court on November 9 last year ordered the disputed land be handed over to a trust to build the Ram temple. The top court also ordered the government to give an alternative 5 acres of land in another place to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board for the purpose of building a mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-case-lost-its-relevance-after-2019-supreme-court-verdict-shiv-sena-895304.html
30-09-2020||National||Only 3,500 Latur quake victims got jobs in 27 years: Activist||Twenty-seven years after a massive earthquake ravaged Latur district in Maharashtra, a representative of those affected by the tragedy claims many victims are yet to get employment to sustain their livelihood. The district administration, however, said there is a provision of reservation in employment for earthquake-hit families and they get jobs on merit. Over the last 27 years, "only around 3,500 earthquake-hit people have got jobs till now, but the number is very less as compared to the number of affected families," Bhukampgrast Kruti Samiti president Amar Birajdar told PTI. An earthquake of 6.4 magnitude jolted the Latur-Osmanabad region on September 30, 1993, killing nearly 10,000 people and injuring thousands of others. Around 52 villages in the region were destroyed in the disaster. There are many issues that still remain unresolved even after such a long time, claimed Birajdar, a resident of the earthquake-hit Mangrul village in Latur. Lands of many people from the area were taken for rehabilitation of the affected families and many of them complained they got very less compensation for their lands, the activist said. "A massive movement to reach out to government offices helped us in getting this small number of 3,500 jobs," he claimed, adding that the earthquake-affected families suffered a lot even after their rehabilitation. "We were promised three per cent reservation in government jobs. We approached every government officials over the issue between 2005 and 2013," he said. He also said they can't blame the government alone as politicians should also have raised these issues before the state legislature. When contacted, Collector G Shreekant told PTI that reservation in jobs for quake-hit families is still there and people get jobs on merit through this provision. Raising other issues of the victims, Birajdar claimed the affected families were allotted new houses after two to three years of the incident, but they got the ownership only in 2018-19. Around 100 people have started their own businesses by mortgaging the houses they got, he said. He also noted that in 2018, the then state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said all the pending issues related to the additional land allotment to the people affected by the quake will be resolved soon. He said Fadnavis had acknowledged that there were some families who were given some pieces of land, but the families expanded and needed more space. "But nothing happened in two years. We are still hopeful of getting the plots," the activist said. The collector said some earthquake-affected people put forth their demand directly to him for additional compensation for their land, but he does not have the authority to sanction it directly. He further said the administration has sent a proposal to construct internal roads in the areas where the earthquake- affected people are residing in the district. "The proposal cost is more than Rs 100 crore and work will move ahead after the government sanctions it," he said. "Latur has learnt a lot from the earthquake. The buildings are now earthquake-proof and people know what to do if such a calamity occurs again," the collector said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-3500-latur-quake-victims-got-jobs-in-27-years-activist-895309.html
30-09-2020||National||Arnab Goswami row: SC notice to Maha Legislative Assembly Secretary on plea against privilege notice||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Secretary on a plea by Republic TV's editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami challenging a breach of privilege motion against him for criticising Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the Legislative Assembly Secretary, seeking a reply within a week. After hearing senior advocate Harish Salve on behalf of Goswami, the court, which did not stay the show cause notice, orally observed it is hoped they would not do anything till the matter is pending here. Salve, appearing for Goswami, contended that privilege of the Assembly cannot extend beyond the House just because somebody used harsh words for the state government.  He said that the matter is whether Article 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (right to liberty) could override the privilege motion. He pointed out the matter is pending consideration before a seven-judge bench before the top court. During the hearing, the bench said "We understand the gravity. But this is only a show-cause notice and there is no motion. But Salve insisted that he was only on the issue of jurisdiction. " The court also said that privilege motion has to be dealt by a committee. There needs to be a charge by the committee. To this, Salve said that the secretary has sent the notice, stating that the journalist was critical of the Chief Minister. "I have placed debates of the House on record. I am assuming that I may have lied. I may have defamed but how does the House have jurisdiction? Someone says members of the Assembly are all criminal. Even that would not be a breach and can be a case of defamation," he said.  Salve maintained that the breach of privilege could be attracted when the performance of the Member of House is hampered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-row-sc-notice-to-maha-legislative-assembly-secretary-on-plea-against-privilege-notice-895311.html
30-09-2020||National||India, China hold another round of diplomatic talks on border standoff in eastern Ladakh||The local commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will keep in touch to implement the understanding reached between the senior commanders of the two sides to pause build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the diplomats of the two nations agreed on Wednesday.    The diplomats of India and China had a video conference and agreed that while the senior military commanders would meet again soon, the ground commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA would keep in touch to avoid any misunderstanding and to maintain stability along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The video conference was the 19th round of talks under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC). Naveen Srivastava, who heads the East Asia division at the Ministry of External Affairs, will lead the delegation of the Government of India in the video conference. The delegation of the Chinese Government will be led by Hong Liang, the Director General of the Department of Boundary and Oceanic Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Srivastava and Hong earlier had as many as four video conferences within the framework of the WMCC on June 24, July 10, July 24 and August 20 to resolve the current military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh.   The two sides positively evaluated the outcome of the 6th meeting the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had on the LAC on September 21 last. They emphasized the need to implement the steps outlined in the joint press release issued after the last meeting of the senior commanders so as to avoid misunderstandings and to maintain stability on the ground, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a press-release issued after the video conference on Wednesday. “In this context,” it added, “the need to strengthen communication, especially between the ground commanders, was emphasized by both sides.” Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA had a more-than-14-hour-long meeting on the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector – on September 21. They agreed to stop sending more soldiers to the face-off points along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, but could not end the stalemate over withdrawal of large numbers of troops the two sides already deployed since the stand-off started. A source in New Delhi said that both sides agreed on the need to keep the channels of communications open between the commanders of the so that neither side had any misunderstanding about the implementation by the other side of the agreement reached on September 21 on stopping further deployment of the troops along the LAC. The two sides also agreed to continue to maintain close consultations at the diplomatic and military level. They agreed that the next round of the meeting of senior military commanders should be held at an early date so that both sides could work towards early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreement and protocols, and fully restore peace and tranquillity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-hold-another-round-of-diplomatic-talks-on-border-standoff-in-eastern-ladakh-895315.html
30-09-2020||National||Is Modi govt under-reporting Covid-19 deaths? Donald Trump hints so||Notwithstanding his bonhomie with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, United States President Donald Trump on Wednesday said that the Indian government is not making public the actual Covid-19 toll in the country. “When you talk about numbers you don't know how many people died in China, you don't know how many people died (of Covid-19) in Russia, you don't know how many people died in India,” Trump said at the first debate with his rival Joe Biden ahead of the US presidential polls. “They don't exactly give you a straight count.” Trump, who is seeking a second term in the White House, made the comment when Democratic Party’s candidate for the presidential elections pointed out that seven million people had been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the US. “The President has no plan,” Biden, the former Vice President of the US, said and asked the audience: “How many of you got up this morning and had an empty chair at the kitchen table because someone died of Covid (Covid-19)?”. Trump blamed China for the Covid-19 pandemic and claimed that millions could have died had his administration not acted to contain the outbreak. He then insinuated that many more might have already died of the Covid-19 in Russia and India than the governments of the two countries had acknowledged. His comment suggesting that the Modi government is hiding the actual number of deaths caused by the Covid-19 is just the latest in a series of typical “Trump Talks” that put New Delhi in a tight spot and embarrassed the Prime Minister, notwithstanding the “bromance” the two leaders displayed in public – be it at the “Howdy! Modi” conclave in Houston on September 22 or at its sequel, the “Namaste Trump” conclave, in Ahmedabad on February 24 this year. Trump had in July 2019 claimed that Modi had requested him to mediate between India and Pakistan to help them settle the dispute of Kashmir. New Delhi had immediately refuted the claim. Trump, however, had continued to offer his service as a mediator between India and Pakistan. He also offered to help resolve the current India-China border stand-off, despite getting the cold shoulder from New Delhi. In April, he warned of “retaliation” against New Delhi if the Modi Government does not allow the US to import Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) drug from India for the Covid-19 patients. New Delhi eventually allowed export of the drug to the US. Trump had earlier publicly ridiculed Modi for the high tariff India had imposed on Harley Davidson motorcycles imported from the US. “When they (Harley Davidson) send a motorcycle to India, as an example, they have to pay 100 per cent tax, 100 per cent,” he had said in February 2018. “Now, the Prime Minister (Modi), who I think is a fantastic man, called me the other day and said we are lowering it to 50 per cent. I said okay, but so far we’re getting nothing. So we get nothing. He gets 50 (per cent), and they think we’re doing like they’re doing us a favour. That’s not a favour."  The US President had also mocked at India's role in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-modi-govt-under-reporting-covid-19-deaths-donald-trump-hints-so-895316.html
30-09-2020||National||CBI in the dock over 'inadmissible evidence' in Babri Masjid demolition case||A close scrutiny of the Babri demolition verdict reveals that CBI, which was the prosecuting agency in the case, did not follow some simple rules while introducing evidence against the accused persons in support of its contention that they had hatched a conspiracy to bring down the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. The special CBI court did not find the evidence introduced by the CBI 'admissible' and acquitted all the 32 accused in the case. In his 2,300-page verdict, special CBI judge Surendra Kumar Yadav said that the original copies of the statements made by some accused persons were not submitted and instead photo copies were introduced, which could not be relied upon. "The cassettes were tampered with...they were not sealed...the negatives of the photographs were not submitted," the judge remarked in the verdict. He also said that the tapes of the speeches of Sadhvi Ritambhara were not sealed and their printouts were submitted as evidence. The court said that the voice samples of the accused persons, who had allegedly raised objectionable slogans, were not collected and matched with the recordings. "It would have been a strong evidence to prove what slogans were raised," the judge remarked. The CBI had contended that senior BJP leaders, including L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar and saffron leader Sadhvi Ritambhara were on the stage in Ayodhya on the day, and had delivered provocative speeches. The court said that the local intelligence unit (LIU) had apprehended that something unexpected could happen in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992 but it was not looked into. It said that at around 12:17 PM, a section of the 'karsevaks' suddenly started pelting stones and stormed into the disputed structure. There were some 'anti-social elements' within the crowd of 'karsevaks', who instigated a section to demolish the structure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-in-the-dock-over-inadmissible-evidence-in-babri-masjid-demolition-case-895317.html
30-09-2020||National||NHRC seeks report from MHA after Amnesty alleges 'witch-hunt' by government||Describing the Amnesty International as a "reputed" organisation and raising its voice against human rights violations across the globe, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday sought a report from the Union Home Secretary following the NGO's announcement to shut down its operations in the country claiming "witch-hunt" by the government. Taking suo motu cognizance of media reports regarding Amnesty International India's statement and the Ministry of Home Affairs' response, the NHRC asked the Home Secretary to submit his reply within six weeks. It said that the NHRC has "carefully examined" the contents of the news report and the allegations levelled by the organisation are "serious in nature" and the government has "strongly" responded to it. "The Amnesty International is a reputed non-governmental organisation raising its voice globally whenever there is an incident of violation of human rights of the people...Any kind of difference of opinion may be a subject of investigation and decision by the competent court," the NHRC said. It said that it was necessary for the NHRC "to go through the matter, analyse the facts and reach a conclusion" in the interest of human rights friendly environment in the country. On Tuesday, Amnesty said that it was halting its operations in India and let go of staff claiming that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) "froze" all its bank accounts earlier this month in what it called "incessant witch-hunt". The MHA countered it saying the Amnesty statement was "unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth" and human rights cannot be an "excuse for defying" the law of the land. In its statement, the NHRC cited media reports about Amnesty testifying at the US Congressional hearing on human rights in South Asia with a focus on Jammu and Kashmir after the government revoked its special status, an investigative report against Delhi Police investigations on Delhi riots and its stand on Bhima Koregaon case. The organization has reportedly stated that their harassment by the government is a result of their unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi Police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in the Delhi riots and in Jammu and Kashmir, it said. It also noted the MHA rebuttal and remarks that it has violated the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violations, and interfered in "domestic police debates” despite being funded by foreign donations. The charges leveled by Amnesty have however also been denied by the ruling BJP alleging that the NGO was raising funds from abroad in contravention of the laws. They also alleged that there has been shifting money transfer to the companies and there is a suspected flow of money into the trust of Amnesty International.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-seeks-report-from-mha-after-amnesty-alleges-witch-hunt-by-government-895323.html
30-09-2020||National||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju unveils new logo of Sports Authority of India||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday unveiled the new Sports Authority of India (SAI) logo, which has been changed for the first time since the apex sports body's inception in 1982. The new logo highlights 'SAI' in bold letters with depiction of an athlete's flight to success in the background. The logo was unveiled in a brief ceremony organised at the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium here, which was also attended by Sports Secretary Ravi Mittal, SAI Director General Sandip Pradhan and Indian Olympic Association President Narinder Batra among others. Speaking on the occasion, Sports Minister Rijiju said that soon after taking charge of the ministry, he proposed to change SAI's logo and make it more simple and meaningful. "The new logo is small but it's meaning and goal is big. Logo is the identity of any organisation. SAI has been promoting sports in India for long but it's old logo looked long and cluttered to me. So, I thought of a short logo where SAI's name is more visible. The new logo is a thought of simplicity," he said. "The new logo would be easier to display and would easily get imprint in anyone's mind." Rijiju reiterated his vision to witness among top 10 countries in 2028 Los Angeles Olympics. "In every work (we do), aim and objective is very important. There should be a target in mind and our target is to finish in top 10 in 2028 Olympics. "But to achieve that target, you need time and so we have taken a eight-year target. I have no doubts we can achieve our goal," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sports-minister-kiren-rijiju-unveils-new-logo-of-sports-authority-of-india-895331.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri demolition case: CBI failed to show conspiracy or meeting of minds, says special court||The Lucknow Special Court, which acquitted all accused in the 1992 Babri demolition case, on Wednesday noted that the chief investigating officer, CBI's joint director M Narayanan, could not produce sufficient reliable evidence to show criminal conspiracy or meeting of minds prior to the razing down of the mosque.  In his judgment, Special Judge S K Yadav pointed out that the CBI officer admitted before the court that he could not find any person during the investigation to say he was provoked by the speech of any of the accused-leaders to bring down the structure.  "All video footages and cassettes produced by the CBI were neither in sealed condition nor were sent for any forensic examinations. The investigating officer also admitted that the probe was not conducted as per provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code," the court said. The chief investigating officer also admitted before the court that in the demolition of the mosque, as many as 425 people had sustained injuries but none of them were made as accused in the case. "It was a duty of the officer to record their statements, which could have brought out some relevant material but he focussed only upon political persons and Hindu organisations," the court said. In its 2300-page judgment, the court noted that the CBI officer, which adduced a number of newspaper reports to prove the charge of criminal conspiracy against the accused, admitted before it that he did not furnish the original report by any of the reporters. The investigating officer also admitted before the court that it is not necessary that a report published in the newspaper is correct but it has to be proved as true as per the Indian Evidence Act. The officer also conceded that the CBI did not visit the place to make physical verification about the news reports published before the demolition of the mosque. "The newspaper clippings annexed in the case files were collected directly from the office of the newspaper. No seizure memo, receipt memo, or production memo were prepared which was the duty of the investigating officer," the court said. The CBI produced a number of journalists and press photographers like Times Of India's Manoj Chhabra, Dainik Jagran's Sanjay Khare, Navbharat Times Ram Bahadur Thapa, Poineer's Ajay Kumar Singh, Qaumi Awaz's Naiyyar Zaidi, Sunday Magazine's Sharad Chandra Pradhan as witnesses to the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-demolition-case-cbi-failed-to-show-conspiracy-or-meeting-of-minds-says-special-court-895334.html
30-09-2020||National||Plea filed in Supreme Court for CBI or SIT probe into Hathras rape case||A plea was filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday for a probe by the CBI or a special investigation team headed by a sitting or retired judge into "inhuman and brutal" gang rape of a 19-year-old Dalit girl, at Hathras district in Uttar Pradesh. A PIL filed jointly by social activist Satyama Dubey, and advocates Vikas Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav claimed the police authorities had not performed their duties towards the victim and tried to shield the accused persons for reasons best known to them. The petitioners contended the body of the victim, who had died on Tuesday after being brutalised by upper caste men on September 14, was cremated in the middle of the night. They claimed grave injustice has been done to the victim and her family but the authorities and the system were silent on it. In a related development, Congress party sympathiser Tehseen Poonawalla also shot off a letter to the Chief Justice of India asking him to take Suo Motu cognisance of the matter and summon Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary and district magistrate Hathras for "disgraceful and inhuman behaviour by the UP administration" and for failing to show "dignity even in death" by cremating her body without consent of the family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-supreme-court-for-cbi-or-sit-probe-into-hathras-rape-case-895346.html
30-09-2020||National||India received 'above normal' rainfall during 4-month monsoon: IMD||The country received above normal monsoon during the four-month rainfall season, recording the second highest precipitation in the last 30 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. The country received 109 per cent rainfall of the Long Period Average (LPA) with three of four months -- June (107 per cent), August (127 per cent) and September (105 per cent) -- witnessing above normal rainfall, while July recorded (90 per cent) below deficient rainfall. "Quantitatively the 2020 monsoon seasonal rainfall during 1 June to 30 September 2020 has been 95.4 centimetres against long period average of 87.7 cm based on data of 1961-2010 (109 per cent of its Long Period Average)," R K Jenamani, scientist with the National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC) said. The monsoon season in India officially starts on June 1 and lasts till September 30. The southwest monsoon delivers about 70 per cent of the country's annual rainfall, critical for the agriculture sector that accounts for about 14 per cent of India's GDP and employs more than half of the country's 1.3 billion population. Good rains have boosted sowing of the kharif crops which farmers have sown in record 1,116.88 lakh hectares till last week as compared to 1,066.06 lakh hectares a year ago, according to the Agriculture Ministry's data. The IMD has four meteorological divisions. Of the four, the east and northeast India, central India and south India have received above normal rainfall. The northwest India division has recorded deficient rainfall. Nineteen states and union territories have received normal rainfall this year, while nine states and union territories saw excess rainfall. Bihar, Gujarat, Meghalaya, Goa, Andhra Pradesh Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Lakshdweep islands have recorded above normal rainfall. Sikkim recorded large excess rainfall. However, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir have recorded deficiency. Ladakh has recorded large deficiency. "Considering recent years since 1990, the seasonal rainfall was 110 per cent of LPA in 1994 and 2019. It is consecutively for two monsoon years, when India received good rainfall of 9 per cent above LPA or more. "Data shows similar consecutive good monsoon rainfall years in 1958 and 1959 when it was 10 per cent and 4 per cent above LPA respectively," Jenamani added. Monsoon made an onset over Kerala on June 1, its normal annual onset date. Its timely onset was also aided by cyclone Nisarga. The monsoon covered the entire country by June 26, 12 days ahead of its normal date of July 8. The withdrawal was also late. It withdrew from west Rajasthan and parts of Punjab on September 28, 11 days after its normal onset date. One of the main features of the monsoon was the rainfall in August. The month saw five low pressure areas (cyclonic circulations) that brought large amount of rainfall over central India. Total number of low pressure days was 28 against normal of about 15 in August.   "It caused 2-3 spells of riverine floods over Odisha, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, south Gujarat and south Rajasthan. As a result, it was a record rainfall in August 2020, when all India rainfall was 127 per cent of LPA. It is highest in last 44 years, after August 1976 (128.4 per cent) of LPA. It is also fourth highest in last 120 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-received-above-normal-rainfall-during-4-month-monsoon-imd-895354.html
30-09-2020||National||Govt buys 44,809 tonne kharif paddy at MSP from Punjab, Haryana in 3 days||The Centre on Wednesday said it has procured about 44,809 tonnes of paddy worth Rs 84.60 crore in the past three days, at the minimum support price (MSP) from Punjab and Haryana. The procurement data, which is released on a daily basis, sends a message to farmers who are protesting against new farm laws that the government was continuing with the MSP procurement process. Farmers of Punjab and Haryana and several other states are protesting against the new farm laws, which they feel will lead to procurement in the hands of corporates and the end of MSP. In a statement, the Union agriculture ministry said the arrival of Kharif crops has just begun and the MSP operation is in full swing. About 41,303 tonnes and 3,506 tonnes of paddy from Punjab and Haryana, respectively, have been procured at the MSP rate of Rs 1,888 per quintal in the past three days till September 29, it said. Total of 44,809 tonnes at Rs 84.60 crore under MSP has been procured from 2,950 farmers of Haryana and Punjab during the period, it added. Paddy procurement commenced from September 26 in Punjab and Haryana, while in the remaining states on September 28. For the current year, the government has fixed the MSP of paddy (common grade) at Rs 1,868 per quintal, while that of A-grade variety at Rs 1,888 per quintal. That apart, under the Price Support Scheme (PSS), the government through its nodal agencies has procured 46.35 tonnes of moong at Rs 33 lakh MSP value so far, benefitting 48 farmers in Tamil Nadu. Similarly, 5,089 tonnes of copra (the perennial crop) having an MSP value of Rs 52.40 crore has been procured, benefitting 3,961 farmers in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in the past three days. The ministry said it has given nod for procurement of 14.09 lakh tonnes of Kharif pulses and oilseeds from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Haryana. For other states and UTs, approval will be accorded on receipt of the proposal. Cotton procurement for the 2020-21 season will commence from October 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-buys-44809-tonne-kharif-paddy-at-msp-from-punjab-haryana-in-3-days-895355.html
30-09-2020||National||India has new air bubble pacts with Kenya, Bhutan: Hardeep Singh Puri||India has established separate bilateral air bubble arrangements with Kenya and Bhutan for operation of special international passenger flights between the two countries, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. Till September 17, India had formed such arrangements with 13 countries -- Afghanistan, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, the Maldives, Nigeria, Qatar, the UAE, the UK and the USA. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international passenger flights can be operated by their airlines into each other's territories under restrictive conditions. "In order to further boost bilateral international air connectivity air bubble arrangements are now in place with Kenya & Bhutan. Indian carriers will be able to operate to these countries," Puri said on Twitter. "Carriers of these countries will be able to fly to India," he added. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-new-air-bubble-pacts-with-kenya-bhutan-hardeep-singh-puri-895363.html
30-09-2020||National||Asaduddin Owaisi urges AIMPLB to appeal against Babri Masjid demolition judgement||The Babri Masjid demolition judgment satisfies the collective conscience of the Hindutva ideology and its followers, said AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi while stating that the Wednesday verdict as a sad day in the history of Indian judiciary. The Hyderabad MP feared that more disputes (like in Kashi, Mathura) would start as leaders involved (in Babri events) were rewarded earlier and emboldened now. Owaisi opined that the All India Muslim Personal Law Board should appeal against what he called “an obnoxious judgement.” A special CBI court in Lucknow has, on Wednesday, acquitted all the 32 accused persons including some of the BJP’s tallest leaders— L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh, who were charged with plotting a conspiracy to bring down the Babri Masjid at Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. “As an Indian Muslim I am today feeling the same humiliation, desperation, and helplessness I had felt as a young man on that day, as the people who presided over the demolition of the masjid are going scot-free,” Owaisi told reporters. “What is the message coming out? How is that there was no conspiracy? Was it an act of god that idols were placed inside (the structure) in 1949, was it a magic show that locks were opened, and then was it some sort of magic that the masjid was demolished?” Owaisi questioned. The lone AIMIM Member of Parliament has credited the meteoric rise of the BJP to power, and Advani becoming the home minister, Joshi becoming the HRD minister and so on to their involvement in the rath yatra and the Babri Masjid events. Owaisi also held the Congress equally responsible for the Babri demolition. “Had the Congress party (government) removed the idols, had not the Congress PM Rajiv Gandhi opened the locks, had the Congress government protected it in 1992, this judgment would not have been needed,” Owaisi stated.   “I do not know if it will, but to protect its independence the CBI must appeal against the strange judgement. But I urge the AIMPLB to appeal against this obnoxious judgement,” Owaisi said. Telangana BJP state unit chief Bandi Sanjay described the verdict “as a slap on the face of the Congress and other communal parties which are pushing forward the minority agenda.” “The verdict proves that the allegations levelled on the BJP leaders by the Congress and other parties were all false. These parties should desist from making phoney allegations and resist communal politics at least from now,” said Dr K Laxman, national chief of BJP’s OBC Morcha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asaduddin-owaisi-urges-aimplb-to-appeal-against-babri-masjid-demolition-judgement-895364.html
30-09-2020||National||States can take call on reopening schools; cinemas, B2B exhibitions from October 15: MHA||States will have the flexibility to decide on reopening schools while cinema theatres, entertainment parks and business to business (B2B) exhibitions will be allowed from October 15, the new guidelines issued on Wednesday by the Centre to further ease Covid-19 restrictions said. The “reopening” guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) that virtually opened up the whole country also further relaxed restrictions on religious, political, social and other gatherings by entirely lifting the cap of 100 people after October 15. However in closed spaces, a maximum of 50% hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons. International air travel other than those permitted by the government will also continue to remain suspended. Lockdown in containment zones will continue till October 31. The guidelines are no more called “unlock guidelines”, which were issued for months since June, but “re-opening” guidelines, with the government indicating that most of the restrictions have been lifted except in containment zones. Ending speculation over educational institutions and putting the ball in states’ court, the Centre allowed states to decide on reopening schools and coaching institutions after October 15 in a graded manner. However, schools should not enforce attendance and children should be allowed only after obtaining written consent from parents. While emphasising that online and distance learning should be encouraged, the order said students who prefer to attend online classes in schools which conduct such classes should be permitted to do so. States should prepare their own Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and schools, which are allowed to open, should follow it. The states should consult school authorities and a decision should be taken based on their assessment of the situation. A decision on reopening of colleges and higher education institutes has been left to the Department of Higher Education (DHE) in the Ministry of Education but after a consultation with the MHA. However, higher education institutions only for research scholars (PhD) and post-graduate students in science and technology streams requiring laboratory/experimental works will be permitted to open October 15. Heeding to the demand from the entertainment industry, the government also allowed opening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes outside containment zones from October 15 but with 50% capacity. Entertainment parks and similar places as well as swimming pools used for training of sportspersons will be allowed to open from October 15. Business to Business (B2B) exhibitions will also return from mid-October, in a boost to the sector. The guidelines also reiterated its warning to states against imposing local lockdown and if a state wants to impose local lockdown outside containment zones – state-wide, district, sub-district or city level -- it will have to consult with the Centre. In Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued for September, the government had allowed resumption of metro services in a graded manner from September 7 while political, social and other gatherings of up to 100 people were permitted from September 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-can-take-call-on-reopening-schools-cinemas-b2b-exhibitions-from-october-15-mha-895368.html
30-09-2020||National||DMK MP Tiruchi Siva moves SC against farm laws||DMK MP Tiruchi Siva has approached the Supreme Court challenging validity of three farm laws passed last week. He claimed the laws in their current form will spell disaster for the farming community by operating a parallel market which is unregulated and gives enough room for exploitation of the farmers’ community by concentration of power in the hands of a few corporates or individuals. In his PIL, he claimed that there was no proper and meaningful representation or consultation and exchange of opinions from the stakeholders before passing these Bills. He claimed the provisions of the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 were unconstitutional, manifestly arbitrary, unreasonable, whimsical and highly arbitrary. Among others, he claimed the laws give an "uneven edge over the farmers interest in favour of the sponsor or the farm service provider". "Such powers in the hands of sponsors, middle man and farm service provider sounds a death knell to the interest of the farmer who tills the lands with blood and sweat all year round for the agricultural produces," his plea stated. He also contended if the distribution of food grains was left to market demand and the vagaries of corporate influence, they would create artificial scarcity to drive up the price. "Complete liberalisation amounting to legitimising the black marketing, and stocking would create unequal platform between the haves and have-nots, and the very sustenance of have-nots would be under peril," the plea added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-mp-tiruchi-siva-moves-sc-against-farm-laws-895372.html
30-09-2020||National||Post verdict, BJP says Babri Masjid demolition was 'spontaneous', not planned||The Lucknow CBI Special Court judgement on Babri demolition in Ayodhya brings a closure on a note of elation and electoral success to the BJP after a three decade long-drawn political and legal wrangle. While the Opposition parties have voiced outrage over the judgement calling it a “complete travesty of Justice” and contrarian in spirit to earlier judgement of the Supreme Court, the BJP has gone to the town showcasing the Wednesday judgement as an endorsement of its stand with veterans L K Advani claiming it vindicates his personal and the BJP’s belief and commitment towards the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement, and Murli Manohar Joshi insisting that the verdict has proven that their programmes were not under any conspiracy. With the judgement in its favour, the top BJP leadership in the party and in the government have refrained from getting into any celebratory mode even as the judgement coming in the middle of election campaign for Bihar, the neighbouring state to UP, is bound to have its ripple effect electorally. The verdict, though likely to be challenged in the higher courts, allows the BJP to claim full credit for the success of the Ram temple movement and at the same time wash its hands off the demolition, which Advani had described as the “saddest day” of his life. BJP can now more effectively counter the Opposition charge that BJP leaders were directly involved in the demolition plan. The demolition of the disputed structure on December 6 1992 had then led to dismissal of the BJP government led by Kalyan Singh and electoral distance of Muslims in Hindi belt states for quite few years from Congress, which ruled the Centre at that time. BJP, though it lost the immediate Assembly poll in UP in 1993 before the combined might of Samajwadi Party and BSP, was still the single largest party there and has grown in strength since it took up the Ram temple campaign. The party, which had won just two Lok Sabha seats in 1984 (Congress riding on sympathy wave of Indira Gandhi assassination decimated the Opposition), raised its number to 85 in 1989. Exactly 30 years after 1984, it repeated the feat of any single party getting a clear-cut majority on its own and in 2019 it broke its own record, winning 303 Lok Sabha seats. But throughout all these electoral successes, the ghost of the Babri demolition kept haunting the BJP with many wondering what fate the case would ultimately take. Soon after the judgement, several leaders form BJP and those who had taken part in the Ram temple movement revived their earlier stand that the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya was a spontaneous act and not any pre-planned event conspired by the party leadership. Joshi said the “historic” judgement has brought out the truth before everybody while the firebrand Sadhvi Ritambhara, who had played a key role in the Mandir campaign said the demolition of the structure was not sponsored or planned, which the court has now upheld. Calling the acquittal in Babri conspiracy case as “long due”, Ram Madhav said a “malicious case against some of the most respected leaders of our nation has fallen aside finally after 3 decades.” BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh flagged, “…Court rules out any conspiracy behind the demolition . Considers the demolition a spur of the moment . Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi in a video message on Twitter said the court order “proves our claim that the demolition of mosque was not pre-planned conspiracy….It was all spontaneous and there was no conspiracy” "Satya pareshan ho sakta hai, parajit nahi. Aaj ek baar phir satya ki jeet hui hai. (True can be troubled but it cannot be defeated. Today, truth has won again," Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-verdict-bjp-says-babri-masjid-demolition-was-spontaneous-not-planned-895375.html
30-09-2020||National||SC asks Centre if eco-sensitive zones included in auction of mines||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Union government to tell within a week if its decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining would also include eco-sensitive zones. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said though prima facie Central government is entitled to auction the coal blocks in a state. However, an experts team may be sent to find out if the areas in question are eco-sensitive or not. The court allowed a plea by Attorney General K K Venugopal to file the affidavit. The court was hearing a petition by the Jharkhand government against the decision by the Union government to auction coal mines. Senior advocate F S Nariman, appearing for Jharkhand, said that auction of coal blocks can be postponed for a few months and the suit filed by it under Article 131 needs to be decided. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, also appearing for the state government, said that the state has a large population of tribal people and 30% of the area was a forest area and fell under the eco-sensitive zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-if-eco-sensitive-zones-included-in-auction-of-mines-895403.html
30-09-2020||National||Babri Masjid verdict: Leading lights of Ram temple agitations now on margins||They were prime movers of their respective organisations when the Babri mosque was demolished in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, but most of the 32 leaders who were acquitted in the case have moved to the margins of public life. Of the 49 persons who figured in different FIRs registered by the police after the demolition, 32 are alive to welcome their acquittal by the special CBI Court, while 17 leaders, including Bal Thackeray, Vishnu Hari Dalmia, Ashok Singhal, Giriraj Kishore are no more. On the stage at Ayodhya on a fateful day were BJP leaders L K Advani, who spearheaded the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, VHP leader Sadhvi Rithambhara, seers Ram Vilas Vedanti, Nritya Gopal Das among others. Most of the BJP leaders went on to win elections and held their sway by virtue of their positions of power. Advani rose to become the deputy prime minister, while Joshi was the Union Minister for HRD and S&T. Uma Bharti, then a young leader known for her oratorical skills became the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh and held ministerial portfolios in both the Vajpayee and Modi governments. Former Uttar Pradesh CM Kalyan Singh, who was also acquitted on Wednesday, resigned from the post after the demolition. He was re-elected as chief minister in 1997 and later was the Governor of Rajasthan from 2014-19. Ram Vilas Vedant was elected to the Lok Sabha twice as a BJP member from Uttar Pradesh in the 1990s. As the special CBI court read out its verdict 28 years after the incident, most of the dramatis personae have retreated to the sunset of their political careers. Advani, Joshi, Kalyan Singh, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar have already been relegated to the margins of the BJP since the rise of Narendra Modi. Sadhvi Ritambhara too has kept a lower profile and busied herself in social work for the upliftment of women and children. A few in active public life include Sakshi Maharaj, Brijbhushan Sharan Singh, Lallu Singh who are members of the Lok Sabha from UP. Champat Rai, who played a key role in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, is now the vice president of the VHP and also the general secretary of the Trust tasked with building the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-masjid-verdict-leading-lights-of-ram-temple-agitations-now-on-margins-895405.html
30-09-2020||National||Maharashtra: CM directs withdrawal of cases against Aarey activists||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday directed the state Home department to withdrawcases registered against protesters last year for opposing felling of trees for a proposed metro car shed in Aarey Colony, a prime green lung of the city. The decision was taken at the state cabinet meeting. A tweet from the Chief Minister's office said Thackeray has directed the state home department to begin the process of withdrawing the cases. The request for withdrawal of cases was made at the cabinet meeting by state Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray, which was supported by deputy CM Ajit Pawar and other ministers. "I thank all the cabinet colleagues of the MVA government for prioritising and realizing the importance of sustainable development and green governance and supporting such issues," Aaditya Thackeray tweeted. He said the protesters were citizens standing up for future of the planet. "To hold them from stopping desired work was one thing but to press police charges was another. We can't have cases against those who stand up for environment and forests," he said in another tweet. Uddhav Thackeray had announced withdrawal of cases against green activists last December, days after he took oath as chief minister. Cases were registered after clashes broke out between the police and green activists opposing axing of trees by the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MMRCL) in Aarey Colony last October for construction of a metro car shed for the Metro-3 line. Police had booked at least 38 protesters under IPC sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from duty) and 143 (unlawful assembly). Last month, the CM had asked the Mumbai Metro and MMRDA (Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority) officials to examine whether the proposed metro car shed can be shifted to Pahadi Goregaon area near Oshiwara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-directs-withdrawal-of-cases-against-aarey-activists-895410.html
30-09-2020||National||Ex-Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini fails to appear before SIT||Former Punjab police chief Sumedh Singh Saini on Wednesday failed to appear before the SIT to join investigation in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case. Saini had earlier been asked to report to the Mataur police station in Mohali to join the investigation. “He did not turn up,” said Special Public Prosecutor Satrej Singh Narula. A Special Investigation Team of the Punjab police received a message on Wednesday morning from Saini's counsel that he has pain in his thighs and feeling giddiness due to travelling. The accompanying medical certificate, however, did not bear his full name, address, signature and even the name of any hospital or its address said Narula. Saini had appeared before the SIT on September 28 and was quizzed over the case for almost six hours. Narula on Monday had said Saini had remained evasive to the SIT's relevant questions. The SIT is led by Superintendent of Police (Detective) Harmandeep Singh Hans while Deputy Superintendent of Police (Detective) Bikramjit Singh Brar, DSP Jaswinder Singh Tiwana and Inspector Rajeev Kumar are its members. Saini was booked in May in the case involving Multani's disappearance in 1991 when he was working as a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation. The Supreme Court has granted him interim protection from the arrest in the case. The police had last month added murder charge under section 302 of the IPC in the FIR in the Multani disappearance case after two former Chandigarh police personnel -- former UT police Inspector Jagir Singh and former ASI Kuldeep Singh -- who are also co-accused, turned approver. Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer, was the youngest DGP in the country when he was appointed the Punjab police chief in 2012. He was removed from the DGP's post in 2015 after protests erupted following incidents involving sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. Saini retired in 2018. Multani, a Mohali resident, had been picked up by the police after a terrorist attack in 1991 on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh. The police, however, had later claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from the custody of Qadian police in Gurdaspur. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered against the seven under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-punjab-dgp-sumedh-saini-fails-to-appear-before-sit-895411.html
30-09-2020||National||Expected a different outcome: Ex-Home secy on Babri verdict||Retired bureaucrat Madhav Godbole on Wednesday said he was expecting a "different result" in the Babri mosque demolition case. Godbole was a Union home secretary when the demolition of the Babri mosque took place in 1992. A special CBI court in Lucknow on Wednesday acquitted all the 32 accused in the case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, saying there was no conclusive proof against them. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Godbole said there could be some difference of opinion over the verdict on the ownership of the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute case in Ayodhya. "But in this (Babri mosque demolition) case, wherein a criminal offense was registered, I thought the court would do proper verification before giving the verdict," he told PTI. He added that because of the Supreme Court, the case at least came to this stage. "As the case was being heard on a daily basis, I was expecting a different result, but that decision did not come. This result has come as a surprise to me," Godbole said. "The trial had been going on for the last several years. Hundreds of witnesses and thousands of documents were examined and now the court is coming to the conclusion that there was not enough evidence. This is something difficult to accept," he said. An appeal should be made in the high court against the verdict and the matter should also be pursued in the Supreme Court. "I think that public pressure has to be created to ensure that appeal is made in the higher court," he said. Godbole said he does not believe that the structure could be demolished within five to six hours. "I do not believe that such a big structure can be demolished within five to six hours. I don't believe that just a few thousand people climbed on to the dome (of the mosque), tried to pull it down and it fell down due to it. There must have been some preparation before that," he said. "I will not say it was a conspiracy, but there must have been some preparation before it...without that preparation, it was not possible," he added. When asked whether he felt that the foundation of secularism was still strong, he answered in the negative. "I do not think that the foundation of secularism is still strong. Today no one is ready to speak about it. Forget taking action, the parties which we call secular and were instrumental in preparing the Constitution, are not ready to do anything," he said. "What worries me is the intermixing of religion and politics. That is what we are not able to separate. The demands made related to Varanasi and Mathura, all pronouncements that are made time to time regarding Hindu Rashtra, all these are disquieting features," he said. "Nobody, not even secular parties, is ready to talk about the separation of religion from politics," he said. Godbole added that at least 20 per cent population of India belonged to a religious minority. "The country will not run smoothly if it is said that we will only think about 80 per cent population and not bother about 20 per cent. It is a symbol of civilization to take along all the people from a different religion, caste, and creed," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expected-a-different-outcome-ex-home-secy-on-babri-verdict-895415.html
30-09-2020||National||SC issues notice to Centre on seafarers' plea for income tax concession due to Covid-19 ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Union government on a plea questioning its refusal to grant Income Tax relaxation to seafarers, who were forced to stay back in the country due to the Covid-19 situation across the world. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and K M Joseph issued notice to the Centre on a writ petition filed by advocate Raj Kishore Choudhary on behalf of 'Merchant Navy Officers and Ladies Association'. The petitioner-organisation led by advocate Prabhjot Singh challenged of validity of May 8, 2020 notification by the Finance Ministry's, Central Board of Direct Taxes that had denied the seafarers (who enjoyed non resident status) concessions in assessing Income Tax for financial year 2019-20 and 2020-21 on compassionate ground due to Covid-19. It sought a direction for a concession of minimum 60 days. Due to pandemic, the seafarers could not join the ships and were forced to stay in India for 182 days in 2019-2020 and the same handicap would continue in next financial year, they pointed out. "The Covid-19 outbreak has created an unprecedented situation worldwide. The governments around the world have restricted the travel and closed borders. Around 90,000 seafarers were stuck on board and even forced to stay back in India, requiring a liberal interpretation of the tax policy," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-seafarers-plea-for-income-tax-concession-due-to-covid-19-895421.html
30-09-2020||National||From driving licence to sweet shops, several new norms to come into effect from October 1||Worried about online transactions using credit or debit cards? From October 1, you can disable the e-payment services on your bank cards. A slew of new rules will come into effect from Thursday that will allow drivers to furnish e-copies of driving licence and registration certificates and make it mandatory for sweetmeat shops to display best before date on non-packaged sweets. Television sets are set to be expensive as the government has decided to impose a 5% import duty on open cell panels, in a bid to discourage imports as it promotes self-reliance. The latest amendments to Central Motor Vehicle Rules also make it clear that mobile phones can be used only for route navigation while driving that too in a way that does not disturb the concentration of the driver. Even money sent abroad to buy foreign tour packages and foreign remittances above Rs 7 lakh, will attract a tax-collected-at source (TCS) unless the tax is already deducted at source (TDS) on that amount. While the tax on foreign tour packages will be 5% for any amount, for other foreign remittances the tax will kick in only if the amount spent is above Rs seven lakh. The new Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) rules have made it mandatory for sweet shops to declare the 'best before date' of non-packaged or loose sweets available in their shop. It has also banned the blending of mustard oil with any other cooking oil. To secure debit and credit cards, the new guidelines issued by RBI allow card users to register for opt-in or opt-out of services, fix spending limits for international, online, and contactless card transactions. The new Tax Collected at Source (TCS) regime of the Income Tax Department, requires an e-commerce operator to deduct 1% tax on the sale of goods and services. As per the new clause, e-commerce operator should deduct the tax on the gross amount of sale of goods or provision of service or both, facilitated through its digital or electronic facility or platform. The Modi government’s Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), which provides a free cooking gas connection to the poor, has also come to end on September 30 and beneficiaries will now have to buy gas cylinders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-driving-licence-to-sweet-shops-several-new-norms-to-come-into-effect-from-october-1-895431.html
30-09-2020||National||Delhi Prisons DG orders probe into photos, videos taken inside Tihar Jail||The Director General of Delhi Prisons on Wednesday ordered an inquiry into the alleged instances of taking photographs and making videos inside Tihar Jail here. According to an order issued by Additional Inspector General (Prisons) Mukesh Prasad, DIG (Prisons) Rajesh Chopra will conduct a detailed probe into the allegations and submit a report by October 5. The order said videos and photographs purportedly made inside Jail Number 1 of Tihar Jail have gone viral. There have also been serious allegations against a senior jail official in this matter, it said. The order directed DIG Prisons to probe how the videos and photographs were allegedly filmed in the prison despite a ban on mobile phones inside the city jail. Prasad also asked the DIG to make recommendations with regard to corrective measures that can be taken to prevent such incidents inside the jail. In a video which went viral on social media, a Tihar Jail inmate is purportedly heard saying that one Sunny Dogra was killed and that it was a planned murder. He also levelled allegations against a jail official. On September 24, a 29-year-old inmate, identified as Sikander, was allegedly killed by four other prisoners. He was lodged in Tihar's central jail number 1. The man was allegedly attacked with a sharp object by the inmates outside his barrack. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-prisons-dg-orders-probe-into-photos-videos-taken-inside-tihar-jail-895432.html
30-09-2020||National||More people allowed to attend marriages, funerals as Centre eases restrictions on gatherings||Now, more people will be allowed to attend marriage functions and funerals from October 15 with the government easing restrictions on gatherings. From September 21, such functions could have a guest list of 100 people and with new relaxations, around 200 people can attend these gatherings. Till September 20, the restriction of 50 guests for marriages and 20 for funerals remained in place. The new guidelines for reopening, that comes into effect from October 1 allows social, academic, entertainment, cultural, religious, political and other congregations to have more than 100 people in attendance subject to certain conditions from October 15. In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed but with a ceiling of 200 people. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory. In open spaces, it will be keeping the size of the ground or the space in view and with strict observance of wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser. State and Union Territory governments will issue detailed Stand Operating Procedures for such gatherings. The relaxation on gatherings, including political ones, will be a blessing in disguise for campaigning in Bihar as the state would be going in for Assembly polls from October 28. Also, the new guidelines have reiterated that there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement. The existing SOPs will continue for movement of passenger trains, Metro, domestic air travel as well as movement of people on Vande Bharat and air transport bubble flights. Wearing of face cover in public places, work places and during transport will continue to be mandatory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-people-allowed-to-attend-marriages-funerals-as-centre-eases-restrictions-on-gatherings-895444.html
30-09-2020||National||Giriraj Singh releases booklet on Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana||Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Minister Giriraj Singh on Wednesday released a booklet on Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) that will guide beneficiaries and other stakeholders about the scheme. Singh released the 2nd edition of the newsletter “Matsya Sampada” and the booklet on PMMSY which provides a comprehensive outline of the different components/activities of the PMMSY scheme and modalities of submission of the proposals, an official statement said. Singh expressed confidence that this booklet will act as an all-inclusive guide to all the beneficiaries and stakeholders in assisting them in knowing the modalities of availing the benefits from the PMMSY. It will also serve as an indispensable tool to the beneficiaries in knowing about different activities of the PMMSY. The PMMSY scheme aims to enhance fish production to 220 lakh tons by 2024-25. Singh reiterated that the ambitious scheme will result in doubling export earnings to Rs.1,00,000 crore and generate about 55 lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities in fisheries sector over a period of next five years, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/giriraj-singh-releases-booklet-on-pradhan-mantri-matsya-sampada-yojana-895452.html
30-09-2020||National||MP: Patient dies as ventilator blast sparks ICU fire, say kin||A 55-year-old man undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU) in Madhya Pradesh's Shivpuri district hospital died after the ventilator attached to him exploded and triggered fire on Wednesday, his relatives claimed. The district medical authorities, however, said that the patient did not die as a result of the fire incident. Shivpuri district collector ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. The victim's son Mohammad Tahir said that his father Mohammad Islam (55), a resident of Guna, was admitted to ICU of Shivpuri district hospital, where he was kept on a ventilator support. "However, the ventilator attached to him exploded on Wednesday, due to which the mattress on the bed on which my father was lying, caught fire," Tahir said. "Due to blaze, smoke filled the ICU room and when my father was pulled out from there, he died due to lack of proper oxygen supply," he alleged. Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Dr Arjun Lal Sharma confirmed that the fire did erupt in the ICU ward, but it was immediately brought under control. He said the patient did not die as a result of the fire incident. Shivpuri collector Akshay Kumar Singh reached the district hospital and sought information related to the death of the patient from the civil surgeon. An official statement said that the collector ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. The probe will be conducted by assistant collector Kajal Jawla, who has been asked to submit the probe report within seven days, it added. PTI COR MASMP: Patient dies as ventilator blast sparks ICU fire, say kin Shivpuri (MP), Sep 30 (PTI) A 55-year-old man undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU) in Madhya Pradesh's Shivpuri district hospital died after the ventilator attached to him exploded and triggered fire on Wednesday, his relatives claimed. The district medical authorities, however, said that the patient did not die as a result of the fire incident. Shivpuri district collector ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. The victim's son Mohammad Tahir said that his father Mohammad Islam (55), a resident of Guna, was admitted to ICU of Shivpuri district hospital, where he was kept on a ventilator support. "However, the ventilator attached to him exploded on Wednesday, due to which the mattress on the bed on which my father was lying, caught fire," Tahir said. "Due to blaze, smoke filled the ICU room and when my father was pulled out from there, he died due to lack of proper oxygen supply," he alleged. Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Dr Arjun Lal Sharma confirmed that the fire did erupt in the ICU ward, but it was immediately brought under control. He said the patient did not die as a result of the fire incident. Shivpuri collector Akshay Kumar Singh reached the district hospital and sought information related to the death of the patient from the civil surgeon. An official statement said that the collector ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. The probe will be conducted by assistant collector Kajal Jawla, who has been asked to submit the probe report within seven days, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-patient-dies-as-ventilator-blast-sparks-icu-fire-say-kin-895459.html
30-09-2020||National||58 Ayurveda-based Covid-19 trials registered from March 1 to June 25: AYUSH Ministry||As many as 58 new Covid-19 trials involving Ayurveda intervention were registered from March 1 to June 25 in the Clinical Trial Registry of India, highlighting the emerging nationwide trend of evidence-based studies in Ayush disciplines, the AYUSH ministry said on Wednesday. News reports in August this year had revealed that out of the 203 trials registered in the CTRI, 61.5 per cent were from Ayush disciplines, the ministry said in a statement. A recent study published in the 'Journal of Research in Ayurvedic Sciences' titled 'Ayurveda Research Studies on Covid-19 Registered in CTRI: A Critical Appraisal' throws more light on this growing "research culture" in Ayush disciplines. Of the total trials registered, approximately 70 per cent were sponsored by the government and various Ayurveda stakeholders associated with the Ministry of AYUSH. "These trials will provide useful information to the researchers which will help them to strategize the next course of action and also help the general public in understanding the contribution of Ayurveda in (combating) Covid-19," the ministry said. "Once completed, the results of these promising studies will expectedly be published at the earliest so that it will be useful for the policymakers from the Ayush systems of medicines to strategize effective solutions to benefit public health initiatives," it said. Further, in these challenging times, they will provide information for the global scientific community to know about the outcomes of Ayurveda clinical trials being conducted on Covid-19 in India, it added. These trials will form a potential source of information for further collaborative studies at the national and global levels, the statement said. Of the 58 registered trials, 52 (89.66 per cent) are interventional trials and six (10.34 per cent) are observational trials, it stated. The majority of the trials included adult participants of both genders as the target population. The instant paper which is authored by researchers of the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences provides detailed information about Ayurveda-based Covid-19 clinical trials with respect to administrative information on trial registry number and sponsorship, descriptive information on study type and length of study and study design, the ministry said. "With an increasing number of registered trials in this field, the body of knowledge in Ayush disciplines will increasingly reflect more contemporary information," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/58-ayurveda-based-covid-19-trials-registered-from-march-1-to-june-25-ayush-ministry-895472.html
30-09-2020||National||Lt Gen Harinder Singh who led 6 rounds of military talks with China to helm Indian Military Academy||Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps who held six rounds of tough negotiations with Chinese military on the border standoff in eastern Ladakh, has been appointed as head of the prestigious Indian Military Academy, government sources said on Wednesday. He will relinquish his current post, which he held for one year, by mid-October to take charge as commandant of the institute that trains young cadets to become officers. The sources said Lt Gen PGK Menon will succeed Lt Gen Singh as head of the 14 Corps which is also known as the Fire and Fury Corps. As head of the 14 Corps, Lt Gen Singh has been overseeing India's overall combat readiness in Ladakh and has been part of crucial decision making process to effectively deal with aggressive behaviour by Chinese troops. Lt Gen Menon was part of the Indian delegation at the sixth round of Corps commander-level talks between India and China on September 21. Following the sixth round of talks, the two sides announced a slew of decisions to de-escalate the situation in eastern Ladakh. The decisions included stoping sending more troops to the frontline, refraining from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoiding taking any actions that may further complicate matters. It was for the first time that the two armies announced specific measures to ease tensions in eastern Ladakh where the face-off began in early May. The sources said Lt Gen Singh will lead the Indian delegation at the seventh round of Corps commander dialogue if it takes place before mid-October. During a fresh round of diplomatic talks between India and China on Wednesday, it was agreed that the next round of the Corps commander-level talks should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lt-gen-harinder-singh-who-led-6-rounds-of-military-talks-with-china-to-helm-indian-military-academy-895477.html
30-09-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi, L K Advani attend virtual meeting of Somnath Trust||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP veteran L K Advani on Wednesday evening attended a meeting of the Somnath Temple Trust through video link. At the meeting, it was decided to reappoint former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel as chairman of the trust for one year, it said in a release. Modi and Advani are among the trustees of the Shree Somnath Trust, which manages the famous Somnath Temple in Gir Somnath district of Gujarat. Other trustees including J D Parmar,Harshvardhan Neotia and trustee-secretary P K Lahiri also attended the meeting, the release said. Modi also tweeted about the meeting. "Participated in the Shree Somnath Trust meeting via video conferencing. We discussed a wide range of issues pertaining to the Temple, including the exceptional community service by the Trust during these times and harnessing of technology to enable more devotees to pray," the PM said. Participated in the Shree Somnath Trust meeting via video conferencing. We discussed a wide range of issues pertaining to the Temple, including the exceptional community service by the Trust during these times and harnessing of technology to enable more devotees to pray. Lahiri said in the release that all the trustees agreed to reappoint Keshubhai Patel as chairman for one year. "The trustees also approved audited accounts of the trust for the year 2019-20," he said. The trust's assets grew from Rs 249.37 crore to 321.09 crore during the year. Against a revenue of 46.29 crore, the trust spent Rs 35.80 crore, said the release. Trustees were informed that the temple had donated Rs 1 crore to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to fight coronavirus. Modi suggested during the meeting that "Gau-lok Dham" and all the places in this region associated with Lord Krishna be developed, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-l-k-advani-attend-virtual-meeting-of-somnath-trust-895479.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||DH Radio | The Lead: Farm laws and ensuing protests, explained||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, want to know about the farm laws— the reason for farmers' protest? Listen to Suyash Tiwari, a senior analyst at PRS Legislative Research, explain them in detail. Ahmed Shariff:  In today's episode,  we are joined by a senior analyst at PRS Legislative Research Suyash Tiwari to probe the farm laws and get to know them better. Hi, Suyash and welcome to DH Radio.  Suyash Tiwari: Hi. Ahmed: Can you briefly explain to us the three farm bills over which there are protests across the country? Suyash: If you see the way agricultural produce is currently regulated, the marketing part of it. We are talking about the first step of the supply chain where the farmers sell their produce to buyer, trader, agent etc. That part is regulated by the APMC market. These committees are set up under the state laws and these state laws are meant to regulate the entire agriculture marketing system— the way the farmers can sell their produce, where they can sell it and who can buy it and what kind of measures need to be taken care of when such a transaction takes place and who is the regulatory authority to intervene when a dispute arises. The three bills passed by the parliament recently they mainly try to intervene in this step where the farmer is selling his produce to the next player or the buyer. One of three bills what it tries to do is that it wants to make it easier for the buyers to buy (the produce) directly from the farmer... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-radio-the-lead-farm-laws-and-ensuing-protests-explained-895038.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Babri Masjid case judgement vindicates my belief, says L K Advani||Veteran BJP leader Lal Krishna Advani on Wednesday welcomed the judgement by the Special Court in Babri Masjid demolition case to acquit all the 32 accused persons. "The judgement vindicates my personal and BJP's belief and commitment toward the Ram Janmabhoomi movement," Advani said. Twenty-eight years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid by thousands of 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya, a CBI special court on Wednesday acquitted all the 32 accused persons and stated that the demolition at Ayodhya was not pre-planned. Several senior BJP leaders, including L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, and Kalyan Singh were among the accused.  There were 49 accused persons in this case but 17 of them have died since.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/babri-masjid-case-judgement-vindicates-my-belief-says-l-k-advani-895168.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Jai Shri Ram: L K Advani on being acquitted from Babri demolition case||Veteran BJP leader L K Advani, who was acquitted by a special CBI court on Wednesday in the Babri mosque demolition case, welcomed the court verdict by chanting 'Jai Shri Ram', and said it came in "footsteps of another order which paved the way for my dream of seeing a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya". Advani, who was the face of the Ram Janambhoomi Movement in 1992, was acquitted along with all other 31 accused in the case. "It is a very important decision and a matter of happiness for us. When we heard the news of the court’s order, we welcomed it by chanting Jai Shri Ram,” Advani said in a video message. Later in a statement, he said the "judgement came in footsteps of another verdict which paved way for my dream of seeing a Ram Mandir at Ayodhya". After the court verdict, the 92-year-old BJP leader came out and greeted the media, gathered outside his house, by chanting the slogan of 'Jai Shri Ram'. He was seen watching the news in his residence while sitting with his family members and his daughter Pratibha Advani, who was holding his hands. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jai-shri-ram-l-k-advani-on-being-acquitted-from-babri-demolition-case-895195.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia accuses Congress of misleading farmers||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia Wednesday accused the Congress of misleading farmers on the three recently enacted agriculture-related laws and said the party would not be able return to power at the Centre by doing so. He said the Congress was rejected by people due to its principles and policies and it has “shrunk” due to its “own misdeeds”. Poonia, who was live on Facebook to launch the BJP’s 'Kisan Kalyan Sampark Abhiyan', said that his party through its campaign across the state will expose the “lies” spread by the Congress on the farm-related laws. "The Congress is dreaming to come to power by misleading farmers but I think this will remain a dream only," he said. Under the BJP’s campaign, the party’s MPs, MLAs and other leaders will connect with people and farmers to raise awareness on the three laws. Poonia said leaflets will be distributed at booth level by party workers and office-bearers. “The Congress lied that the government will end MSP regime, but the prime minister has already clarified that MSP is going to stay. Under the new provisions, farmers can sell their produce anywhere in the country. There will be no boundation. Also, mandis too will continue to function and competition will increase which will benefit the farmer,” he said. Poonia said that under the contract-farming mechanism, farmers will decide the rate and the contract will be of produce and not that of the land. “The Congress is spreading misinformation about contract-farming. The land will remain with the farmer and there will be nothing related to land in the contract. It is all about the produce,” he said. "The Congress president has asked the Congress-ruled states to bring legislations to negate the Central laws. The party is not used to remain out of power. “Secondly, it is dedicated to one family. The Congress party has gone behind regional parties. The party leadership is directionless, they have no issues. The party neglected its principles just because of one family. Such party can do no good for the country," he said. Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Kailash Chaudhary are slated to speak about the farm laws through Facebook Live on October 1. The Party’s MPs, former Members of Parliament, Kisan Morcha presidents will speak through the medium on October 2, while ex-MLAs, district presidents, district officials and farmers will do so the next day. BJP spokesperson Ramlal Sharma said the campaign will run till October 10 during which Kisan Kalyan Gram Chaupal will be held to make the farmers aware of the new agricultural laws. The information about the laws will be provided to farmers and common people by distributing about nearly 30 lakh leaflets on October 9 and 10. The leaflets will be distributed in 50 to 100 houses at the booth level, he said. The Congress party and some farmers' organisations have been alleging the laws are framed to suit "big corporates who seek to dominate the Indian food and agriculture business", and will weaken the negotiating power of farmers. The Centre has maintained that the laws would be beneficial to the farmers. Three farm bills -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were signed into laws by President Ram Nath Kovind recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-bjp-president-satish-poonia-accuses-congress-of-misleading-farmers-895209.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Renewed clamour for Kashi, Mathura after Babri acquittal||Apparently buoyed by their acquittal in the Babri Masjid demolition case, several saffron leaders on Wednesday publicly vowed to 'liberate' the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi and Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. A few saffron leaders even threatened to demolish what they termed the 'blots' on the rich history of Hinduism and must be 'removed' without delay. ''Ye to pehli jhanki hai.....Kashi, Mathura baki hai.....jahan jahan daag hai usko saaf karenge,'' (Babri demolition was just a trailer....Kashi and Mathura are still there to be liberated....we will wipe out the blots, wherever they are), Hindu seer and one of the acquitted accused Acharya Dharmendra told reporters outside the special CBI court here on Wednesday. Several other accused persons, who were acquitted, also echoed similar sentiments. ''Now we will focus on Kashi and Mathura,'' said Santosh Dubey, a saffron leader. One of the saffron leaders said that he would launch a movement for the demolition of the Gyanvapi mosque, which was adjacent to Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi and Shahi Idgah mosque, adjacent to Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. The renewed clamour came on the day when a district court in Mathura was scheduled to hear the civil suit claiming ownership of the entire land on which the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi was situated and seeking removal of the Sahi Idgah Mosque on Wednesday. A petition seeking to remove the Gyanvapi mosque is also pending in a Varanasi court and the hearing in the matter has been scheduled in the first week of October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/renewed-clamour-for-kashi-mathura-after-babri-acquittal-895250.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Acquitted in Babri Masjid trial, former Shiv Sena MP Satish Pradhan hails the 'truth'||Former Shiv Sena MP Satish Pradhan, who was an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, on Wednesday welcomed a CBI special court's verdict acquitting all the 32 accused in the case. "Truth has prevailed," the 80-year-old former mayor of Thane told PTI, after attending the hearing through video conference. The court said there is conclusive proof against the accused. Pradhan had earlier been granted bail in the case. The first mayor of Thane near Mumbai while he was with the Sena, Pradhan is now with the BJP. "Truth always prevails. We have full faith in the judiciary," he said. Pradhan was once a trusted associate of Shiv Sena supremo late Bal Thackeray and helped the party grow in the Konkan region and Maharashtra. Local BJP leader Om Prakash Sharma, who was among the 'karsevaks' from Thane to Ayodhya in December 1992, also welcomed the court verdict, adding he was happy that all the accused have been acquitted. All the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, were on Wednesday acquitted by the special CBI court. The court in Lucknow said there was no conclusive proof against the accused. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. The accused also include Uma Bharti and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, during whose tenure the structure was pulled down, besides Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/acquitted-in-babri-masjid-trial-former-shiv-sena-mp-satish-pradhan-hails-the-truth-895282.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Non-Congress opposition, Muslim leaders demand CBI appeal against Babri Masjid demoliton verdict||Non-Congress opposition parties and Muslim leaders on Wednesday questioned the verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case that said that there was no conspiracy in the 6 December, 1992 incident and demanded that judgement acquitting leaders like L K Advani should be appealed in higher courts. They found fault with the CBI investigation allowing the BJP-RSS leaders to go scot-free while describing the verdict as a "travesty of justice" that "blemishes" the image of India as a secular country. They also cited the Supreme Court verdict on the Ayodhya title suit in which the demolition was described as violation of law and said this verdict goes against it. Babri Masjid Action Committee (BMAC) convener Zafaryab Jilani said they would challenge it in the High Court and accused the CBI of failing to put up a strong case despite having evidence. Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) president Syed Sadatullah Hussaini said justice has not been delivered even after 28 years. "How the court arrived at the conclusion that there was no conspiracy to demolish the Masjid and that the act was spontaneous and not pre-planned is difficult to understand...History will not judge our nation kindly over the Babri Masjid demolition case, where justice was delayed, denied and the accused culprits were rewarded and set scot-free," he said adding that JIH does not approve of violence to achieve one’s political agenda or parochial targets. DMK chief M K Stalin said the CBI failed to act fairly to prove the conspiracy, as it has become a "caged parrot" of the BJP-led Centre. He accused the CBI of "irresponsible and negligent attitude", claiming it relinquished its duty under the Criminal Procedure Code which would have long term consequences and was a cause of concern. The NCP said it expected this verdict and was not surprised. Maharashtra minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik said, "Rath Yatra was taken out before December 6 (1992). The media of the country was present at the (mosque) site and documented the events. There were photos taken and videos captured. There are contents available on YouTube. But the court has given its verdict and we respect it," Malik said. Demanding that the CBI should immediately appeal against the verdict, the CPI(M) said it took 28 long years for this verdict but not justice to be delivered. "All the top leaders of the BJP-VHP-RSS who were present at the scene guiding the criminal act have been found to be innocent of the charge of conspiracy to demolish the mosque. The Supreme Court in its Ayodhya judgment on November 8, last year had called the demolition an egregious violation of the law. Now, the Lucknow court has found the main perpetrators of this crime not guilty," it said. "A complete travesty of Justice. All charged with criminal conspiracy to demolish Babri Masjid acquitted. It self imploded? The Constitution Bench headed by then Chief Justice of India had said that demolition was an “egregious” violation of law. Now this verdict! Shame," CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted. Expressing "shock and dismay" over the verdict, the CPI said it was a "well-known fact that an intense campaign" along with Rath Yathra was carried out by RSS-BJP leaders for mobilising people against the Babri Masjid which finally resulted in its demolition. Referring to the verdict that said anti-social elements pulled down the mosque, CPI General Secretary D Raja asked, "the karsevaks who took part in the demolition, we are given to understand, are anti-social elements. But who are they?" AIMIM chief and MP Asaduddin Owaissi said it was a "black day" for the judiciary. "Now, the court says there was no conspiracy. Please enlighten me, how many days of months of preparations are required to disqualify an action from being spontaneous?" he said. The Muslim League described it as "unfortunate" and demanded that an appeal should be filed against the verdict. Senior Muslim League MP PK Kunhalikutty said the whole world has seen that no one tried to prevent the demolition of the mosque. CPI(ML) Liberation General Secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said this was the "final nail" in the coffin of justice for victims of hate crimes in India. "These verdicts are an incentive for perpetrators of hate crimes, assuring them that they can enjoy the political and material fruits of such crimes with total impunity," he said. Senior RSP MP NK Premachandran said the verdict is a slap on the face of secular democratic India and it will lead to people losing faith in the judiciary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/non-congress-opposition-muslim-leaders-demand-cbi-appeal-against-babri-masjid-demoliton-verdict-895287.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||We must forget the Babri episode and move ahead: Shiv Sena||Welcoming the verdict of the special CBI court acquitting 32 persons in the Babri demolition case, the Shiv Sena said it is time that we forget the episode. “I, my party, Shiv Sena, and my party president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray welcome the verdict,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation for the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. “It is time we forget the episode and move ahead,” he said. The incident that happened 28 years ago changed the course of Indian politics, the journalist-politician said. “We congratulate Advani ji, Murli Manohar ji, Uma Bharti-ji and the people who have been acquitted in the case," he said. Raut, the Executive Editor of Saamana which is the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, said that the CBI court has also said that the demolition was not pre-planned. "The verdict saying demolition wasn't a conspiracy and a result of circumstances was the expected judgment. We must forget that episode. If the Babri Masjid wasn't demolished we wouldn't have seen any bhoomipoojan for Ram Mandir," said Raut, adding that the case had lost significance after last November's Supreme Court verdict ordering the construction of a Ram temple at the site and the bhoomipoojan by Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-must-forget-the-babri-episode-and-move-ahead-shiv-sena-895295.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Hathras gang rape: Is justice sought only for actress, asks Sanjay Raut||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday questioned the "silence" of Dalit leaders and social media 'activists' on the gang-rape and brutal murder of a woman in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras. Speaking to reporters, Sena MP Sanjay Raut questioned the "hue and cry" generated by certain sections over the demolition of a "house roof" of an actress, an apparent reference to Kangana Ranaut. "Is it that justice is sought only for a celebrity or an actress? Where is the media now which was screaming for justice for an actress whose house roof was demolished?" he said while terming the Hathras incident "shocking and unfortunate". Raut said he hadn't seen a social media campaign demanding justice for the victim. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was raped in a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. The Sena chief spokesperson said it was "unfortunate" that once aggressive Dalit movement has lost its lustre. "(Union minister and RPI (A) chief) Ramdas Athawale sought justice for an actress, but not for the poor girl from Hathras whose family was denied the right even to cremate her mortal remains," he said. "Where are those who were demanding President's rule in Maharashtra for justice to an actress?" he asked. Raut clarified the Sena was not demanding the resignation of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the incident. Raut and Ranaut have been at loggerheads since the actress compared Mumbai to "Pakistan occupied Kashmir" (PoK), following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year. Raut has also been made a party in the case filed in the high court by Ranaut against partial demolition of her bungalow by the Mumbai civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hathras-gang-rape-is-justice-sought-only-for-actress-asks-sanjay-raut-895297.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Bihar Assembly polls: BJP makes last-ditch effort to placate LJP, offers 27 seats to break deadlock with NDA||Tired of the tantrums of its alliance partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party is now making a last-ditch effort to placate the LJP and has reportedly offered it 27 seats to break the deadlock within the NDA over the seat-sharing issue. The pocket organisation of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, has however, reportedly turned down the offer saying it won’t contest the Bihar polls with less than 36 seats. The LJP, headed by Paswan’s son Chirag, has told the BJP that since it has six Lok Sabha MPs and each parliamentary constituency consists of six Assembly seats, “logically the LJP should get at least 36 constituencies to contest.” During the 2015 Assembly elections, the LJP was in alliance with the BJP, not the JD(U), and had contested on 42 seats. It could, however, scrape through in merely two seats. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who is reportedly unhappy with Chirag Paswan for questioning him on the issue of law and order and migrants’ plight, has asked the BJP top leadership to resolve the seat-sharing issue at the earliest as “time was running out and so was the JD(U)’s patience.” The first phase of voting is slated to take place on October 28, followed by two rounds of further polling on November 3 and November 7 for the 243-member Bihar Assembly. Counting of votes will take place on November 10. NDA sources say that an "acceptable formula" was being worked out where the BJP and the JD(U) contest the poll on a 50:50 basis. While the BJP would give the LJP seats from its quota, the JD U) would allot constituencies to Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM from its quota of seats to contest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-assembly-polls-bjp-makes-last-ditch-effort-to-placate-ljp-offers-27-seats-to-break-deadlock-with-nda-895324.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||'What kind of a CM are you?': Priyanka Gandhi corners Yogi Adityanath over Hathras gang rape case||In a scathing attack, Congress on Tuesday slammed Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the “inhuman handling” of the Hathras gang rape case and sought his resignation. Earlier, Priyanka and former Congress President Rahul Gandhi slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for the “forceful cremation" of the Hathras gang rape victim in the small hours of Wednesday in the absence of her family members. “A daughter of India is raped and killed, the facts are suppressed and the right to perform the last rites is taken away from the family. This is insulting and unjust,” Rahul said. Youth Congress and Mahila Congress activists took out protest march to the Uttar Pradesh Bhawan in the national capital demanding the resignation of the Chief Minister and also set his effigy on fire. The family members of the gang rape victim alleged the Uttar Pradesh police had forcefully taken her mortal remains away from Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday night and cremated at 2:30 AM on Wednesday. “I was on the phone with the Hathras victim’s father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair. He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night he was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites,” Priyanka said. Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said Congress would launch a series of agitation against the UP Chief Minister and would not rest till he steps down. “The government did not protect her when she was alive. The government did not provide her timely treatment when she was attacked. After her death, the government snatched away the rights of the family to perform the last rites and denied dignity to the dead,” Priyanka said. Congress workers took out a candle march in the national capital on Tuesday night to demand justice for the gang rape victim and slam the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-kind-of-a-cm-are-you-priyanka-gandhi-corners-yogi-adityanath-over-hathras-gang-rape-case-895336.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Babri verdict: Jamiat says criminal act brushed aside; AIMPLB urges CBI to file appeal||Prominent Muslim organisations on Wednesday raised questions over the Babri mosque verdict saying it was "far from justice" and not only witnesses were ignored but the criminal act was brushed aside too, with the AIMPLB urging the CBI to file an appeal against the judgement. All the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and MM Joshi, were acquitted by a special CBI court in Lucknow which said there was no conclusive proof against them. In a statement, All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) general secretary Wali Rahmani said, "This judgment is far from justice. It is neither based on evidence, nor is it in accordance with the law." "Whatever may be the reasons for the acquittal, but this is also a fact that many of us have seen videos and photos of the demolition. Who all was part of this conspiracy is an open secret," he said. "To uphold the rule of law, we urge the CBI to file an appeal," he added. The AIMPLB general secretary said Muslims kept faith in the institutions of the country, but many "events have shaken faith in the temple of democracy and institutions therein". Senior lawyer and AIMPLB member Zafaryab Jilani said the verdict would be challenged in the high court. Other Muslim organisations also came down hard on the judgement and said it was contrary to the observations made by the Supreme Court in its 2019 verdict. Prominent Muslim body Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind raised questions over the special CBI court decision and asserted that it was contrary to the Supreme Court's 2019 observation that the demolition of the structure was an "egregious violation of the rule of law". Reacting to the development, Jamiat president Maulana Arshad Madani said the mosque was demolished in broad daylight and the world witnessed "under whose patronage the mosque was razed" and who was in power in Uttar Pradesh at that time. Jamiat general secretary Maulana Mahmood Madani claimed that such a verdict has no parallel in the justice system anywhere. "While pronouncing the judgment, not only the witnesses were ignored but criminal act of the perpetrators of Babri mosque demolition too was brushed aside," he alleged. Jamaat-e-Islami Hind president Syed Sadatullah Hussaini, in a statement, said the organisation expresses disappointment at the verdict. "The designated court has acquitted all the accused citing lack of evidence, notwithstanding the fact that just 10 months back the Supreme Court of India had called the demolition a criminal act and a violation of the law," he said. How the court arrived at the conclusion that there was no conspiracy to demolish the mosque and that the act was spontaneous and not pre-planned is difficult to understand, he said. According to Jilani, there were hundreds of statements by the witnesses and in criminal cases these are very important, adding among those who gave their statements were IPS officers and journalists who had said that the accused persons were sitting on the dias and inflammatory speeches were being given. The special CBI court has given its verdict ignoring the evidence and so Muslims will challenge it in the high court, he said. He also indicated that the board might also be a party if there is an agreement on this point. Jilani claimed that when the structure fell down, there was celebration and sweets were distributed but the court was of the view that there was no conspiracy. There were clear evidences under 153-A (promoting enmity, hatred between different communities), 153-B (assertion prejudicial to national integration) against Advani and others and yet they were acquitted, he further claimed. When pointed out that it was the CBI which was fighting the case, Jilani said the victims and the witnesses also have the right to appeal but the agency too needs to do so. "We are victims, several of our people were witnesses in the case. I too was among them," he said. He further said that from the Muslims' side both the victims and the witnesses would file an appeal. Another senior member of the board Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahali said Muslim organisations will sit together and decide if an appeal is to be made against it. Refusing to comment on the acquittal of all accused, he said, "I don't have anything to say on the verdict. Everybody knows how the Babri mosque was sacrificed on December 6, 1992 in Ayodhya and how all rules were flouted." In a judgment that ran into 2,300 pages with enclosures, special judge S K Yadav said there was no conclusive evidence against the accused of being involved in any conspiracy to bring down the disputed structure in Ayodhya. Delivering the verdict on the day of his retirement, Yadav did not accept newspaper reports and video cassettes as evidence. The court also observed that the late Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Ashok Singhal wanted to save the structure because Ram idols were inside. The 16th-century mosque was demolished on December 6, 1992, triggering riots that left hundreds dead in the country and widening rifts between the communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/babri-verdict-jamiat-says-criminal-act-brushed-aside-aimplb-urges-cbi-to-file-appeal-895460.html
30-09-2020||National Politics||Hathras gang rape case: India will rise against your unjust ways, Sonia Gandhi tells BJP||In a scathing attack on Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for “inhuman handling” of the Hathras gang rape case, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday said the nation would no longer tolerate its injustice and rise against it. Stepping up protests against the BJP government, AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded the resignation of the UP Chief Minister, while party workers hit the streets in the national capital and set his effigies on fire. The “forcible cremation” of the gang rape victim in the small hours of Wednesday drew all round condemnation from political parties, who expressed shock at the handling of the situation by the UP police. “What kind of justice is this? What kind of government is this? Do you think that you will do anything and the nation would remain a mute spectator. Never. The nation will speak against your injustice,” Gandhi said in a statement here. “Is it a crime to be a girl. Is it a crime to be a girl of the poor,” Gandhi asked and added that she stood with the victim’s family, on behalf of the Congress, to demand justice. Earlier, Priyanka said she was shocked that the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister had to wait for a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to order an inquiry into the Hathras incidents. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi also slammed the hush-hush manner in which the mortal remains of the victims were cremated. “A daughter of India is raped and killed, the facts are suppressed and the right to perform the last rites is taken away from the family. This is insulting and unjust,” Rahul said. Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said Congress would launch a series of agitations against the UP Chief Minister and would not rest till he steps down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hathras-gang-rape-case-india-will-rise-against-your-unjust-ways-sonia-gandhi-tells-bjp-895474.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Farm laws: Punjab BJP sets up 8-member panel to talk to farmers||The Punjab unit of BJP on Tuesday constituted an eight-member committee to reach out to farmers to apprise them of the benefits of the new farm laws, which have triggered protests by peasants and opposition parties in different parts of the country. Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, who constituted the committee, said the panel members would talk to the agitating farmers and make them aware of the benefits of the new laws for the peasant community. Farmers in Punjab and some other parts of the country are opposing the farm laws, dubbing them as “anti-farmers”. Former Punjab Minister, Surjit Jyani, has been nominated as the chairman of the committee, Sharma said here. The other members of the committee include National Kisan Morcha's former general secretary Harjit Singh Grewal, its present secretary Sukhminder Singh Grewal and former president of National Kisan Morcha, Jatinder Singh Atwal. Ashwani Sharma said the committee would also hold discussions with the agitating farmers and take note of their reservations and demands. The committee will also get in touch with the leaders of the various farmer organisations of the state and talk to them.  The committee will later submit a detailed report to him within ten days, he said. Farmers in Punjab have been protesting against the new laws meant to deregulate the sale of their crops, with their unions saying that these legislations will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system. The Congress, along with other opposition parties and farmers' organisations, held demonstrations against the new farm laws across the country on Monday.  President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday assented to the three contentious bills -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-laws-punjab-bjp-sets-up-8-member-panel-to-talk-to-farmers-895009.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Hathras rape victim's body forcibly taken for cremation by UP police at night, alleges family||(Warning: Story contains some graphic details, reader discretion advised)  The body of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital a fortnight after she was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, was cremated here in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, told PTI that the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". The woman was raped in a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. As news of her death spread, protests broke out in Delhi as well as in Hathras with all sections of society, including politicians, sports and cine stars and activists, expressing their anguish and demanding justice for her. The family left Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Tuesday night amid heavy police deployment. The body was taken by the Uttar Pradesh police, which reached Hathras earlier than the family members, claimed a kin of the victim. "The cremation was done around 2.30 am - 3 am," the father of the deceased woman told PTI on Wednesday morning. In the moments preceding the cremation, a brother of the woman told PTI: "Police have forcibly taken the body, and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police." Another kin said the woman's father was accompanied by 30 to 40 people, mainly relatives and others from their neighbourhood, to the crematorium near Bool Garhi village, under Chandpa police station limits, in the district of western Uttar Pradesh. Senior police and administration officials were also present at the crematorium in the middle of the night, an official said. According to purported visuals from the site that surfaced on social media some of the policemen were in anti-riot gears donning body vests and helmets. "We are unable to understand, what they want... what kind of politics is this, they are giving random statements like the woman has not been raped! We don't know what they want," said the relative who was at home with the grieving family. "They are doing all this to hush up the case." When contacted, Hathras Superintendent of Police Vikrant Vir told PTI in a text message: "All procedures as per wish of family (sic)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-rape-victims-body-forcibly-taken-for-cremation-by-up-police-at-night-alleges-family-895045.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||SIT to probe Hathras gang-rape case||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday constituted a three-member SIT to probe the Hathras gang-rape incident which has sparked outrage. A senior government official said the Chief Minister has also asked for conducting the trial of the case in a fast track court. A 19-year-old woman was brutally gang-raped in a village in Hathras district two weeks ago. She died of her grievous injuries at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, prompting outrage, protests and calls for justice. The official said Secretary home, Bhagwan Swarup, will lead the SIT and DIG, Chandraprakash, and commandant PAC Agra, Poonam, will be its members. The SIT has been asked to submit its report in seven days time, the official said. The woman was gang-raped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the J N Medical College Hospital in Aligarh with serious injuries. She was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sit-to-probe-hathras-gang-rape-case-895104.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Security stepped up in vicinity of Lucknow court ahead of Babri case verdict||Ahead of the pronouncement of verdict in the Babri mosque demolition case by a special court here, a multi-layered security apparatus was put in place in the vicinity of the Old High Court building. Wooden barricades were erected near most of the cross-sections in the vicinity of the court building, and movement of buses from the Kaisarbagh bus stand diverted. Vehicular movement on the roads adjoining to the court building was also minimised. As the accused persons started arriving, cops allowed them entry after verifying their details. Supporters were stopped at the barricades itself. Media persons were not allowed to enter the court building. Most of the shops in the vicinity of the courts remained closed in view of the pronouncement of the verdict. Lucknow's Commissioner of Police Sujeet Pandey also took stock of security arrangements. Policemen were also seen using the public address system to urge the media persons to stay behind the barricades. Some of the accused in the case such as Sadhvi Rithambhara, Lallu Singh, Pawan Pandey waved at media persons as they arrived at the gate of the court building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-stepped-up-in-vicinity-of-lucknow-court-ahead-of-babri-case-verdict-895124.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||UP police has 'detained' Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, its Delhi unit head, allege associates||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and its Delhi unit head, Himanshu Balmiki, have been detained by the Uttar Pradesh police while they were on their way to Hathras, accompanying the family of a 19-year-old Dalit gangrape victim, Azad's associates alleged on Wednesday. Senior Aligarh police officials denied knowledge about the matter. According to functionaries of the Azad Samaj Party, which was launched by the Bhim Army chief in March, Azad and Balmiki went missing after 10 pm on Tuesday while they were on their way to Hathras, accompanying the family of the gangrape victim, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. The Azad Samaj Party and affiliates of the pro-Dalit Bhim Army, among others, had joined the protests outside the Safdarjung hospital in the national capital on Tuesday to demand justice for the gangrape victim and her family. "There is no clue about the location of Azad and Balmiki after they reached the Jewar toll plaza to get on the lane to Tappal, Aligarh," Azad Samaj Party's core committee member Ravindra Bhati said. He alleged that Azad and Balmiki were detained during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, but the police were not making it public. The body of the gangrape victim was cremated in Hathras in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family members alleging that the local police forced them to perform the last rites at the dead of night. Local police officers, however, told PTI that the victim was cremated "according to the wishes of the family". Around 12.30 pm on Wednesday, dozens of Azad Samaj Party and Bhim Army activists reached the Tappal police station in Aligarh and staged a demonstration. "A delegation of our representatives will be meeting senior police and administration officials to inquire about Azad and Balmiki," Bhati told the protesters inside the Tappal police station compound. When contacted, a senior Aligarh police official said, "I have no idea about this (detention) claim." The district police chief and some other senior officers could not be contacted as according to another police official, they have been infected with the coronavirus and are under medication for the last three-four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-has-detained-bhim-army-chief-chandrashekhar-azad-its-delhi-unit-head-allege-associates-895127.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Hathras rape case: PM Modi speaks to CM Yogi Adityanath, calls for strict action||Amid outrage over the Hathras gang-rape case, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and sought strict action against the accused, the Chief Minister's office said. Adityanath on Wednesday constituted a three-member SIT to probe the gang-rape case, a day after the death of the 19-year-old woman in a Delhi hospital and also asked for conducting the trial in a fast track court. In a tweet, the Chief Minister's office said that the Prime Minister spoke with Adityanath over the case. “Respected Prime Minister @narendramodi Ji has spoken on the Hathras incident and said that strict action should be taken against the culprits,” the CMO said. The woman was brutally gang-raped in a village in Hathras district two weeks ago. She died of her grievous injuries at a Delhi's Safdurjung hospital on Tuesday, prompting outrage, protests and calls for justice. A senior official said an SIT has been constituted to the probe the case. Secretary home, Bhagwan Swarup, will lead the SIT and DIG, Chandraprakash, and commandant PAC Agra, Poonam, will be its members. The SIT has been asked to submit its report in seven days time, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-rape-case-pm-modi-speaks-to-cm-yogi-adityanath-calls-for-strict-action-895141.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan HC dismisses state government's plea to extend time limit for holding polls for 6 civic bodies||The Rajasthan High Court has dismissed the state government's application to extend time limit for holding elections for six newly created municipal corporations in the state. A division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta on Tuesday dismissed the application to defer the election from October 31 this year to March 31, 2021, for six municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, and directed the government to conduct the elections by October 31. The bench dismissed the petition holding that when panchayat elections could be held smoothly, then there should be no escape in holding elections of municipal corporations. Earlier, the elections were postponed citing Covid-19 pandemic as a reason. Elections in three municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota cities were due in November 2019, but the government bifurcated them to create six corporations and the elections were postponed for delimitation of wards and later postponed due to the coronavirus situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-hc-dismisses-state-governments-plea-to-extend-time-limit-for-holding-polls-for-6-civic-bodies-895156.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Timeline of the Babri Masjid demolition case||The verdict by a special court in the Babri Masjid demolition case comes 28 years after 'karsevaks' razed the 16th-century mosque and almost a year after the Supreme Court settled the land case in favour of a Ram temple at the disputed Ayodhya site. A timeline: ** According to the Hindus, Mughal emperor Babar's general Mir Baki had built the Babri Masjid at Ayodhya after demolishing a temple in 1528. Hindus consider it as the birth place of Lord Rama. ** It was claimed that the first incident of communal violence over the structure had happened in 1853. Nirmohi Akhara had claimed ownership of the structure claiming that it had been built after demolishing a Hindu temple. ** A wall was erected by the then British regime in 1859 before the Masjid. While the Hindus worshipped outside the wall, the Muslims offered prayers inside the same. ** A Hindu seer Mahant Raghubar Das approached the Faizabad district court in 1885 seeking permission for construction of a Ram Temple  at the site. ** It was claimed that the minarets of the Mosque had been destroyed in communal violence in 1934. ** In 1949 Hindus allegedly installed idols of Ram Lala inside the disputed structure and claimed its ownership. The place was locked. ** A district court ordered opening of the locks in 1986. ** Senior BJP leader L.K.Advani undertook a Rathyatra from Somnath to Ayodhya in 1990. He was stopped in Bihar and placed under arrest. ** Five karsevaks were killed, when police opened fire to prevent them from marching toward the disputed structure on October 30, 1990. ** Over one lakh karsevaks assembled in Ayodhya and demolished the mosque on December 6, 1992. Communal clashes broke out at different places in the country. ** Two FIRs were lodged at Ram Janmabhoomi police station in Ayodhya after the demolition. The first FIR was against unnamed karsevaks while the second was against eight senior BJP and Vishwa Hindu Parishad leaders, including L.KAdvani, Murli Manohar Joshi, VHP president Ashok Singhal and others. ** The case was handed over to the CBI. A special court was et up to hear the case. The UP government through a notification handed over the investigation of the first FIR to CBI. The cases were heard at Raebareli and Lucknow. ** CBI clubbed the two FIRs and filed a composite chargesheet in the matter. ** The Allahabad high court quashed the charges against Adavani and others on the ground that the UP government had failed to issue notification handing over the second FIR to the CBI. ** The supreme court later, on a petition by the CBI, clubbed the two FIRs and ordered a joint trial at Lucknow. It also revived the conspiracy charges against the BJP leaders. ** In 2017, the apex court ordered daily hearing of the matter and extended the tenure of the special CBI judge S.K.Yadav by a year till September 30. ** The Special CBI court started daily hearing of the matter. The SC directed him to pronounce the verdict by September 30. ** As many as 351 people deposed in the case and 600 documents were introduced. 17 accused died during the pendency of the trial.** Court reserved judgement on September one. ** All 32 accused were acquitted by the court on September 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/timeline-of-the-babri-masjid-demolition-case-895171.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality likely to turn 'poor' by October 2||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the 'moderate' category on Wednesday morning, while a government forecasting agency said it is likely to turn 'poor' by Friday. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 160 at 10:30 am, which falls in the moderate category. The 24-hour average AQI on Tuesday was 177. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Favourable ventilation condition is likely to keep Delhi's AQI in the moderate category on Thursday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said. However, it said, late withdrawal of monsoon and associated stagnant winds are likely to influence Delhi's air quality negatively by the weekend. By October 2, the air quality is likely to slip to the "lower end of the poor category", it said. The monsoon started receding from Rajasthan on Monday. It is expected to withdraw from the rest of northwest India by Thursday, according to an India Meteorological Department official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-likely-to-turn-poor-by-october-2-895187.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Hathras case: NCW to seek explanation from UP police on family's claims||The NCW on Wednesday condemned the manner in which the Hathras gang-rape victim was cremated, saying it will seek explanation from the UP Police on it. The 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital a fortnight after she was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, told PTI that the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said the commission condemns that the gang-rape victim was cremated without family's involvement. "In UP Gang-Rape Tragedy, 2.30 am Cremation By Cops, Family was Kept Out. @NCWIndia condemn it strongly. Why the family wasn't allowed in Cremation?  Why at night?@Uppolice @hathraspolice," Sharma tweeted. In another tweet, Sharma said an explanation will be sought from the UP DGP on the matter.  She said her office spoke to the brother of the victim. "The brother of the victim called and told my office that he and his father were taken to the cremation ground while the cremation was on but were not allowed to see the face," Sharma tweeted.   The woman was raped in a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. As news of her death spread, protests broke out in Delhi as well as in Hathras with all sections of society, including politicians, sports and cine stars and activists, expressing their anguish and demanding justice for her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-case-ncw-to-seek-explanation-from-up-police-on-familys-claims-895210.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Father’s ambition doesn’t define standards for selection in Indian Army: HC||A father’s ambition does not define the standards for selection as a commissioned officer in the Indian Army, the Delhi High Court has held while refusing to direct Indian Military Academy (IMA) to take back a candidate who was not suited to a military lifestyle. The candidate, son of a Lieutenant Colonel and a fourth-generation from the family, had joined the IMA in July 2017 for his pre-commissioning training to join the Indian Army as a commissioned officer. However, he was ordered to be withdrawn from the academy in November 2019. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon noted that the candidate’s father, a serving senior Army officer, had made a fervent plea to consider the case of his son leniently, as the commissioning of his son as an officer of the Indian Army meant a lot to him as it would be the fourth generation from his family to join the force. “While it may be possible for us to sympathise with the Lt.Col., but it is not a father’s ambition that defines the standards for selection as a Commissioned Officer in the Indian Army,” the bench said. The high court noted the records revealed that the candidate was finding it difficult to settle into the regimented and highly disciplined lifestyle at the IMA. He used to absent himself from training and special and critical events by malingering or reporting sickness and it was this absenteeism and lying about the reasons for such actions that led to the imposition of several punishments and constitution of the Honour Code Committee against him, it said. The bench said it was amply clear that the petitioner is not suited to a military lifestyle and possibly the desires of his father pushed him into this direction and added that he struggled to meet his father’s expectations. “The father would be well advised to allow his son the freedom to choose his life path and allow him to blossom forth in whatever he so chooses, which is certainly not the Indian Army. “The petitioner and his father would do well to accept the decision of the IMA gracefully and utilise all the learning in the two years spent by the petitioner at the IMA to work towards a bright future in any other chosen field. There is no merit in the present petition which is accordingly dismissed,” the bench said in its judgement. According to the petition, the candidate said he should have passed out after completing his course as a commissioned officer in a year and a half, by the end of 2018. He said he was subjected to ragging and punishments for various infractions right from the beginning of the first term and a week before the second term came to an end in May 2018, he was served with a show cause notice as to why he should not be relegated for having accumulated 60 restrictions in two terms. He had to repeat the second term in the next two sessions. He claimed that despite his sincere and best efforts, he was unnecessarily targeted and singled out by his Company Commander (Coy Cdr). Regarding the final physical training tests, the petitioner said he was made to stand outside the Battalion Duty Officer’s room in Full Pack 08 with 40 Kgs of sand and bricks filled into it from 2300 hours to 0200 hours. As a result, he was completely exhausted and he could not perform to the best of his physical capacity and failed in the three tests. In November 2019, he was awarded more punishments after which his name was withdrawn from the IMA. The authorities disputed the allegations and claimed that the officers at IMA had supported the candidate to improve his attitude and performance and yet he could not fit into the discipline required for a life in the Indian Army. It said he was also found physically unfit, particularly because of being overweight and that action has been taken strictly as per the rules and upon the third relegation, withdrawal was the only course left with the IMA. After perusing the records, the court noted that the IMA acted strictly in accordance with the rules on punishments, relegation and withdrawal. The High Court said the Honour Code Committee to examine the conduct of the candidate was properly constituted and proceedings were fairly conducted and decision was taken fairly. “The explanation offered by the petitioner for failure in the three physical tests may appear plausible but for the fact that the records reveal that the fundamental cause of failure was the obesity of the petitioner,” it said. The court said the use of language and insistence that he was right whereas everybody else was wrong and levelling accusations that the Honour Code Committee was also biased and predetermined in its attitude to the petitioner underscores the correctness of the decision of the IMA to withdraw him from the academy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/father-s-ambition-doesn-t-define-standards-for-selection-in-indian-army-hc-895221.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||UP cops allegedly hold family hostage, forcibly cremate Hathras gangrape victim||Infamous for its nexus with the criminals and stage-managed encounters, Uttar Pradesh police, in utter disregard to human rights, allegedly forcibly cremated the SC girl, who had been brutally assaulted after being gangraped by four youths in Hathras district and died in the hospital, after 'holding' her family 'hostage' at their house in their native village. Enraged members of the SC community later came out on the streets and forced closure of shops and business establishments in the town prompting the police to make a lathi charge. Tension prevailed in the district, sources said. UP government has formed an SIT to probe the matter and submit its report within seven days. It also announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the next of the kin of the victim. While the family members of the victim accused the police of not allowing them to perform her last rites, the cops claimed that their permission was obtained before cremating the victim. ''The police are lying....they locked us up in our house...we were not allowed to even see her face and perform the last rites in accordance with our religion...the cops used force when we embarked on a dharna,'' said the brother of the victim on Wednesday. According to the sources, the body of the victim reached her native village around midnight on Tuesday in an ambulance from Delhi. The police allegedly wanted to cremate the body in the night itself though the family members said that their religion did not allow cremation after Sunset. The cops dragged the family members away and used force when they tried to block the path of the ambulance, sources said. Videos from the spot showed the scuffle between the cops and the local residents. While the opposition leaders launched a scathing attack on the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and sought his resignation on moral grounds, prime minister Narendra Modi also spoke to the CM and asked for a stern punishment to the culprits. According to the police sources here, all the four accused, who hailed from the native village of the victim, have been arrested. The victim had suffered serious injuries on her neck, face, back, and stomach and was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Monday after her condition worsened. She was paralysed in all four limbs and had to be put on a ventilator.  The incident triggered a massive outrage with the opposition leaders targeting chief minister Yogi Adityanath for failing to ensure the safety of the women in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-allegedly-hold-family-hostage-forcibly-cremate-hathras-gangrape-victim-895227.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape: Around 60 people detained as they gather outside UP Bhawan in Delhi for protest||Around 60 Left activists were detained when they tried to stage a protest outside the Uttar Pradesh Bhawan in the national capital against the gang rape and death of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras, police said. The protesters arrived at the UP Bhawan for the protest, but were detained immediately and taken to Mandir Marg police station, they said. The protesters, however, claimed that they continued their protest outside the police station. They demanded the resignation of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and alleged that the state has become unsafe for women. The protest call was given by women's organisations affiliated to the Left. Around 60 protesters, including women, have been detained so far, a senior police officer said. The 19-year-old woman was brutally gang-raped in a village in Hathras district two weeks ago. She died of her grievous injuries at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, prompting outrage, protests and calls for justice. The woman was gang-raped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the J N Medical College Hospital in Aligarh with serious injuries. She was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-around-60-people-detained-as-they-gather-outside-up-bhawan-in-delhi-for-protest-895242.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Entire system raped her: Kejriwal slams police over Hathras gang-rape case||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Hathras gang-rape victim was "earlier raped by some beasts" and then "the entire system raped her", after the woman's family alleged the police forced them to conduct her last rites in the dead of the night. The body of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was gang-raped, was cremated in Hathras in the early hours of Wednesday. Local police officers, however, told PTI that the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". "The Hathras victim was earlier raped by some beasts and yesterday the entire system raped her. The entire matter is highly painful," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Earlier, Kejriwal had termed the death of the 19-year-old victim as a matter of shame for the whole society, country and all governments, and demanded death penalty for the culprits. The woman was raped in a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last. As news of her death spread, protests broke out in Delhi as well as in Hathras with all sections of society, including politicians, sports and cine stars and activists, expressing their anguish and demanding justice for her. Bhim Army and Congress workers staged protests at Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday, demanding justice for the victim. The Uttar Pradesh Police took the victim's body and her family members back to the state from the hospital on Tuesday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/entire-system-raped-her-kejriwal-slams-police-over-hathras-gang-rape-case-895245.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Satyamev Jayate: Yogi Adityanath on verdict in Babri demolition case||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday welcomed the court verdict in the Babri mosque demolition case, terming it as the victory of truth. A special CBI court acquitted all the 32 accused, including L K Advani, M M Joshi, Uma Bharti and Kalyan Singh, in the absence of conclusive proof against them in the case. Satyamev Jayate, the chief minister said while welcoming the decision of the special court, a statement issued by his advisor Mritunjay Kumar said. The chief minister also accused the then Congress government of framing saints, BJP leaders, VHP office bearers and others to defame them for vote bank politics. The chief minister said those responsible for this conspiracy should apologise to the people of the country, the statement said. Adityanath also spoke with BJP veterans LK Advani and M M Joshi over phone and congratulated them on the verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/satyamev-jayate-yogi-adityanath-on-verdict-in-babri-demolition-case-895261.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape: DCW chief writes to CJI demanding action against those involved in cover-up||Delhi Commission For Women chairperson Swati Maliwal on Wednesday wrote to the Chief Justice of India demanding action against those officials who were allegedly involved in covering up the brutal Hathras gangrape and murder incident. Maliwal also demanded a high court-monitored investigation and a trial to ensure the strictest and swiftest possible punishment to the accused in the letter which was also addressed to the Supreme Court's judges. "Immediate suspension and punitive action against all erring police and administrative officials including the senior-most officials who tried to coverup the incident. Setting in place definite mechanisms to ensure that no other daughter has to suffer the same fate," the letter said, listing out her demands. The brutal gangrape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl by four men in Hathras has again shaken the already shaken core, Maliwal said. "The Hathras gangrape and murder has once again exposed the complete apathy and disregard our system shows towards its daughters and mothers. The victim was gang-raped on September 14 and left to die in the fields with grievous injuries," she said. The role of the police and the entire UP government is a matter of grave concern as for days the administration tried to pass of the matter as a dispute between villages and tried to cover-up the incident, she alleged.  "Had immediate action be taken on the pleas of the family and had the victim been shifted to Delhi earlier, we may not have lost another daughter," she said. The woman, whose death in a Delhi hospital two weeks after she was brutally gang-raped sparked protests and anguish, was cremated near her home in Hathras in the dead of the night early Wednesday with her family alleging they were forced by local police to conduct the last rites. "Even in death, the UP government was not moved by the pleas and tears of the victim and gravest of grave violation of the human rights of the victim... "Every possible fundamental and human right of the victim was violated by the UP government and its police, in life and in death," Maliwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-dcw-chief-writes-to-cji-demanding-action-against-those-involved-in-cover-up-895264.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||2-day-old girl stabbed multiple times to death in Madhya Pradesh||A two-day-old girl was stabbed to death by an unidentified person and the body dumped in a temple premises in Bhopal, police said on Wednesday. The newborn's body having multiple stab wounds was found wrapped in a shawl in the premises of a temple in Ayodhya Nagar area on Monday, they said. The police sent the body for postmortem and its report received on Tuesday revealed that the child was attacked with a sharp tool multiple times on the stomach and back, Ayodhya Nagar police station in-charge Renu Murab said. A murder case has been registered against an unidentified person, the official said, adding that no arrest has been made so far. The police are trying to gather details from nearby hospitals about the birth of children in last one week, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-day-old-girl-stabbed-multiple-times-to-death-in-madhya-pradesh-895268.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||AAP govt terms news reports on sero survey results fake; HC says don't play games||The AAP government told the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that the news reports about preliminary results of the third sero survey were "fake" and its officials have not disclosed any information to the media about it. "Don't show the press as unreliable. Don't play games with the court like this," the court said. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, not accepting the Delhi government claim that the news was fake, said no denial was issued by administration regarding the media reports. Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam said according to the news reports, the preliminary findings of the survey were that prevalence of antibodies in those tested was 33 per cent, whereas in reality it was only 25.1 per cent as per the final report. The submission was made in response to the court's query why the sero survey results were first shared with the media before it was even placed before the bench. The bench said that on the last date of hearing, September 16, the Delhi government said the survey results were not ready and a day after the preliminary findings were available with the media. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain and additional standing counsel Satyakam assured the court that it was not doing anything of that sort. They also assured the bench that necessary clarification in relation to the media reports would be issued. The court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking increasing the Covid-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-govt-terms-news-reports-on-sero-survey-results-fake-hc-says-dont-play-games-895292.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||2 soldiers among 3 killed in separate accidents in J&K||Two Army men and another person were killed in separate road accidents in Udhampur and Doda districts of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Wednesday. The deceased soldiers have been identified as havaldar Suresh Kumar and Naik V M Pawar of Jammu and Kashmir Rifles, they said. They died after their vehicle plunged into a 50-feet gorge in Udhampur district on Tuesday, a police official said, adding the bodies were handed over to their unit after completion of legal formalities. In another accident, a car rolled down into a deep gorge in Gandoh area of Doda district resulting in the death of a 50-year-old person on Wednesday. Pawan Kumar (34) and his wife Pooja Devi (30) were injured in the incident and shifted to hospital, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-soldiers-among-3-killed-in-separate-accidents-in-jk-895305.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||NCR Planning Board release Rs 12,441 crore loan for infrastructure projects till Sep 27: HUA||The National Capital Region Planning Board has released a loan amount of Rs 12,441 crore for various infrastructure development projects till September 27, the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said on Wednesday. In a statement, the Ministry said, the Board has provided financial assistance to 360 infrastructure development projects so far with an estimated cost of Rs 31,464 crore, out of which, Rs 15,105 crore has been sanctioned as loan. "During a meeting held on September 28, six projects were sanctioned with an estimated cost of Rs 389.22 crore..." the statement stated. The National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) borrows from market and avails loans from multilateral and bilateral agencies. It extends loan assistance to NCR participating states and their parastatal agencies on very cheap interest rates for harmonised infrastructure development, it said. The ministry said the NCRPB has the mandate to prepare a regional plan for the development of the National Capital Region. It also has the mandate for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of such plans, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncr-planning-board-release-rs-12441-crore-loan-for-infrastructure-projects-till-sep-27-hua-895321.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Masked men open fire at village head's house in UP's Gorakhpur||Panic gripped Tikaria village here on Tuesday night after three motorcycle-borne masked assailants opened fire at the house of the village head. The village head, Akhilesh Singh, is lodged in Gorakhpur district jail since 2016 in a murder case and his wife Ranjana Devi stays in the house with their 12-year-old son and 14-year-old daughter, police said on Wednesday. Three empty cartridges were recovered from the spot, they said. According to the complaint lodged by Devi at Sahjanwa police station, around 11 pm on Tuesday, three masked men came on a motorcycle, knocked on the door of her house and opened fire. "My husband is involved in a property dispute with three people -- Anand Kumar, Pradeep Yadav and Sujit Rawat -- and the case is in court. First, they framed my husband in a murder case and now they are frightening me to drop the property case," she alleged. "Police reached the spot after getting the information and recovered three empty cartridges. An investigation has been launched and a case will be registered soon," Circle Officer Rahul Bhati said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/masked-men-open-fire-at-village-heads-house-in-ups-gorakhpur-895352.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Man held for threatening to blow up Gorakhnath temple||A man has been arrested for allegedly threatening to blow up the Gorakhnath temple here, police said on Wednesday. One Shivendra Singh called the SSP, saying he was speaking from Bedouli Babu village and will blow up the Gorakhnath temple with his accomplice, after which police sounded a high alert. “He called me and said he will blow up the temple within 24 hours and asked police save it if it could,” SSP Jogender Kumar said. After he called the SSP, the phone was switched off and police increased security at the temple. He was arrested after some time. He has been booked under Sections 182 (false information with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person), 505(with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of the IPC and Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1932,” Bensgaon police station in-charge Inspector JN Singh said. "Shivendra of Bansgaon area, who was arrested earlier also, gave threats over the phone but his family claimed that he was mentally ill and police booked him under the Breach of Peace Act," police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-threatening-to-blow-up-gorakhnath-temple-895373.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Congress will celebrate Diwali with people after bypolls: Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath on Wednesday expressed confidence that his party will regain power in the state after the byelections to 28 Assembly seats. The former chief minister was addressing a poll rally in Sitamau in Suvasara assembly constituency in Mandsaur district. "They (BJP) have toyed with the Constitution framed by Babasaheb Ambedkar. They have formed government through horse-trading, but people of the state will give them a befitting reply and they (Congress and people) will celebrate Diwali together," Nath said. Bypolls in Madhya Pradesh will be held on November 3, while counting will take place on November 10. "Whenever you talk about employment and farmers, BJP leaders start talking about Pakistan and China to divert attention from core issues," Nath said. "We waived loans of 27 lakh farmers and the BJP government admitted it on the floor of Assembly. After coming back to power, we will waive the loans of remaining farmers too," he said. "I am openly challenging chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to have a public debate on the issue (of loan waiver)," the Congress leader added. "What kind of future you want, a government formed with vote or one formed with notes?.... If their will prevails, they will not even conduct panchayat polls," he alleged. The 15-month-old Congress government led by Nath fell in March this year after Jyotiraditya Scindia and 22 MLAs loyal to him quit the party and joined the BJP. Later three more Congress MLAs resigned. Three other seats got vacant due to the death of sitting MLAs. TheCongress has fielded Rakesh Patidar from the Suvasara seat for the by-poll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-will-celebrate-diwali-with-people-after-bypolls-kamal-nath-895376.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Student shoots self for failing to get into MBA college||A student allegedly killed himself in Muzaffarnagar after he failed to secure admission in a college to pursue MBA, police said Wednesday. Apoorva Garg, a resident of Bhopa Road, shot himself dead using the licensed gun of his father at his home on Tuesday, said New Mandi police station SHO Yogesh Sharma. Garg was rushed to an area hospital but was declared brought dead, Sharma said. The body has been sent for a post-mortem examination. The gun has been recovered and an investigation is underway. Sharma said the boy was depressed after not being able to get admission to an MBA college.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/student-shoots-self-for-failing-to-get-into-mba-college-895453.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Retd BSF DIG killed in Himachal Pradesh while on trek to find shortest route to China LAC||A 70-year-old retired BSF deputy inspector general died in the upper reaches of Himachal Pradesh while leading a team to "explore the shortest route to China border", officials said on Wednesday. The retired officer, S C Negi, had commanded a Border Security Force (BSF) battalion in Kargil during the 1999 war between India and Pakistan, and had retired in 2010 after putting in 33 years of service. "He took his last breath in the mountain for the cause of the nation when he was willingly leading a recce (reconnaissance) and survey team of a security force to explore a shortest route to China border in Himachal Pradesh,” the BSF said in a statement. "He was advised by his family against the trip as he being 70-years-old, but he said it will be his last trip," the BSF said in a statement. True to his words, it became his last trip and even after retirement, he died in the line of duty for the nation, the force said. The BSF statement did not identify the security force team that the slain officer was leading. However, sources in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) said the retired officer was rescued by a patrol party of the force on Tuesday from the remote Nishangaon area of Kinnaur district along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. The officer was seen lying injured by the ITBP patrol and he had suffered multiple fractures. He died while he was being carried by ITBP troops, they said. They said his body is being kept at Ganthambralam border post, at a height of about 18,600 feet in Himachal Pradesh, of the ITBP for over 24 hours as a helicopter sortie is awaited to pick the mortal remains. A 1977-batch officer of the BSF cadre, Negi is known as the “oldest Indian police officer” to scale the world's tallest peak Mount Everest at the age of 56 years in 2006, the BSF said. He had also been the leader of the central mountaineering team of BSF for a long time, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/retd-bsf-dig-killed-in-himachal-pradesh-while-on-trek-to-find-shortest-route-to-china-lac-895471.html
30-09-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 13-year-old girl allegedly raped by cousin, four arrested||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her cousin and forced to abort the fetus by his parents in Bilaspur district of Chhattisgarh, the police said on Wednesday. Four persons, including the rape accused, were arrested on Tuesday based on a complaint filed by the victim's mother at Kota police station, a police official said here. The girl, who lived with her uncle's family in Belgahna area, was allegedly raped earlier this year by her 18-year-old cousin. On learning that she was pregnant, her uncle, aunt and her grandfather took her to a quack in the neighbouring Korba district for abortion, the official said. When the girl's mother visited her recently, she narrated the ordeal, after which her mother approached the police on Monday. A case was registered under IPC sections 376 (rape) and 313 (causing miscarriage without woman's consent) as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said, adding that the rape accused, his parents and his (and the victim's) grandfather were arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-13-year-old-girl-allegedly-raped-by-cousin-four-arrested-895478.html
30-09-2020||Opinion||Wrong to erase role of caste in Hathras rape case||The Dalit woman who was allegedly tortured and gang raped by four Thakur men in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, fought for her life for two whole weeks before succumbing to her injuries in Safdarjung Hospital. However, the assault on her body continues even after her death. The horrific manner in which the UP police robbed her family of the right to cremate her body deserves the highest condemnation but what is even worse is the narrative spun by people who attempt to frame the incident only as gender-based violence, and not as a caste atrocity. Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav’s statement to ANI draws attention to the caste dynamics at play in this context.“The prime accused will walk free because he belongs to the chief minister’s caste,” he was quoted as saying. He has categorically mentioned that “the UP Police will file whatever it will be asked to” because the cops might face consequences from not following orders. He also claimed that the rape victim’s body was not handed over to the family as part of a larger plan to “prove that the girl was not raped.”  Role of caste in violence against women What makes highly educated and well-networked people, many of whom call themselves feminists, deny this clear connection between violence against women and caste hierarchies? Even before the term ‘intersectionality’ became part of the development sector lexicon in India, it was understood that Dalit women are marginalised on account of both caste and gender. Only those who have not faced discrimination because of their caste location might have the audacity to suggest that the caste of the Hathras rape victim had no role to play in the brutalisation that she experienced. On September 30, Kiruba Munusamy, Advocate at the Supreme Court of India, and founder of Legal Initiative for Equality, tweeted: “Don’t you see your #EnoughIsEnough debates or Nirbhaya Funds aren’t stopping sexual violence? Because the root cause is caste that you don’t talk about. It’s the oppressive misogynistic Indian-Hindu culture embedded in the caste, social and gender hierarchies you don’t give up.” It is easy to make broad sweeping generalisations about violence against women but they do not hold much value if they leave caste atrocities out of the analysis.  Those who are oblivious to the ways in which patriarchy is enabled by casteism must look carefully at the history of the women’s empowerment discourse in India. The Vishaka guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court of India in 1997, which paved the way for The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act in 2013, owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to the courage and labour of social worker Bhanwari Devi, the Kumhar woman from Rajasthan who stood up against the upper caste Gujjar men who gang raped her in 1992. In a new book titled, Sex and the Supreme Court: How the Law is Upholding the Dignity of the Indian Citizen (2020), edited by Saurabh Kirpal, Namita Bhandare has written an essay titled, ‘The Beast in Our Midst: How India’s MeToo Movement Broke the Silence on Workplace Sexual Harassment’. She points out how Bhanwari Devi was also punished by the very system she approached for justice. Bhandare writes: “When judgement was pronounced three years later, in November 1995, by a judge of the District and Sessions court, he ruled: ‘Since the offenders were upper caste men and included a Brahmin, the rape could not have taken place.’ For the judge it was unthinkable that upper caste men could have touched a lower caste woman.” Erasure of caste a wilful act  If upper caste women are now able to speak out against sexual harassment at the workplace, and be heard, a lot of that has been made possible by women who dared to point out the deep entanglements between caste atrocities and gender-based violence. Disregarding this reality is a wilful act of erasure. Bhandare’s essay also highlights the work of another Dalit woman, Raya Sarkar, who published the List of Sexual Harassers in Academia (LoSHA) in 2017 to name and shame teachers at Indian universities who were alleged to have sexually harassed or assaulted students. It is no surprise that, on account of Sarkar’s caste location, her work has been discredited by many upper caste feminists. The unwillingness to engage with caste discrimination is not unique to the women’s movement in India. It is wired into the queer rights movement as well. Social justice for all is not possible if upper caste activists, scholars, journalists and leaders of non-profit organisations want all the gains only for people within their own caste networks. This complicity is made evident in this brief excerpt from a poem titled ‘Rape Nation’, written and tweeted by poet, translator and novelist Meena Kandasamy in response to the police brutality in Hathras. This has happened before, this will happen again. Sanatana, the only law of the land that’s in force, Sanatana, where nothing, nothing ever will change. Always, always a victim-blaming slut-template, a rapist-shielding police-state, a caste-denying fourth estate. (Chintan Girish Modi is a writer, educator and researcher who tweets @chintan_connect) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/wrong-to-erase-role-of-caste-in-hathras-rape-case-895370.html
30-09-2020||South||Telangana records 2,103 new coronavirus cases, tally at 1.91 lakh||Telangana recorded 2,103 fresh coronavirus cases, pushing the tally of infections to 1.91 lakh while the toll rose to 1,127 with 11 more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) reported 298 fresh cases, followed by Medchal Malkajgri 176, Rangareddy 172, Nalgonda 141, Karimnagar 103, Bhadradri- Kothagudem 102 and other districts, a state government bulletin said on Wednesday, providing data as of 8 PM on September 29. The bulletin said 55,359 samples were tested on September 29. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 29.96 lakh. The samples tested per million population was 80,494, the it said. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,60,933, while 29,326 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state climbed further to 84.08 per cent, while it was 83.27 per cent in the country. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.58 per cent, while it was 1.56 per cent at the national level, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-records-2103-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-at-191-lakh-895125.html
30-09-2020||South||Four more succumb to Covid-19 infection in Puducherry||Four more people died of coronavirus in Puducherry on Wednesday, taking the toll in the union territory to 521. Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release that 491 fresh cases were reported after examination of 4,938 samples during last 24 hours ending 10 am on Wednesday pushing the caseload to 27,544. He said 458 patients recovered and were discharged during last 24 hours from hospitals. The fatality rate was 1.89 per cent while the recovery rate was 80.14 per cent. Kumar said 1.84 lakh samples have been tested so far and it was found that 1.53 lakh samples out of them were negative and result of the examination of remaining samples was awaited.  Of the total 27,544 Covid-19 cases, there were 4,949 active while the number of patients who recovered and were discharged were 22,074. The fatalities were 521. While three of the four people who died of infection hailed from Puducherry, the remaining one patient died at the Government hospital in Karaikal, the Director said. Most of the deceased had co-morbidities and they were in the age group ranging between 44 and 67 years. While Puducherry region reported 382 new cases out of the total 491 fresh cases, Karaikal had 76 new cases, Yanam 23 and Mahe 10, the official noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-more-succumb-to-covid-19-infection-in-puducherry-895189.html
30-09-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh temple vandalism: DGP says attempts are on to spin a communal narrative||Andhra Pradesh police chief Gautam Sawang has stated the spate of incidents reported at several temples across the state as standalone occurrences which are “being given a communal twist to suit the vested interests of certain sections.” At a time when the opposition TDP, BJP and JanaSena parties are accusing the Jaganmohan Reddy regime as becoming conducive for “attacks” on Hindu temples and structures, the Director-General of Police said that “aggressive attempts to link all such happenings to spin a misleading narrative is very wrong.” The TDP, BJP were also united in their demand that Reddy, a follower of Christianity, should submit a faith declaration in Lord Venkateshwara before entering the Tirumala temple, during the Brahmotsavams. On Monday, the state police claimed that the accused/suspects had been arrested in 12 out of 19 cases of vandalism etc. offenses at various temples reported since the September 6 Antarvedi temple chariot burning incident. Speaking exclusively to DH on Tuesday, Sawang said that instances before the Antarvedi episode too like the Prasanna Venkateshwara Swamy temple chariot gutting in Nellore in February were “solved promptly and the delinquents arrested.” “We will crack the rest cases in due course,” the senior IPS said. However, the Antarvedi case itself was handed over to the CBI by the Reddy government as questions were raised over the trustworthiness of the state police probe in the communally volatile matter. The initial blame was put on a mentally unsound person by the local police.  Occurring in the backdrop of the Nellore temple chariot fire and Hindu religious idols’ defacement in Pithapuram in January, the gutting of 40 feet wooden chariot of the famous Lord Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple in Antarvedi in East Godavari district under mysterious circumstances had sparked statewide protests led by the JanaSena, BJP and Hindu organizations. “Temple attack incidents higher during TDP years in the rule”  Even as former CM Chandrababu Naidu sharpened his attack on Jaganmohan Reddy government and law enforcement over the temple incidents, the AP police presented statistics (till September) showing that such attacks were higher during the last five years particularly in 2016 and 2017. TDP’s Naidu was the Chief Minister from 2014 to 2019.    “2020 has reported the least number of incidents at temples by far, compared to the yearly figures since the division of the state (in 2014),” Sawang said.    The DGP asserts that the recent untoward events at temples are unrelated and show dissimilar motives in each case.  “In the Srikakulam incident - whereas it was alleged that the idol was desecrated, our investigation revealed that the arm fell off last year due to exposure to heavy rains. In the Kurnool incident, the accused revealed that he desecrated the idol and stole the private part because he believed it would somehow result in his wife conceiving a child. And then some vandalism was by treasure hunting gangs.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-temple-vandalism-dgp-says-attempts-are-on-to-spin-a-communal-narrative-895215.html
30-09-2020||South||Central Council for Research in Siddha to submit Covid-19 management report by November||Siddha doctors and researchers here who have completed three studies on 'Kabasura' concoction and Siddha drugs are hopeful that the Siddha intervention will gain wide acceptance in the management of coronavirus. They are now in the process of analysing data and would submit a comprehensive report on the studies to the Union Ayush ministry in about a month's time. A senior official at the Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS), here said significant progress has been made in the research on Kabasura Kudineer (a herbal concoction) and the results were encouraging. "We are now analysing the data on the studies and will submit a detailed report to the Ayush Ministry in November," Dr K Kanakavalli, Director General of CCRS, the apex body pertaining to research in Siddha system of medicine, here said.    The study on Siddha as standalone was completed at the Dr Ambedkar Government Arts College in Vyasarpadi, offering Siddha-based treatment for asymptomatic, mild and moderate symptomatic patients by CCRS in association with the National Institute of Siddha, Department of Indian System of Medicine and Homeopathy, Tamil Nadu government and Chennai corporation. Prophylactic study of Kabasura Kudineer, besides its add-on intervention to allopathic treatment in state-run medical colleges hospitals were also completed recently. "People in the high-risk zones, namely those in the containment areas were also included in the study. Kabasura Kudineer was advocated for 14 days and the inference was observed and collated on the 21st or 28th day." "The Covid-19 positive patients who were administered Kabasura Kudineer showed remarkable improvement and tested negative. This is a significant development," Dr Kanakavalli told PTI.    The prophylactic study on Kabasura Kudineer was taken up on 20,000 people, who are primary contacts of coronavirus patients and a few with mild symptoms of the pandemic in geographical areas spread across Bengaluru, Delhi, Tirupati, Palayamkottai and Tirunelveli. The research papers will be published after the ministry's approval. Studies indicate that the Siddha formulation can be used as a prophylactic remedy and also in the management of asymptomatic, mild and moderate symptoms of Covid-19, an official said. Sources at the NIS said the premier institute distributed over 50,000 sachets of Kabasura Kudineer to public and frontline workers in Chennai under the guidance of Prof Dr R Meenakumari, its Director, as an initiative to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. NIS observed that the herbal preparation made with 15 herbs and spices helped to improve the immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-council-for-research-in-siddha-to-submit-covid-19-management-report-by-november-895260.html
30-09-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: Key accused ready to turn approver||A key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case on Wednesday moved a plea in the Special NIA court here, expressing his willingness to turn approver. Moving the plea, fourth accused Sandeep Nair, who was arrested by NIA from Bengaluru along with prime accused Swapna Suresh, said he was ready to disclose the facts under Section 164 of the CrPC. Under this section, any metropolitan magistrate or judicial magistrate may, whether or not he has jurisdiction in the case, record any confession or statement made to him in the course of an investigation. Nair said he was very well aware that the statement he would give would be treated as evidence also against him. Multiple agencies including NIA, Customs and Enforcement Directorate are probing the case of smuggling of gold worth over Rs 100 crore through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram since November last year. Swapna Suresh and Sarith were former employees of the UAE consulate and allegedly used their past connection to smuggle gold using the diplomatic channel. The Customs is also probing whether M Sivasankar, who was removed as Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister and also IT Secretary after allegations surfaced that he had links with Swapna Suresh, had used his office to provide any help to the key accused. The NIA had registered the case under Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 against four accused --Sarith, Swapna Suresh, Faizal Fareed and Sandeep Nair on July 10. Suresh and Nair were arrested on July 11 from Bangalore after they absconded from their homes in Thiruvananthapuram. NIA had said their probe revealed that Suresh is one of the prime accused who had conspired and facilitated the smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage of the UAE consulate, Thiruvananthapuram on many occasions with other accused and associates. She had disclosed about his associations with other accused and associates, besides suspects involved in financing the smuggling of gold, the agency said. She was also questioned by NIA about the 'incriminating contents' of retrieved data from the digital devices seized by the agency. NIA has said their investigation so far revealed that the accused had conspired and sourced gold in large quantities from abroad on multiple occasions earlier and smuggled them through various airports, especially in Kerala. It said their probe also revealed the larger conspiracy involving influential people both in India and abroad behind the crime. NIA suspects that the profit from the proceeds of smuggling could be used for terror funding. During the course of the investigation, NIA arraigned 26 others as accused in the case, many of whom were arrested. The agency's probe also revealed that the absconding accused -- Faizal Fareed, Rabins, Sidhiqul Akbar, Ahamed Kutty, Raju and Muhammed Shameer -- are in the UAE. The NIA said it has initiated steps to issue blue corner notices against the absconding accused through INTERPOL to secure them for investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-key-accused-ready-to-turn-approver-895322.html
30-09-2020||South||Kerala government moves HC seeking quashing of CBI's FIR in UAE-aided housing scheme case||Locking horns with the CBI, the CPM-led left front government in Kerala moved the High Court urging that the CBI's FIR pertaining to an UAE agency-funded housing scheme for the homeless be quashed. The CPM leadership already maintained that the CBI's decision to take over the probe was politically motivated. The state Cabinet on Wednesday decided to explore all legal options against the CBI's move. Subsequently, the petition was filed in the High Court. The row is over a Rs 20 crore housing scheme for 140 families funded by UAE-based Red Crescent, initiated under the state government's flagship LIFE Mission scheme. It was alleged that Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act was flouted and the commission was paid to many in connection with the deal. Even Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan faced allegations as he chaired the LIFE Mission and Red Crescent's offer came after a UAE visit of a delegation led by him sought support for rebuilding the flood-hit state. The CBI on filed the FIR on September 24 on the basis of a petition filed by Congress MLA Anil Akkara alleging violation of FCRA by LIFE Mission. The state government's major contention is that the foreign fund was received by the private agencies carrying out the construction. It was also alleged in the petition that registration of a case by the CBI just on the basis of a complaint was certainly on political considerations. The CBI is guided by political and extraneous considerations, said the petition. Earlier there were allegations that the state government was planning to bring in an ordinance to counter the CBI case, but Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had denied it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-moves-hc-seeking-quashing-of-cbis-fir-in-uae-aided-housing-scheme-case-895327.html
30-09-2020||South||A deal made 25 years ago still haunts Pinarayi Vijayan||A 25-year-old deal of Kerala government with a Canadian firm still haunts Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as the Supreme Court will be soon considering CBI's appeal against discharging Vijayan from the sensational SNC Lavalin corruption case. Even as Vijayan got reprieves from the CBI special court in Thiruvananthapuram and the Kerala High Court, the possibility Vijayan's last laugh in the case is still hanging in balance as the CBI filed an appeal in the SC against the High Court order discharging Vijayan. The case was listed by the SC for consideration on Wednesday but has been postponed to next week. The SNC Lavalin case has remained a major hurdle in Vijayan's political career. He got the first relief on 5 November 2013, when the CBI special court in Thiruvananthapuram discharged him. It indeed removed the moral obstacle for Vijayan's ascent to the Chief Ministerial post after the Left-Front's victory in 2016 Assembly polls. In 2017, the Kerala High Court also gave a clean chit to Vijayan in the case by upholding the lower court's discharge order. But the CBI again went to the SC with an appeal against the High Court order in 2018 January.  The SC is considering the case at a time when the Vijayan government is facing serious allegations over a nexus with gold smuggling case accused as well as commission and corruption involved in a UAE agency funded housing scheme. Also, Kerala will be going for Assembly polls in around six months. The SNC Lavalin case pertained to a Rs. 374.5 crore deal between Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and Canadian firm SNC Lavalin for the renovation of Pallivasal, Shenkulam and Panniyar power projects in 1995. Though the deal was initiated during the Congress rule in Kerala, it was finalised by the Left-Front government. Vijayan, in his capacity as the Power Minister in the then E K Nayanar government, finalised the deal and the deliberations were held by a delegation led by Vijayan in Canada in 1996. Irregularities in the deal were initially brought to light by the Comptroller and Auditor General in 2005 and the initial probe was carried out by the Kerala Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau. The Congress government in 2006 decided to go for CBI probe.  The CBI's finding was that the state exchequer suffered a loss of Rs. 86.25 crore as a result of a conspiracy involving Vijayan, who was arraigned as seventh accused in the case. The deal also involved financial assistance of Rs. 98 crore by the Canadian firm to Malabar Cancer Centre. But only around Rs. 9 crore was received by the Cancer Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-deal-made-25-years-ago-still-haunts-pinarayi-vijayan-895332.html
30-09-2020||South||TN CM launches new solid waste management system for Chennai||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday inaugurated new solid waste management of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), where the private entity involved will be paid based on 34 performance indicators. The new solid waste management system of GCC will see Urbaser SA and Sumeet Facilities Limited, a Spain-India joint venture, collect and dispose of waste in Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam, Alandur, Adyar, Perungudi, and Sholinganllur zones for eight years. It will be paid based on 34 key performance indicators under primary collection, secondary collection and transport, street sweeping and collection, compliance, complaint redressal and IEC (information, education, and communication), an official release said.  The move is expected to achieve 100 per cent segregation in all households within one year and maintain it consistently. Battery-operated vehicles will be used for door to door collection of segregated and non-segregated garbage from households and market areas and horticultural waste from public places. Palaniswami flagged off the company's compactors, mechanical sweepers, and rickshaws in the presence of municipal administration minister S P Velumani, at the function. According to the release, about 125 compactors, 38 mechanical sweepers, 3,000 e-rickshaws, and 11,000 compactor trash cans, would be used and the company would employ 10,844 people to carry out the cleaning work. Urbaser SA and Sumeet Facilities Limited's work would cover the activities in 16,621 streets in 92 wards falling under seven zones with a population of about 37 lakh people. The company carries out cleaning work in Spain, France, Italy, England, Oman, Bahrain, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Peru, and in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-launches-new-solid-waste-management-system-for-chennai-895358.html
30-09-2020||South||'Chandamama' artist Sivasankar passes away at 97||KC Sivasankar, the legendary illustrator whose drawings in children’s magazine 'Chandamama' were published in 12 languages and inspired generations together, has died at the age of 97. Sivasankar, who was born in Erode district Tamil Nadu, was unwell for some time and passed away due to age-related illness at his residence in Chennai on Tuesday afternoon. He is survived by his wife Shanmukavalli, a son and daughter. Sivasankar worked with Chandamama also known as Ambulimama for five decades and his illustrations were much loved by children. Tributes poured in for Sivasankar, who joined the magazine that was published in 12 Indian languages, including Kannada, Tamil, Telugu, and Hindi, at one point, with people who grew up reading the magazine sharing their memories and hailing him as a legend. They also recalled the iconic Vikram and Betal characters in Chandamama created by Sivasankar, saying a “piece of my childhood” has gone. Sivasankar graduated from the Government College of Fine Arts in Chennai and joined a Tamil magazine Kalaimagal before moving to Chandamama. “Tributes to KC Shankeran who passed away yesterday. The Artist and Editor “Chandamama” the generation of 60 to 1990s grew up reading the hugely popular multilingual moral science magazine in our School... Times are moving,” IPS officer Bhaskar Rao wrote on his verified Twitter page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chandamama-artist-sivasankar-passes-away-at-97-895369.html
30-09-2020||South||Southern Railway to operate more special trains||Southern Railway on Wednesday announced running more special trains, including inter-state service between Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The railways would operate trains between Karaikal in neighbouring Puducherry and Ernakulam in Kerala, an official press release here said. The Southern Railway announced fully reserved special trains from Chennai-Egmore to Tirunelveli, Madurai (Tejas), Sengottai and Rameswaram and the various services would start between October 2-5. Further, it would run the Chennai Egmore-Kollam and Dr MGR Chennai Central - Alappuzha Superfast Special Trains, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/southern-railway-to-operate-more-special-trains-895374.html
30-09-2020||South||Kerala government sanctions 191 posts for Tata's Covid-19 hospital at Kasaragod||A move that can boost Kasaragod's weak health infrastructure, the state government has decided to sanction 191 posts for the Covid-19 hospital set up by the Tata group. Though the 551-bed hospital was handed over by Tata to Kerala government on September 9, it could not start activity so far as medical staff were not posted. The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to create the 191 posts for the hospital and considering the present urgent scenario, health officials would be posted on one year contract or deputation basis as regular recruitment may take time. At present, the number of Covid-19 patients in Kasaragod is 2,649 which is low compared to other districts in Kerala. The Rs. 60 crore project was offered by Tata as a corporate social responsibility project when the district's weak health infrastructure came to light as the region witnessed an alarming increase of Covid-19 in March - April. The government had also made the administrative block of the upcoming medical college in the district as a Covid-19 hospital on a war footing. The district has also been witnessing protest by relatives of Endosulfan victims over the lack of sufficient medical infrastructure. Tata's Covid-19 hospital is set up at a 5.5-acre land allotted by the state government at Thekkil, about 10 kilometres from Kasaragod town. The hospital is set up using 128 containers in three zones with 81,000 square feet. While two zones are earmarked for those in quarantine, one block is earmarked for Covid-19 positive patients. The construction was completed in four months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-sanctions-191-posts-for-tatas-covid-19-hospital-at-kasaragod-895381.html
30-09-2020||South||Chennai woman devotee donates 1 crore to Tirumala shrine||A woman devotee from Chennai on Wednesday made an offering of Rs 1 crore to Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala near here. She gave the sum with a request to utilise it for developing the temple-run TV channel 'Sri Venkateswara Bhakthi Channel (SVBC),' an official of the hill shrine said. After worship at the temple, the devotee handed over a demand draft for the amount to the Additional Executive Officer of Tirumala-Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) A V Dharma Reddy, the official told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-woman-devotee-donates-1-crore-to-tirumala-shrine-895395.html
30-09-2020||South||Senior minister says Palaniswami will be CM nominee for 2021 TN polls, even as OPS continues parleys||Senior AIADMK leader and Forest Minister ‘Dindigul’ C Sreenivasan on Wednesday said there was no “fight” within the AIADMK on the Chief Ministerial candidate and asserted that incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami will be the party’s face for 2021 assembly elections. His comments came even as deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, who feels sidelined in the AIADMK, was involved in hectic discussions with party leaders for the second consecutive day. The comments by Srinivasan are likely to perturb Panneerselvam, who is “upset” about his party colleagues questioning his authority and publicly “humiliating” him. Panneerselvam is the coordinator of the AIADMK, while Palaniswami is the joint coordinator. Panneerselvam, who skipped review meetings called by Palaniswami on Tuesday, attended a meeting of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) on Wednesday, making it obvious that he was “disappointed” with the Chief Minister. Sreenivasan, a senior leader of the party from Southern Tamil Nadu, spoke to reporters in his native Dindigul district on Wednesday evening, in what is apparent that Palaniswami enjoys “maximum support” in the party to be announced as the AIADMK’s face for the 2021 polls. “There is no competition (for CM candidate). It is only being written in the media. It was discussed and announced that day (Monday). On October 7, the Chief Minister and deputy Chief Minister will make a formal announcement (on CM candidate). There is no competition and there is no problem. The government is being run in an excellent manner and AIADMK will come to power once again and Edappadi K Palaniswami will be the Chief Minister,” he said. Srinivasan’s comments assume significance as he was one of the senior ministers who, according to sources, told the AIADMK Executive Committee meeting on Monday that a decision on CM candidate should be taken immediately. While they wanted the issue of CM nominee to be discussed, Panneerselvam was stressing on the need to appoint a steering committee to run the party as it braces to face the crucial assembly polls next year. On Wednesday, former minister ‘Natham’ R Viswanathan, who had met Palaniswami on Tuesday, held parleys with Panneerselvam, who was joined by his supporters. Sources told Deccan Herald that Panneerselvam was questioning the need to announce the CM candidate before elections and was insisting on strengthening his powers in the party and constitution of a committee to run day-today affairs of the party. “Panneerselvam wants more say for him in the party and he has put forth his position before Natham Viswanathan and another senior leader R Vaithilingam who met him in the past two days. Since he feels sidelined in the government, he wants to have full control over the party which is also being stone-walled by the EPS faction,” a senior AIADMK leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-minister-says-palaniswami-will-be-cm-nominee-for-2021-tn-polls-even-as-ops-continues-parleys-895404.html
30-09-2020||South||Water row: Telangana says it will give strong reply to Andhra Pradesh||The Telangana government on Wednesday said it has decided to give a befitting reply to the arguments of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh at the apex council meeting on inter-state water issues convened by the Centre on October 6. The Telangana government, in a statement, said it would also expose the delay of seven years allegedly caused by the Centre on water issues. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao convened a meeting on Thursday with officials of the Water Resources Department to discuss the strategy to be adopted at the apex council meet. Rao asked the officials to come to the meeting with all data and information on the issues to be placed before the Central government, the statement said. "The state of Andhra Pradesh is intentionally creating disputes on the river water-sharing. We have to give a befitting reply to that state's arguments at the apex council meeting. Give an absolute clarity on issues so that the Andhra Pradesh government will not raise the issues again in future," it quoted Rao as saying. "Take the opportunity to expose the seven-year delay caused by the Centre and its inactive role in the matter. Oppose and reject the attempts made to undermine the rights of Telangana people. Utilise the apex council meeting to tell the whole country about the facts, he said. Observing that a new state should be allocated its share of water after its formation, Rao said the Telangana government had written to the Prime Minister on June 14, 2014, requesting that water be allocated to it either by constituting a special tribunal or through the existing tribunal. The state government had also wanted the allocation to be done between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh or among the river basin states. However, there has been no response to the letter written to the Prime Minister even after seven years, he said. "The Centre kept mum on the issue. Moreover, they are giving a picture that they were doing something by convening apex council meetings. But in reality, the Centre is not doing anything. In the October 6 meeting, take the Centre to task. Be firm in demanding that there should be absolute clarity on the allocation of water to the state of Telangana," Rao said. Differences have cropped up between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in recent months over the construction of projects in both the states. The apex council, constituted as per the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, comprises the Chief Ministers of the two states as members and is headed by the Union Water Resources Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/water-row-telangana-says-it-will-give-strong-reply-to-andhra-pradesh-895489.html
30-09-2020||State||Grace time for PwDs in exams: Karnataka HC seeks response from govt, KPSC||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the Karnataka State Public Service Commission (KPSC) and the state government to make their stand clear on following the guidelines issued by the Central government in 2018 under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. The court was hearing a PIL filed by the National Federation of the Blind seeking additional grace time of 20 minutes per hour to visually impaired candidates as per the central guidelines in the examination held for gazetted probationers. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka pulled up the KPSC for placing on record that it will not follow the central guidelines as the state has not modified its order issued in October 2007. The bench asked the KPSC whether it will continue to wait for the state order or act on the guidelines issued by the central government. Terming it as a “bold statement” by the public service commission, the bench asked both the state government and the KPSC to make their stands clear within two weeks. The counsel appearing for the KPSC submitted that the guidelines contained in an office memorandum dated August 29, 2018 issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment have been circulated to all the central government departments. However, the state government had not issued any guidelines as per the advisory of the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/grace-time-for-pwds-in-exams-karnataka-hc-seeks-response-from-govt-kpsc-895445.html
30-09-2020||State||Kurubas’ show of strength on October 2||BJP leader A H Vishwanath has been declared as the president of the Shepherds India International, an organisation that seeks to consolidate Kurubas nationally and globally.  The organisation will hold its 5th annual conference on October 2. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, Congress leader Siddaramaiah, JD(S) leader Bandeppa Kashempur and other Kuruba leaders will participate, Vishwanath said.  Vishwanath said the Kuruba community was vibrant with its own history. There are an estimated 12 crore Kurubas across the country. “In the parliament of London that has a 750-year history, we see that the speaker sits on sheep wool. The governments there have provided several facilities to shepherds,” he said.  Former Congress minister H M Revanna said the Kurubas went with different names in other states. “They are called Kuruma in Andhra Pradesh, Kuruman in Tamil Nadu, Dhangar in Maharashtra and Pal Kshatriya in Uttar Pradesh,” he said.  A section of Kuruba leaders wants the community to be included in the ST list. In Karnataka, Kurubas are categorised under other backward classes. “In Haryana, Kurubas have been given the ST tag. In Tamil Nadu, the DMK is mounting pressure on the Centre to include Kurubas under the ST list,” Revanna said.  Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah said a proposal was pending before the Centre on including the Halumatha Kurubas and Gonda/Rajgondas in Bidar, Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts under the ST category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kurubas-show-of-strength-on-october-2-895449.html
30-09-2020||State||'Epicentre of terror remark' triggered by recent incidents: Tejasvi Surya||Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya on Wednesday defended his ‘epicentre of terror’ remark, saying that it was triggered by the arrest of an ISIS terrorist in Basavangudi and the recent DJ Halli riots. Responding to queries at a news conference on his controversial remark, Surya clarified saying that he meant to say that he did not want Bengaluru to be a terror hub. “Bengaluru has given me an identity. Across the country people recognise me as a Bengaluru boy. It has given be education, employment,” he said, adding that a request for an NIA unit was made to protect the city. DJ Halli riots in which police stations were torched, he said, made his ‘blood boil’. The criticism against him was levelled as the Congress and the SDPI did not want an NIA unit in the city. “There is a match-fixing between the Congress and the SDPI. They are opposing NIA because it will affect their politics,” the MP said. On apology demanded by JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, he referred to the recent riots asking why none of the JD(S) leaders visited MLA Akhanda Srinivasmurthy, who was formerly with them. “They fear that they will lose votes of another community if they back Srinivasmurthy, who is a Dalit,” he added. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, defending Surya, said that his remark was based on recent riots which are ‘terror activities’. “There are several reports of terror activities in Bengaluru in the past. Therefore, it is possible that many terror elements could be in the city is what Surya meant,” he said. Reception Surya participated in a rally ahead of his first visit to BJP office after being elected as national president of BJP Yuva Morcha. About 100-200 people welcomed Surya in front of the office, despite Covid guidelines against large gatherings. Responding to a question on the same, he said that it was essential to follow the guidelines. “I had told the state unit that only 10-12 people were sufficient. However, many party workers turned up,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/epicentre-of-terror-remark-triggered-by-recent-incidents-tejasvi-surya-895451.html
30-09-2020||State||Karnataka govt says 'no' to school visits till October 15||Caught in confusion over reopening of schools, the department of primary and secondary education on Wednesday ordered that no school or PU college will be open for 'consultation' till October 15. The order extends the restriction on opening schools for consultation up to October 15. Previously, the government had issued an order restricting visits up to September 30 and now, the same has been extended by a fortnight. “Considering the spike in number of Covid-19 cases across the state, the visit to schools has been restricted until October 15. During the previous unlock 4.0 guidelines, the union government had allowed students who are above the 9th grade to visit the schools with consent from parents, to meet teachers and get their academic queries addressed," it said. A senior official from the education department said, “We will review the scenario after October 15. Keeping in mind the number of cases reported then, we will take a decision in consultation with the health department about allowing reopening of schools for consultation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-says-no-to-school-visits-till-october-15-895454.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports over 10,000 Covid-19 cases for first time; Bengaluru accounts for nearly half||Karnataka on Tuesday reported a record 10,453 new Covid-19 cases, of which Bengaluru alone accounted for 4,868 cases. Both the state and the city crossed testing milestones, as the state tested 87,475 samples on Monday, and Bengaluru tested 33,304 samples. Experts attributed the surge in cases to increased testing, but expressed concern over a consistent test positivity rate that is just over 12% for the state. As on Tuesday, the state’s test positivity rate was 12.34%, and Bengaluru’s test positivity rate was 13.76%.  Dr C N Manjunath, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing, told DH, “Though we tested over 87,000 samples on Monday, the state’s positivity rate is steady at 12%. It is neither increasing nor decreasing. Even if we were to continuously increase testing, if the positivity rate remains the same, that is not a sign of the pandemic abating.” Dr Giridhar Babu, epidemiologist and member of the state technical advisory committee, said that infections were rising steadily in the rest of Karnataka. In terms of fatalities, the growth rate of ICU admissions in Bengaluru was decreasing, he said. “Earlier, there was a surge in cases in Bengaluru and now it is rising in the rest of Karnataka. Cases have to be detected early to save more lives. It is not necessarily a bad thing that cases are rising,” he said. The concern is the number of ICU cases. “Detecting more cases will prevent more deaths. Once the elderly with comorbidities are diagnosed, they will at least be taken to a facility with oxygen, which is currently not happening because of delayed testing. They do not want to get tested because of the stigma,” Babu said. Out of the 136 deaths reported on Tuesday, eight patients either died at home or were brought dead, indicating that they never received medical help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-over-10000-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-bengaluru-accounts-for-nearly-half-895011.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Confer powers on claims commissioner in riots case: Karnataka HC||The High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to confer certain powers under the Commission of Inquiry Act on the claims commissioner appointed to assess the damages and fix the liability in the cases related to the riots in KG Halli and DJ Halli. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed the direction while hearing a batch of petitions filed in connection with the investigation into the riots. Observing that Justice H S Kempanna, appointed as the claims commissioner, is a retired judge of the High Court, the bench said he needs protection under the Commission of Inquiry Act. The court said it would be appropriate for the government to confer powers on the claims commissioner under various sections of the Commission of Inquiry Act, so as to enable him to summon witnesses and documents. The bench directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the state police to file a status report on the investigation in a sealed envelope. The court was informed that the NIA has taken up the investigation in two cases, one in KG Halli and another in DJ Halli police station limits, as offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The bench also directed the state government to render logistical support to the NIA officers camping in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/confer-powers-on-claims-commissioner-in-riots-case-karnataka-hc-895012.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Provide helpline to Covid-19 patients, HC tells Karnataka government||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to ensure a proper mechanism to record the grievances of patients at Covid-19 hospitals. Observing that the Bengaluru Urban district monitoring committee (BBMP committee) is not in existence, the bench directed the BBMP commissioner to submit the report on visits to the hospitals, the availability of equipment and facilities to the medical staff and the patients. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, examined the reports submitted by the state-level expert committee, constituted to monitor the hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. The bench said that barring a few, the information collected by the district committees are not proper. Observing that the report pertaining to hospitals in Bengaluru not placed on record, the bench asked the commissioner to place the report. The bench said the object of regular inspections is not to find fault with the doctors. “The object is to ensure that the hospitals are best equipped so that the doctors and other staff members who are relentlessly working are able to discharge their duties in a better manner.” The court said it is also important to inspect these hospitals since the Covid-19 patients will not be in a position to register their grievance.  “Therefore, the state government must consider providing a helpline to such patients to get in touch with the authorities if he or she is not given proper treatment,” the bench said. On the availability of oxygen cylinders, the bench directed the state government to ensure proper and equitable distribution of cylinders to all the hospitals, especially in the rural areas. The bench asked the state government to explain how it would implement the order of the Union Government (September 25, 2020), regulating the price of the oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/provide-helpline-to-covid-19-patients-hc-tells-karnataka-government-895014.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 testing too low to match speed of spread: Experts||The government’s Covid-19 testing numbers are too low to track the current velocity of the virus spread, experts said. In March, the state was conducting an average of only 80 tests per day. On Monday, it conducted an unprecedented 87,475 tests, according to data shared by Dr Shalini Rajneesh, IAS officer-in-charge of antigen testing. However, even this is not enough, experts said. The reason? For one, the number of RT-PCR tests done on Monday was still 29% below the daily target of 1 lakh tests. In contrast, antigen testing was 113% of the target.  Secondly, the state’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) continues to be high, said Sanjeev Mysore, convenor of the Jeevan Raksha project, a public-private partnership which is analyzing covid-19 trends across the country. “When the test positivity rate of a state or a district falls consistently below 4% for eight weeks then it is an indicator of adequate testing. At this moment, neither India nor Karnataka is testing adequately. Therefore, the positivity rate has not budged for the last 5-6 weeks,” Sanjeev said. Karnataka’s test positivity rate has averaged 13.98% for the last eight weeks, second only to Maharashtra. Worse, State Covid War Room data shows that nine districts are increasing their positivity rate. One of these is Bengaluru Urban whose positivity rate has climbed from 9.3% on September 1 to 13.8% on September 27. Epidemiologist Dr Girdhar Babu said that the high positivity rate indicates that the testing strategy needs to be revisited. In response, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N Manjunath Prasad said that the Palike is “aiming to carry out 40,000 tests per day from next week.” Currently, the civic body conducts an average of 26,000 tests per day.  Sudden deaths State Covid War Room director Munish Moudgil described the ultimate objective of increased testing as being to reduce the number of deaths. However, since September 1, out of the 2,865 deaths revealed in the state, 463 people (or 16%) succumbed on the same day of admission to the hospital, including 13 on September 28. “This indicates that the virus is spreading too fast and wider and being recognised too late. There is not much time for qualitative medical intervention,” Sanjeev said. But what to make of the state’s falling number of deaths? Dr Babu attributed this to “better clinical management.” However, ICU bed usage is also rising. “Increasing ICU usage indicates that the infection has spread widely, affecting more vulnerable people,” he added. Sanjeev said that Karnataka missed a critical window of opportunity to ramp up Covid-19 testing at the end of June when its test positivity rate was only 3%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-testing-too-low-to-match-speed-of-spread-experts-895138.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa hails Babri verdict as 'victory of the truth'||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday hailed the verdict of the special CBI court that acquitted senior BJP leader L K Advani and others charged with hatching a criminal conspiracy leading to the demolition of the Babri Mosque 28 years ago.  “This is an auspicious day. The Lucknow CBI court has given a historic judgement,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “I was also a part of this struggle and the verdict has made me personally happy. Many were waiting for it. For fighters, victory is always there and this is a fresh example,” he said, calling it a “victory of the truth.”  Referring to Advani as “a great man”, Yediyurappa said the judgement was a result of his struggle. “No one can forget the speech Advani made,” he said. “The Ram Mandir verdict has come and work has already started. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti and others are responsible for the success and the judgement has brought happiness to all,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-hails-babri-verdict-as-victory-of-the-truth-895198.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah alleges under reporting of Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka||Alleging under reporting of Covid-19 deaths, Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah on Wednesday accused the BJP government in the state of trying to 'cover up' its gross mismanagement and negligence. "There are serious under reporting issues with respect to Covid-19 deaths. Jalappa hospital has reported 4 deaths between 19th Sep, 12 PM to 20th Sep, 12 PM. But, the bulletin on 20 Sept has reported 0 deaths in Kolar," Siddaramaiah tweeted sharing pictures of the report. He pointed out that the same hospital has reported one death between 12 PM on Sep 20 to 12 PM next day, but the bulletin on September 21 has reported 0 deaths in Kolar. "What is the govt trying to hide by underreporting? Is it your failure?" he asked, tagging Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Health Minister B Sriramulu and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar in a tweet. ಕೋಲಾರದಲ್ಲಿ ಕೊರೊನಾದಿಂದದಿ.19ರಂದು 4 ಮತ್ತು ದಿ.20ರಂದು 1 ಸಾವು ಸಂಭವಿಸಿದೆ ಎಂದು ಅಲ್ಲಿನಜಾಲಪ್ಪ ಆಸ್ಪತ್ರೆ ವರದಿ ಮಾಡಿದೆ. ಆದರೆ ಆರೋಗ್ಯ ಇಲಾಖೆಆ ದಿನಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಕೊರೊನಾ ಸಾವು ಸಂಭವಿಸಿಲ್ಲ ಎಂದು ಪ್ರಕಟಣೆ ಹೊರಡಿಸಿದೆ. "Under reporting will have serious implications on the preparedness of the stakeholders providing health care and also on the behaviour of the people. Yediyurappa govt is trying to cover up its gross mismanagement and negligence. There has to be more transparency and accountability," he added. During the recently concluded monsoon session of the legislative assembly, opposition Congress legislators had made similar charges of suppressing data against the government, which the Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar had rejected saying ICMR has complemented Karnataka for providing correct data. ಭ್ರಷ್ಟಾಚಾರದಿಂದಾಗಿ ಹದಗೆಟ್ಟಿರುವ ಹಣಕಾಸು ಸ್ಥಿತಿಯನ್ನು ನಿಯಂತ್ರಿಸಲಾಗದೆ ಅನಿರ್ಬಂಧಿತವಾಗಿ ಎಲ್ಲ ವ್ಯಾಪಾರ-ವಹಿವಾಟನ್ನು ತೆರೆದು ಕೂತಿದ್ದೀರಿ. The Minister had made it clear that nobody is giving wrong numbers and that when it comes to testing, deaths and treatment, the Karnataka government was giving proper data. As of September 29 evening, cumulatively 5.92 lakh Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 8,777 deaths and 4,76,378 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Minister Sudhakar had on Tuesday noted that the death rate in the state was at 1.5 per cent and measures were being taken to reduce this to less than 1 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-alleges-under-reporting-of-covid-19-deaths-in-karnataka-895306.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Girl who received three gold medals in BA halts studies citing poverty||When Akshatha G V received three gold medals for scoring highest marks in BA at the Davangere University's seventh annual convocation on Wednesday, her emotions were mixed with happiness and sorrow. On one hand, she was on cloud nine that her hard work produced desirable results, and on the other, she was disappointed that she is unable to carry on her studies due to poverty. She is the eldest of four female siblings. Her father Venkatesh is serving as a private bus driver, and her mother Vijayalakshmi is an Anganwadi worker. Akshata did her degree at MSB Arts & Commerce College in Davangere. Speaking to DH, Akshatha G V, a native of Jambulinganahalli in Harapanahalli taluk of Ballari district said that she has to share the burden of running the family with her father at the earliest. "My father is the only breadwinner in the family. He has to bear the academic expenses of my three younger sisters who are still studying. So, I have decided to end my studies, and focus on getting a job which would contribute to my family's income," she added. At present, she is attending coaching classes in Vijayapura for KAS examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/girl-who-received-three-gold-medals-in-ba-halts-studies-citing-poverty-895343.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 cases in 15 districts give Karnataka the jitters||Struggling to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases, Karnataka is worried about the positivity rate in as many as 15 districts. According to Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, a total of 15 districts have reported more than 10 per cent positivity rate in Karnataka which was 'a cause of concern'. The minister, along with senior officials of the state government, held a virtual interaction with the district administration of seven districts -- Mysuru, Hassan, Shivamogga, Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru and Koppal -- on Wednesday and directed officials to take up various measures to contain the spread of the virus. "We discussed the situation in seven districts on Wednesday and the remaining districts will be reviewed on Thursday. We have guided them on how to reduce the test positivity rate and other measures," Dr K Sudhakar said. Acknowledging that the people have forgotten the rules of physical distancing when they step out especially at shops, malls and markets, Dr K Sudhakar said, "While it is the duty of the shop owners to ensure that customers adhere to the physical distancing rule, at the same time, citizens are also equally responsible to ensure they maintain a safe distance from others while shopping. Hence, we are thinking to hold shop and mall owners liable if a distance of six feet is not maintained. The action can be in the form of a fine, loss of license or serving of notice. The announcement will be made tomorrow." Religious events, marriages to have only 50 people or less The government is also mulling a cap on the guestlist for functions. "We are planning to hold the owners of venues that host religious gatherings, marriages and traditional ceremonies like tonsuring, liable if the guest list exceeds 50 people," Sudhakar said. "We have also observed that only 50% of commuters are complying with social distancing rules in buses. Compliance and fines will start with government offices first," he said.  Covid-19 testing to be hiked The government is planning to increase its testing by three times its current capacity. "Yesterday, we tested 94,886 samples. We intend to conduct 80% to 90% of daily Covid tests via the RT-PCR technique. We are targeting 1.2 lakh to 1.5 lakh per day," he said. With 90% of the Covid-19 cases being in home isolation, IAS officer Ajay Seth is currently heading a committee to oversee home isolation of patients, Sudhakar announced. There are currently 73,599 beds available in the state including 19,892 beds with oxygen, and 2,715 ventilator beds, he said. The minister has also asked for death audits to be done daily. "We have observed that 30%-35% Covid-19 patients died within 72 hours of hospitalisation. Even though co-morbidities are a factor, late reporting is a major concern," Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cases-in-15-districts-give-karnataka-the-jitters-895436.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP team seeks complete ban on SDPI in DJ Halli riots report||The BJP state unit on Wednesday demanded a complete ban on the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), for its alleged role in DJ Halli riots. Addressing mediapersons after submitting a fact-finding committee report on the riots to the party, BJP vice-president Arvind Limbavali said that the riots were pre-planned and social media was used extensively for the same. "A Taliban-like situation prevails in DJ Halli and KG Halli. Efficient officers should be deputed by BBMP and the police for the area," Limbavali demanded. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, commenting on the report, said that the riots were a result of leadership crisis within the Congress. "Intelligence failure is not the cause for the riot. The Congress is," he said. Limbavali said that the report will be submitted to the state government on Thursday. Conspiracy to end (careers of) Dalit leaders, open support of Congress to anti-social elements and planned violence by SDPI are among of the reasons quoted for the riots in the BJP report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-team-seeks-complete-ban-on-sdpi-in-dj-halli-riots-report-895450.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||RR Nagar bypoll: Cast your vote with gloves||Voters in RR Nagar may have to cast their votes during the bypoll by wearing gloves. Keeping in mind the spurt in Covid-19 cases and instructions from the Election Commission of India, the District Election Officer, and BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad on Wednesday said that voters have to cast their vote by wearing gloves. However, the officials are awaiting clarity from the ECI on the nature of gloves whether they shall be of plastic, latex rubber, or woolen. Holding a meeting with the representatives of various political parties in RR Nagar about the by-poll preparation, BBMP Commissioner Manjunatha Prasad said, “At a time, only one person will be allowed inside the polling booth and they will have to cast their vote by wearing gloves." When asked about the nature of gloves and who will provide the gloves, Prasad replied, “Detailed guidelines in this regard from ECI are awaited. It will be issued in a day or two by the ECI.” This apart, the Election Commission has also introduced strict rules making the polls a tough exercise for political parties. The BBMP will only allow two persons at the time of filing the nominations against the five people earlier. Similarly, only two vehicles will be allowed within the 100-meter radius of the returning officer’s office. Further, only five people will be allowed during the door-to-door campaign. “Public gatherings and rallies are regulated by the ECI. Without prior permission from the District Election Officer, no rallies or public gatherings be allowed. The road-shows will have only five vehicles and leaders, people must ensure physical distancing during the campaign trail. If there is any violation, criminal cases will be booked against the offenders,” Prasad said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rr-nagar-bypoll-cast-your-vote-with-gloves-895456.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress, SDPI involved in Bengaluru violence: BJP in-house panel||An in-house panel of the BJP has alleged the involvement of Congress and the Social Democratic Party of India behind the August 11 violence in parts of the city in which a Congress MLA's residence and two police stations were torched. The six-member panel, led by Mahadevapura MLA and BJP state vice president Aravind Limbavali, which "probed" the incident, submitted its report to the state unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel on Wednesday. Addressing reporters, Limbavali said it was a "well- organised" violence and not an "accidental event". He also wondered as to why leaders of Congress party did not "come forward to extend help" to party MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy when his house was burnt. Kateel, also the Dakshina Kannada MP, alleged that "the lust for power of the Congress and the madness of SDPI resulted in this incident". He told reporters that the report would be submitted to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with a request to act on it. Kateel alleged the "probe" has made it clear that the "Congress people can carry out any activity to come to power". "If you look into the incident, it becomes clear that it was a power struggle. It is also very clear that the Congress can shake hands with the anti-nationals to come to power," he charged. Citing the report, the BJP state chief said a Congress leader had hatched a conspiracy to unseat the sitting Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste. The said Congress leader tried to "use the SDPI to come to power", said Kateel, adding, "it was clear that for almost a decade the SDPI has been indulging in such activities". "Two corporators and a corporator's husband had engineered the Bengaluru violence," he alleged. The violence broke out on August 11 night over an inflammatory social media post by a relative of Murthy. The police have arrested 421 people so far while three people were killed in police firing. A fourth person allegedly involved in the violence died in the hospital due to injury caused by a blunt object in his stomach. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has also started a probe into the case and has arrested an alleged mastermind of the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-sdpi-involved-in-bengaluru-violence-bjp-in-house-panel-895462.html
30-09-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 count breaches 6-lakh mark in Karnataka||The total number of coronavirus infections in Karnataka breached six lakh mark as the state on Wednesday reported 8,856 new cases, the health department said. The state recorded 87 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 8,864. The day also saw recoveries overtaking the number of new cases, with 8,890 patients getting discharged. Of the fresh cases, as many as 4,226 were from Bengaluru urban alone. Cumulatively 6,01,767 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 8,864 deaths and 4,85,268 discharges, the department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 1,07,616 active cases, 1,06,795 patients were in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 821 were in intensive care units. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 24 deaths followed by Dakshina Kannada (10) while rest were scattered over other districts. Mysuru added 564 cases, Hassan 446, Tumakuru 362, Shivamogga 248, Mandya 244, Belagavi 243 and Dakshina Kannada 240, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 2,32,663 infections, followed by Mysuru 34,518 and Ballari 31,529. Among discharges too Bengaluru accounted for the maximum with a total of 1,82,581, followed by Ballari 28,833 and Mysuru 26,671. A total of 49,01,083 samples were tested so far, out of which 94,886, including 48,265 through rapid antigen method, were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-count-breaches-6-lakh-mark-in-karnataka-895470.html
30-09-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Belagavi fortified ahead of verdict in Babri Masjid demolition case||Belagavi City Police have made elaborate security arrangements ahead of the verdict in the Babri mosque demolition case by CBI Special Court on Wednesday. Security in the city will be overseen by ACP 4, PI 19, PSI 24, ASI 78, HC/PC 632, CAR 12 companies and KSRP 02 companies. Police have cautioned that mischief mongers spreading rumours will be surveilled and dealt with seriously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/belagavi-fortified-ahead-of-verdict-in-babri-masjid-demolition-case-895110.html
30-09-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Cannabis seized in village near Belagavi||CEN police conducted raid at Bachi village in Belagavi taluk on Wednesday and arrested a man with 1.4 kg of cannabis in his possession. Accused has been identified as Gajanan Gunjikar. The contraband and one cell phone was seized from him. CEN police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/cannabis-seized-in-village-near-belagavi-895122.html
30-09-2020||West||Maharashtra govt bars garba, dandiya this Navratri||The excitement of garba, dandiya, cultural events and processions would be missed during Navratri in Maharashtra, particularly in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The Uddhav Thackeray-government in Maharashtra on Tuesday night came out with a notification on the guidelines/SOPs on the forthcoming Navratri/Durga Puja festival. Like in the case of Ganeshotsav, the height of Durga Mata idols to be kept in households has been capped at two feet and those in public at four feet. Navratri will be celebrated from October 17-26.  The government has also asked festival organisers to promote the My Family, My Responsibility initiative and also organised health camps and blood/plasma donation camps. Besides, it needs to be ensured that there are preventive measures to check the spread of malaria and dengue. “Dandiya and Garba are very popular in Mumbai. Though the dance is popular among the Gujarati community, over the last few decades, it has become one of the biggest activities in the festival in Mumbai and its suburbs,” said writer and expert Ajit Joshi. It also suggested that devotees opt for metal idols this time, and digital darshan through local cable networks, live streaming and on social media. Immersion should be done in water tanks in pandals or in artificial ponds. The government has instructed mandals to arrange for thermal screening at pandals which must be disinfected. Devotees desiring darshan should strictly adhere to social distancing norms and wear masks – and sanitise themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-bars-garba-dandiya-this-navratri-895095.html
30-09-2020||West||Sonu Sood conferred UNDP’s SDG Special Humanitarian Action award||From arranging transport for lakhs of migrants when the coronavirus lockdown was imposed to helping students in flood-hit areas reach NEET examination centres, Bollywood actor, now nicknamed ‘Messiah’, Sonu Sood has been conferred with a SDG Special Humanitarian Action by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). No more climbing of trees anymore for your online classes. Responding to the needy from various corners of the country, Sood used Twitter to help out students in remote areas by providing them smartphones and internet access, going up to the extent of installing a mobile tower. He has donated clothes to children in villages and funded hard-working students to achieve their dreams of joining civil services. Sood isn’t the first actor to receive the award, and joins the club of stars including Angelina Jolie, Leonardo DiCaprio, Emma Watson, Liam Neeson, Cate Blanchett, Antonio Banderas, Nicole Kidman and Priyanka Chopra who have been recognised for their philanthropic work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sonu-sood-conferred-undp-s-sdg-special-humanitarian-action-award-895100.html
30-09-2020||West||Thane records 1,259 new Covid-19 cases; tally at 1,73,074||The number of Covid-19 cases in Thane has risen to 1,73,074 after detection of 1,259 new cases in the Maharashtra district, an official said on Wednesday. The death toll has gone up to 4,426 with 30 more fatalities on Tuesday, he said. Among the new Covid-19 cases, Thane city reported 330 cases, followed by Navi Mumbai-323, Kalyan-178 and Mira Bhayander-132, he said. So far, Kalyan has reported the maximum Covid-19 cases at 41,951, Thane city-36,313, Navi Mumbai-36,257 and Mira Bhayander-18,207, the official said. As of now, there are 17,117 active Covid-19 cases in the district, while 1,51,531 patients have recovered, he said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district is 87.55 per cent, while the mortality rate is 2.56 per cent, he said. An official from neighbouring Palghar said the district has so far reported 34,708 Covid-19 cases and 678 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-records-1259-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-173074-895129.html
30-09-2020||West||Fire at Raymond office in Thane; no casualty||A fire broke out in the Raymond Company's office building in Thane city of Maharashtra on Wednesday morning, an official said. No casualty was reported so far, Thane civic body's regional disaster management cell (RDMC) chief Santosh Kadam said. The ground-plus-one-storey office building of the Raymond Company is located on Pokhran Road No.1 in the city. The Thane civic fire services received a call at 5.50 am about the blaze, Kadam said.    As per locals, flames could be seen from a long distance. The RDMC team, three fire engines, two jumbo water tankers, three other tankers and police rushed to the spot, Kadam said. The blaze was brought under control after hectic efforts for over an hour, fire officer Rajendra Raut said. Office fixtures and furniture were destroyed in the fire, he said. "There was no casualty," Kadam said, adding that the cause of the fire was not yet known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-raymond-office-in-thane-no-casualty-895132.html
30-09-2020||West||Maharashtra govt considering resumption of local trains for all by October 15: Aaditya Thackeray||The Maharashtra government is seriously considering resumption of normal local train services in Mumbai by October 15, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Wednesday said quoting state minister Aaditya Thackeray. According to the Sena publication, Thackeray who is the environment and tourism minister said the issue of resumption of suburban train services for common citizens is being considered as part of efforts to bring the state's economy back on track. In a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19, the local trains are currently being run only for essential services staff, state and central government staff, employees of nationalised and private banks, PSUs and pharma companies, and QR code-based identity cards are mandatory for them. "The government is seriously considering starting normal train services for citizens by October 15. The decision will be taken after ensuring all Covid-19 related safety protocols are followed," Thackeray said. He also said that to reduce vehicular traffic, a proposal of keeping offices and commercial establishments working for 24 hours is being considered. It is difficult to reschedule the office hours since there are different kinds of offices and commercial establishments in Mumbai, the minister said. He said the government was in talks with offices, establishments and corporates regarding working hours. The government is also in talks with the Railways to increase the frequency of these train services, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-considering-resumption-of-local-trains-for-all-by-october-15-aaditya-thackeray-895176.html
30-09-2020||West||With no smartphone for online classes, teen kills self in Maharashtra||A 15-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide, as she did not have a smartphone to attend online classes, in Karad tehsil of Maharashtra's Satara district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place in Ond village, 10 km from Karad town last week, an official said. According to the deceased minor's mother, who works as a labourer, the Class 9 student had asked for a smartphone for online classes and despite being promised one, she hanged herself from the ceiling at her home, inspector K M Dhumal of Karad taluka police station said. While the police did not recover any suicide note from the scene, a case of accidental death was registered in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-no-smartphone-for-online-classes-teen-kills-self-in-maharashtra-895211.html
30-09-2020||West||Thane Municipal Corporation ropes in police to implement mask rule||In an attempt to ensure strict implementation of the Covid-19 mask rule in public places, the civic body in Maharashtra's Thane city has decided to rope in the police, mayor Naresh Mhaske said on Wednesday. In an official release, the mayor said the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has decided to take the help of police to collect fines from citizens who don't wear masks in public places. City police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar and the civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma have declared that the rule will be implemented strictly, the statement said. Of the fines collected by the police, 50 per cent will be deposited with the civic body and the remaining will be credited to the police welfare fund, Mhaske said.    Meanwhile, in view of the rising cases of Covid-19, the civic corporations in and around Thane have intensified their drive and have been fining thousands of people every day, an official said. The TMC has collected Rs 5.5 lakh in fines from people caught without masks, the civic body's public relations officer Sandeep Malavi said. Apart from this, the corporation has sealed 132 shops that operated beyond the permissible time of 7 pm in the city, he said. In Navi Mumbai, the civic body has collected Rs 6.5 lakh in fines from violators so far, while the Kalyan Dombivili Municipal Corporation has collected Rs 82,3000 in fines in the last 10 days, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-municipal-corporation-ropes-in-police-to-implement-mask-rule-895229.html
30-09-2020||West||No clean chit given to anyone in Bollywood-drug cartel nexus: NCB||In a significant statement, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) which is probing the Bollywood-drug cartel nexus in the wake of the mysterious death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, on Wednesday said that no one has been given a clean chit. “No one has been given a clean chit,” said NCB officials giving an indication that the probe is still underway. A couple of days ago, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) made a similar statement. “The CBI is conducting a professional investigation related to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date. Investigations are continuing,” the apex investigation agency had stated. During the month-long investigations, the NCB investigated two cases – Cr. No. 15/2020 and Cr. No. 16/2020. While the first one is related to the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the second one involved the probe into the Bollywood-drug cartel nexus. The NCB had to be brought in after the drug angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput case – surfaced while examining WhatsApp chats. The NCB has arrested 20 persons so far including Sushant Singh Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, the actor’s house manager Samuel Miranda and domestic help Dipesh Sawant. The NCB had grilled Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Rakul Preet Singh, Shradhha Kapoor, and Sara Ali Khan. Besides, Deepika’s business manager Krishna Prakash, talent manager Jaya Saha who was associated with Rhea, and late Sushant’s manager Shruti Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-clean-chit-given-to-anyone-in-bollywood-drug-cartel-nexus-ncb-895238.html
30-09-2020||West||Babri case lost its relevance after 2019 Supreme Court verdict, says Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said the Babri masjid demolition case lost its relevance after the supreme court settled the Ram Janmabhoomi title suit in 2019. Speaking about the special CBI court's verdict to acquit all accused in the Babri case, Raut told reporters "the case in the special court lost its relevance after the supreme court's verdict on Ram temple and bhoomi pujan of the temple conducted by prime minister (in August)," Raut told reporters. The special CBI court in Lucknow has acquitted all the 32 accused in the case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, saying there was no conclusive proof against them. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/babri-case-lost-its-relevance-after-2019-supreme-court-verdict-says-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-895240.html
30-09-2020||West||IMA Goa withdraws Covid-19 patients' teleconsultation||The Indian Medical Association's Goa unit on Wednesday announced that it was withdrawing its teleconsultation programme for Covid-19 patients who were advised home isolation. The IMA, in collaboration with the state health department, had launched the programme in August and had provided its services to 6,770 patients. The programme is being withdrawn, as government medical officers have already taken up the task of providing consultation to patients in home isolation and giving them necessary medical kits, said Dr Samuel Arawattigi, the IMA's Goa unit president. At least 150 doctors affiliated to the IMA were part of the programme, he said. As part of larger social responsibility in case a health officer requires the IMA's services, the same will be provided, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ima-goa-withdraws-covid-19-patients-teleconsultation-895252.html
30-09-2020||West||With no smartphone to attend online classes, teen dies by suicide||A 15-year-old girl allegedly died by suicide, as she did not have a smartphone to attend online classes, in Karad tehsil of Maharashtra's Satara district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place in Ond village, 10 km from Karad town last week, an official said. According to the deceased minor's mother, who works as a labourer, the Class 9 student had asked for a smartphone for online classes and despite being promised one, she hanged herself from the ceiling at her home, inspector K M Dhumal of Karad taluka police station said. While the police did not recover any suicide note from the scene, a case of accidental death was registered in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-no-smartphone-to-attend-online-classes-teen-dies-by-suicide-895273.html
30-09-2020||West||BJP appoints ex-Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis as Bihar poll in-charge||The BJP on Wednesday appointed former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis as its in-charge for the Bihar assembly elections, the party said in a statement. The announcement came on a day party president J P Nadda is holding talks with state BJP leaders here to discuss the three-phase polls to the 243-member state assembly, including seat-sharing arrangements with allies like the JD(U) and the LJP. The LJP has been blowing hot and cold over the issue as it is said to be unhappy over the offer being made to it by the BJP. For the last few weeks, Fadnavis had been participating in the party's internal meetings over the Bihar polls and has even visited the state a few times. The BJP has the practice of appointing senior leaders as in-charge for state elections. The Bihar assembly polls will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7, and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-appoints-ex-maharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis-as-bihar-poll-in-charge-895293.html
30-09-2020||West||Security stepped up in Mumbai in wake of Babri case verdict||Security has been stepped up in Mumbai in the wake of the court verdict in the Babri masjid demolition case with police personnel deployed at sensitive locations in the metropolis, an official said on Wednesday. Police are taking adequate measures to maintain law and order in the financial capital and avoid any untoward incident, he said. Police personnel in strength have been deployed at important and sensitive locations, and local religious leaders have also been roped in to maintain peace, the official said. Earlier in the day, all the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and MM Joshi, were acquitted by a special CBI court in Lucknow. Police have appealed to people to maintain peace and not to believe in rumours, and immediately contact law enforcement officials if they come across any suspicious person or activities, he said. Due to the pandemic situation, prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC are already in place in the metropolis, restricting movement of people and non-essential activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/security-stepped-up-in-mumbai-in-wake-of-babri-case-verdict-895300.html
30-09-2020||West||Bombay High Court refuses to allow PCMC to remove encroachments amid Covid-19 pandemic||Stating that it cannot allow anyone to be rendered homeless during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Bombay High Court refused to grant permission to the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) for removal of encroachments along riverbeds in areas under the latter's jurisdiction. The civic body had moved an application before a four-judge bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, seeking permission to comply with the National Green Tribunals (NGT) June 16 order about clearing encroachments from some riverbeds. The larger bench, however, pointed out that it had previously passed an order restricting any demolition or eviction work during the pandemic. The special larger bench was constituted in March after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced, and on March 26, it had issued a suo motu order stating that orders for eviction, dispossession and demolition already passed by the courts will also remain in abeyance until April 30. At the time, the bench had also asked authorities across the state to go slow while taking coercive steps that may drive citizens to court of law, in view of the pandemic. On Wednesday therefore, the bench refused to grant relief to the PCMC in view of its previous suo moto order. As removing the encroachments would render some people homeless, the court could not allow the same during the pandemic, the bench stated. It also noted that persons who would be affected by the implementation of the NGT's order, were not before the high court as a party to the application. The bench, therefore, directed the PCMC to inform the NGT of the court's suo moto order if it insisted on compliance of its order. "You tell the Tribunal that a larger bench has passed such an order. In fact, all high courts across the country have passed similar orders against eviction demolition, dispossession etc in view of the pandemic," the bench said. "We can't allow anyone to be rendered homeless during the pandemic," it said. The bench also directed that all interim orders passed by courts across Maharashtra and Goa, which are in operation, shall continue till October 31 in light of the Covid-19 situation. It also extended the operation of the above suo moto order till October 31, observing that courts are yet to begin functioning at their full capacity and the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra continued to be grim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-refuses-to-allow-pcmc-to-remove-encroachments-amid-covid-19-pandemic-895308.html
30-09-2020||West||Two dead, another injured as loft collapses, one booked||Two men employed at a fabrication workshop died and one of their colleagues injured after a loft inside the unit collapsed on them in suburban Kurla, police said on Wednesday. The incident occurred on Tuesday afternoon and the police have registered a case against the owner of the workshop that is located in Jari Mari area, an official said. "The workers got trapped after the loft inside the fabrication unit caved in. The loft fell as it was overloaded with welding rods," senior inspector of Sakinaka police station Kishor Sawant said. Following the incident, the police were alerted and the injured workers were rushed to a hospital. However, two of them were declared brought dead, he said. An offence was registered against the 55-year-old owner of the workshop under IPC section 304A (causing death by negligence), Sawant said. The injured is undergoing treatment at Bhabha Hospital, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-dead-another-injured-as-loft-collapses-one-booked-895347.html
30-09-2020||West||Amit Shah distributes electric wheels to 200 potters||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday distributed 200 electric potter wheels (chaak) to members of Kumhar (potter) community residing in 20 villages in Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad at Randheja village, Gandhinagar, in a function via video conference from New Delhi. The locality comes under parliamentary constituency of Shah. The electric wheels were distributed to the potters under the scheme of "Kumhar Sashakrikaran Yojana" of Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC). Before handing over the equipment, the artisans underwent ten days' training. KVIC chairman V K Saxena said that the new equipment more than doubles the productivity of the artisans. He said that under the scheme, launched in 2018, over 800 potters have been trained in Gujarat alone. Saxena said in the event that more than 18,000 such wheels have been distributed in the country, benefiting over 80,000 people of the community. He said that people from West Bengal's Sundarban to Leh have benefited from the scheme. "I like this machine as it runs very fast and it has nearly doubled my productivity. Earlier, I used to make 400 to 500 earthen lamps in a day which has increased to 1,000 a day. We are sensing a surge in demand this time during upcoming Diwali festivity. I hope this machine will come in handy," said Bharat Prajapati, a potter from Mansa village, who attended the event. Mansa in Gandhinagar district also happens to be the native village of Shah. During the event, Shah, who has recently recovered from illness, said that the electric wheel "will not only help potters to enhance their production but also enable them to make new fancy products that will fetch them good income during the Dussehra and Diwali festivals." He said that the government has created proper marketing channels including a tie-up with the Indian Railway for selling their products. He said that Railway Ministry has already designated 400 railway stations where only earthenware will be used to sell food and beverages, which will create more demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amit-shah-distributes-electric-wheels-to-200-potters-895357.html
30-09-2020||West||Lockdown in Maharashtra: Hotels to reopen, train travel within state to resume||The Maharashtra Government on Wednesday extended coronavirus-induced lockdown till October 31, but also said that hotels, restaurants and bars will be allowed to operate from October 5 with restricted capacity. All the trains originating and ending the journey within the state will be restarted with immediate effect subject to health protocols for Covid-19, the latest guidelines said. Hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars can operate from October 5 with capacity not exceeding 50 percent or as prescribed by local authorities. A separate Standard Operating Procedure will be issued by the tourism department for precautions to be taken while operating these establishments, an official release said. All industrial and manufacturing units producing non- essential items will be allowed to operate in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The Railways will increase the frequency of local trains in the MMR. Local trains in Pune region will restart with protocols and procedures adopted in the MMR. Dabbawallahs of tiffin carriers in MMR will be allowed to travel by local trains after procuring QR code passes from the Mumbai police commissioner's office. There shall be free movement of oxygen carrying vehicles within and out of the state without any restrictions of time. Schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remained closed. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theaters in malls and market places, auditoriums, assembly halls will continue to remain closed. Social, political,sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious events and other large congregations will remain prohibited, the guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-in-maharashtra-hotels-to-reopen-train-travel-within-state-to-resume-895386.html
30-09-2020||West||Maharashtra adds 18,317 new Covid-19 cases, 19,163 recover; 481 deaths||The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra rose to 13,84,446 on Wednesday with the single-day addition of 18,317 fresh cases, the state health department said. With 481 deaths, the cumulative toll in the state mounted to 36,662, it said. hile 237 ofW the 481 fatalities occurred in the last 48 hours, 115 patients had succumbed a week back. Another 129 deaths had occurred earlier, the department said. A total of 19,163 patients were discharged in the day after treatment, taking the count of recoveries to 10,88,322. The state now has 2,59,033 active cases, the department said. Mumbai city reported 2,654 new infections, taking its total cases to 2,05,268, while the fatality count rose by 46 to 8,929, it said. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and satellite towns, reported 5,743 new cases, raising the total count to 4,81,103. A total of 15,851 people have died so far in the region, a health official said. Pune city added 1,370 fresh cases, raising its tally to 1,55,714, while 28 deaths took toll to 3,528. The total count of cases in Pune division now stands at 3,66,092 and fatalities at 7,893, the official said. Nashik division's cumulative case tally stood at 1,83,736 and death toll at 3,678, he said. Kolhapur division has reported 93,875 cases and 2,878 deaths so far, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 52,303 and death count at 1,327. Latur division has reported 56,228 cases until now and 1,524 fatalities. Akola division has 41,631 cases while 936 people have succumbed to the infection. Nagpur division has 1,07,891 infections and 2,436 fatalities, the official informed. The state has so far conducted 67,85,205 tests. A total of 21,61,448 people are currently under home quarantine in the state while 29,178 others are placed in institutional quarantine, he added. Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally is as follows: Positive cases: 13,84,446, new cases: 18,317, death toll: 36,662 discharged: 10,88,322, active cases: 2,59,033, people tested so far: 67,85,205.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-adds-18317-new-covid-19-cases-19163-recover-481-deaths-895442.html
30-09-2020||West||Gujarat man gets death penalty for raping, killing three-year-old girl||A special court at Anand in Gujarat sentenced a man to death for raping and murdering a three-year-old girl after kidnapping her over three years ago. The special court hearing cases related to the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act passed the order on Tuesday. Additional sessions judge Dilip Hingu sentenced Raju Devipujak (38), who had committed the crime on February 14, 2017. The court said the case comes under the category of "rarest of the rare". The court also slapped a fine of Rs 5,000 on him, failing which he will have to undergo two years of rigorous imprisonment. The court held him guilty of crimes under IPC sections 302 (murder), 363 (kidnapping), 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offence), 397 (robbery), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), and sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act. The convict had taken the girl to a tobacco farm and sexually assaulted her before strangling her to death and leaving her body at the site. He also took away the jewellery that she was wearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-man-gets-death-penalty-for-raping-killing-three-year-old-girl-895469.html
30-09-2020||West||Pramod Sawant meets PM Narendra Modi, seeks legislative 'cure' for mining issue||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and discussed a host of issues related to the coastal state, including resumption of iron ore mining stalled since 2018. Later in the evening, Sawant said restarting of iron ore mining is crucial for the economy of the coastal state and an important meeting is scheduled on October 10 in New Delhi over the issue. The CM said he has also sought legislative support from the Centre to resolve the mining impasse. The iron ore extraction industry in Goa came to a halt in 2018 after the Supreme Court quashed the renewal of 88 mining leases, which had undergone second renewal in 2015. After meeting the PM, Sawant tweeted, "Called on Honble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji in New Delhi today. Had fruitful discussion on various matters, including mining." The Goa CM said he also met Union Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi. "Later, met the Union Minister of Mines Shri @JoshiPralhad ji along with the Secretary to discuss the mining matter at length. We are hopeful of a positive outcome in coming days," Sawant said. In a video message released after his arrival here on Wednesday evening, Sawant said top mining officials along with Goa Advocate General Devidas Pangam would be holding a meeting in New Delhi over the subject on October 10. "After that, a ministerial-level meeting would be held on October 15. We have asked the Prime Minister and the Centre to provide legislative cure to the problem, the BJP leader said. Taking potshots at the Congress, Sawant said its government had delayed second renewal of mining leases in 2007, which caused the current impasse. The 2015 second renewal was questioned by the SC because it was done in a hurried manner by the then Laxmikant Parsekar-led BJP government, due to a delay in undertaking the process under the Congress rule, ahead of amendment tothe Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, he said. The Chief Minister said the Congress-led government, in 2007, delayed the process of second renewal of mining leases. If the Congress had renewed the leases in time in the year 2007, then the industry would not have seen such days, Sawant said. Congress leader Digambar Kamat was Goa chief minister between 2005 and 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pramod-sawant-meets-pm-narendra-modi-seeks-legislative-cure-for-mining-issue-895491.html
