01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Elephants on rampage in Bokaro's Gomia block||A rampaging herd of elephants is giving residents of more than a dozen villages near Jhumra Hill in Gomia block sleepless nights. On Monday, the herd raided Baltharwa village and damaged two homes, forcing residents to spend the night with their children on the roof of their homes. A team of experts from Bakura in Bengal had to be called in to ward off the elephants. The residents beat drums and lit fires at a few spots but failed to chase away the animals. The elephants wandered the streets for about four hours and then entered the fields of maize. The herd, which comprised 22 elephants, including four calves, later left for a nearby forest. “The maize crop in a few acres was destroyed by the herd,” said Moti Mahto, a villager. Most villagers, especially women and children, are fear-stricken. Residents of Simrabeda, Suarkatwa and other villages in the Pachmo panchayat are constantly on alert for the elephants. Manoj Pahariya, another villager, said: “Those who live in huts are the most worried. When the elephants came, we ran to take shelter on the roof of the pucca houses or in schools and community halls. The elephants mostly enter the villages at night in search of foodgrain. They demolish the walls of the huts to eat stocked foodgrain.” The herd had come from Bagodar area of Giridih. It entered Upperghat areas of Nawadih block, crossing the jungle on August 24. In Nawadih, the animals damaged four houses and destroyed maize crops. The villagers later chased away the herd into the jungle, through which it entered Gomia block. “The elephants were last spotted at Ghor-Ghowa Nala,” said a villager. The area residents have pleaded with the forest department for compensation. “We are keeping a note of the herd’s movement. Meanwhile, we are also assessing the damage,” said Arun Kumar Singh, divisional forest officer. Singh said compensation will be provided to the affected villagers. The villages are situated close to the elephant corridor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dilapidated APMC market now a gambling & liquor den||The single-storey market complex of agriculture produce market committee (APMC) at Dhanbad is lying in shambles. Established in 2006 less than 200 meters away from the district headquarters with about 85 shops, the market was aimed at providing livelihood to physically challenged people. Only a dozen of shops are functional, while the majority lie in ruins from either being unoccupied or due to poor upkeep. Unauthorised possession is another major issue as many physically challenged allottees have sublet their shops to others. Many of the damaged and vacant shops have turned into gambling and liquor dens, causing nuisance for customers and adjoining shop keepers. Several attempts to renovate damaged shops and make fresh allotments have been made, including the APMC board sending a proposal to the state government in 2018. But nothing has happened ever since. A shopkeeper in Binod Market, Hirapur, situated a few yards away from the APMC market complex said, “When the market complex was launched in 2006, we were happy about the prospect of increased customer flow. Now, as most shops are dilapidated, with some rightful allottees abandoning their shops, the situation is worse than ever. Frequent brawls break out in the market and the premises are inhospitable for customers.” Another shopkeeper at the Zila Parishad Market situated in front of APMC market complex said, “Miscreants usually haunt the marketplace to consume liquor bought from the store nearby and create an atmosphere of total anarchy, including harassment of women.” Shivji Tiwari, secretary of the Agriculture Produce Market Complex, said, “We have sent a detailed proposal to the state government for renovation of existing shops and also making fresh allotments. The government is yet to take action; if needed we will send a fresh proposal again.” Dhanbad, Sub Divisional Officer, Raj Maheshwaram, said, “We will look into the issue and after checking details, take steps to revive the market as per norms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand|| Strict precautions, many absentees on Day One of JEE Mains||Day one of JEE Mains exams, for admission in engineering colleges across India, passed off peacefully on Tuesday amid strict restrictions and special precautionary measures taken at all the centres across five cities – Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Hazaribagh. Loudspeakers were installed at an examination centre in Ranchi’s Tupudana locality to remind students about maintaining social distancing. Besides, circles were also marked at the entry to ensure that students do not come close to each other. The examinees were asked to remove masks that they were wearing and asked to wear special triple layer masks provided at the examination centre in Tupudana. The body temperature of all the examinees was checked using a thermal thermometer before entering the exam hall. A separate isolation room was also set up for those students who showed symptoms of Covid-19 infection, the examinees said. Despite all the precautionary measures, around 190 students missed the first sitting of the exam at the Tupudana centre. “Around 190 of the 410 students were absent during the first sitting of the exam at Tupudana centre,” said city coordinator of JEE Main Ram Singh. Singh, however, said that many students, who are satisfied with their performance in the first round of JEE Mains, do not appear for the second round, which is why the 190 students may have missed the exam on Tuesday. The first round of JEE Mains was held earlier this year, he added. Around 23,000 students are supposed to appear for the JEE Mains exams at eight centres spread across five cities in Jharkhand till September 6. The exams will be conducted in two shifts in most of the centres, sources said. Students at the Tupudana centre in Ranchi were mostly satisfied with the papers. However, some of them said that the mathematics paper was a difficult. “I was very nervous initially, but everything went smoothly after the exams began,” said Puja Mahto, an examinee from Gumla, who travelled to Ranchi by a private car on Tuesday to appear for the exam. In Dhanbad, 156 students appeared for two papers of JEE main in two batches at ION Digital zone on Barwaddah Road, where one of two centres have been set up. The other centre is at Perth Digital Zone, Kolakusma. Sub divisional officer Raj Maheshwaram said students were not inconvenienced in any way. “We arranged sufficient vehicles for transporting them to examination centres. Hotels have also been told to cooperate with examinees coming from other districts,” he said, referring to those from Giridih, Jamtara and Deoghar. At ION Digital Zone, a student of Madhupur in Deoghar said, “The BArch paper comprising mathematics, general aptitude and drawing was average. The aptitude and drawing section was easy.” Jyoti Kumari, a student of Moonidih, said the mathematic section was slightly lengthier in the B Arch paper. “The overall the experience was good as no questions came from outside class XI and XII syllabus,” she said, adding that arrangements were exemplary and all precautions were taken.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||On Day One, too few buses on the road; very few passengers too||If Day One of resumption of intra-state bus services in the state saw few buses hitting the road, the number of passengers were even less. After being grounded for the last five months, barely 10 per cent of Ranchi’s 2,000 buses were on the road on Tuesday. At Jamshedpur’s Sitaramdera bus terminus, 30 per cent of 400 buses rolled out for duty. Officials of Ranchi Bus Owners Association said they did not expect passenger counts to be so low when they agreed to resume services, even with 50 per cent occupancy, in accordance with the state government’s directive issued for the JEE-NEET tests that began on Tuesday. “We did not expect this kind of a response. It was very bad on Day One. We don’t know what to do if the trend continues. People aren’t coming out of their homes it seems,” said association president Krishna Mohan Singh. Patrons-in-chief, Jamshedpur Bus Owners' Welfare Association, Upendra Sharma said the first day of the resumption of inter-district bus services was not encouraging at all. "Very few passengers turned up. Maybe not everybody is aware about the resumption of bus services. But if passengers do not turn up in good numbers, then the condition of bus operators will deteriorate," he told The Telegraph Online. Ranchi’s transport hub Birsa Munda Bus Terminus remained sleepy through the day. Shops at the terminal were open, but there were no customers. Busses lined up the platforms while a few cleaning staff went about their job. Raju of Chanchal buses plying between Ranchi-Hazaribagh said they got two passengers till 10am. “In two hours, only two passengers came to go to Hazaribagh. Two others who came preferred to go on bikes as they did not want to wait for long,” he said, adding that most probably he would cancel the trip. Md Shakeel, a driver of a bus going to Simdega, said only short-route buses managed to ply with daily wagers. “A handful of buses to Bundu, Khunti and Simdega managed to get passengers in form of the labourers who usually go to these places from Ranchi. But buses to Jamshedpur, Chaibasa, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh could not run because of poor response,” he said. At Sitaramdera bus terminus, operator Vijay Kumar, who wanted to ply his vehicles on the Ranchi-jamshedpur route, expressed his disappointment at the way things unfolded. "In my bus there are 38 seats and I can take only 19 passengers.  But despite waiting for over hours together only 10 passengers boarded the bus. This number of passengers will not even generate enough revenue for the fuel cost. I hope people start to travel by bus gradually," he said. Bus owners have decided to double fares to make up for losses, accrued over the months of lockdown and in view of the 50 per cent occupancy directive. But Ranchi Bus Owners Association chief Singh ruled out any further reduction in fairs. “How can we reduce fares? In the wake of Covid, we are now incurring more expenses in the form of procuring sanitisers, masks and other safety gear for staff and passengers. Let alone the hike in fuel prices,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||August downpours not enough to wipe out rain deficit    ||August, the third month of the monsoon season, did see frequent downpours, but the rainfall was not enough to make up the deficit that stood at 8 per cent at the end of the month. According to data from IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre, Jharkhand received 754.4 mm rainfall against a normal of 820 mm in August. Thus, the cumulative rainfall of Jharkhand during the first three monsoon months, ie, June to August, was eight per cent below normal of long period average (LPA). However, September is likely to see a good spell of rain, experts have said. Statistics revealed that last year (2019), August had ended with 28 per cent rain deficit while in 2018 the deficit was 25 per cent. In 2017, the overall rainfall in Jharkhand stood at 1 per cent surplus at the end of August, while in 2016, August ended with a rain deficit of 6 per cent. According to Met statistics, Latehar district recorded the highest cumulative rainfall (June to August) with 1,029.7 mm against a normal of 813.2 mm, which is a surplus of 27 per cent. This was followed closely by East Singhbhum district which recorded 21 per cent surplus rain at the end of August. According to Met data, East Singhbhum district recorded actual rainfall of 1,040.4 mm against a normal of 859.5 mm. The other districts in the rain-surplus list are Palamau, Dumka, Ramgarh, Latehar and Lohardaga. Rainfall in Koderma was normal. Against a normal of 657.1 mm, Koderma at the end of August recorded 656 mm rain. Districts like Bokaro, Chatra Deoghar, Dhanbad, Garhwa Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Jamtara, Pakur, Sahebganj, Simdega, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Ranchi recorded deficit rain. Weathermen said on Tuesday that the southwest monsoon was weak over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. Dry weather prevailed in most of the districts. Only two IMD observatories _ Arki in Khunti and Hunterganj in Chatra district _ recorded rain in the past 24 hours, ie, between 8.30 am on Monday to 8.30 am on Tuesday. But the good news is that experts aren’t alarmed at the deficit figures. "Rainfall deficit in several districts is in the normal range. Rainfall distribution till August was up to the mark. Hence, there is no threat of drought,” said A Wadood, a weather scientist and agriculture expert of Birsa Agriculture University, Kanke. “As per IMD's long range forecast, we are expecting a good shower show in September, the last monsoon month," he said. On Tuesday, most parts of Jharkhand, including Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Daltonganj, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Hazaribagh, woke up to a gloomy and overcast conditions. As the day progressed, Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Seraikela and Chaibasa experienced light to moderate rain. The forecast issued by IMD's Ranchi Met Centre indicated thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and heavy rain over southern Jharkhand in the next 24 hours. Isolated pockets of southern and central Jharkhand could experience lightning and thunder too in the next 48 hours. "The monsoon trough has moved close to the foothills of Himalayas in the north. But several districts of Jharkhand will continue to get rain due to the impact of a cyclonic circulation over southern Assam. The cyclonic circulation was extending 3.6 km above mean sea level," said S.D Kotal, director of Ranchi Metrological Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Airport sees demand, asks state to allow more flights ||Airport authorities in Ranchi have requested the state government to provide at least five more flights, citing an increase in the passenger density owing to relaxations in the lockdown curbs. “We have requested the government to provide us more flights as the count of passengers is increasing. They are considering our request,” said airport director Vinod Sharma, explaining that the increase would mean 15 daily flights from now on. Birsa Munda Airport has been operating at a flight frequency of less than half of the usual number since resumption of services in May-end. “We will now require at least five more flights to meet the demand of passengers,” Sharma said on Tuesday, Birsa Munda Airport here operated at least 30 flights connecting the state to almost all major cities across India before a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24. However, once flight services resumed on May 25, the Ranchi airport was permitted to operate only seven flights, airport officials said. While the count of flights gradually increased to 10 by August end, the number was still less than half of the number of flights that took off from Ranchi before the lockdown. “Many migrants who had returned during the lockdown are returning to work. Some frequent flyers have also started travelling again for work. It will be helpful if we get at least half of our flights,” said Sharma. Currently, Ranchi is only connected to New Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Mumbai by air. Prior to the lockdown, Ranchi had flights to Calcutta and Patna as well. Some private players, airport sources said, have shown interest in starting flights from Ranchi to Chennai in the near future. The airport also has an international bay, but it is yet to get any international flights. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, a member of the Airport Advisory Committee (AAC), admitted that the passenger density had increased and Ranchi was in need of more flights to meet the demand. He said that the committee would  hold a meeting this week and take a call on the requirement of flights in Ranchi. “I will personally speak to the civil aviation minister, and ask him to increase flights from Ranchi,” said Seth, who was in New Delhi on Tuesday. A majority of passengers travelling from Ranchi by air were migrants, who had returned home during the lockdown, said Seth, adding that most of the migrants were flying to New Delhi from Ranchi. “We still have a rule of quarantining visitors for 14 days in Jharkhand, which is why the density of businessmen travelling from other cities has reduced. The passenger density will increase when the 14-day-quarantine norm is done away with,” the local MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Pranab Mukherjee's aura went beyond politics, says Hemant ||Chief Minister Hemant Soren said the passing of former President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday after a prolonged illness was the end of an era in Indian politics as "Pranab da's" charm went beyond party lines. Hemant recalled how JMM, despite being an NDA ally in Jharkhand in 2012, had voted for Mukherjee, who was in fray in the presidential election as a UPA candidate. “I was the deputy CM in the Jharkhand government which was formed in alliance with BJP. The late P.A. Sangma was the NDA’s candidate. One day, Guruji (JMM supremo Shibu Soren) asked me why Pranab da had not come to the state to seek our support when Sangma was touring the country, including Jharkhand, to secure votes. I replied that since he was a UPA candidate and we are in NDA, he isn’t expecting our support. Guruji then directed me to send him a message of our support.” “Humbled, Pranab da personally phoned me to express his gratitude, promising to come and meet Guruji in person. That’s how his persona and charm was... it went beyond political boundaries,” recalled Hemant. BJP veteran and former chief minister Raghubar Das recalled the time when Mukherjee came to Ranchi as President to lay the foundation stone for the construction of Rabindra Bhavan, asserting that the time spent with him remains one of the best in his political career. Other leaders, including those of Congress and AJSU-Party, also offered their condolences to the former president, who had visited Jharkhand a few times, twice to Santhal Parganas when he was First Citizen of the country. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said, “Not just the entire Congress party but the nation is shocked by his demise. He was an astute politician, a great economist and a humble human being. He was an encyclopedia of parliamentary history.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Four MLAs among 3,218 new cases, the highest in a day so far||As many as four MLAs tested Covid positive, the state health department noted in a bulletin issued on Monday night that saw 3,218 new cases, the highest single-day addition so far, and seven deaths. Notably, in the last 24 hours, 1,54,667 samples were tested, of which 3,218 were found positive after which state’s total caseload stood at 41,656. With the steady rise in Covid-19 cases, Jharkhand’s seven-day growth rate of cases touched 4.25 per cent, double the national average of 2.21 per cent. As of Monday night, the total number of active cases in Jharkhand is 14,096. As many as 27,143 people have recovered while 417 have died. The four MLAs who tested positive are Neelkant Singh Munda (BJP, Khunti), Sashi Bhushan Mehta (BJP, Panki), Amba Prasad (Congress, Barkagaon) and Vinod Singh (CPI-ML, Bagodar). They are all on home isolation, officials said. In all, nine MLAs of the state have tested positive. East Singhbhum continued to report the highest number of cases with 630 on Monday night, followed by Koderma with 254, Ranchi and Seraikela with 227 each, West Singbhum 210, Hazaribagh 170, Ramgarh 162, Dhanbad 153, Gumla 147, Palamu 127, Sahebganj 127 and Chatra 103. Health officials apprehend a further rise in the number cases with special testing drives underway across the state. On Tuesday, Ranchi is scheduled to hold a special testing camp across 20 locations from 10am to 6pm. The aim is to test at least over 10,000 people in a single day, officials said. On August 18, Ranchi held a similar drive in which over 300 Covid cases were recorded. As per government records, Ranchi has the highest number of active cases, while East Singhbhum has the second highest number of patients who are yet to recover from the infection. As many as 2,566 people were undergoing treatment for the viral infection in East Singhbhum at the time of filing this report, while 2,789 patients were yet to recover from the virus in Ranchi. At least 695 people recovered from the infection on Monday and were subsequently discharged from hospital, taking the number of Covid recoveries in Jharkhand to 27,143, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the NHM bulletin released on Monday late night, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate was 65.15 per cent against the national average of 75.27 per cent. The fatality rate in the state was 1 percent, which the lower than the national Covid fatality rate of 1.85 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Fire at Bokaro power plant||A 30-year-old transformer caught fire at the Bokaro Power Supply Company Private Limited (BPSCL) situated inside Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) on Monday. There were no casualties in the incident. It took about two hours for firefighters to douse the flames. The incident led to loss of power production for a few hours but did not affect BSL's production. The 338 MW-capacity-BPSCL plant is a joint venture of DVC and SAIL. A.K.Singh, chief executive officer of BPSCL said,“reason behind eruption of fire in transformer is yet to be ascertained. We are inquiring about the matter. It is an 80 MVA transformer. The incident affected production as it went down to 80-85 MW, but although our effort is on to restore the power generation back to 130 MW by 11 pm night”. A special administrative team on Monday seized two buses travelling to Bihar violating Covid regulations. The team, led by sub-divisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh was conducting surprise checks. The buses were going to Sasaram and Siwan from Nayamoad Bus Stand. The SDO said, “we have seized the buses and FIR under various sections of Epidemic Act is in process to be lodged with the City police station. There is no permission to ferry passengers outside the state in Covid-19 lockdown. The statement of passengers is being recorded”. Passengers were charged double abd triple the normal fares. Two months ago, the district administration came to know that buses plying to Bihar secretly had dug trenches using earthmovers at both entry and exit of private bus stand. But again such practise was on. Ferrying passengers to Bihar and bringing people here without notice of administration has made the situation vulnerable to the spread of the virus. Three children drowned in a pond in Doman Bagicha area of Chatra town on Monday afternoon. The trio-all aged 10- went to take a bath in Jaipur talab and drowned in the deep water. The children were identified as Mohammad Jaid, Mohammad Anash and Mohammad Anish. Locals fished out the dead bodies from the pond. Police sent the bodies to Chatra Sadar hospital for postmortem. The children were buried in Rashid Nagar Kabrishtan. A trailor truck collided with two SUVs causing the truck and one of the SUVs to overturn near Ganke Mor on Chutupallu ghati in Ramgarh on Monday. The second SUV jumped the divider on the highway damaging the car. Ramgarh police rushed three injured to Sadar Hospital. Barkagaon Congress MLA Amba Prasad on Monday tested positive for Covid.She is in home isolation. Prasad posted the news on on social media and asked all those who came in contact with her to go for a test. A DAV school teacher's sons' body was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his room. A Sindri police sent the dead body for post mortem at PMCH. Family members of the deceased, Rohit Kumar Singh, informed police that his pregnant wife went to her parents place at Nalanda during pregnancy about a month ago. Rohit was unhappy about the fact and wanted the child birth to take place at Sindri which led to a dispute and he might have commited suicide due to frustration. Congress ljhar Ahmad on Monday protested the steep hike in Vegetables by wearing a garland of vegetables. Ahmad blamed the central government's flawed policy for the price rise in  the state. He demanded a CBI probe for the prevailing situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
