02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Parents protest against Bokaro school for demanding fees||Police were called in on Wednesday to disband a three-hour demonstration of parents protesting against the management of St Xavier’s School for not allowing their children to join online classes for not paying tuition fees. The parents were demanding that the school not charge fees for the duration of the lockdown, something the school principal said was simply not possible for reasons of viability as 40 per cent of students had not paid for the last five months. Principal P.J. James said, “There are 2,925 students studying in St Xavier’s. Of them, 1,138 students have not paid their tuition fees for the past five months. How will we run the school?” After the intervention of Chas circle officer Dwarika Prasad Dwivedi, an understanding was reached with the agitating parents and the school management. By the end of the day, 200 parents had paid the fees. “After the talks, it was decided that children of those who submit at least one month’s tuition fee now would be allowed to take part in online classes,” Dwivedi said. St Xavier’s is the only ISCE school in Bokaro town. Father James explained that the school employed about 100 teachers and 160 administrative and support staff including drivers, attendants and gardeners and others. “The salaries paid to them are from the amount that the school collects charging fees from the students. The fees have remained unchanged since last year,” he said, adding that St Xavier’s was the first school in Bokaro to begin online classes. The principal explained that the accounting software automatically disabled names of students who have not paid fees for five months. “Names of many students got removed from the system automatically. Their names will get restored as soon as they pay the fees. There is no human intervention involved,” he explained. District president of Jharkhand Parents Association (JPA) Mahendera Kumar Ray, who was leading the agitation claimed they were being “harassed in the name of online education”, adding that the quality of classes weren’t up to the mark. “Practically, it is parents who are teaching their children at their homes not the school,” he claimed. Other parents indicated they were not happy with the outcome of their agitation, which began at 10am and was wound up by 1pm after the meeting with the school management and Chas circle officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Transport helpline for JEE, NEET aspirants||The district administration on Wednesday floated four dedicated helpline numbers for students who are appearing for the JEE, NEET and NDA exams, to assist their transportation needs by dropping them to the exam centres. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that dedicated officials have been assigned to man these phone lines to immediately provide assistance. “The numbers will help any student facing any kind of transportation woes while reaching the exam centres. Officials manning the helpline will coordinate with concerned people to arrange the required transport,” he said. One of the officials manning the centre, however, said that the initiative isn’t a free-transport service. “We won’t be providing any free cabs or autos for ferrying students to and back to the exam centre, but we will act as a bridge to sort out issues concerning their transport. For example, if anyone isn’t getting any bus, auto or cab, we shall facilitate it. Or if there are any attempts to fleece students, we shall act by coordinating with the local police station,” he said. JEE exams began on Monday across five districts in the state. In Ranchi, students are appearing at two centres set up in Tupudana and Tatisilwai. NEET is slated for September 13 across 23 centres in the state capital while the NDA (National Defence Academy) exam is on September 6 across around 20 centres. The helpline numbers are — 8210026802, 7903289235, 6203812020 and 9110960249.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Women's cricket team member collects firewood to keep family afloat||The Covid pandemic may have kept Rashmi Gudia off cricket, but the 22-year-old is using her time to help her elderly father by collecting wood from a forest in Odisha, which the family uses for the purpose of cooking and selling. Gudia, who led the Jharkhand under-23 women’s cricket team in the BCCI tournaments last season, lives with her family in Bolani town in Keonjhar district of Odisha. “Watching my father walk alone to collect wood from the forest pains me a lot, so I decided to join him. We walk 20 km to and fro for the wood early in the morning as we don’t have any vehicle,” the wicketkeeper-batswoman said, adding that she also finds time to shadow practice and do fitness drills at home. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on phone from Bolani, she said collecting wood was a tough job but she feels proud helping her father. “Finding and collecting wood is a tiresome job. Moreover, we have to bear the load of logs while bringing them home. In a way, walking 20km also somewhat helps me in maintaining my fitness. I cover some distance to the forest by jogging. I do shadow practice and use a borrowed Thera band for stretching exercises. Cricket will start once the Covid-related situation improves,” the tribal woman said. Gudia turned to Jharkhand when she was not selected in the Odisha under-19 team in 2013. “My coach advised me to try my luck in Jharkhand. I was lucky to get selected in the Jharkhand colt side. I also went on to captain the state under-19 side and the under-23 outfit. I want to make a career out of cricket,” she added. Gudia’s family faces hardship in making ends meet. Her elder brother Sunil has recently found a job, providing some economic relief. Gudia’s father Niran is an elderly man while her mother Khushmaro is a homemaker. Gudia, who studied up to class VIII from a government school in Bolani, said her brother asked her not to collect wood anymore since he has now found a job. “But I cannot stop helping my father. I think it is my responsibility as a daughter to lend a helping hand. In fact, it makes me feel proud,” she added. Guria said she has saved some money, which she earned as match fees for representing Jharkhand in BCCI tournaments. “But most of my savings are exhausted now. I am eagerly waiting for the new season to start,” said the talented cricketer, with good reflexes and swift body movement, a key feature for a stumper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Govt caps charges for storage, transportation of bodies||The state health department on Wednesday framed rules and specified charges for the storage and transportation of bodies of Covid patients in the wake of reports that several private hospitals were slapping exorbitant fees. As per a special directive issued on Wednesday, hospitals will have to provide free storage of a Covid patient’s body for four days, after which it could charge day rates fixed by the state health department. State health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said the directive was issued after the government was informed of recent instances when private hospitals and transport services deployed for Covid dead body management charged exorbitant amounts for transportation. “It is causing distress to patient families. I also amounted to disrespecting the dead,” he said. According to the directive, the maximum that can be levied for transportation of a body is Rs 500 as a fixed service charge, Rs 700 as cost of driver’s PPE (if family of the deceased isn’t providing a new kit), Rs 200 for vehicle sanitisation. Also, the fixed charge of Rs 500 is for the first 10km after which Rs 9/km can be charged. The distance calculated will be based on the to-and-for journey, the order said. “All these charges will come into play in case the family of the deceased is not able to arrange for transportation of the body and is not willing to avail of the government-run Moksha Vahan. The hospital administration will help the family find suitable transport, except emergency ambulances, and charge the specified rates,” Kulkarni said. He said government-sponsored Moksha Vahan was available in all 24 districts and those in need may contact the district civil surgeon or medical superintendent of the concerned medical college. “Every district is mandated to provide Moksha Vahan for transportation within or outside the district,” said Kulkarni. Wednesday’s order also makes it mandatory for private hospitals to store a Covid patient’s body free of charges for up to four days from the time of death. “After four days, the hospital may charge Rs 500/day till the time the family arranges for transportation of the body,” Kulkarni said. And in case of an unclaimed body, Kulkarni said it was the district administration’s responsibility to cremate it as per Covid-19 guidelines within 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Decorators apprehensive about low-key Durga Puja||Decorators, tent house owners and caterers, who are in the red because of lockdown restrictions, are now seriously concerned at the very likely prospect of low-key Durga Puja this year. So far, not one of them has received a booking from any puja committee. Notably, more than 300 community pujas are held every year and usually, work on pandals begin by late August. “As Puja is likely to be low-key with the majority of committees giving orders for small, 4feet by 5feet pandals, we don’t see much of a demand this year,” said Pradeep Singh, president of Dhanbad Decorators’ Association. Singh admitted that after suffering huge losses during the last six months due to the lockdown, they were pinning their hopes on Durga Puja. “But our hopes are dashed as we expect less than 20 per cent income this year. That’s because 100 of the total 300 pujas will have budgets less than Rs 1 lakh. “Majority of puja committees will not erect any pandal and hold the puja within their own residential or club premises,” he added. General secretary of Dhanbad Zila Decorators’ Association Purushottam Kumar agreed. “The income of a number of professionals like florists, painters and suppliers of children’s rides for fairs will be drastically hit,” he said. The only silver lining, he said, was that the number of guests allowed for weddings had been increased to 100 from the earlier 50 existing 50 after September 21. “But not many marriages are likely to be held in this lagan as people are themselves apprehensive about safety,” said Kumar. Shyamal Sen, founder member of Navyuvak Sangharsh Samiti, which organises one of the best pujas at Manaitand locality of Dhanbad, said, “Though a final decision with regard to puja will be taken during a meeting of all puja committees with the district administration on September 6, there is no doubt that Puja will be a low-key affair.” Sen, a retired office superintendent of SSLNT Women’s College and a renowned artist, said that a number of his students who used to make good money during this time, were already in despair at the thought of a low-key Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Furrowed and accident-prone, finest Dhanbad road turns into worst||The Kako Math Gol Building road, one of the finest in Dhanbad, connecting the town with places like Katras and Baghmara, has turned into one of the most dangerous roads within two months, due to the suspension of ongoing roadwork along a 19km stretch. The construction of the road by the State Highway Authority of Jharkhand began in 2019, following which work and was suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic induced lockdown. It resumed after the relaxation allowed by the central government on April 20, but the work was suspended again by June 19 in the name of a departmental probe in its construction. “I regularly use the road for visiting Katras for business purposes and for over two months, I pray to God for my safety every time before using the road. Digging being carried on for road broadening, and the existing concrete road and suspension of work midway has rendered it completely unsafe,” said Rajesh Kumar Gupta, a book shop owner of the Purana Bazar locality of Dhanbad, while talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday. “One may feel the risk of falling into the dug-out part when a truck comes from the other side at high speed. The area is five to six feet lower than the road surface,” said Gupta and added that the road was once the finest in the district. It was known for its greenery, and people would choose this road to travel to Baghmara, as other roads like the Kendua-Karkend were not popular due to pollution and other causes. “We will meet the district administration authorities soon demanding either the resumption of construction work or putting safety measures like levelling the furrowed road to avoid accidents,” said Gupta. Echoing sentiments with Gupta, another trader of Bartand area of Dhanbad, Madhurendra Singh, said the safety of the people should be of paramount importance to any government. “With people falling into a large number of ditches all around the road, the area has turned into a virtual death zone,” he said. “A large number of heavy vehicles passing through the road, which also serves as a by-pass for the town, further increases the possibility of accidents” said Singh. Sandbags are placed in at some places to demarcate the barrier between the existing concrete road and the adjoining dug-out areas. Singh said these are far too inadequate to ensure any safety against vehicles falling into the low-lying areas. State Highway Authority of Jharkhand, in two parts, is carrying out the construction of a new eight-lane road having the provisions of a two-lane service road and a cycle track on both sides. The project includes the 11.70km stretch from Kako Math in Katras to Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk in Dhanbad, being constructed through Tribeni Construction Ltd of Guwahati in Assam. Shivalaya Construction Pvt Ltd. is constructing the remaining 8.30km stretch from Binod Bihari Chowk to Gol Building in Dhanbad. Repeated efforts to contact, MK Verma the project-in-charge of Kako Math Gol Building road of State Highway Authority of Jharkhand failed, as he didn’t answer calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Incab liquidator calls meet in Calcutta||The first meeting of the stakeholders’ consultation committee of Incab Industries will take place in Calcutta on Thursday. The meeting was called by Shashi Agarwal, who has been appointed liquidator of Incab Industries by the Calcutta bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The committee which was constituted under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 comprises creditors and other stakeholders of the company. As per a notification issued by the liquidator the meeting will take place at Aastha Business Centre at Kiron Shankar Roy Road. Company sources revealed that R.B. Singh, a member of the interim management committee of Incab, will represent the committee from Jamshedpur. However, Incab Employees Association, a recognised union of the company based at the head office in Calcutta, has opposed the meeting. "How can the liquidator convene such a meeting when National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has imposed restrictions on Incab's liquidation," said Aloke Sen, assistant secretary of Incab Employees Association. Notably, last week NCLAT took note of an appeal by a section of employees challenging the liquidation order passed by NCLT in February this year. The next hearing of NCLAT is scheduled on September 28. Employees of the company are not getting salaries for the last two decades ever since the company was referred to the BIFR in 1999. The employees were optimistic and were looking forward to a positive outcome when on last Thursday NCLAT admitted the petition of workers. The current strength of Incab employees is around 850 at the Jamshedpur plant. Incab also has a plant in Pune which too is non-operational. As it was suffering losses Incab was referred to the BIFR in 1999, a year before Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Deer run over by train in tiger park in Jharkhand ||Four deer and a newborn fawn were killed after a goods train ran over them near Ketchki railway station in a tiger reserve in Jharkhand on Monday morning. “The accident happened about half-a-kilometre away from Ketchki station sometime between 5.30am and 6.30am this morning,” said Kumar Ashish, deputy director of Palamau Tiger Reserve in Latehar district. He said the area falls under the tiger reserve and witnesses frequent movement of wildlife. There were one male and three female deer, he said. He said one doe was pregnant and delivered a fawn from the impact of the accident, taking the number of casualties to five. “We conducted an on the spot inquiry and also spoke to the railway authorities at divisional level,” Ashish said, adding that they also demanded the names of the driver and guard of the trains that passed the area at that time. The station falls under Dhanbad division of East Central Railway and the trains are expected to run at a low speed of 25km per hour while crossing the area under the reserve. “We have to initiate legal action against the offenders under the wildlife act,” Ashish said, adding the railway provided them names of the drivers and guards of five trains that passed through the area around that time. Asked how they could fix responsibility, he said it is a matter of further investigation to ascertain which particular train hit the deer. “The area being a part of PTR, the movement of wildlife is natural and the trains are run at limited speed to avoid any such accident,” he said, adding that elephants also move freely in the area. There are two railway tracks running through the area and the laying of a third track was also taken up, causing worry among wildlife enthusiasts that it would facilitate increased train moment affecting free movement of wildlife. Asked about it, Ashish said they have proposed a meeting with the senior divisional level officer of the railways to discuss the matter. The 9-km track between Chhipadohar and Hehegara stations is the most vulnerable stretch for wildlife as it runs through the core area of PTR, he said. “It would be best if that stretch is shifted to the fringes of PTR,” Ashish said, adding that it would help all concerned. While the railways can run trains at higher speed, the wildlife should also be able to move about without any risk of getting hit, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Team to visit Jharkhand to review Covid spike ||The Union health ministry will send a three-member expert team to three districts of Jharkhand which have witnessed sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. “The team will assist state health departments for review of public health measures for Covid-19. They will be deputed for a period of 10 days at Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur (in East Singhbhum district) as these three districts have witnessed maximum number of Covid-positive cases and also large number of fatalities,” said Jharkhand principal secretary health Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Jharkhand had on August 31, a growth rate of 4.25 per cent almost double of the national average at 2.21 per cent while the doubling rate stood at 16.64 days (national average 31.67 days). According to sources in the Union health ministry’s directorate general of health services (DGHS) emergency medical relief (EMR) division, the team would be led by Dr Tapas Ray, a senior professor in  Preventive and Social Medicine (PSM) at Lady Hardinge Medical College (New Delhi).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases over 15,000, as nearly 1000 test positive in Ranchi||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday crossed the 15,000 mark in Jharkhand for the first time, after more than 2000 people were found infected in 24 hours. As per figures with the health department, nearly 1000 cases of infection surfaced in Ranchi alone on Tuesday, taking the Covid tally in the state's worst-affected district to 8,754. The number of active cases in the district also drew close to 4000, as only 60 patients recovered and 951 tested positive for the virus. East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in the state, reported 244 cases of infection on Tuesday, taking the tally in the district to 7,342, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. It further stated that East Singhbhum reported three of the five Covid deaths in state on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in the district to 192, which is over 40 per cent of the total Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand so far. Besides Ranchi and East Singhbhum, Bokaro reported an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid cases as 203 people in the district tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. Giridih reported 155 Covid cases. However, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Giridih have not even reported half as many cases as Ranchi and East Singhbhum. Meanwhile, state health minister Banna Gupta, who was found Covid infected on August 18, tested negative for the virus on Tuesday after undergoing treatment for 14 days. The minister announced his recovery from the viral infection from his official Twitter handle on Tuesday, and lauded the efforts of health workers, who were putting their own wellbeing at risk to treat the infected people. “I will donate my blood plasma for treatment of Covid patients now. I would like to thank the RIMS (Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences) administration for doing such a commendable job in treating Covid patients,” he said. The government has so far collected swab samples of 9.61 lakh people and tested 9.50 lakh of them. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 28,304 people and 2064 of them came positive, the NHM bulletin stated. As per government figures, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.97 per cent against the national average of 1.85 per cent. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 64.21 per cent, which is lower than the national recovery rate of 75.27 per cent. As many as 969 people recovered from the viral infection in Jharkhand on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
