03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Chatra officials begin hunt for land for medical college||The Chatra district administration has begun scouting for a 20-acre plot for the construction of a medical college after a prod from the department of health. The medical college will be set up as part of a country-wide push to establish such institutions in all aspiring districts. Chatra is considered a laggard in healthcare facilities. The Sadar hospital is often in the news for the wrong reasons. Local residents on Thursday caught two persons stealing tyres from a truck on GT Road in Kariyatpur of Barhi block, about 46km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Suraj Kumar and Nitesh Kumar Yadav are both residents of Kenduwa village in Barkatha block. A pick-up van and stolen tyres, besides two smartphones, have been found. A woman allegedly committed suicide in Chothai Kulhi locality in the Jharia police station area on Thursday. Malti Devi, 34, was upset because a housemaid had not returned her jewellery worth Rs 3 lakh she had taken for a wedding, according to the suicide note. Police have lodged a case and sent the body for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand quarantine norm keeps Bihar poll pot boiling||The JDU has alleged that action was taken against RJD MLA Samta Devi under Covid protocols in Ranchi as she was a Dalit whereas Tej Pratap, who, like her,  had also met his father and the RJD chief Lalu Prasad days ago, was let off without being subjected to 14-day quarantine. Ruling JD(U) and the new entrant to the NDA-fold, Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, attacked RJD for "using its influence" on the JMM-led coalition government in Jharkhand to "punish" a Dalit woman MLA while Tej Pratap visiting Ranchi to meet Lalu Prasad at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) did not invite such action. The RJD has dismissed the charges, saying the NDA leaders appear to be "haunted" by Lalu Prasad day and night. Samta Devi, RJD MLA from Barachatti (reserved) seat in Bihar's Gaya district, along with one of her associates and two security guards were quarantined by the Ranchi administration on Wednesday after they visited Lalu at RIMS. The order to quarantine the legislator was passed by additional district magistrate, law and order, Akhilesh Kumar Sinha. Officials said that the RJD MLA reached Ranchi by road without informing the authorities. When the authorities came to know about her visit from the government guest house, she was quarantined there for 14 days as per the COVID-19 protocols in the state. Samta Devi told PTI she was unaware of the quarantine norms in place, and had urged the Jharkhand government to release her from isolation and allow her to go back home. The incident stirred the political pot in Bihar where elections are due in October-November. Bihar's minister for Information and Public Relations Department Neeraj Kumar asked RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav to speak as "why the Jharkhand government under the influence of his party is adopting double standards in dealing with Samta Devi and Tej Pratap Yadav. "Has she been punished because she is a Dalit woman?" the JD(U) leader asked the RJD leader in a statement in Patna. HAM national spokesman Danish Rizwan also trained guns at RJD, alleging "Lalu is insulting Dalits using his influence on the Jharkhand government." Manjhi who had quit Grand Alliance led by RJD on August 20,  announced on Wednesday that his party was joining NDA in Bihar as a constituent. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari brushed aside the charges and said the law was taking its course in the neighbouring state without discriminating against anybody. "Lalu jee seems to be haunting NDA leaders day and night,” Tiwari said. Since they have nothing to show for by way of work to the voters, they are levelling baseless allegations," he said. Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi has also accused the RJD supremo of running his political show from behind the bars and even receiving biodata of over 200 ticket aspirants for the state assembly polls. "If the Jharkhand government is helping Lalu to run the party and allowing him to play a political role while violating the jail manual, we will seek the Election Commission's intervention," the senior Bihar BJP leader had said in a series of tweets last Friday. The RJD is a part of the JMM-led coalition government in Jharkhand. Congress is also a member. Lalu Prasad is serving jail time after his conviction in four fodder scam cases. He was shifted to RIMS because of medical issues and then moved to the director’s bungalow to ensure he did not contract a coronavirus infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||JRD Tata Sports Complex to be turned into Covid centre||East Singhbhum health authorities have decided to convert the sprawling JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur into a Covid care centre at a time when over 2,000 patients are currently admitted across treatment facilities and 600 patients are being treated at home. "The district administration, in consultation with Tata Steel, is exploring options to see if Covid patients can be accommodated in the halls within the sports complex or in separate tents inside the sports facility,” said East Singhbhum district civil surgeon, R.N. Jha. He, however, stressed that they would finalise all the nitty-gritty soon. The district civil surgeon revealed that cases were being reported from lanes and bylanes of the steel city, and that they apprehend a steady increase in numbers in days to come. "As the number of Covid cases is expected to rise in the near future, we are making preparations. Turning JRD Tata Sports Complex into a Covid case centre is part of this preparation,” he said, adding that a three-member central team was likely to visit the steel city for a survey. Jha said Covid patients accommodated at the stadium would be provided with similar medical facilities as in a hospital. "Patients lodged at the JRD Tata Sports Complex will not only get medicines and food, besides a bed, but will also be looked after by health workers, including the nurses, in three shifts round-the-clock," the civil surgeon said. On Wednesday, 228 new coronavirus cases were reported in East Singhbhum district, taking the total number to 7,634. Seven persons died of Covid-19 since Tuesday, taking the district toll to 213. As many as 5,061 people have recovered. There are 2,360 active patients of whom 980 are admitted to Tata Main Hospital, 100 to MGM Medical College Hospital. The remaining patients are at Uma Superspeciality Hospital in Mango, St John's Hospital on NH-33 and Tata Motors Hospitals in Telco. Over 600 Covid patients are undergoing treatment at their homes as there is no bed for them in the hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||JFC sign defender Dinliana from Chennaiyin FC||Laldinliana Renthlei, fondly known as Dinliana, on Thursday signed Jamshedpur FC for a three-year deal as the club continues to form a strong, competent squad for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL). The 22-year-old Mizo right-back is quick and strong and was a revelation under Owen Coyle last season. He was one of the top right-backs in the ISL last season and can slot in as a left-back. He was an important cog in the machinery, which finished as runners-up in the ISL 2019-20, and was a crucial member of the side that finished runners-up in the AIFF Super Cup in 2019. “It’s a privilege to have signed for a club like Jamshedpur which has all avenues conducive for a player like me to exhibit my true potential. This move is a perfect fit especially with Owen Coyle at the helm. I had a great outing with him last year and I am hungry to perform. I am excited at the prospect of bringing the deserving fans of Jamshedpur the much-awaited and coveted silverware in the ISL,” Dinliana said. The full-back came to prominence after winning the Mizoram Premier League (MPL) with Chhinga Veng FC in 2017, where he was adjudged best defender of the tournament for his outstanding displays. He was loaned out to Aizawl FC to play in the I-League, where he made 24 appearances for them in the 2017-18 season. In 2018, Dinliana was signed by Chennaiyin FC and made 34 appearances across two seasons. He also appeared in the AFC Cup and AFC Champions League qualifiers with Aizawl and Chennaiyin FC, making his continental debut against Iranian side Zob Ahan Esfahan back in 2018. Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle was glad to be reunited with the defender. “The position of a full-back is crucial to any football system as it requires the right balance of attack and defence. Dinliana matches my requirements perfectly. He has been fabulous over the past three years and was phenomenal last season as he helped his team reach the ISL final. He will be an important player for the club and country in the years to come,” Owen said. The youngster has helped his teams with 15 clean sheets in 58 top-tier matches he has played. Dinliana will be wearing jersey number 26 in the tournament ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||JEE amid pandemic worth the risk, students against losing a year||Lack of affordable transportation to far away exam centres and no seating arrangements for guardians outside centres have kept JEE Mains aspirants on the edge in Ranchi since the beginning of the examinations on September 1, but the pressure performing well in the tests have kept them going in the midst of a global pandemic. Many examinees preferred facing the odds instead of losing a year of their academic career. Aditya Kumar, a Ranchi resident who appeared for the exam on Day One of the six-day exams, said that losing a year would be worse than facing difficulties in the process of appearing for the exams. “I have my own car, so reaching the exam centre was not a problem for me. Students who do not have their own vehicle might have faced problems. However, I am sure that no student would want to lose a year despite the challenges they have faced for appearing in the exams,” he said. Parents and local guardians of the examinees have been sharing their stress. Dhananjay Kumar, a resident of Nalanda in Bihar, covered 300 kilometre on his motorcycle to bring his daughter to Ranchi on Day Two of the exams as buses were not plying. The 12-hour-long journey was taxing on his body, but he could not let his daughter lose a year. Despite covering long distances on two-wheelers and cabs, many parents were not even provided a place to sit while their children appeared for the exams amid strict Covid-19 precautionary measures. Patratu resident Vishal Prasad, who booked a cab to bring his sister to Ranchi for the JEE exams, said guardians had to face a tough time outside the centres. “There was no seating arrangement. Even tea stalls and eateries were closed, so spending three hours in the sun was quite a challenge,” he said. Aarti Srivastava, a resident of Simaliya in Ranchi, said the administration should have at least arranged for a tent for guardians as frequent downpours were expected in Ranchi during this time of the year. “Exam centres are so far away from the city. There are no eateries around and we don’t even have a place to sit,” said Aarti, who brought her son to the exam centre by a pre-booked cab. Around 23,000 students are appearing for the ongoing exams in eight centres across five cities in Jharkhand. There are two centres each in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad and one centre each in Bokaro and Hazaribagh. In wake of Covid-19, loudspeakers were installed at an examination centre in Tupudana here to remind students about maintaining social distancing. Besides, circles were also marked at the entry to ensure students do not come close to each other. Examinees were also provided triple-layer masks at the centres and asked to remove the masks that they were wearing when they left home. The body temperature of all the examinees was checked using a thermal scanner. A separate isolation room was also set up for those students who showed symptoms of Covid-19 infection. Despite all the precautionary measures, as many as 190 students missed the first sitting of the exam at the Tupudana centre on Day One. However, there was no clarity on whether they missed the exams owing to the fear of Covid-19 infection or due to other reasons. “I don’t think missing the exam is an option. We can bear with lockdown restrictions and other challenges, but appearing for the exam was paramount,” said Abishek Anand, an examinee from Kanke Road in Ranchi. Days before the JEE Mains began, chief minister Hemant Soren conducted a poll on Twitter in which around 78 per cent participants voted in favour of postponing the exam. Ministers from at least six non-BJP ruled states, including Jharkhand, had also knocked at the door of the Supreme Court seeking postponement of the exams owing to risk of Covid-19 infection among students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Distress calls to steel city's suicide prevention centre go up ||The number of distress calls to Jeevan, a Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre, has gone up at a time when the steel city is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. Volunteers are receiving 20-25 calls daily for over a week now. A majority of calls are related to job loss, financial problems and closure of business establishments. Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan, said the distress calls have gone up as the East Singhbhum district administration has publicised the centre’s helpline numbers. “Posters of Jeevan mentioning our telephone numbers have been publicised at various places across the city. We also met the deputy commissioner last week with a request to make the nature of publicity permanent since posters get damaged after some time,” he said. He explained that the publicity of Jeevan’s telephone number should sustain and it is possible only if the advertisement is made permanent. “The posters should also come up at isolation centres,” Jain said. Posters of Jeevan have come up in Bistupur, Sakchi, Golmuri and other localities. Posters are also visible at some housing societies. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Jain said during the days after the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown in March, Jeevan was receiving around 10-12 calls daily. However, the number of distress calls came down to 4-5 daily from mid-June onwards as people were not aware about the telephone numbers. “People now know where to contact us, and are subsequently approaching us for much-needed help. This has been possible due to the administration, which has made our helplines public,” he added. “The present situation is no better. Some people call to tell us that they fear they have contracted the viral disease,” Jain informed. Jain has recently formed a 12-member special team comprising young volunteers. “The team members arrange for and take grocery to old people, sometimes spending from their own pockets. They also facilitate medical assistance. The members of the special team pool in money for such kind of assistance,” the Jeevan director said. The district administration has issued passes to the volunteers for swift movement across the city. Jeevan, which operates in collaboration with Tata Steel Foundation and district administration, has 30 volunteers, including 12 in the special team. Volunteers try to instil positive thoughts and raise the confidence level of callers. They also try to convince people who have suicidal tendencies, to think otherwise. “We understand that the situation is not good but there is no need to panic and take fatal steps. Covid is not going to stay forever. It will gradually subside and the lives of people will be back on track,” Jain said. Reach Jeevan volunteers on: 9297777499, 9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or WhatsApp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Good news for Jharia as work on water plant begins||Work has begun to set up a water treatment plant on the banks of river Damodar, a welcome development for the over 5 lakh residents of Jharia who face regular disruption in water supply. A boundary wall is being constructed for a water treatment plant on the banks of the Damodar. It is part of a comprehensive plan, worth Rs 310 crore, to replace the existing pipeline where leaks spring up regularly, leading to perennial problems for Jharia residents. “Besides replacing existing pipelines from the Jamadoba water treatment to the tank at Bhagatdih and again from Bhagatdih to Dhansar, we will be constructing an intake well at Jamadoba on the bank of river Damodar. Additionally, we will also construct eight water treatment plants at various places in Jharia, Jamadoba and Dhansar,” said secretary and technical member of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) Indresh Shukla. Shukla said survey work for the project had been completed. “The work of replacing the pipeline, as well as constructing intake wells and the water treatment plants is being handled by Mumbai based agency, JMC Projects. These should be completed in two years,” he said. Shukla said that out of the eight water treatment plants, seven would be to treat mine pit water, while the one at Jamadoba will be used for treatment and supply of water from the Damodar. JMADA supplies more than 176 lakh litre from the Damodar river through its Jamadoba treatment complex to Jharia and Katras. Of this, around 105 lakh litre water is supplied to Jharia and its adjoining areas through a 12 million gallon per day capacity water treatment plant. The remaining water, around 71 lakh litre, is supplied to Kendua, Putki, Moonidih and other areas of Katras. This apart, JMADA also supplies around 25 lakh litre water per day to various parts of Katras, like Katras Bazar, Rani Bazar, Malkera Sijua, through the Topchanchi lake constructed way back in 1924. As the supply pipeline from Jamadoba to Jharia, laid more than 50 years ago, has faced wear and tea, leakages are frequent. When that happens, supply is disrupted along with considerable wastage. Some localities like Baniahir and Surratand did not get water supply for over two months due to decrease in water pressure in the main pipeline because of the leaks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Harrowing time for Rajdhani passengers at Daltonganj railway station||Around 750 passengers of the New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Special had a harrowing time on Thursday when the 22-coach train was detained at Daltonganj railway station since 6.40am following a big stir at the Tori railway junction by Tana Bhagats, ‘disciples’ of Mahatma Gandhi. The situation was tense at the junction, where hundreds of Tana Bhagats of all ages have been sitting on railway tracks since Wednesday evening, demanding their right to hold land under the Chhotanagpur Tenancy Act, which land revenue officials have been depriving them of. Local railway officials expressed their helplessness of the situation, infuriating the passengers, some of whom threatened to sue the railways for jeopardizing their lives amid the Covid pandemic. The Telegraph Online has a copy of SDO Latehar’s letter to the divisional railway managers of Dhanbad and Ranchi divisions, apprising them of the situation, hinting at any possible dislocation of rail traffic as well. Sources said the railways just did not take the developing situation seriously and ran its train through Tori. “Tori railway station and the Tana Bhagats squatting there all fall under Latehar district and the SDO Latehar had done the right thing to inform the two DRMs about the stir on the railway tracks on Wednesday itself. However, the railways ignored and overlooked the gravity of the stir and ran this train only to cause hardships to the passengers,” said SP Ajay Linda. Following the intervention of the state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, DGP MV Rao, DC Shashi Ranjan and SP Linda, a fleet of buses was arranged for the stranded passengers to be taken down to Ranchi via the NH-75. Linda said more than a dozen buses were pressed in for the stranded passengers to take them down to Ranchi. Sources said many affluent stranded passengers hired cars for themselves and left for Ranchi at their own expense. Sources said the local railway officials arranged tea and slices of bread for the stranded passengers from the train pantry car, said station superintendent Daltonganj railway station AK Tiwari. Chatra MP Sunil Kumar Singh too tried to impress upon the railway officials the need to send the passengers to Ranchi via a diverted route on any other train, but in vain. “My office sent a tweet to union railway minister Piyush Goyal in this regard also,” he said to The Telegraph Online. Railway sources said had this train been diverted in the wake of the stir, the present situation would not have arisen at all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally close to 45,000, 10 succumb to the disease ||The Covid tally in Jharkhand drew close to 45,000 on Wednesday as over 1000 people were found infected in the last 24 hours, figures released by the health department on Wednesday late night stated. While 10 Covid patients lost their battle against the virus on Wednesday, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 438, as many as 1383 patients recovered from the infection and were subsequently discharged from hospital as per government figures. With 253 fresh cases of the infection, Ranchi once again reported the highest number of Covid cases among 24 districts in Jharkhand on Wednesday. However, as many as 512 Covid patients recovered in the district on the same day, causing a dip in the number of active cases here. As per government figures, over 9000 Covid cases have been reported in the district so far while 3,804 of them is undergoing treatment. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum, which has reported highest Covid casualties in Jharkhand so far, reached 199 on Wednesday and seven of 10 Covid deaths reported in Jharkhand occurred in the district. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, dropped to 0.97 per cent on Wednesday. East Singhbhum reported 228 fresh cases of infection on Wednesday, while 275 Covid patients recovered in the district. The government has so far collected swab samples of over 9.91 lakh people and tested around 9.80 lakh of them. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 20,846 people, and 19,819 of them came negative. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate, as per government data, was 66.30 per cent on Wednesday after the number of recoveries surpassed the count of fresh cases of infection. As many as 44,862 people have been infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand and 29,747 of them have recovered, figures of the health department state. There were 14,677 active cases of infection in the state by the time this report was filed. The virus has infected nearly 4000 cops and more than a dozen politicians in the state so far. Doctors say that policemen and politicians were more likely to get infected as they have to meet people and go out of their homes more often. The government has set up a special isolation centre for infected policemen in Ranchi’s Visthapit Colony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Social outfit helps JEE aspirants ||Amid political slugfest over the conduct of Joint Entrance Exams (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), a social outfit in Jharkhand has come forward to help students in remote areas of Dhanbad reach their exam centres on time without any hassles. Dev Kumar Verma, a 35-year-old manager of Bharat Coking Coal Limited, along with his wife, a professor at BIT-Sindri, has helped 20 JEE aspirants reach their exam centres within a span of two days through their Pathshala Educational Trust. The couple have been providing free education to poor children of coal pickers in the mining areas through their schools named Pathshala since 2014. “Ever since it was announced that the JEE-Mains exams would be held between September 1 and 6 and the NEET exams on September 13, we could see several students airing their apprehensions on social media about problems they might face in reaching the centres due to the lockdown. We discussed with the members of our trust and formed a 20-member team to coordinate and ensure that students from far-flung areas do not face problems in reaching the specified centre. We floated a helpline number (9470595075) dedicated for the students and so far we have been able to help nearly 20 students in the two days to sit for JEE-Mains,” said Dev Kumar, who holds an MBA degree from NIT Durgapur. The trust has deployed one SUV and four eight-seater vans to ferry the students. “We had to follow the SOPs for Covid-19 and not crowd the vehicles. We had the school vans and my personal SUV. If the need arises, we will hire more vehicles. We are also providing free sanitiser and masks to those students who do not have it,” Dev Kumar added. A huge majority of aspiring medicos and technocrats — more than 78 per cent of nearly 1.87 lakh respondents — had voiced support for the postponement of NEET and JEE in the feedback survey conducted by Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on August 31 on his official Twitter handle. Several students had tweeted their concern over reaching the exam centres on time due to transportation problems despite intra-state buses and hotels resuming operations on September 1 in the state. A review petition by several non-BJP ruled states has been filed in the Supreme Court for postponement of the JEE-NEET exams. “I am indebted to Dev Sir for arranging a free transport facility. Otherwise I would have to book a room in a hotel in proper Dhanbad city for night stay and then leave for the exam centre early morning on a private cab or auto-rickshaw as the city bus service has their own scheduled time. Besides, the buses carry limited number of passengers in keeping with the Covid-19 SOP,” said Ravi Mandal, 19, a native of Rajganj in Baghmara block, around 30km from Dhanbad, who appeared for JEE-Mains at Izone in Barwadda, Dhanbad. There are two centres for JEE in Dhanbad—Izone in Barwadda and Digital Zone in Kusum Vihar. The exams will be held in two shifts between 9am and noon and between 3pm and 6pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Video on Swadeshi movement||The Jharkhand unit of the Congress on Wednesday shared a short video on social media depicting a part of Indian history. The 2.09-minutes-long video depicts the partition of Bengal and emergence of the concept of self-rule and is the sixth edition of a video series titled Dharohar (Legacy) on the Congress’s history and its contribution to the freedom struggle and the country’s emergence as a superpower within 70 years of its Independence. “All the MLAs and other leaders of the party will share this video on social media platforms so that the younger generation can know the real history of our country,” state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, explaining the intention behind circulating the video. “The video shows how people united themselves and rose against the divisive policy of the British at that time,” said Jharkhand Congress president and state finance minister Raneshwar Oraon. He said the people should unite once again against such divisive forces. The video on Bengal’s partition and the wave of self-rule showed how, following announcement of the decision, a meeting at Town Hall in Calcutta on August 7, 1905, led to the call for boycott of British goods and subsequently the formal announcement of the Swadeshi movement in the Benaras conference the same year and the demand for self-rule the next year. The video showed how it was also an economic movement in the sense it inspired many Indians to consolidate artisans, workers and others to establish Indian cloth mills, banks and insurance companies, referring to the stewardship of such leaders as Gopal Krishna Gokhale, Lala Lajpat Rai, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal. The launch of the video series was announced by the Congress in New Delhi and the first episode was shared on social media platforms on Independence Day. While four more videos were also released subsequently, the sixth one was shared on Wednesday. The first edition of the series on “135 Years’ Legacy of a Robust History” began with the formation of the Congress on April 28, 1885, “as an organisation that gave voice to the voiceless and led the fight for India’s freedom”. “Congress has been at the forefront in the efforts to create an India which is global leader in industry, agriculture,  science and technology, health, military and culture and all this without ever compromising on its secular and democratic nature,” said a statement issued by the party at the time of the launch of the video series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Several discharged from Covid treatment centres||Nine persons were discharged on Wednesday from the dedicated Covid-19 care centre at the zonal railway training institute in Bhuli. In Koderma, 14 persons were on Wednesday discharged from the Holy Family Covid-19 care centre. Those released included an 88-year-old man. The discharged persons have been instructed to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Covid-19 testing of 90 officials and employees was conducted at the Palamau collectorate on Wednesday. One person tested positive for the coronavirus; he is in quarantine. Two Indian Army jawans drowned during training in a pond at the Sikh Regimental centre in Ramgarh district on Wednesday, police said. Divers swung into action soon after reports came in of the incident, but the soldiers could not be saved. The jawans, identified as Jorawar Singh and Parminder Singh, both 22 years old, were from Punjab. Their bodies were handed over to the army after post-mortem. Police on Wednesday conducted a raid in Dhanbad’s Govindpur and seized a huge cache of liquor being transported in a truck from Bengal to Bihar via NH2. Dhanbad superintendent of police R. Ramkumar said: “We have seized 200 cartons of liquor and arrested the driver and cleaner of the vehicle.” The employees of the cash-strapped Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) on Wednesday decided to meet deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh in two-three days over non-payment of salaries. At their meeting on Wednesday, the employees also decided to meet chief minister Hemant Soren in Ranchi to seek his intervention in the matter. A youth died at Basaria in the Masnodih panchayat in Domchach block of Koderma when a bomb he was making exploded. Police said Lalo Turi was with three of his friends at the time of the explosion. His family took him to a private hospital in Ranchi. But Turi died on Wednesday. His friends are missing. Police teams from Paton, Nawa Jaipur and Chainpur in Palamau on Wednesday arrested eight persons and seized three country-made guns, along with four motorcycles and three mobile phones. The arrested persons were allegedly involved in snatching and robbery. Faced with irregular power supply in Jharia for over a month, office-bearers of the Jharia Chambers of Commerce and Khudra Vastra Vyavsai Sangh, an association of retail garment traders, on Wednesday held a joint meeting. They threatened to launch an agitation if the situation did not improve soon. A delegation of betel shop owners on Wednesday met Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and submitted a memorandum demanding permission for reopening of their shops. The delegation highlighted the fact that the government had already allowed the opening of shops, restaurants, saloons, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren directs health secretary to revive FCI Hospital||Chief Minister Hemant Soren has instructed Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni to revive the 205-bed Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI) defunct hospital at Sindri. The district administration is already considering a proposal to restart the hospital with help of the Sindri-based Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL), and Associated Cement Company (ACC). A district administration team led by Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer Raj Maheshwaram visited the hospital on July 26 and August 13 to check if it could be used as Covid treatment facility. But the existing building is in bad shape and was deemed not suitable for the purpose. HURL and ACC Sindri presented a proposal for the revival plan for making the hospital ready for long term usage during the second visit of Maheshwaram on August 13. Speaking with The Telegraph Online, Dhanbad hotelier Amitesh Sahay, district president of JMM’s traders cell of JMM, and a close friend of Hemant, said, “I met the chief minister earlier this week and proposed the revival plan. He immediately instructed Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni to make provisions for funds.” He added that a proposal was also put in to name the revived hospital after three-time Dhanabd MP, the late AK Roy. Nagendra Sharma, Manager (Human Resource), FCI Sindri, said, “We are ready both for joint venture proposals along with ACC and FCI as well as our own proposal for re-launch of the hospital. A team from the Mission Hospital, Durgapur has also visited the hospital on our invitation, but the FCI’s nod is crucial for the revival.” “We are awaiting the district administration response for the hospital revival as per a joint venture proposal of hospital revival and also wrote a letter to FCI management seeking their nod for the hospital revival” said Sharma. In-charge General Manager FCI Sindri, Ravi Kant Prasad said, “We have not yet received any proposals for reviving the hospital from either the state government or the district administration. If any proposal is presented, the final decision will be taken by the Ministry of Fertilizer.” Established in 1952, the hospital was inaugurated by then union health minister Rajkumari Amrit Kaur. During its heyday, the facility received over 2000 visitors daily, and was the biggest hospital in the coal belt. It also served as the referral hospital for several other medical centres from surrounding areas like the Chasnala Hospital of BCCL. The hospital was equipped with a major and minor operation theatre, a pathological laboratory, radiological facilities, a physiotherapy center, along with separate OPDs for pediatrics, maternity, dental, gynaecology, dermatology, medicine, ENT, and ophthalmology. It was shut down in March 2003, two months after the closure of the factory on December 31, 2002. A former doctor of the medicine department said that altogether eight doctors were working in the medicine department alone when the hospital was closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
