04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Maoist attack foiled as IEDs are discovered||Police and paramilitary forces have found a series of IEDs planted on a mud road in a jungle in the Goelkera police station area in West Singhbhum district. In all, 18 IEDs weighing 15kg each had been planted on a 250m-long stretch of the strategic Kurkutia-Bansua road in Goelkera. The explosives were connected with each other using codex wire for triggering serial blasts with an aim to inflict casualty to the police and paramilitary forces which often conduct anti-insurgency operations in this dense jungle. The discovery of the explosives came after a tip-off from a villager. On August 25, the police and paramilitary forces had unearthed as many as 72 can bombs under a mud road near Raisindri hill in the Kuchai police station area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. A joint police and CRPF team on Friday arrested Ashok Ganjhu, subzonal commander of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) from Luttu Sohawan forest in the Lawalong police station area in Chatra district. After a tip-off, superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha constituted a team led by assistant commandant Girish Kumar which managed to arrest the Maoist leader. He was wanted in a number of cases lodged in various police stations across Chatra and Latehar districts. Asim Vikrant Minz, a 2005 batch IPS officer, on Friday took charge as the Dhanbad senior superintendent of police from Akhilesh B. Verior. Verior has been shifted to the police headquarters in Ranchi. Minz said: “Containing organised crime, including economic offences, and establishing cordial relations with the common people will be my priorities.” Minz served as superintendent of rail police in Dhanbad two years ago. Rajkumar Bhuian, a security official attached to Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL), was seriously injured during a clash between ECL security personnel and alleged coal thieves at the company’s Raja colliery in Nirsa, about 35km from Dhanbad district headquarters, on Friday morning. Bhuian was taken to the ECL regional hospital at Mugma from where he was referred to a healthcare facility in Asansol. The clash broke out when the security personnel tried chasing away the coal thrives. Dhanbad police on Friday arrested Amit Kumar, 19, a resident of Dhansar; Kundan Pandey, 26, a resident of Sudamdih; and Sunny Singh, a resident of Patherdih, in connection with a case of robbery. Jharia-based trader Shrawan Kumar was allegedly robbed of Rs 50,000 on August 25 near Bastacola petrol pump at 6.45pm by the trio. Police seized cash worth Rs 12,500, a mobile phone and a motorcycle from the arrested persons. The 48-year-old Bokaro resident who cooked healthy, balanced and delicious meals for Covid-19 patients in hospital has died of a cardiac respiratory arrest. Sapan Kumar Ghosh was taken to Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) after he complained of breathlessness. He was a constable of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Almost all the top officials of the CISF, Bokaro Steel Plant and doctors of BGH paid tribute to him. He had been cooking food for Covid-19 patients for the past five months. DIG, CISF, S.S. Mishra said Ghosh’s devotion was incredible. “Ghosh was the cook who started sending food for Covid-19 patients in Bokaro. He had volunteered for food supplies for the patients and was doing it till last week. This is a big loss to Bokaro,” Mishra said. Suchi Singh on Friday took charge as divisional finance manager of the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway from Parveen Sinha, who has been shifted out to the Danapur division. Singh was the divisional operating manager of the Dhanbad division. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Friday instructed the BCCL central hospital authorities to ensure availability of oxygen cylinders at the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at the central hospital in Jagjivan Nagar, Dhanbad. He cited frequent complaints that oxygen cylinders are exhausted or there is a delay in their availability. “No Covid-19 patient can be deprived of oxygen,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: 50 active cases at Bokaro Steel Plant||The coronavirus has started spreading at the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). This was discovered during a Covid-19 testing camp organised exclusively for BSL employees by the district administration at Mohan Kumar Mangalam Stadium on September 2. Of the 477 employees of BSL who gave their samples, 27 tested positive. With this, the total number of active cases increased to 50 in the company, sources said. A total of 82 BSL employees have tested positive so far. The virus has affected every stratum: from ground-level staff to a higher executive director (ED). The ED is undergoing treatment at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH). Among the Covid-19-positive employees are five BSL officials of ranks of deputy general manager and above. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said that the authorities have decided to continue the camp at the stadium to test all the 11,000 employees and officials at BSL. “We will restart the camp soon,” he said. The company’s Bokaro Steel Township has seen a spike in cases. In the district, 1,798 people have tested positive. Of them, 1,071 have been cured of the virus while 712 are active cases. The BSL management, which was appreciated for performing remarkably well among the units of SAIL in terms of cash collection in August, is worried over the spread of the virus in the company. BSL is operating at about 80 per cent production capacity and receiving large orders from domestic as well as international players. The spike in Covid-19 cases has forced the management to introduce a SOP on preventive measures to contain the spread. Officials and employees have been instructed to follow the recommended steps strictly. BSL chief of communication Manikant Dhan said: “We have introduced an SOP for employees and asked them to follow the procedures strictly as there is a spike in positive cases.” The advisory says that any employee returning from other states will have to remain in home quarantine. No employee will be allowed to leave the station without approval. The company management has said that non-disclosure of information by any employee or official will be viewed strictly. In case the residence of any employee is declared a containment zone by the district administration, he/she has to remain at home till the de-notification. The chief executive officer in charge of Bokaro Power Supply Company Pvt Ltd (BPSCL) has also tested positive for the coronavirus. He is asymptomatic and at home. The BPSCL is a power project of SAIL-DVC and supplies its entire power production to BSL. It is situated inside BSL. The first case at BSL was reported on July 10. The director of BGH, run by BSL, was also infected by the virus in August. The coronavirus also infected several doctors. A majority of them have been cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||24x7 magistrate stationed at RIMS to keep Lalu supporters at bay||A magistrate was stationed at Kelly’s Bungalow on RIMS campus where RJD supremo Lalu Prasad has being lodged on Friday to ensure there is no violation of the jail manual in the form of unauthorised meetings of party workers. The move comes in the wake of a letter from jail IG Birendra Bhushan, directing the Ranchi district administration to tighten the security ring at the bungalow in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in view regular reports of violations pertaining to the number of visitors who come to meet the RJD chief. “Three magistrates have been deployed round-the-clock to ensure no one tends to violate any prescribed rules. Each magistrate will be on duty on eight-hour shifts,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. Ever since Lalu was shifted at this sprawling bungalow, also known as director’s bungalow, in the first week of August from the main hospital campus to ensure he does not infected by the coronavirus, hordes of RJD workers both from Jharkhand and Bihar have been regularly camping outside in the hope of meeting him. Of late, several MLAs and councillors from Bihar have been coming to Ranchi to meet him for lobbying for tickets ahead of the Assembly elections in Bihar, turning the bungalow into a mini-RJD camp office. Opposition BJP on the other hand has been criticising the Hemant Soren government for turning a blind eye to such violations for political gains ahead of the Bihar polls as the JMM was looking to contest in alliance with RJD. In the last week, over a dozen ticket aspirants, along with their supporters in cars and vans, drove down from Patna to Ranchi to meet Lalu. Among those who have come include, film actor Ali Khan and RJD MLA from Barachatti Samta Devi, who has been quarantined for 14 days in Ranchi following a hue and cry by the Opposition in Bihar. Lalu’s son, Tej Pratap, also isited Ranchi to meet his father along with a posse of supporters in the last week of August, prompting the district administration to later file an FIR against him for lockdown violations and staying at a hotel illegally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Chaibasa greens ready to welcome willow-holders ||The greens at Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium in Chaibasa, the district headquarters of West Singhbhum, are ready to welcome willow-holders when the cricket season gets underway. It is perhaps the first cricket venue in Jharkhand to be decked up well in advance. The West Singhbhum District Cricket Association (WSDCA) has worked overtime to prepare the ground, which will host over 100 matches involving both local leagues, JSCA inter-district events and junior matches once the government sets guidelines for re-starting sports activities. “The three centre wickets and two for practice are already prepared. We did regular rolling with a power roller provided by the Jharkhand State Cricket Association. The grass on the outfield was also regularly trimmed using power mowers,” said WSDCA secretary Aseem Kumar Singh. Groundsmen Nandu Karwa and Shiva Lama worked in tandem to deck up the venue owned by the West Singhbhum district administration and leased out to WSDCA. Singh also chipped in with his support by moving the power roller on the wickets. According to Singh, they have laid a fresh layer of soil on the three centres and two practice wickets with grass cover by spending Rs 30,000. Heavy and dense grass on the outfield needs regular trimming. “The grass needs trimming as it grows very quickly,” Singh explained. “We also used the power roller on uneven patches of the ground. We had to sometimes stop ground maintenance due to the rain. It has poured heavily in Chaibasa but despite the hindrance, we have managed to prepare the ground for upcoming tournaments,” the WSDCA secretary added. Players are already using the practice wickets. Singh said that the ground is maintained throughout the year. “We believe in proper maintenance since a host of tournaments are played at the venue. It is because of proper maintenance that we have been able to prepare the ground without any hassles whatsoever,” he added. The stadium has been hosting BCCI under-16 over the years now. Cricketers have often appreciated the condition of the ground and the wickets as well as the outfield. Women’s tournaments are also played at the greens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur kids learn sport climbing virtually in Covid times||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has taken an initiative to help children between the ages of 5-9 remain tuned to sport climbing while at home during the coronavirus pandemic. Instructors conduct training virtually, from 4 pm to 5.30 pm. TSAF’s senior manager Hemant Gupta said the objective behind the online training was to keep the children connected to sport climbing. “Kids are learning the tricks of the game at home. Parents are also appreciating the move from our side,” he added. Wooden boards called ‘monkey boards’ measuring 2x2 ft have been handed over to the children and fixed at their respective homes. “The boards have different holding bars which the kids catch for upper body movement. The activity strengthens hand and core muscles, which are key elements when it comes to sport climbing,” Gupta, an Everester, said. Eleven children are part of the virtual training and the numbers will increase in the days to come. The training involves beginners who were part of outdoor training at a cradle run by the premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit at JRD Tata Sports Complex. The outdoor training was discontinued owing to the nationwide lockdown but some trainees, including international climbers Anisha and Aman Verma, had sweat it out when the JRD Tata Sports Complex re-opened. However, the sports hub is presently shut since it was made a Covid centre by the district administration a few days back. The online trainees work on the guidance of instructors. They also do physical exercises like walking and lunges, knee jumps and push-ups. “Depending on the height of the trainee, the monkey board is fixed at least half a foot above him on the wall. Such type of home training is not conducted elsewhere in India,” a TSAF instructor said, adding only hands are used for training. In foreign countries, climbers set up expensive sport climbing holes inside their homes, which is not possible in India. Parents also appreciated the move by TSAF. “When my daughter Aditi couldn’t go to JRD Tata Sports Complex for regular practice, the monkey board provided by TSAF became a real rescue. It not only keeps her engaged and connected with sport climbing but also helps in strengthening her muscles,” said Amit Modak, a Tata Steel employee and a parent. TSAF has three separate holes for lead, speed and bouldering categories of climbing at its cradle. Training is conducted by experienced coaches. The outfit has plans to set up a sport climbing academy on the lines of Tata Football Academy. The craze for sport climbing among children has increased as the city has hosted open nationals, zonal and state events for sport climbing. Ambitious plans to prepare climbers for big-ticket competitions have so far produced three internationals in the form of siblings Anisha and Aman Verma, and Talim Ansari. The siblings have also been provided accommodation at the Sports Hostel inside JRD Tata Sports Complex so that they can get a proper diet and concentrate on the game.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||One held for August 19 murder of Dhanbad BJP leader||One person has been arrested for the murder of local BJP leader and property dealer Satish Singh, who was shot from point blank range in the afternoon on August 19, police here said on Friday. Police have recovered two pistols, one of them country made, besides a 7.62 bullet and an empty cartridge from Lalan Kumar Das (27), a driver of Putki. They have also recovered a motorcycle (Honda Shine-JH10 BP-0602) and a white Honda City (JH 10 BP -8722), both used by those responsible for the murder. Dhanbad SP (city) R Ramkumar said Das was arrested after investigations by a special team and the technical cell of the police on the basis of CCTV footage recovered from the site of the murder at Matkuria. “The car and two motorcycles were spotted moving together from JP Chowk, Subhash Chowk and other areas, besides Matkuria,” the SP said. After questioning the car owner, police were able to zero in on those who were involved in the killing, ie, Das and his brother-in-law Kishan Kumar Ravidas. Police raided Ravidas’s house but could not arrest him. But they were able to recover a pistol from his place, in addition to the Honda Shine motorcycle, a helmet and a number plate. Asked about the motive, Ramkumar said, “We are investigating two or three angles. But since investigations are on, we can’t give a conclusive statement on the possible motive as of now.” Singh (40), a property dealer and Kendua mandal vice president of the BJP, was killed at Makuria on Dhanbad-Bokaro Road on August 19 at 3pm as soon as he got off his SUV and started walking towards Vikash Nagar while talking on his cell phone. Singh was close to Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, who demanded that the district administration ensure a quick investigation into the killing. Sinha blamed the deteriorating law and order situation in the state under the Hemant Soren government and as a mark of protest also wore a black badge. An SIT, led by DSP (Law and Order) Mukesh Kumar, was constituted on the instruction of coal belt range DIG Prabhat Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||State looking to reopen schools with senior students from September 21||The state education department is considering reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12 from September 21 and is ready with a proposal to send to the state disaster management department for a formal approval. Explaining the rationale behind the move, state secondary education director Jatashankar Choudhary cited the Centre’s latest unlock advisory that details a gradual opening up of various business and social sectors. “The Centre has stated that if any student wants to consult a teacher by going to school, he/she could do so after getting a consent letter from parents or guardians. Schools, however, will not call any students,” he said. An official of Jharkhand Education Project Council added that the draft proposal framed by the education department suggests that a maximum of 20 students be allowed in a class per day. “This is to ensure social distancing inside the class. After receiving requests from the parents for allowing students to attend school, the school will have to prepare a roster in which only 50 per cent teachers will be allowed to come per day,” the official, who did not want to be identified, said. Notably, the education department held its second round of interactions to gather public feedback on reopening schools for classes 9 to 12 between August 24 and August 31. Out of about 12,500 respondents, around 25.76 per cent parents wanted schools to be reopened only in September, while the rest expressed willingness to send students only after the introduction of a Covid-19 vaccine, said the JEPC official. Some parents' organisations have welcomed the government's move for staggered reopening of schools by allowing senior students to attend. But they also asked for a reduction in the syllabus. The Jharkhand chapter of Private School and Children Welfare Association (PSWA), a nationwide body, said that parents were now concerned about children’s education as online modes of teaching were nowhere as effective as the conventional model of schooling. PSWA president Alok Dubey said, “We welcome the Jharkhand government’s efforts to reopen schools for higher classes as the Union government has already sent a communique about this to all states. It is also clear that Covid is here to stay but we have to unlock ourselves amid heightened safety protocols and go about our daily work. We are waiting to hear from the state government on our demand for a reduction in school syllabus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid fails to stop football tournaments in Chatra||Organisations in Chatra are organising football tournaments even amid the coronavirus pandemic. After getting reports of tournaments taking place across many blocks, deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha asked officials not to give permission for such events in areas under their jurisdiction.
In one such event on Wednesday, Simaria BJP MLA Kishun Kumar Das was chief guest of a football tournament in Itkhori, drawing huge criticism. Local zilla parishad representatives and leaders of various political parties are encouraging such tournaments and becoming chief guest of the events. Das, however, defended himself and organisers of all other tournaments taking place in the district recently, claiming that social distancing was taken care of. However, block officials made organisers call off the tournament. Interestingly, Chatra officials are permitting MLAs and other powerful leaders to go ahead with such events.
In Simaria, block development officer Amit Mishra passed an order against organising such events. He said if anyone violates this order, they will have to face legal action as the state government has prohibited such activities till September.
The district administration is worried that a large number of people coming to see matches is resulting in violation of social distancing norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||‘Swing’ pump to fetch water and produce electricity||An alumnus of BIT-Sindri in Dhanbad, SN Singh and two others invented a unique swing which is used to fill the water tank on the roof as well as to produce electricity by converting mechanical energy into electrical energy. IIT Kharagpur praised Singh, along with principal of ITI Kalpatru in Patratu, Ramgarh Sanjeet Kumar, and technician Bhagwan Sharma for this invention. The spring pump, which took the trio one year to make, has been installed at a school in Ranchi where students enjoy swinging, which fills up the school tank without the need for electricity. Kumar said it cost only Rs.10,000 and can also be used to generate electricity and help farmers irrigate their fields. Singh said he used the swing mechanism to convert mechanical energy into electrical energy. The hand pump is a single-piston. We have used a double piston to double the strength to make the spring pump work,” added Kumar. Singh has a degree in mechanical engineering from BIT-Sindri in Dhanbad, whereas Kumar completed his education in the same field from BIT-Mesra in Ranchi. The trio are testing the invention to make it better. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kumar said the spring pump was Singh’s brainchild. “I kept thinking about the hand pump’s mechanism to fetch water from within the earth, and soon came up with the idea,” said Singh, “My jhula entertains children as well as people of other age groups who like swinging. But their enjoyment results in productive work like filling of water tanks, lighting of bulbs and running fans,” he said, adding that the swing has the capacity to send water up to a height 60 ft without electricity or motor. It can also be carried easily from house to field and will be convenient for farmers. Singh said when he was a student, he noticed problems farmers faced due to lack of electricity and irrigation facility. Singh said to save water, he wanted his spring pump to be installed at schools, colleges and other institutions. He said he had tested it a number of times and found that it can generate 1 kilowatt of electricity, which can be used to light up a number of bulbs and to run fans. Kumar said a school named Kislay Vidayalaya in Ranchi has installed the spring pump. “In the coming days, our plan is to fit gear into the swing to make it more smooth,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1500 cases in a single day, Covid tally close to 47000||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand drew close to 47,000 on Thursday as over 1500 people were found infected in 24 hours. The toll jumped to 444 with six patients dying during the same duration, figures released by the health department stated. As per government data, Ranchi alone reported 435 of the 1587 fresh cases of Covid infection on Thursday, taking the number of cases reported in the district so far above 9000. East Singhbhum reported 328 cases of infection on Thursday and the tally in the district rose to 7552. Only 56 patients recovered from Covid infection in Ranchi, taking the number of active cases in the district above 4000 – the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 4,156 Covid patients in Ranchi were yet to recover from the infection by Thursday night. East Singhbhum, the district which has reported highest number of Covid casualties in the state so far, saw three of six Covid deaths on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in the district to 202, the NHM figures stated. Nearly 50 per cent of the Covid fatalities in Jharkhand have occurred in East Singhbhum, a densely populated district hit by industrial pollution. Besides Ranchi and East Singhbhum, Hazaribag and Giridih reported a triple-digit spike in the number of Covid cases during the day, taking the tally in Hazaribag close to 2000 and above 2000 in Giridih, government data highlighted. Despite 1121 patients recovering from the infection on Thursday, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate dropped to 65.45 per cent as the count of fresh cases surpassed the number of recoveries. The Covid mortality also dropped to 0.95 per cent as fewer deaths were reported on Thursday in comparison with the past few days. The national Covid recovery rate is 75.27 per cent while the national mortality rate for Covid patients is 1.85 per cent. The government so far has collected swab samples of 10.27 lakh people and tested 10.17 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 30,835 people and 29,248 of them came negative. Jharkhand, according to health officials, has tested more than 2.5 lakh people for Covid-19 this week. As per figures compiled by the NHM, there were as many as 15,150 active cases of infection in Jharkhand on Thursday night. Out of the 46,480 people found infected so far, as many as 30,886 have recovered and were leading a healthy life, the government claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||New 400-bed Covid center at Dhanbad’s PMCH||The rising number of Covid-19 cases has prompted Dhanbad authorities to develop a 400-bed dedicated care centre at the Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) at Saraidhela. Once ready, the care centre -- housed in two of the three blocks of the PMCH’s PG hospital -- will be one of the biggest in the district. Dhanbad subdivisional officer Raj Maheswaram said work was already underway and the facility is likely to be ready by next week. PMCH superintendent Arun Kumar Chaudhary said two of three blocks of the PG hospital, including one block comprising the medicine and paediatrics departments and another block consisting of the ENT and eye departments, were being developed as the Covid-19 treatment center. The third block will be kept reserved for future use. Chaudhary added that a team led by the subdivisional officer, which included civil surgeon Gopal Das, visited PMCH on August 23 and identified the two blocks for use as a dedicated Covid-19 health centre meant for the treatment of asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms. Besides PMCH, the district administration also explored the possibility of establishing a Covid-19 treatment centre at the FCI hospital at Sindri, which has been non-functional since 2002. However, as the condition of the hospital is poor, its immediate use seems unlikely. Currently, there are seven Covid-19 treatment centres in the district, including one 100-bed facility and six dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Of the six dedicated Covid-19 health centers, one 200-bed center is operational at the Government Polytechnic, Nirsa, in Gopalpur. Among the three 100-bed centres, two units are operational at the Railway Zonal Training Institute at Bhuli and PMCH cath lab. Two 50-bed units have been established at the regional hospital at Bhuli and the Sadar hospital in Dhanbad. A 25-bed dedicated Covid-19 health centre is open at Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba. The district administration has also established a telemedicine centre at the circuit house in Dhanbad. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh recently conducted a review of the medical counselling work being carried out at the telemedicine center where focus is also being laid on mental counselling of patients. Thirty-two people were discharged from the Zonal Training Institute after being cured of Covid-19 on Thursday. The discharged persons were instructed to remain at home for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
