05-09-2020||Jharkhand||24-year-old Hazaribagh woman commits ‘suicide’ in Palamau||A 24-year-old woman, who went missing from Hazaribagh on September 2, was found dead in a lodge in Baralota, Medninagar, in Palamu. Police, who found Salina Yasmeen’s body after a tip-off, spotted poison in the room. Yasmeen’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan. She was a resident of Pelawal in Hazaribagh town. Her family alleged that she had been raped by the man she was having an affair with and his friends. The police has started an investigation and are on the lookout for the man. Four members of a gang of snatchers were arrested by police in Ormanjhi on Saturday. The men allegedly belong to the notorious Bihar-based Koda gang. The gang members use high-speed motorcycles to swoop in and snatch money from people while they leave bank branches. The arrests followed a case of snatching three days ago. The accused snatched Rs 1 lakh from two persons who had withdrawn money from a HDFC Bank branch. The accused kicked the motorcycle of the victims and when they had fallen down, the accused fled with the money. The police lodged an FIR in the case. Superintendent of police (SP) Chandan Kumar Jha formed a special investigating team (SIT) led by deputy SP Gyan Ranjan. “We arrested Ram Kumar Yadav, Kishan Kumar Yadav, Vikash Kumar Yadav and Ganesh Yadav, all members of the Koda gang, and seized cash worth Rs 1.55 lakh, seven mobile handsets, fake Aadhar cards and driving licences,” said Ranjan. Fifty people were discharged on Saturday from five Covid-19 treatment facilities in Dhanbad: 18 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the Sadar hospital, 15 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Nirsa Polytechnic, 11 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the railway zonal training institute in Bhuli, five from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar and one from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at PMCH cath lab. All the discharged persons have been instructed to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Meanwhile, 107 Covid-19 cases were detected on Saturday in a special rapid antigen test drive conducted by the Dhanbad district administration. Around 3,700 people were tested during the drive. Civil society outfits, including IPTA, Pargateesheel Lekhak Sangh, Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, Jan Sangarsh Morcha, AISA and Deharee Mazdoor Union, on Saturday demonstrated at Bhagat Singh Chowk in Daltonganj to “save democracy and civil rights and liberties”. IPTA national secretary Shailender Kumar said: “We all gathered today to ask people to rise as there is a deliberate and systematic assault on their rights and their liberties. “On this day three years ago, veteran journalist Gauri Lankesh was killed as she had dared to challenge right-wing radicalism.” The campaign will be on till September 10. Gym owners and trainers, hit hard by the pandemic, on Saturday met Hazaribagh Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal and requested him to brief the state government about their condition. The owner of Royal Fitness Gym in Hazaribagh, Rajkumar Thapa, said that since March, he has been struggling financially. He said that though the government has allowed several kinds of businesses to reopen, gym owners have been left in the lurch. Abhijeet Guha, of A to Z Gym, said gym owners are having trouble paying off their loans and clearing their bills. Jaiswal assured them that he would take up the matter with the state government. The dead body of a 71-year-old resident of Gend Nawadih village in the Topchanchi police station area was found lying in a pool of blood at his home. Cash and jewellery were missing from Vijay Mahto’s home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two police officers suspended in Giridih over custodial death||Giridih police on Saturday suspended two of its officers, including the officer in charge of Madhuban police station, following the custodial death of a person who was accused by villagers of stealing goat. Bablu Sonar, 41, and Balwan Mahto, 42, were caught and roughed up by the villagers and handed over to the police around 9.30pm on Friday. The police reportedly put the duo in lock-up. Mahto was found dead on Saturday morning. Sources said that it was possible that the duo was tortured in custody. It was also possible that the police did not give them proper treatment after they were beaten up by the villagers, the sources added. Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu claimed that Mahto has committed suicide in the lock-up. He hanged himself with a wire. However, investigations are on to find out how he managed to get the wire in the lock-up and why his associate did not notice him taking the step of committing suicide despite being near him. “Mahto died in custody. Negligence on part of the officer in charge of the Madhuban police station, Raut Hanga, and the officer on duty cannot be denied. They are suspended. Sonar’s statement is being recorded,” said Renu. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha has set up a magisterial inquiry. He said: “A report related to Mahto’s custodial death is also being sent to the National Human Rights Commission. A post-mortem was done. And a case of unnatural death has been lodged.” The family members of the deceased have been informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Trust withering between Centre and states, Hemant tells Modi||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Centre not giving full GST compensation to states, saying this “act of sovereign default” runs against the very spirit of cooperative federalism. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister, Hemant said this is symptomatic of the “withering trust” between the Centre and states. In the letter dated September 4, Hemant said the states were given assurance that the Centre would compensate the losses they suffer for the next five years, but it has just been three years, and “we find ourselves deserted”. “Reluctance and inability of the GOI to give full compensation to the states is betrayal of the commitment it made in the Union Parliament and also in all the council meetings held so far (sic),” the chief minister said. Hemant, whose JMM heads a coalition government in Jharkhand with the Congress and the RJD, is the latest non-NDA chief minister to come out against the Centre’s offer on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to states. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also written to Modi, saying depriving states of GST compensation is an “attempt to undermine federalism” and urged him not to belie the trust between the states and the Centre on the issue. Besides the two, the chief ministers of Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Puducherry have also rejected the Centre’s proposal. Mamata and Hemant were among the Opposition party chief ministers who had participated in a virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi a day before the GST Council meeting. In the 41st meeting of the GST Council on August 27, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Covid-19 pandemic is an “act of God” which has hit GST collection and ruled out paying compensation to states from its coffers. As per the Centre’s calculations, the compensation requirement of states in the current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore would come from levy of cess. Of the shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, the shortfall due to GST implementation is Rs 97,000 crore and the remaining is due to Covid-19 impact. The Centre has given two options to states -- to either borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore or borrow only Rs 97,000 crore through a special window, which would be provided by the RBI -- to meet the revenue shortfall. Referring to the Prime Minister’s speech at the launch of the GST in July 2017, Hemant said Modi had portrayed the new tax regime as a great example of cooperative federalism that would herald inclusive growth of the nation. “I echo your sentiments but you would agree that India as a nation can grow only if its constituent states also grow and become self-reliant. But reluctance of the central government to fulfil its constitutional obligations regarding GST compensation goes against the interests of the states and the spirit of cooperative federalism,” he said. “... Jharkhand contributes to a compensation fund of nearly Rs 5,000 crore from the mineral sector alone. What we get in return is just a paltry sum of nearly Rs 150 crore as monthly compensation. “And now we are being asked to borrow at a time when the state is hard pressed to fulfil salaries of government servants,” he added. Hemant said that as the state’s economy is in a precarious situation at present, it needs more funds to take care of farmers, migrant workers, those in the unorganised sector and unemployed youths. “At this critical juncture we naturally expected you to give us more than just the admissible compensation. We also expected you to announce that the GST compensation would continue even beyond the original period of five years,” he said. Urging the Prime Minister to intervene in the matter and issue directions to the ministry concerned for the release of the compensation amount, Hemant said it will not only melt away all the apprehensions but also reinforce the trust in the spirit of cooperative federalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi hospital dispatches wrong body to Jamshedpur||A hospital dispatched the wrong body of a Covid-19 victim to Jamshedpur on Saturday morning, triggering protests in the steel town which later prompted Ranchi district administration to file an FIR against the erring heal hub located in Irba in Ormanjhi. Md Samid Ansari (60), who was admitted to Asclepius Center for Medical Sciences Hospital, died of Covid on Friday afternoon. Thereafter, his family members sought the permission of the Ranchi district administration to take Ansari’s body to his home in Mango, under Azad Nagar police station, in Jamshedpur. However, when the body was wheeled in at the funeral site on Saturday morning, family members wanted to see him for the last time. To their shock, they found the body to be that of a woman. Thereafter, the family approached the local police station and contacted health minister Banna Gupta to complain about the lapse. One of Ansari’s relatives who lives in Ranchi said, “Ansari was admitted to hospital for age related ailments three days back. But he tested positive. During the course of treatment, he died.” Taking cognizance of the gaffe, the district administration soon swung into action and lodged an FIR against the private hospital. Ranchi SDO Lokesh Mishra said, “The hospital has given a wrong dead body to the family living in Jamshedpur. We have taken cognizance of the lapse and after finding the claim to be true we have filed an FIR against the hospital. Strict action will be taken against those responsible for the lapse. In times of Covid-19, such lapses could be dangerous and the district administration will not shy away from taking action against anyone.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Centre’s Covid recce team in Dhanbad, to visit Ranchi, East Singhbhum||A three-member team of experts from the Union ministry of health and family welfare is in Jharkhand to inspect the trend of Covid-19 trajectory in worst-affected districts and spot lapses that could be causing spike in cases, health officials said on Saturday. The team, comprising two members from New Delhi and one from Bhubaneshwar, visited several health facilities in Dhanbad on Saturday, and also interacted with officials and local residents in the district, sources said. The team, during its 10-day stay in Jharkhand, will visit Ranchi and East Singhbhum after completing the inspection process in Dhanbad. “The team will not only inspect containment zones, but also the non-containment zones in the three districts. They will look for patterns in the Covid trajectory and study how there were a higher number of cases reported in some areas,” said State National Health Mission (NHM) director Dr Ravishankar Shukla. “They will also guide us in management of Covid patients at health facilities,” he added. Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad are among the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand in terms of Covid-19 infection. As per figures with the health department, Ranchi alone has reported 9,796 of the 48,000-odd Covid cases in Jharkhand, the highest among all the districts. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, has reported 207 of the 455 Covid deaths in Jharkhand, and accounts for more than 45 per cent of fatalities in the state, as per government data. Dhanbad has reported 3217 cases of infection. One of the dirtiest cities of the country, Dhanbad is also one of the largest coal producing districts, which makes people living there susceptible to lung ailments. The team in Jharkhand is one of 50 teams which the Centre has sent to districts where Covid-19 cases have witnessed unprecedented increase, sources said. Similar teams have also been sent to districts in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and other states reeling under the Covid-19 crisis, sources said. The team consists of two public health experts and one joint secretary or additional secretary ranked official, who is given the responsibility of finding lacunae at an administrative level, health officials said. After visiting the three districts, the team will hand over a report to state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni and also give suggestions on handling the situation in the districts. The team has one doctor each from Lady Hardinge Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi and an official from Regional Medical Research Centre in Bhubaneshwar. As per latest figures with the government, Jharkhand has reported 48,043 cases of coronavirus infection so far with 15,545 patients still battling the virus. More than half of the active cases were in Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad. The Covid recovery rate in the state was 66.70 per cent, while the mortality rate was 0.93 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad hotels incur huge losses even as they reopen||With almost negligible income and huge overhead expenses like staff salary, fuel and sanitization, the excitement regarding the reopening of hotels from September 1 after a gap of around six months has come to an end. The situation is such that some of the hotels are planning to close their shutters for the time being from next week if the situation does not improve immediately. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anutosh Bagchi, senior general manager of the 36-roomed Skylark Hotel owned by Johal Group, describing the ‘pathetic’ situation, said they have received only one booking for a customer from Jamshedpur for one night, during the last four days. “We are incurring huge expenses while running hotel services. We deployed our entire staff team to carry out proper sanitization as per the SOPs laid by the state government, but the poor response of customers is very discouraging. We cannot sustain ourselves if this is to continue,” said Bagchi and added that apprehension among the visitors and particularly those coming from other states are is the main reason for poor business. “Nobody coming here from Calcutta on a business trip of two-three days would take the risk of getting quarantined for 14 days,” said Bagchi. On Wednesday, they had to operate the generator for a single customer due to a prolonged power cut even as the generator operation cost is expensive, at a rate of 20 litres per hour. Vinay Singh owner of Ramson Hotel in Dhanbad, who is also general secretary of the Hotel and Restaurant Owner’s Association of Dhanbad echoed sentiments. “The almost negligible income will make it very difficult for us to meet the expenses. A majority of our customers are from outside the state and some people who visit us from Ranchi and Jamshedpur stay at most for a night or two days,” he said. “We met Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar two days ago. He assured all help but at the same time stressed on the need to follow the SOPs and instructed us to provide all the details with regard to visitors booking rooms in our hotels,” said Singh. Arka Ghosh, general manager of Sonotel Hotel said, the hotel income is much less than usual, as out of 56 rooms, only four or five rooms are being booked for the last two days. “We are not entertaining customers from outside the state. However, restaurant service is almost as good as before the lockdown period,” said Ghosh and added that they expect the confidence of customers to be restored gradually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Trains cancelled, truncated due to Bengal lockdown||South Eastern Railway has cancelled and truncated several trains in view of a complete lockdown in West Bengal on September 7, 11 and 12. In a circular issued on Saturday, SER said that both the Up and Dn Howrah-Barbil Janshatabdi Special, which travels via Tatanagar, will remain cancelled on all the three days of the lockdown. The Bhubaneswar-Howrah Special and the return train will also remain cancelled on September 7, 11 and 12. As per the notification, both the Up and Dn Shalimar-Patna Special will remain cancelled on September 7 and 11. The circular also announced the withdrawal of stoppages of a few trains. The Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani (which goes via Tatanagar) leaving Bhubaneswar on September 6, 10 and 11 will not stop at Hijli and Purulia stations. The return train, New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Rajdhani, leaving New Delhi on those three days (September 6, 10 and 11), will not stop at Purulia and Hijli. The Howrah-Ahmedabad Special, scheduled to leave Howrah on September 11, will originate from Rourkela at 6.35am on September 12. Hence, the train service will not be available between Howrah and Rourkela. Examination specials South Eastern Railway also notified two pairs of special trains for candidates appearing in the National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy examinations. The first, Balasore-Bhubaneswar Special, will leave Balasore at 5pm on September 6 and reach Bhubaneswar at 9.30pm the same day. While on its way back, the Bhubaneswar-Balasore Special will leave Bhubaneswar at 9.50pm on September 6 and will arrive at Balasore at 1.30 am, the next day. The special train will have 16 sleeper class and four general second class coaches. The other, Rourkela-Sambalpur MEMU Special, will leave Rourkela at 5pm on September 6 and will reach Sambalpur at 7.40 pm, the same day. On its return journey, the Sambalpur-Rourkela MEMU Special will leave Sambalpur at 9pm on September 6 and arrive at Rourkela at 11.45pm, the same day. The special train will stop at Rajgangpur, Bamra, Jharsuguda and Rengali stations between Rourkela and Sambalpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city possible venue for under-17 women's World Cup football camp ||The steel city is being looked upon as an alternative venue for the national camp for the Fifa under-17 World Cup to be held next in India. A recce team led by state sports director Anil Kumar Singh inspected the available facilities in Jamshedpur on Friday. He also held a discussion with officials of Tata Steel sports wing who accompanied the team from Ranchi during the inspection. The team inspected JRD Tata Sports Complex and the ground at Flatlets in Kadma as well as some hotels. Besides sports director Singh,  district sports officer Manmohan Prasad, Jharkhand Football Association president Nazm Ansari, Tata Steel sports wing chief Farzan Heerjee, Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari  were among others who were present while the inspection was underway. Sports director Singh said Jamshedpur was being looked at as an alternative venue for the women’s national camp. “Though the camp is scheduled in Ranchi but we have to also look at other alternative venues. Jamshedpur is an apt venue. A team  from Sports Authority of India (SAI)-Calcutta will also inspect the facilities in Jamshedpur,” he said. Asked when the camp will be conducted, the sports director added it would be held sometime in October. “We are waiting for the government guidelines. The dates for the camp would be announced in consultation with SAI (Calcutta),” the sports director added. Though the JRD Tata Sports Complex has been made a Covid Centre by the district administration, sources at Tata steel sports wing said necessary arrangements can be made for conducting the camp. “Barricading of the ground and a separate area can be arranged at the stadium,” one of the sources said requesting anonymity. “We are prepared to host the camp at short notice. Though the JRD Tata Sports Complex has not been used for five months we can always deck up the venue,” another source at the Tata Steel sports wing said, adding a recce team from SAI (Calcutta) was expected to visit Jamshedpur shortly,” a source informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Private tutors lead silent procession on Teachers’ Day, ask when centres will open||As many as 50 private tutors representing over a hundred coaching centres led a silent procession in Daltonganj town on Saturday under the banner of Palamau Coaching Association, to mark Teachers’ Day by highlighting the condition arising from the shutdown of the coaching centres since the last week of March due to the coronavirus pandemic. Every private tutor had a mask on and social distancing was not amiss. Sources said these teachers have no other means to eke out their living, after families discouraging wards to visit their tutors for classes. Home tuition was popular in the area but there is hardly any locality across the district that has not been a containment area at some point. Parents want children to avoid visiting these localities if their teachers live there. “Bars and pubs have opened. Malls have opened. Barbers’ shops are opened. Auto rickshaws are carrying passengers like stuffed bags. But the coaching centres are shut,” said Ravikant Sharma an office-bearer of the association. “A majority of coaching centres run on rented premises. The rent hasn’t stopped. It is getting difficult for all of us to pay the rent,” he said. Sharma said the electricity bills that are piling up are giving them ‘shocks’, as they are left to wonder how to pay the bills. The state government is mooting to reopen school for seniors in classes 9 to 12. Coaching centres too have demanded to open for senior classes, following all health protocols. There will be smaller shifts of students, and hand wash, masks and sanitizers will be provided at the centre. In rural of Palamau district, private tutors are already up in this business, running their centres with heavy curtains at the door. Locals are happy that their wards are at least engaged for a few hours every morning. A bookseller near Zila School Chowk in Daltonganj said the shutdown of the coaching centres has affected their business too. He said the sale of ball pens, answer books, pencils, instrument boxes etc has declined considerably.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Tana Bhagats withdraw rail blockade after 57 hours||Members of the Tana Bhagat community withdrew their rail blockade in Jharkhand's Latehar district in the early hours of Saturday, following which services normalised, officials said. They started the blockade at Tori station on Wednesday evening, seeking amendment of the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act -- which protects the land rights of the tribals. Several attempts to pacify the agitators over the past three days failed as the members of the tribal community sought a meeting with Chief Minister Hemant Soren at the protest venue. However, after several hours of discussions with the local authorities, the agitators withdrew the blockades around 2 am on the assurance of MLA Baidyanath Ram that the chief minister would look into their demands. The community has been demanding that the provisions of the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act be strengthened through an amendment, and its members be granted a tax waiver on any land they possessed. Freight services resumed in the Barka Kana-Barwadih section around 4.15 am with the first goods train leaving the Tori Junction for Biratoli, Dhanbad's divisional railway manager Anil Kumar Mishra told PTI. Railway services were completely shut in the section for around 57 hours, and the Ranchi-bound Rajdhani Express got stuck at the Daltonganj station on Thursday, following which 930 passengers of the train had to be sent to their destinations in buses, officials said. The agitation hit hard the coal sector as several goods trains were stranded, causing damages worth crores of rupees, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||‘Atma nirbhar’ Ananya tames railways||Like generations of Indians before them, 900-odd passengers of the Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express had meekly submitted on Thursday when railway authorities truncated the trip citing a track agitation and asked them to catch buses. Except for one passenger. Ananya Choudhary, an undergraduate law student, launched a one-woman agitation of her own, singlehandedly bending the Indian Railways to her will after an eight-hour battle of nerves. She got the railways to run the Rajdhani for 300km with her as the lone passenger, even providing her with a Railway Police Force escort. The 25-year-old Ranchi resident on Friday told The Telegraph that the experience had taught her to become “atma nirbhar” (self-reliant) and that the Prime Minister should be pleased. Railway authorities played down Ananya’s fight for her rights, saying the Rajdhani had to be taken to Ranchi anyway at some point so that it could start its return journey on Sunday. The railways had terminated the Rajdhani at Daltonganj station at 6.40am on Thursday, citing a rail roko, and asked the passengers to catch bus rides for the remaining 200km to the Jharkhand capital. Agitations and curtailed journeys being part of the Indian train traveller’s life, few asked any questions. Few except the final-year LLB student of Banaras Hindu University who was returning home after sitting her exams in Varanasi — a Covid-season requirement forced by education authorities that many parents and teachers believe was as irresponsible as the railways’ decision was in Ananya’s eyes. “The Rajdhani was the only train linking Delhi with Ranchi during the pandemic. Unfortunately, the railways, despite knowing in advance about the (rail roko) agitation and announcing a route diversion when I boarded at Mughalsarai (the Rajdhani stoppage nearest Varanasi), did not divert the train, causing it to get stuck at Daltonganj,” Ananya said. “I was aghast at the attitude of the railway authorities who simply told the passengers, without even apologising, that they would have to take buses to Ranchi. I wanted to fight for my rights as a citizen who had booked a Rajdhani ticket with a lot of difficulty.” So she refused to budge from her seat even when official after official derisively told her she hadn’t a ghost of a chance. “Why should I travel in a bus herded with other people when I have paid for the Rajdhani? Why should I suffer for the fault of the authorities?” Ananya told this newspaper. “When I saw people carrying their luggage and getting into packed buses in violation of all standard operating procedures for the pandemic, I decided to stand up and fight even though I was alone and all the rest had taken the easy way out. It was the best way to show our Prime Minister that citizens are becoming atma nirbhar.” She kept talking to officials and tweeting. “I tweeted almost everyone in the railway ministry, including railway minister Piyush Goyal who has a penchant for tweeting about the railways’ achievements. But no reply had come till I last checked my Twitter handle this (Friday) morning.” It was 3pm when the railways gave in. An hour later, the train began rolling with Ananya as the lone passenger, taking a circuitous route to avoid the rail roko, organised by the Tana Bhagat tribal community to assert their land rights. The route diversion increased the distance to Ranchi from 200km to 300km, and for once the Rajdhani kept giving right of way to others. Eventually, Ananya reached Ranchi around 2am on Friday — more than 15 hours after the scheduled arrival time of Thursday 10.45am. Her father Mukesh Prakash Choudhary — a retired employee of Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited, a Ranchi-based PSU — took her on a motorbike to their home in HEC Colony, Dhurwa. Ananya said she planned to seek compensation from the railways for the delay and mental trauma. She added that the past few weeks had been hectic for her. “After the UGC directive (for the conduct of degree exams), BHU had suddenly announced the dates. I managed to travel to Banaras with a lot of difficulty as only one train ran between Ranchi and Delhi during the lockdown, and that too only twice a week (Thursdays and Sundays),” she said. “My final papers were over on August 28 but I only managed to get a Rajdhani ticket for September 3.” Dhanbad railway division spokesperson P.K. Mishra said: “We had to send the bi-weekly train to Ranchi through the diverted Gomoh-Bokaro route as the train was to leave for New Delhi from Ranchi on Sunday, and before that it had to be cleaned and put through technical inspections.” He added: “If the agitation continues till Sunday, the train will again travel on a diverted route via Bokaro-Gomoh towards Delhi.” The agitation by the Tana Bhagats — which began at 5pm on Wednesday near the Tori Junction close to Daltonganj — was continuing on Friday evening. Over 200 Tana Bhagats, a community that professes to follow Gandhian principles, were squatting on the tracks protesting successive governments’ act of charging land rent from them despite the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act purportedly granting them ownership of their land. More than 750 of Ananya’s fellow passengers were taken to Ranchi on private buses arranged by the district administration, while over 150 preferred to rent private cars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Teachers’ plea to President on award ||Two out of the three teachers selected for the National Award from Jharkhand are among the 35 teachers picked for the prestigious award this year to request President Ram Nath Kovind to convene a physical felicitation ceremony once the Covid-19 pandemic ends. “The government (the human resource development ministry) had informed that this year they would not be able to allow teachers to be present at the award ceremony on September 5 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, the respective deputy commissioners (district magistrates) would give away the awards at the district collectorate while the President would give the award in an online function,” said Smith Kumar Soni, the acting headmaster at Government Middle School in Bano block of Simdega district. “We would not like to miss out on this lifetime opportunity of receiving the award from the President and interacting with the Prime Minister and decided to join nearly 35 teachers in writing to the President to convene a physical felicitation ceremony when the pandemic situation normalises,” Soni added. Soni has played an instrumental role in revamping the infrastructure of the state-owned school in the Maoist-hit area of Simdega district with the help of the local MLA and mukhiya. Significantly, 35 out of the 47 teachers selected for the National Awards to be given on September 5 by the Union education ministry in recognition of their achievements in the field of education have written the letter to the President on September 1. A communique had been sent to the selected teachers on August 25,  informing them about the award ceremony to be conducted virtually in view of the pandemic. On August 31, the ministry had informed the teachers that the certificates and medals would be awarded through deputy commissioners on September 5. “It is a proud moment for all the selected teachers, but when we came to know that the award function will be held on webinar, the majority of the teachers wrote a joint letter to the President expressing our unhappiness at not being able to collect the award in person. “It is a lifetime achievement and we were eagerly waiting to make this one of the best moments of our lives. We have requested the honourable President for an award ceremony or an interaction when the situation improves. Let’s see what happens,” said Ishita Dey, vice-principal of Tarapore School in Agrico, Jamshedpur, who has been selected by the Council for the Indian Schools Certificate Examination for the prestigious award.  Nirupama Kumari, a teacher at Ram Rudra plus two High School in Chas, Bokaro, who was the third teacher from Jharkhand to be picked for the award, has not signed the letter, but admitted that physical felicitation would have been better.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
