06-09-2020||Jharkhand||With short pandals, idols, Durga Puja to be low-key in Dhanbad||Office bearers of about 200 community puja committees of Dhanbad met at the Saraidhela ground, the site of Saraidhela Sri Sri Sri Durga Puja Samiti’ annual puja, on Sunday. In consultation with the district administration, the committees have decided to keep the celebrations low-key with smaller pandals, and 4-5 feet-high idols instead of the usual 8-12 feet-high ones. Speaking with The Telegraph Online, Vikash Sao, member of the Satyam Shivam Sundaram Samiti of Jharkhand Maidan, said, “Our puja is known for the accompanying fair, but we have not to hold a fair this year to maintain social distancing norms. The pandal will also be of much lesser height, compared to previous ones of 50-60 feet.” “Community pujas are dependent on fund collection. At a time when the economy is the worst hit due to the pandemic, the market is severely deprived of liquidity. Hence it is impossible to install huge pandals bearing an investment of Rs 5 to 10 lakh, ” Sao added. Shyamal Sen, founding member of the Navyuvak Sangharsh Samiti, which organizes the puja at Manaitand, said, “The basic aim behind the smaller idols of four to five feet is to avoid huge gatherings during immersion.” “Our volunteers will be deputed outside the puja pandal to avoid any violation of social distancing norms. Wearing of masks by visitors, as well as committee members will be mandatory,”said Sen. He also informed that office bearers of the newly constituted committee would soon be meeting with the Sub divisional officer of Dhanbad to finalize various details. More than 300 large and small community Pujas are organized in different parts of the district, spread over 11 blocks including Nirsa, Egyarkund, Kaliasol, Govindpur, Tundi, Purbi Tundi, Baghmara, Dhanbad, Baliapur and Topchanchi. About 100 of these pujas usually constitute a budget of Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Shibu Soren beats Covid, will stay on in Delhi to take RS oath||Rajya Sabha MP and JMM supremo Shibu Soren is learnt to have defeated Covid-19, adding to the list of VIPs to have done so in the state since the virus outbreak. Soren, whose second test turned out negative on Sunday, was released from Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, JMM sources said. Guruji was admitted there on August 25, days after he tested positive for the virus. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “Guruji has overcome the virus and is doing fine. However, he will currently continue to stay put in Delhi for a few days.” Former chief minister Soren, who is suffering from multiple ailments, was taken to Medanta via train from Bokaro last month after doctors advised him to avoid air travel owing to chances of breathing problems. He was accompanied by a team of medical professionals along with security personnel. Before his departure, Soren was also administered about 500 ml plasma of B+ blood, donated by a police jawan. Sources in the party said that Soren will stay put at Rajmahal MP Vijay Hansda’s official residence in Delhi under the watchful eyes of medical professionals for some time, before returning to Ranchi. JMM sources added that Soren, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha on June 19, will formally take oath as MP during his stay in Delhi. Ever since the virus made its presence known in Jharkhand in the last week of March, over a dozen legislators, including three ministers—Mithilesh Thakur (water resources) and Banna Gupta (health) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture) _ tested positive for Covid-19. Many politicians, including the three ministers, have defeated the virus while others are undergoing treatment. They include, MLAs Mathura Prasad Mahato (Tundi), C.P. Singh (Ranchi), Sudesh Mahto (Silli), Deepika Pandey (Mahagama) and Lambodar Mahto (Gomia). Several other MLAs have tested positive and are under treatment in isolation. They include Amba Prasad (Barkagaon), Sashi Bhushan Mehta (Panki), Neelkant Singh Munda (Khunti), Vinod Singh (Bagodar), Randhir Kumar Singh (Sarath) and J.P. Bhai (Mandu).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC sign seasoned English defender Peter Hartley||Jamshedpur FC continued its string of signings and announcements under head Coach Owen Coyle with the addition of 32-year-old Peter Hartley. The Englishman put pen to paper with the club on Sunday for the Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21. The robust defender comes at the back of a highly successful season with Motherwell FC in the Scottish Premiership. He captained the team to 3rd place in the league, only behind Scottish legacy teams – Celtic and Rangers, thus qualifying Motherwell for the UEFA Europa League 2020-21. Hartley has played 418 matches in his stellar career since his senior team debut in 2007, keeping 122 clean sheets and scoring 37 goals. Delighted at joining Jamshedpur, Hartley said: “I’m honoured to be given an opportunity to sign up for Jamshedpur, a club with ambition to win. I certainly didn’t have to think twice about playing for Owen Coyle, a manager held in high regard. “I promise to give 110 per cent every single day in order to bring success and silverware to the Jamshedpur supporters. At every club that I have played for, my goal has always been to add glory to my jersey number till the day I depart.” Hartley is a Sunderland AFC Academy product. The left-footed centre-back was scouted into the Sunderland AFC youth system as a 12-year-old in 2012 and rose up to the ranks with his impressive performances. He played and trained with the former English Premier League side’s senior team too and made his debut in 2007 versus Leicester City under Roy Keane’s tutelage. The defender has played in prestigious tournaments in England like the FA Cup and the League Cup where he represented his clubs against the likes of Chelsea and Everton, Sheffield United, Wartford and Wigan Athletic. He has played versus Burnley in 2009, which was then under the management of Owen Coyle. Owen Coyle was thrilled to have Hartley in the squad. Underlining the importance of signing the defender, Coyle said: “Hartley is a massive signing for us. He brings in so much experience from playing in the English leagues and the Scottish Premiership. He is a central defender with great capability and a born leader. He is a fighter who is mentally strong and a fierce competitor. Hartley hates conceding goals and that’s the attitude I need from my centre-back.” Hartley will don the Jamshedpur jersey with the number 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Inaugural Jharkhand Premier League T20 from Sept 15||Bereft of action for over five months due to the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown, Jharkhand willow-holders now have an opportunity to warm-up for the upcoming season starting September 15. The inaugural Jharkhand Premier League T20 at the JSCA International Cricket Complex Stadium in Ranchi will be a platform for players from six different zones to display their prowess with the bat and ball. The tournament will be the first live sports event in the country since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25, said JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. The event will comprise of 33 matches to be played across 17 days. “The six teams representing six zones include Ranchi Raiders, Dumka Daredevils, Dhanbad Dynamos, Singhbhum Strikers, Jamshedpur Jugglers and Bokaro Blasters. The teams shall comprise only of players who are registered with the JSCA from the state of Jharkhand. Nearly 100 players will be part of the tournament. There will be no franchises or team owners,” Sahay added. The state association has partnered with TCM Sports, a sports marketing firm, to efficiently conduct the event. TCM will be responsible for all commercial rights related to the tournament, end to end operations and management of the league. The firm holds exclusive ground rights across various cricket stadia in India and abroad. “The Association is humbled and offers its deepest gratitude to the state government for its proactive support in these despairing times, to kick-start sporting activities in Jharkhand,” said JSCA president Nafees Akhtar Khan. JSCA and TCM have plans to make the tournament an annual affair to ensure twin objectives of focussing on the development of the sport in the state and eventually taking it to deeper pockets of Jharkhand. The event will be sans some top crickets, including Ranji Trophy skipper Saurabh Tiwary, Varun Aaron, Ishan Kishan, Shahbaz Nadeem, Virat Singh, Monu Kumar and Anukul Roy to name a few. These cricketers are currently in Dubai for the Indian Premier League (IPL) beginning September 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Five highly polluted cities of Jharkhand not in clean air initiative ||The world is set to observe the first ever International Clean Air for Blue Skies Day on Monday, but at least five highly polluted cities of Jharkhand are yet to make it to the non-attainment list of the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) which environmentalists see as a stumbling block in the state’s fight against air pollution. Dhanbad, Sindri, Jamshedpur, Saraikela-Kharsawan, Ranchi and Barajamda were found to have higher air pollution levels than the upper limit set by the union ministry of environment, forest and climatic change last year, a report by Greenpeace India highlighted in January. However, only Dhanbad was added in the NCAP as a non-attainment city, the report stated. A former Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) official, who held an important position in the board in 2019, said that only Dhanbad was selected for the NCAP as PM10 level in the city was high. “The pollution level was high in some places and low in other places. This is why we had to install machines to check air pollution levels and identify the areas which were worst-affected only in Dhanbad,” said the official. The fourth version of Airpocalypse report by Greenpeace India highlighted in January that Jharia, in Dhanbad district, was the most polluted city in India in terms of particulate matter (PM)10 – extremely small particles in the air that contribute to pollution. Jharia’s PM10 levels were five times higher than National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS), the report revealed. Greenpeace India identified 231 of 287 cities for monitoring under National Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Programme (NAMP) – an initiative of the ministry of environment. Under the programme, the cities are expected to reduce air pollution levels by 20 per cent to 30 per cent by 2024 in comparison to the 2017 levels. However, the Airpocalypse - IV report highlights that Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has identified only 122 non-attainment cities and 102 of them are included under NCAP till now. These 122 cities are spread across 28 states and nine union territories. There are 116 more cities exceeding 60 µg/m3 limit prescribed by NAAQS, according to 2018 annual data, and should be included in the non-attainment category, the report said. “All the non-attainment cities of Jharkhand should be included in the NCAP programme. NCAP can help curtail pollution levels only if all highly-polluted cities are included in it, and active measures are taken to check air pollution,” said Greenpeace India Climate Controller Ashish Chanchal. As per the official website of World Health Organisation (WHO), the United Nations General Assembly adopted the resolution to hold an International Day of Clean Air for blue skies on December 19, 2019, during its 74th session and invited the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to facilitate the observance of the International Day, in collaboration with other relevant organizations. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) worked with UNEP and the Republic of Korea to advocate for the day in the lead up to the decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Monsoon takes a breather, discomfort index rises across state||Monsoon has taken a pause in the state with high humidity pushing up the discomfort index by several notches on Sunday. The weakening southwest monsoon is unlikely to bring any rain relief in the next four days at least, weathermen said on Sunday. "The weather will be humid for the next few days, resulting in discomfort. Monsoon has taken a brief pause. A good spell of rain is expected only after the next four days," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Heavy rainfall, triggered by a low-pressure zone last week, left behind lots of moisture in the air, which in turn has spiked the humidity levels. Ranchi and Jamshedpur recorded a RH (relative humidity) of around 90 per cent while Daltonganj was more stifling at 95 per cent. The RH in Bokaro and Dhanbad was close to 85 per cent while many places in southern, central and north-eastern parts of the state also recorded 90 per cent. The average discomfort index, measured on the basis of temperature, humidity and wind pattern, was as high as 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal, on Sunday. The index in Jamshedpur was 65 degrees, 10 degrees above normal, and in capital Ranchi 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal. Daltonganj recorded a discomfort index of 65 degrees, 10 notches above normal. In several other districts like Dumka, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Pakur, Godda, Latehar, Chatra and Simdega, the index breached 60 degrees. The axis of the monsoon trough at mean sea level passed through Amritsar, Meerut, Bahraich, Muzaffarpur and Jalpaiguri. Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre S.D. Kotal said the southwest monsoon was weak over Jharkhand for the past 48 hours, resulting in the dry spell. "We are expecting generally cloudy sky in most parts of the state during the next three-four days. A few places are likely to experience thunder and lightning accompanied by light rain," he said, adding that no downpour warning had been issued for Jharkhand for the next five days. In the absence of widespread rainfall the rain deficit figure witnessed a  rise of three per cent during the last 48 hours. According to statistics, so far Jharkhand has received rainfall of 780.3 mm against a normal of 876.9 mm, a deficit of 11 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Poacher held in Betla range of Palamau Tiger Reserve, muzzleloader seized||A poacher identified as Bijay Singh of Rabda village, Jharsewa has been caught trespassing into the forests of the Betla range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR), and was arrested on Saturday. His muzzle-loaded gun, concealed in a Chilbil tree, was seized on Sunday. “A camera installed by us in the Betla range recorded his an image of him which our range officials scanned thoroughly,” Kumar Ashish deputy director North division of the tiger reserve told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. “The features of this man were studied. His body built, height etc. noted. Our moles informed us of a similar-looking man at the village in Rabda,” said Ashish, adding that his team was not mistaken. “The man identified himself as Bijay Singh and also confessed to have sneaked into our forest with a muzzle-loaded gun for hunting either wild boar or deer,” said the deputy director. “The man was oblivious to the fact that a camera was spying on him,” said Ashish. Satbarwa police played a big role in his nabbing. Singh is not a lone poacher, and there are 10 others about whom he has given information to the Betla range officials. “We have been telling people in and around the PTR not to harm wildlife, even birds, but for some do not listen because of their taste buds and face legal action,” said the deputy director of the north division. With the festive season weeks away, forest patrol in the PTR has been stepped up to protect its wildlife. Sources said the river Auranga that passes through the PTR is a haven for poachers who take great advantage of the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Teachers walk 4km uphill everyday to reach school in remote Jharkhand village||Irrespective of the pandemic, Teachers’ Day is just another day for these two teachers who cross a hill on foot everyday to reach their makeshift school in Jharkhand. “We walk 4km on a hilly track to reach the school and also return the same way everyday,” said Martin Soy as his colleague Barju Soy nodded in agreement. They both are para-teachers who have been teaching in an upgraded primary school at Tutkora village in Arki block in Khunti district. The village, located around 100km from state capital Ranchi, has only 30 households and 26 children are enrolled in the primary school comprising a single hall made of wooden poles covered with corrugated tins and polythene sheets. “The state government sanctioned funds for construction of a school building but that had to be returned,” said Martin. He said some building materials had to be brought from outside but those could not be carried over the hill for want of a proper road. “I have been teaching here since 2003 and Barju joined when the primary school was upgraded in 2006,” he said. Martin said they both were para-teachers working for a consolidated monthly salary of Rs 12,000. They both come from other villages and get some transport up to a certain point and then start walking through the forested hill, he said. “We don’t face any difficulties,” they replied when Sunny Sharad, a local reporter who accompanied them to the school recently, pointed out that the area was considered as extremist-hit. Their school, like any other in the state, is also closed. They laughed when Sharad asked them if they also resorted to online teaching during the lockdown. “We could not do that even if we wanted to,” Barju replied, explaining the students did not have smart phones and those would not work even if they had because the area has no mobile network coverage. “He was right as I also couldn’t get network from around 20km before reaching the school,” Sharad said. “There was no school earlier and no child would study as they could not to a distant one crossing the hills,” Martin said, adding all the children were now attending school. “Many of the children I taught are now attending high school and even college,” he said, describing that as their achievement. “That’s right. These teachers may not be highly qualified as teachers but are doing a great service to the society by educating a village,” said Ajay Sharma, another local reporter who accompanied Sharad. Sharma added that no politician or official visit the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
