07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Auto-rickshaw driver’s body found hanging from Sunsunia rail bridge ||The body of a 65-year-old man was found hanging from a railway bridge near Sunsunia rail gate on the Burmamines-Sakchi road on Monday morning. The deceased was later identified as Jogender Singh, a resident of East Plant Bustee in Burmamines, a kilometre away from where his body was found. Singh, an auto-rickshaw driver, was undergoing financial problems owing to the lockdown. The police said this seems to be a case of suicide from preliminary findings. A plastic rope used for hanging has also been recovered along with the body. The body has been sent to the MGM Medical College Hospital at Sakchi for a Covid test. It will be shifted to the medical college mortuary at Dimna for autopsy on Tuesday. Assistant sub-inspector Ravi Kant Singh said the deceased had left his house at about 9 pm on Sunday, but did not return home, leading the family members to search for him throughout the night. "The man might have died by hanging himself past midnight, after commuters had stopped passing through the road.  Had he attempted to hang himself earlier, someone would have noticed, as this is a busy thoroughfare," the ASI told The Telegraph Online. Jogender’s son Pritam Singh said he committed suicide due to depression. "My father was an auto-rickshaw driver and would drive on the Burmamines-Station route regularly.  After lock down was imposed in April, he had to sit idle at home.  In the next two months, the family’s financial condition deteriorated as all sources of income had depleted.  For the past few weeks, my father had started showing  signs of  depression.  He had also stopped talking to family members.  Last night he left the house without eating dinner, and did not return home. We all searched for him in the locality throughout the night, but in the early morning someone informed us that his body was found hanging near the Sunsunia railway bridge in Burmamines," Pritam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||NEP pro-privatisation and discriminatory, says Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren expressed the fear that National Education Policy (NEP), if implemented in its current form, may not offer a level playing failed to many deserving candidates from poor backgrounds. Hemant, who attended the “Governors Conference on the Role of NEP in Transforming Higher Education” earlier on Monday, also said that the Centre should have consulted states before framing the policy, as education features in the concurrent list of the Constitution. Pointing to several “drawbacks” in the NEP, Hemant described it as pro-privatisation and wondered why the Union government did not take into confidence all the state governments and major political parties before drafting the policy. Stating that the Centre’s move was yet another attempt at hurting cooperative federalism, Hemant questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP for changing their earlier stand against privatisation in education. Monday’s virtual meet on NEP saw the presence of President Ramnath Kovid, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokriyal, among others, from Delhi. Governor Droupadi Murmu, along with Hemant, represented Jharkhand as did other constitutional heads, chief ministers and education ministers of other states. The policy does not mention clearly how students from tribal communities and marginalised sections would benefit from its provisions, he said during his address at the meet. "Only those languages that figure in the eighth schedule of the Constitution have been included in the list of classical languages in NEP. That leaves out several other languages spoken by different cross-sections... Injustice is being done to them," Hemant contended. "India is a diverse country, and each state has its unique requirements. The Centre should have held consultations with each of these states with an open mind. No state should feel that the policy was being imposed on it," he explained. Hemant also accused the Narendra Modi-led dispensation of taking unilateral decisions in matters of education, GST and commercial mining. "The Union government is inviting international institutes to the country, as part of the policy. However, NEP does not say much about how it would be safeguarding the interests of the marginalised sections," he added. Three days ago, the CM had written to the prime minister, highlighting the "withering trust" between the Centre and the states over GST compensation payment. Hemant requested the PM to intervene and “reinforcing the trust” in the spirit of cooperative federalism. The NEP, approved by the Union Cabinet in July, replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems. Modi, during his address, said "maximum flexibility" has to be shown in implementing the policy. The PM also said that it is natural for stakeholders to have questions about various aspects of the policy and "we are all working to address all these questions".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city Puja watchdog meets organisers for feedback  ||The Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS) has started zone- ise meetings with puja organisers ahead of the festival scheduled to be held from October 22 to 26. The meetings are being organised with the intention of taking feedback from puja organisers vis-à-vis restrictions imposed by the samity in view of the pandemic. This time, the samity wants all organisers to do away with dhakis, bhog, lighting, decoration, small idols and big budget pandals in an effort to minimise risks. Organisers of community puja at flats and housing societies have been asked to do away with idols. Instead, they have been asked to use photographs of Goddess Durga. “We have started meetings with puja organisers for taking their feedback and suggestions on the restrictions. It is necessary to take stock of the mood of the organisers as we want a risk-free and peaceful celebration without hurting the sentiments of people,” samity general secretary Rambabu Singh said. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, he said they have already taken a decision on keeping the Pujas a low-key affair this time and it was important to remind the organisers about the restrictions once again. “We are also noting down the requirements of the organisers who have different needs,” Singh said, adding a total of 320 pujas spread over 32 zones are held under the banner of the samity. Some puja organisers are keen to limit the occasion to  just "kalash sthapna". According to him, they were giving a re-look to bhog distribution which is an important element related to the Pujas and is very much attached to the emotions of devotees. “We are looking at the logistics of bhog distribution to see how it can be distributed among devotees by maintaining social distancing. It is very early to say anything at this point of time as we have already omitted it from our list. We are taking suggestions from puja organisers in this regard,” Singh said. The samity is also focussing on how to maintain social distancing. “Though we are sure very few members will be coming out of their homes during the Pujas, we cannot take a chance. We don’t want to be lethargic in maintaining social distancing. Adequate number of volunteers will be deployed to help maintain it,” one of the JDPKS functionaries said. According to him, they will hold more zone-wise meetings and after taking feedback and suggestions from puja organisers, will meet the district administration. “We have already announced the list of Covid-related restrictions for Pujas and it is possible that the administration may add some more. This will be known once we meet officials in the administration,” the member added. Meanwhile, the mood among people is far from exciting. Steel city markets are not crowded with puja shoppers. The usual happiness is missing and people seem to have accepted that revelry and pandal-hopping would be a thing of the past this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||University exams in Dhanbad from September 21 ||After successfully conducting the JEE mains examination, Dhanbad is now gearing up to hold university examinations. Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University, which has already secured the nod of state Higher, Technical Education and Skill development department, is now busy making arrangement to conduct the sixth (final) semester examination of all undergraduate courses (BA, B Sc, B Com) from September 21 in adherence to examination related SOPs of Ministry of Home affairs. Notably, more than 30000 students are to appear for the sixth (final) semester exam scheduled at 37 centres spread across Dhanbad and Bokaro. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Anjani Kumar Srivastava,  BBMKU vice chancellor, said  “there will be foolproof arrangement at the all the 37 examination centers. Instead of the usual practice of three students seating on each bench, only one student will be accommodated at one bench. We will also see to it that sufficient space is maintained between two benches at the examination hall” “We have increased the number of examination centers to 37 from 14 in order to maintain social distancing. At the same time, we have also made provision of holding the examinations at the home centers, meaning students wll appear for the examination at their college to maximum possible extent in order to avoid travelling difficulties to the students to distant examination centers due to lack of transport" added Srivatava. “ In case of lack of availability of space at home center, examination will be held at the nearest centre from their college” said Srivastava and added that the examination will be of two hours instead of three hours and will be held in two seatings from from 9 am to 11am and again from 1 pm to 3 pm or 2 pm to 4 pm. “The gap between the two seatings will be used for carrying out proper sanitization of the examination centres” said Srivastava, adding that full sanitization of premises would also be carried out before the examination. Wearing masks would be mandatory for all the examinees and staff. “We are also considering the option of holding the other, smaller (in terms of students) examination before September 21 for which we have also obtained the sanction” said Srivastava. He also said that post graduation fourth (final) semester examination will be held after September 30 while the publication of results will be ensured before October 15. Notably, the post graduation admissions in BBMKU are also pending due to the pending  final semester examination of undergraduate courses although the undergraduate courses admissions are under progress and likely to completed before September 15 as the publication of plus two results of CBSE, ICSE and JAC were held in July itself. BBMKU, earlier on July 22 issued a notification for holding semester exams of undergraduate and post graduate course besides various professional courses except for the final semester exams from August 4  but again postponed the examination in view of repeated protest by the students and protests in apprehension of spread of Covid infection. The university finally on August 6 decided to promote the students of semester I and III of post graduation course and semester III and V of the undergraduate course on basis of internal examination marks and previous semester examination performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh’s Covid hospital has 24 ventilators, but none to operate them||Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) now has 24 ventilators in its ICU, a key element in treating serious Covid patients, but lacks the manpower to operate them. HMCH superintendent Sanjay Sinha said he had written to senior officials of the district administration and the health department a number of times to draw their attention to the peculiar problem. “There is a lack of skilled manpower to operate ventilators. There are four more ventilators and when these are installed, the total number of ventilators will be 28,” he told The Telegraph Online on Monday. Of the 24 that are installed, eight were given by NTPC, four were procured with funds from the district mineral foundation trust and the rest were given by the health directorate in  Ranchi. NTPC is understood to have spent Rs 58.8 lakh from its CSR funds to donate eight ventilators to HMCH. HMCH is the biggest Covid hospital of the area that, like elsewhere, has seen a rise in the number of Covid cases. Hazaribagh district has recorded more than 2,000 Covid cases. Of these, 1,346 have recovered. In all, 19 Covid patients have died. Sinha said they had three assistant doctors looking after Covid patients. But they needed more skilled hands to operate the ventilators. “So far, we have not had to treat a Covid patient who needed to be put on the ventilator,” he added. The ICU of HMCH where the ventilators have been set up is a 12-bed facility. “We have four more ventilators and soon engineers will come to install them. Ventilators need to be operated by skilled personnel. And that is why I have written to officials a number of times,” Sinha said. Doctors here admit that to have so many ventilators in the hospital was a big achievement for the district which till recently, lacked proper facilities in its ICU. Several critical patients have had to be referred to Ranchi because of this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Few takers for app that facilitates online medical help ||The Centre’s initiative to encourage online medical consultations through an app has found few takers in Jharkhand despite the state government’s push amid an unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases, health officials said on Monday. As per data with the National Health Mission (NHM), around 1,500 people consulted doctors using the esanjeevani OPD app in Jharkhand since it was launched on May 1. However, the number of patients using the app for medical consultations has halved since the end of May, said doctors spearheading the initiative. The nodal officer of the esanjeevani initiative in Jharkhand, Dr. LR Pathak, said around 600 consultations were registered in May, and only 900 more consultations happened in June, July and August. “Patients have started visiting hospitals in person for minor ailments. This practice shows residents aren’t availing of the benefits of easy online consultations, and also puts them at risk of contracting the coronavirus infection,” Pathak said. The esanjeevaniOPD initiative is aimed at providing free of cost online medical consultation to avoid overcrowding at OPDs of government hospitals. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in August said that over 2 lakh consultations were provided through the app across India. This means that less than 1 per cent people of Jharkhand availed of the benefit. Pathak attributed the fall in online consultations to relaxations of lockdown curbs and lack of awareness among people. “A majority of the people who sought medical consultation through the app were from urban clusters of Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Bokaro. We need to make the rural populace more aware of the facility, so they don’t rush to the nearest government hospital for regular check-ups or minor ailments,” he said. In Jharkhand, free medical consultation is provided through the app from 11am to 1pm and from 3pm to 5pm, from Monday to Saturday. Consultation by psychiatrists is offered from 1pm to 2pm, while specialists provide consultations from 2pm to 3pm. “People who need consultation with specialists can log-in between 2pm to 3pm, while the ones in need of psychiatric help may log in between 1pm to 2pm. Around 200 people have consulted psychiatrists through our platform so far,” said Pathak. In Jharkhand, the government also started providing free generic medicines at public healthcare centres for patients who seek medical consultations through the app. “At our level, we decided to provide free medicines available with government facilities here to ensure that more people opt for the online consultation,” said Pathak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Number of Covid recoveries surpass fresh cases ||The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped over 70 per cent on Sunday as the number of people recovering from the deadly virus surpassed the number of fresh cases surfacing in the state for the second consecutive day, figures with the state health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Sunday late night, as many as 1854 Covid patients overcame the viral infection in 24 hours, while 1246 people were found to be infected during the same time period. At least 14,410 people were yet to recover from the viral infection in Jharkhand, the bulletin further stated. Despite the improvement in the recovery rate, the Covid tally in Jharkhand crossed the 50,000 mark on Sunday, while the toll reached 469 after seven patients died of the viral infection in the state on Sunday. As per government data, at least four of the seven Covid casualties occurred in East Singhbhum, a district which accounts for nearly 50 per cent of the 469 Covid deaths in Jharkhand. The district has reported 215 Covid fatalities so far. The number of active cases also reduced in Ranchi and East Singbhum on Sunday as both the districts reported more than twice as many recoveries as fresh cases found on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, 349 people were found infected in Ranchi on Sunday, while 708 Covid patients recovered. In East Singhbhum, 328 Covid patients recovered from the infection and 102 fresh cases surfaced. As per government data, as many as 36,184 of the 51,063 Covid-infected people have overcome the virus in Jharkhand so far, helping the state achieve a Covid recovery rate which was close to the national recovery rate. The national Covid recovery rate on Sunday was 77.32 per cent, while the rate of recovery in Jharkhand was 70.86 per cent. The Covid mortality rate also dropped to 0.91 per cent in Jharkhand on Sunday, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The government has so far collected swab samples of 11.17 lakh people and tested 11.05 lakh of them. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 13,057 people and 11,811 of them came negative. Ranchi continues to be the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of the number of active cases of Covid infection. As per latest government data, there were nearly 4000 active Covid-19 cases in Ranchi, and the tally in the district was close to 11,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro to have more facilities to take on Covid||The Bokaro administration will develop more Covid-19 care centres in Bermo and Chas with the number of active cases in the district reaching 800. The total number of beds in the district will go up from 400 to 900 after the care centres are established. While a 250-bed Covid-19 care centre will become functional at the new Bermo block office this week, another 250-bed isolation centre will come up in Chas in the coming weeks. There are more than 200 micro-containment zones in the district. Currently, most of the beds are in the Chas subdivision, including the 100-bed Covid-19 care centre near the Sadar hospital, 90-bed Covid ward at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) and 110 beds in a few private hospitals. The Bermo subdivision has only a 100-bed care centre in Jainamoad, which is not operational yet. Civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said the Jainamoad facility was almost ready and would become operational by Monday. “People who test positive in Bermo will be admitted there. In Chas, the institutional isolation centre will be made functional later this month,” he said. The district health department is segregating patients according to their symptoms. The symptomatic or serious patients are being admitted to BGH while asymptomatic patients are being sent to care centres run by the health department. Approval for quarantining at home is being provided by deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh after an assessment. The next few days may witness a bigger spike in cases as the administration plans large testing drives. However, the administration feels the number of beds is enough. “Many people are getting released every day. Currently, the number of available beds is sufficient in accommodating patients. But we are keeping ourselves prepared for any spike in cases,” Singh said. On Sunday morning, the number of positive patients was 2,059. Of them, 800 are active. There have been 16 deaths so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Protesters block road over Hazaribagh woman’s death ||Police in Hazaribagh on Sunday baton-charged around 300 demonstrators, mostly women, demanding the death sentence for a youth who they said was responsible for the death of a 24-year-old woman in Palamau. Salina Yasmeen’s dead body was found hanging from a ceiling fan at a lodge in Palamau. She had gone missing from her home in Pelawal on September 2. It appeared that she had eloped with Garhwa resident Prince Yadav. The protesters feel that Yadav was responsible for her death. They blocked the Hazaribagh-Chatra road in Romi. Sadar subdivisional officer Megha Bhardwaj, who reached the spot, tried pacifying them without success. The Ramgarh cantonment board plans to charge four-wheelers a fee for entry into the town. Checkpoints will be erected at four points for this purpose. For light vehicles, the proposed fee is Rs 20, whereas for heavy four-wheelers, it is Rs 200. The fees will be used to shore up the board’s revenues and accelerate development of the town. The 80 priests of the ancient Bhadrakali temple at Chatra on Sunday wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren to demand that the shrine be opened on the lines of Babadham in Deoghar and Basukinath in Dumka. The priests said their financial condition had deteriorated because of the restrictions. They also highlighted the plight of the owners of shops and hotels near the temple. A team led by Dr Amrendra Mahapatra of ICMR Bhubaneswar on Sunday inspected the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Nirsa Polytechnic in Gopalpur. The team instructed the doctors at the facility to counsel patients. Dr Mahapatra told the nodal officer of the health centre, Dr Vikash Rana, to reassure patients and their relatives. A contractual worker at BCCL’s Ena colliery was caught by employees and handed over to police allegedly for bursting crackers. The worker maintained that he was bursting the crackers as a joke. The colliery was in the news for tension between supporters of Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh and those of his cousin, Guddu Singh. On August 29, some motorcycle-borne persons had opened fire at the colliery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
