08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro shop owner foils dacoity attempt||A 37-year-old man foiled an attempted dacoity at his home at Barkama in the Chandankyari police station area early on Tuesday. Armed dacoits had entered Manohar Mahatha’s home by breaking the lock of the main entrance and removing window panes. He showed exemplary bravery and attacked one of the five dacoits who had put a pistol to his chest. The other dacoits tried to overpower him, but Mahatha kept shouting, kicking and hitting them till they realised the situation had gone out of their control and escaped. Mahatha owns an electric shop at Chandankyari main market. At the time of the incident, there were five members of the family in the house, including Mahatha’s two children aged 9 and 12 years. On the incident, Mahatha said: “I was woken up by a dacoit who was asking me about cash and jewellery. He had put a pistol to my chest. There were five persons there. “I replied that there were no valuables in the house. The dacoit slapped and threatened me. “I was initially scared, but I resisted and punched him, unsettling him. His pistol fell to the floor.” He fought with the other dacoits and kept shouting. This woke up a neighbour who shone a torch at the house. The dacoits ran out of the house. Mahatha suspects that the dacoits had sprayed a chemical in the house due to which his wife, children and nephew did not wake up during the entire incident. The dacoits had searched the house before waking him up. This was the second such incident in the area in the past seven days. On September 2, some men had looted the home of Chandrika Prasad and escaped with cash and valuables worth Rs 3 lakh. Prasad’s home is about 1km from Mahatha’s. More than half a dozen cases of murder, dacoity and loot were registered in various police stations in the district over the past week. Chas subdivisional police officer Bhagwan Das said: “The police will solve the crime cases soon and arrest the criminals. Investigations are on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Cases rising rapidly in Ranchi, doctors ask residents to stay home||Those living in Ranchi may have reason to worry as the Covid-19 trajectory here has seen an unprecedented upward trend since July, with total cases witnessing a five-fold increase and the toll tripling, government data reveals. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), there were 2,039 cases of coronavirus infection in Ranchi on July 31. Cut to September 8, the tally in Ranchi is 11,138 – the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The numbers, as per data with the health department, witnessed such a drastic increase in barely 40 days. While cases are rising, health experts fear that reopening of malls and hotels may trigger a further spike. Being the largest urban area in Jharkhand, Ranchi has the highest number of malls in Jharkhand that are now open to the public. “Residents of Ranchi need to be cautious and take all possible precautionary measures. Even though malls have opened, it is advisable to stay at home and maintain social distancing. The number of Covid cases is increasing by the day, and the urban population in Ranchi is at high risk because they are used to socialising in public places,” said Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA). As per latest data with the health department, there were 3,693 active cases of infection in Ranchi, which is more than 25 per cent of the total 14,588 active cases across Jharkhand. Health officials have blamed the lack of adherence to social distancing norms for the spike in cases here. “Following social distancing norms is the only way to check the spread of the virus,” said state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Jharkhand’s first case of Covid-19 infection was reported from Ranchi’s Hindpiri on March 31. The locality became the state's largest containment zone after over 100 cases were reported from the locality alone in April. Stretching adjacent to Mahatma Gandhi Road and touching Upper Bazar from one end and Pe Pee Compound from the other, Hindpiri is one of the most densely populated areas in the city. And controlling the spread of Covid-19 virus in the locality was the toughest challenge for the local district administration. While the count of Covid cases has reduced in Hindpiri, the virus has now spread in different clusters of the city, infecting residents of apartments as well as slums. Cases of infection have surfaced in posh localities like Kanke Road, Pe Pee Compound, Ashok Nagar and even Burdwan Compound. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V.B. Prasad, one of the officials leading the district’s fight against Covid-19, tested Covid positive on Tuesday. The development triggered panic among staff at the civil surgeon’s office at Sadar Hospital, and the district administration was quick to initiate sanitization of the office. Several health workers have also been infected by the virus so far in the capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant is anti-poor, says BJP about his criticism of NEP||The Opposition BJP upped its ante against the Hemant Soren government on Tuesday, dubbing its stand on the National Educational Policy (NEP) as anti-tribal and anti-poor. Rebutting Hemant’s criticism at Monday’s Governors’ conclave, the state BJP alleged that he was playing dirty politics over the future of poor and tribals in Jharkhand. “By opposing and criticising NEP, Hemant Soren has exhibited that he is anti-tribal and anti-poor. The points that he raised during the meeting before the President of India is proof enough that the incumbent state government wants to oppose everything that the Union government is doing. By doing so, he (Hemant) is only putting the future of scores of tribals, poor at stake,” said state BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo. At the online conclave held under the aegis of President Ramnath Kovind and also attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hemant described NEP as pro-privatisation and raised several apprehensions regarding its implementation in its current form. One of his concerns was that NEP did not give proper weightage to tribal languages as a medium of teaching. Shahdeo said, “NEP allows teaching in local and regional languages which are in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Santhali language, one of the prominent ones spoken here, is in the Eighth Schedule. As far as other tribal languages are concerned, the state government must pursue with the Centre for its inclusion.” On the chief minister’s accusation that NEP was pro-privatisation, Shahdeo said a higher education commission was to be set up under NEP which would act as a watchdog. “Every year, lakhs of students including those from Jharkhand go to pursue higher studies in foreign countries. But NEP will allow foreign varsities to set up shop here which will help Indians save on expenses. NEP also mandates 20 per cent admission for under-privileged and 30 per cent scholarships to the  deserving. Most importantly, it also allows those who have dropped out to restart studies,” he said. Shahdeo said Hemant’s view that NEP did not take in account a students’ employability was laughable. “For the first time, NEP prescribes vocation studies from class 6, which will in the long-run make students job-ready,” he said, adding that around 17,000 graduates of tribal and regional languages in Jharkhand are without jobs. These people could be easily inducted into teaching students in local languages once NEP was implemented, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||IMD issues lightning and thunder alert across state||India Meteorological Department has issued an alert of thunder and lightning which will impact several districts of Jharkhand during the next 72 hours. The vulnerable districts include Deoghar, Dhanbad, Giridih, East Singhbhum, Simdega, Khunti and Ramgarh. "The lightning and thunder activity would be due to the local weather condition as the monsoon has become weak over Jharkhand. It is expected to revive after the next 72 hours or so, " said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Met centre director went on to say that the weather condition would be primarily dry over Jharkhand till the revival of monsoon. He, however, did not rule out the possibility of rainfall in traces 9that which cannot be measured). Several places, including Jamshedpur, Simdega, Ramgarh and Ranchi, witnessed lightning and thunder on Tuesday afternoon. But there was no rain. Lightning strikes were reported from Silli in Ranchi district and Khunti. At Silli three women, who were working in an agricultural field, were injured. An elderly person returning home from a local haat was injured in neighbouring Khunti. The IMD warning stated: "People should be careful in those districts for which lightning and thunder alerts have been issued for the next 72 hours. They should avoid venturing out into the fields and taking shelter under trees." The monsoon activity has been weak over Jharkhand during the last 48 hours. Weatherman at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said Tuesday’s satellite picture suggested formation of a cyclonic circulation over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim. But it was too weak. In the absence of showers during the last couple of days, the state’s rain deficit witnessed a gradual rise. Against a normal of 892.7 mm, Jharkhand has so far received 793.1 mm rain, a deficit of 11 per cent. Two days ago, the deficit had stood at eight per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Green tribunal raps state, Centre for not protecting Saranda forests||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Union ministry of environment and forests and Jharkhand’s forest department to submit a report explaining why the Sasangada/Saranda sanctuary in West Singhbhum district has not been declared an eco-sensitive zone, something that would help protect the region’s rich bio-diversity. The directive was issued by the NGT eastern zonal bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda while hearing a petition filed by Delhi based conservationist R. K. Singh. “Considering the facts and circumstances set out in the application we are satisfied that a substantial question relating to the environment arises in the case,” the bench said and asked the respondents – Union ministry of environment and forests and the Jharkhand forest department _ to file a report at least one week before the next date. The case is slated for hearing again on October 19. “My fight is to give status of eco-sensitive zone to the Sansangad/Saranda sanctuary  (Asia’s largest sal reserves) which consists of 126 compartments of reserve forest blocks and two protected forest blocks in an area of 31,468.25 hectares which have been included in the working plan for management of Saranda division prepared in 1976-77 to 1995-1995 (forest plans are made for 20 years),” Singh told The Telegraph Online. The wildlife expert, who holds a PhD on the impact of mining on the elephant habitat of Saranda forest from the Wildlife Institute of India (Dehradun), has told NGT that successive state governments in Jharkhand and the ministry of environment, forest and climate change have failed to declare Sasangada/ Saranda sanctuary an eco-sensitive zone. Hence this area was excluded from the exercise conducted across the country. “The Jharkhand government is not even recognising Saranda as a sanctuary and have excluded it from the exercises conducted in pursuant to the Supreme Court judgement in the case of Goa Foundation versus Union of India (2011). The Supreme Court had categorically asked the government to declare eco-sensitive zones around all notified sanctuaries and national parks and if the government fails to declare eco-sensitive zones then 10 km from the boundary of the sanctuaries and national park would be deemed as eco-sensitive zone,” said Singh. Singh further said that the Saranda sanctuary finds mention in a report prepared by the new defunct Indian Board for Wildlife (IBWL) on November 24, 1965 for a delegation of the International Union for Conservation of Nature.  The sanctuary also features in the Indian Forest Records: Glossary of terms used in nature conservation and wildlife management, published by the Forest Research Institute (FRI) in 1970. “It was last mentioned in the working plan for the Saranda forest division for 1976-77 to 1995-96 wherein it is said the sanctuary was notified in February 1968 and covers forest areas of Thalkobad, Karampada, Kodalibad, Tagooda,  Karujagdaburu , Samta and Tirilposi,” informed Singh. A 2016 study by the Wildlife Institute of India found that plant species in the Saranda forest had come down to a mere 87, from over 300 species earlier. They also could not spot a single elephant, even though the 2010 census recorded 253 elephants. “If it is notified as an eco-sensitive zone then the sanctuary’s diversity would be protected and all activities detrimental for sanctuary would not be undertaken,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Preacher gang raped by four men in Godda ashram||A 30-year-old woman preacher was allegedly gang raped by four armed men after they broke into the ashram where she was living in Godda, some 300km from capital Ranchi, in the wee hours of Tuesday. According to a communique issued by the chief minister’s office on Tuesday evening, an FIR had been lodged at the Mufassil police station in Godda against four persons, two of whom have been named. Godda SP Y.S. Ramesh told the media that one Dipak Rana had been detained from Pasra village. “We have lodged a case of gang rape based on the statement of the victim. We have formed a three-member special investigation team. All culprits will be nabbed soon,” he said. A police officer said the victim’s statement had been recorded at Mahila police station after which she was taken for a medical examination. “According to the victim, the incident occurred between 2.30am and 3am on Tuesday,” he said. According to local sources, the preacher was staying at Maharshi Mehi Ashram at Ranidih in the Pathwara-Kathon area of Godda. PTI reported that at the time of the incident there were four women preachers and a sadhu at the ashram. Although a native of Bokaro, the preacher had been staying at an ashram in Varanasi before coming to Godda a few months back. The local electronic media in Godda reported that the preacher called upon both the Centre and state to work towards safeguarding women and demanded no less than the capital punishment for her tormenters. “They (her attackers) were four in number. They violated my body. It is very difficult for a sadhvi to tolerate this pain, which will be with me for the rest of my life. I demand the death sentence for all four culprits through a speedy trial,” she told a local television channel. “How can a country be safe if such instances occur with children and women time and again. It’s time that governments work seriously towards saving the dignity of women rather than offering piecemeal solutions,” she added. Chief minister Hemant Soren took cognisance of the crime and directed the Godda police to ensure the case was cracked soon. The communique issued by his office confirmed that the two accused were Deepak Rana and Ashish Rana. “The siblings are residents of Pathwara in Godda. Rana is a history sheeter and has served prison time,” the communique said. Earlier, after news of the crime broke, local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey took to twitter to criticise the Hemant Soren government. His party criticised the JMM-led coalition government for the deteriorating law and order situation. "It seems that criminals and Naxalites now have a free run in Jharkhand. During our rule, Naxalism was on the verge of collapse. But over the last seven months, they are rearing their head again. Instances of rape and murder are rising but the government seems least concerned,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC sign experienced goalie TP Rehenesh||Jamshedpur FC on Tuesday moved further towards building a strong side for the Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21 with the addition of TP Rehenesh to bolster its goalkeeping ranks. With Pawan Kumar already signed, the experienced Rehenesh will add another option for the first-choice keeper along with the young and promising Niraj Kumar. The 27-year-old Rehenesh has over eight years of combined experience, having kept 35 clean sheets in 128 matches in the Indian Super League so far. On signing for Jamshedpur, Rehenesh said: “ I have heard and myself seen a lot of wonderful things about Jamshedpur. The club’s vision, it’s facilities, the amazing  treatment of players, youths and grassroot football are  known and appreciated in the football circles. The Jharkhand football fans are extremely vociferous, passionate and supportive and I am excited and proud to represent them in the club colours. I always like to push myself to improve and compete whether in training or games. The ultimate aim is to win.” The Kerala goalkeeper was all praise for gaffer Owen Coyle. “ In my conversation with Owen Coyle, he was very clear to me about his objectives and expectations from me. I have a huge respect for him and I’m eager to make the most of this opportunity to work with and gain from such an experienced personality.” He said. Rehenesh began his career with ONGC in the I-League and went on to represent Rangdajied, Shillong Lajong, East Bengal, North East United and Kerala Blasters. The able shot-stopper is good with the feet, athletic and has a smart positioning sense. Head coach Owen Coyle expressed his delight on getting the goalkeeper on board. He said: “ With Rehenesh in the squad we are in a strong position in the goalkeeping department and that gives us healthy competition for the first-choice keeper, which I was looking for. His former coaches have always praised him and his performance over the years have been top-notch. Rehenesh comes with high quality, is a top competitor and highly motivated to earn the top spot and perform.” Rehenesh will be wearing the number 32 jersey for Jamshedpur FC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharia rehab: 79 families to shift to new quarters at Belgarhia  ||As many as 79 families from Kujama Colliery, one of the most dangerous underground fire affected sites in the Lodna area of BCCL, are to be rehabilitated in new quarters built for them at Belgarhia, officials said on Tuesday. The list of 79 probable beneficiaries of the Jharia rehabilitation scheme was stuck at Kujama Colliery office as per the June 19 directives of the Dhanbad district administration. Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) administration and Jharia Rehabilitation Authority were asked to prioritise rehabilitation of  2007 families from six underground fire affected areas including, 703 families of Bastacola area, 636 of Lodna,  441 of Putki Balihari, 199 of East Jharia, 25 of Barora and four of Block II area. Kumar Badhu Kachhap, executive magistrate who is in charge of Jharia Rehabilitation Authority (JRDA) that is implementing the Jharia master plan, said, “Phase-wise rehabilitation is being carried out as per the list from six different areas of BCCL after getting final clearance from respective general managers of different areas of BCCL”. Only such families, who have been living in the underground fire affected areas before the cut-off date of 2004 have been included in the list, he explained. Rajendra Paswan, area secretary of Central Industrial Trade Union, said, “Rehabilitation will be a cumbersome affair as some of those, whose names have been included in list, are ready to shift while others are not willing to shift.” “Still others are demanding the allotment of quarters in groups as neighbours at Kujama have been allotted quarters away from each other at Belgarhia,” said Paswan, who is also a resident of Kujama. Also, many of those allotted quarters wanted to get subsistence allowance as one-time payment, instead of the usual instalments. “We, as trade union representatives, demand a comprehensive approach for rehabilitation as the present practice of providing houses at safer places to only those who can produce documents certifying their settlement in fire-affected  areas before 2004 will deprive many,” said Paswan. Only around 4,000 families, out of a total of 1.04 lakh families living in 595 underground fire affected areas, have been rehabilitated at Belgarhia since March 25 when the first batch of 1,100 families were shifted there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1500 Covid positive cases and 12 deaths in a day||Over 1500 people, including 337 from Ranchi alone, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the Covid tally in the state to 52,620, figures with the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday late night, at least 12 people died of the disease in Jharkhand in 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state to 482. Ranchi reported three Covid casualties on Monday, while six patients died during treatment in East Singhbhum, the district that has reported highest Covid fatalities in Jharkhand so far. Despite 1553 fresh cases of infection surfacing in 24 hours, the number of active cases in the state did not cross the 15,000 mark. As per government data, as many as 1366 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Monday, restricting the number of active cases at 14,588. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 11,138 people have been infected by Covid in Ranchi so far, and nearly 4000 of them were still battling the infection. Monday’s developments took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 74, the second highest among all districts in the state. East Singhbhum has reported 221 Covid deaths so far, which is the highest among all districts. With nearly 9000 Covid cases, East Singhbhum was not only battling a high fatality rate but also a spike in the cases of infection by the day. Dhanbad reported around 3500 cases by the time this report was filed, while the tally in Giridih was close to 2500. At least 100 fresh cases of infection on Monday took the tally in Hazaribag to 2254, the NHM bulletin highlighted. On Monday, the government tested swab samples of 25,645 people and 24,092 of them came negative. As per government data, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 11.41 lakh people so far and tested 11.33 lakh of them. At least 37,550 of the 52,000-odd people who tested positive for the virus have recovered, taking the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand to 71.36 per cent. Despite a dozen deaths reported on Monday, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was below 1 per cent. As per government data, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate on Monday was 0.91 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 1.72 per cent. West Singhbhum, Sahebganj and Deoghar reported one death each on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Central team arrives at Jamshedpur to assess Covid-19 situation||A three-member team of the central health department reached the steel city on Monday afternoon amid rising Covid-19 cases in East Singhbhum. The team is set to inspect various health hubs to ascertain what kind of treatments are being offered to patients. During their two-day visit, the team will also inspect the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) office on Dhalbhum Road at Sakchi, and a few containment zones to assess Covid control measures adopted by the district administration. ‘Post assessment, the team will hold a meeting with district administrative and health officials on Tuesday to issue directives on how to curb infections and deaths. Led by Dr Amarendra Mohapatra, head of the department, Preventive & Social Medicines,  SCB Medical College, Cuttack, the team will also hold separate meetings with various health, and the IDSP, East Singhbhum to fix guidelines on how to treat serious Covid patients and check spread of the virus. Apart from the doctors engaged under IDSP and health hubs, the central team will also interact with the nurses as well as the paramedics, along with frontline health workers. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon, Rajendra Nath Jha told The Telegraph Online, "The team will be accompanied by district nodal officer, Dr Sahir Paul  and district surveillance officer, Dr AK Lal and me during their inspection." Jha said health hubs that the team is scheduled to visit are Tata Main Hospital at Bistupur, Tata Motors Hospital at Telco, MGM Medical College Hospital at Sakchi, Uma Superspeciality Hospital and Sent John's Hospital, both located on the NH-33 in Mango. 102 more people tested positive during the past 24 hours in the district, taking the Covid-19 tally to 8,140. Four more Covid deaths took place on Sunday, taking the death toll to 233 during the past 24 hours in the district. "A large number of people are shying away from taking Covid tests in fear of getting admitted at a hospital.  Such people are preferring to get treatment at home privately," said district surveillance officer AK Lal.  He said this was the reason why the district health department has decided to carry out 40,000 random tests in Covid hotspots in the district from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Lockdown economic crisis claims 2 lives in Dhanbad||Reena Devi, 32, a resident of Chandmari locality committed suicide after quarelling with her husband Amarjit Soni, who suffered a heart attack on seeing his wife hanging from the ceiling fan of a room. The couple have a a seven-year-old daughter and five-year-old son. Reena used to sell cosmetic items. Her husband used to work as a jewellery artist. Amarjit Soni was unemployed for the last couple of months and the family used to survive on Reena's income. Shakuntala Devi a neighbour of the deceased couple, said, “both the husband and wife were soft spoken and had good relation with us and other people in the community but what propelled Reena Devi to take the extreme step is beyond any comprehension”. Jairam Prasad, officer in charge of Dhansar Police station said,“the post mortem report revealed that the women died due to hanging while her hushand died due to heart attack as he suffered shock due to the death of his wife”. Thirty four Covid patients were discharged from Holy family hospital in Koderma on Monday. A team of doctors, nurses and other medical staff led by subdivisional officer Manish Kumar gave a farewell to these patients. Kumar asked all 34 to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days, use mask and follow social distancing norms once quarantine was over. Dhanbad district administration will organise a special Rapid Antigen Test drive on Tuesday at 20 places across the district. Tests will be conducted on 11,600 people. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said that in view of the increasing number of Covid cases, it is imperative to carry out more and more tests and isolate the ones infected. Shankar said that regular tests at Chirkunda  Check post on the Jharkhand-Bengal border will be conducted on everyone entering the state from Bengal Tuesday onwards. On September 5, rapid antigen test of 3708 people were conducted in different residential and commercial centres of Dhanbad. 107 persons tested Covid positive. Members of social organisation Friends of Santosh on Monday staged a demonstration at the Directorate General of Mines Safety in Dhanbad to protest its inaction against private contractor Dhansar Engineering Corporation violating mining and environmental norms. The organisation is led by All India Congress Committee Member, Santosh  Singh. The private contractor is working on behalf of BCCL in Jharia. Local villagers of Kalubathan area in Nirsa on Monday protested the construction work of an electric substation being laid by Ahuja construction work and forced the company to stop work. A meeting between the villagers and construction company was held during which the protesters demanded priority to the local people in employment for the construction work being carried out by the company. The agitators also demanded PF and gratuity for the local workers engaged by the company. Bhuli residents including shopkeepers on Monday staged a demonstration at the BCCL office to protest the September 4 evacuation notice given to unauthorised shops. A meeting was held between BCCL officials and the agitators during which BCCL agreed to keep the old shops functioning but cautioned against opening new ones on their land. Bhuli is one of the largest labourer colony of the country. However, a large number of BCCL quarters are in illegal possession. The villagers of Barkagaon entered their seventh day of fasting against NTPC and its outsourcing company Thriveni Sainik Private Limited demanding jobs in its coal mining project. Villagers said they will not end their fast till jobs are given to them. One of the agitators,Ganesh Ram said they have given their lands and despite this, the company is not ready to fulfill their demands.He said the state government has formed a high level committee under the divisional commissioner but failed to find any amicable solution. Ram said they will not leave the place till the company assures them of fulfilling their demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
