09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Stricter vigilance at border check post||Subdivisional officer Manish Kumar on Wednesday chaired a meeting in Koderma and asked officials to follow the state government’s guidelines to the letter at the interstate Bagitand check post on the Ranchi-Patna highway. Kumar directed officials to keep a close eye on those entering Jharkhand and hand out pamphlets with the dos and don’ts of home quarantine. He said instructions should be given to those travelling to the state to remain in home quarantine  for 14 days, besides applying a “home quarantine” stamp on their hands. The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth (SPIC MACAY) has selected Kavya Jha, a student of Class 11 of Delhi Public School (DPS), Bokaro, to volunteer for the organisation at a national level programme. An online global orientation programme on the theme, “Explore yourself with the core values of Indian traditions and culture’’, involving institutions from Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab and Nagaland, was held on September 4. DPS Bokaro was chosen to represent the state at the event, which was streamed live on YouTube. The highlight of the programme was the depiction of Ramayana using the classical dance form, Koodiyattam. Based on the performance in the live session, Kavya was offered an opportunity to volunteer to be a part of the SPIC MACAY team at the national-level programme to be held later. DPS Bokaro principal A.S. Gangwar said the school not only provides its students an opportunity and environment to learn, but also gives them a platform to exhibit their cultural talent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||95 inmates test Covid positive at Bokaro jail||As many as 95 inmates of the divisional jail at Chas tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. They have been isolated in separate wards inside the jail, following a decision taken by a high-level district monitoring committee headed by deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh. Chas subdivisional officer (SDO) Shashi Prakash Singh said a separate isolation ward was created immediately. The inspector-general of prisons, Jharkhand, has been intimated. “We are waiting for the instruction from the inspector-general,” SDO Singh said. There were 594 inmates, including prisoners and undertrials, lodged at the jail. Of them, 23 are women. The administration conducted rapid antigen tests of all inmates on Tuesday. “Ninety-five inmates tested positive for the coronavirus. They are mostly middle-aged. All the women inmates tested negative. Almost all the inmates who have tested positive are asymptomatic, but arrangements for doctors and medicines have been made,” said Singh. “The inmates who tested positive have been isolated. Doctors are monitoring their condition. This is for the first time that inmates in the jail tested positive since the start of the pandemic,” said Dr A.K. Pathak, civil surgeon. On August 24, 21 of the 35 inmates of the juvenile observation home in Bokaro had tested positive for Covid-19. The home run by the District Social Welfare Department has inmates from all the eight blocks of the district. Those who tested positive were shifted to an isolation centre at ITI Moad, Chas. Bokaro registered 335 positive cases of the coronavirus on Tuesday in the biggest spike in the number of cases in a day. The figure of active cases in the district reached 1,000. The spike can be mostly attributed to the tests conducted at 12 spots on Tuesday. “There were 9,852 people tested at the camp. Of them, 9,552 persons tested negative,” said Singh. The camp was conducted at the places such as the divisional jail, CRPF camp, police line and BSL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||No Jan Shatabdi from Saturday due to lack of passengers ||The steel city will be without a train to Calcutta from Saturday as the railways have decided to suspend operations of the Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Special Express for the time being because of poor occupancy. "The occupancy in the train is not even 15 per cent. Therefore, the Railway Board was compelled to discontinue the Jan Shatabdi. It will resume operations as and when the situation improves," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. The Janshatabdi was the only train available for people travelling between Jamshedpur and Calcutta as of now. The two other signature trains for a quick trip to Calcutta were the Steel Superfast Express and Ispat Express. Both had been suspended earlier. Two long-distance trains of Calcutta that used to stop briefly at Tatanagar, the Howrah-CSTM Mumbai Mail and Howrah-Ahmedabad Express, have not had a halt at the Jamshedpur station for two months now. "Both the trains used to stop at Tatanagar initially when services resumed after the lockdown on June 1. But the stops were withdrawn following a request of the Jharkhand government owing to rising number of Covid-19 cases, " said H.K. Balmuchu, director of Tatanagar station. These days, both trains run daily from Howrah at night. After Kharagpur, the next stop is Rourkela in Odisha. With the Jan Shatabdi also suspended, residents of Jamshedpur have no train to Calcutta as of now. The Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express resumed operations from June 1 when lockdown restrictions were being lifted gradually. As the movement of people were restricted due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the occupancy was less than 15 per cent. This has prompted the railways to temporarily withdraw the train. Ghosh said the train will run for the last time on September 11. Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, had earlier announced that the train would remain cancelled on September 12 due to a lockdown in West Bengal. An official at South Eastern Railway's commercial wing at Garden Reach admitted that the decision to cancel the train was taken the railway zone was incurring huge losses. "We are keeping a tab on the situation. The train will resume operation as and when the flow of passenger increases," he said. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association expressed its objections about the decision to discontinue the train. “Now, passengers are feeling handicapped. At least a train was available to go to Calcutta and return. People may need to go there, but now, that option is gone,” pointed out Arun Tiwari, general secretary of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||FIR against four for violating home quarantine rules||The Ranchi district administration on Wednesday lodged FIRs against four residents of Lalpur for not adhering to home quarantine norms of the state government for those coming to Jharkhand from other states. The Hemant Soren government has made 14-day home quarantine mandatory for people traveling to Jharkhand from other states, officials said, claiming that the four offenders were found outside their respective residences during an inspection by a team of the district administration on Wednesday. “We will take strict action against any person found guilty of violating the home quarantine mandate. They will be booked under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. The capital residents allegedly found violating quarantine rules on Wednesday have been identified as Chandan Kumar Parija, Avinash Sinha, Pinki Rawat and Sutapa Roy, a communique from the district administration stated. While Chandan was found attending office during the home quarantine period, the remaining three visited hospitals on Wednesday. In the wake of the pandemic, the government had on July 17 made it mandatory for all visitors from other states to stay in home quarantine for at least 14 days. Officials in Jharkhand also put VIPs like BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj on 14-day quarantine when he visited Giridih last month. He was not allowed to leave until he tested negative for Covid-19. Earlier in August, concerned authorities also lodged an FIR against Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Prasad for allegedly violating lockdown rules. Ranchi is the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases. The district administration here recently started door-to-door screening of residents to identify asymptomatic cases and spread awareness among people. On Wednesday, a team from the district administration visited 1,409 households in Ranchi and screened 5,881 people for Covid-19 symptoms, officials said. The team visited at least 100 houses in Ravidas Colony, 300 houses in Morhabadi and around 315 houses in Namkum. Besides, residents of Hatia and Sadar were also screened for Covid-19 symptoms. As per latest government data, there were at least 3,688 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi, while the tally in the district was 11,138. The district has reported 76 Covid deaths so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two of four arrested for gang rape of preacher in Godda||Two persons were arrested on Wednesday for the gang rape of a preacher with police saying that a three-member special investigation team (SIT) was trying to trace the two others accused of attacking the woman in an ashram in Godda in the wee hours of Tuesday. Police lodged an FIR against four persons, two of whom were named, at Mufassil police station in Godda on Tuesday on the basis of a complaint by the victim. While Dipak Rana, a history-sheeter, was first detained on Tuesday morning and later formally arrested at night, his brother Ashish was held on Wednesday morning. Godda SP Y.S. Ramesh said, “The two accused Dipak Rana and Ashish Rana have been arrested. We are trying to zero in on two of their accomplices so that we can nab them too.” Maharshi Mehi Ashram, where the assault took place, is located in Pathwara village in Ranidih panchayat in the Pathwara-Kathon area under Mufassil police station of Godda. The accused are from the adjoining hamlet of Pasra. According to Ramesh, rape was committed by only two persons.  “The Rana brothers raped the victim while the two accomplices had accompanied them to the crime scene. All of them barged into the ashram with firearms after scaling the boundary wall,” he said. At the time of the attack, there were four women and a sadhu at the ashram. The culprits held them hostage at gunpoint and dragged the victim to another room to commit the crime. The preacher who was assaulted is a native of Bokaro but had been staying at an ashram in Varanasi before coming to Godda a few months back. In a statement to local television channels, she had demanded the death sentence for all the four accused. “They (her attackers) were four in number. They violated my body. It is very difficult for a sadhvi to tolerate this pain, which will be with me for the rest of my life. I demand the death sentence for all four culprits through a speedy trial,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Snake catcher bit by a Russell's viper||A snake catcher of Hazaribagh town was bit by poisonous snake while trying to rescue the reptile from Vinoba Bhave University(VBU) campus. Vinod Miachel, known for rescuing hundreds of poisonous and non poisonous snakes, was rushed to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital(HMCH) where his condition is stated to be out of danger. Miachel works in VBU’s account section.
Talking to The Telegraph online at HMCH, Miachel said he recieved an information about a Russell's viper in the varsity campus near the bank area yesterday evening. Being an expert rescuer, Miachel tried to catch the highly poisonous snake with a stick but the reptile bit him on his hand. Despite the setback, Miachel managed to rescue the snake before being admitted to HMCH. He was given 10-vials of anti venom. Miachel also thanked god for his miraculous escape. "The snake got the chance to bite because the stick I was using was little bend", he said from the hospital bed, adding that this was the first time that he was bit by a venomous snake.
Independent researcher and wildlife expert Mritunjay Sharma said Miachel is an expert snake catcher and termed the incident as "very shocking". "The bite of this snake is very dangerous. The hand of Miachel became black but he is lucky that he reached the hospital within 20-minutes and was given the required treatment," Sharma added. Sharma said Russell's vipers are found in large numbers in and around the district and its presence here on this plateau is a matter of amaze for researchers. He further informed that this snake does not lay eggs but gives birth to young ones.
Miachel said he didn’t have a rescue kit which comprises of a pair of gloves, a stick and a pair of feet cover . The forest department never takes the initiative to provide kits to us rescuers. Even department employees works without this kit," he said. Sources said Hazaribagh wildlife division is funded in crores every year but lacks money to provide kits to rescuers. A senior forest official said they get funds for developmental work but not for kits. One kit costs around Rs.7000 to Rs.16000, .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||30-bed ICU at PMCH to be ready for Covid patients by Friday ||A 30-bed ICU is likely to become operational from Friday at the Cath Lab of Patlitputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad that is seeing a rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said necessary equipment has already been arranged using district mineral foundation trust (DMFT) and CSR funds. Preparations for launching the unit on September 11 are in final stages. “The ICU will operate under the joint supervision of PMCH head of department of medicine Dr U.K. Ojha and head of the department of anaesthesia Dr Kameshwar Biswas, who will ensure Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Union ministry of health treatment guidelines and protocols are followed,” he said. Dr Biswas said this would be the second ICU for Covid patients in the district after the one that is operational at the dedicated Covid Hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar. “We have procured all necessary equipment, including high-flow ventilators required for patients suffering from acute respiratory problems,” said Dr Biswas, who was PMCH superintendent. He said credit for the establishment for the ICU should go to deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh who took personal interest in upgrading Covid treatment facilities in the district. Besides the ICU meant for serious Covid patients, the PMCH Cath Lab also houses a 100-bed Dedicated Covid Health Centre for the treatment of asymptomatic or patients with moderate symptoms. This apart, a 400-bed Dedicated Covid Health Centre is also being established in two blocks at the PG Hospital of PMCH. At the PMCH blood bank work is on to install the recently procured Asphersis machine, which is used to separate blood into various components. Such a machine is needed to start plasma therapy for the treatment Covid patients. Two more gadgets, including a Ph metre refrigerator for maintaining – 40 degree C temperature, will also be required for starting plasma therapy for Covid patients. These are expected in another two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||New-look Maithon dam and lake by end of 2020  ||The scenic Maithon dam on Barakar river of Dhanbad is all set for a new look as ongoing renovation work, being carried out under a World Bank funded project is likely to be completed by the year end. Chief engineer (civil) of Damodar Valley Corporation Satyabrat Banerjee said work at Maithon was almost complete, and that the remaining work would be completed in the next few months. “Beautification of the pond will also be carried out, besides strengthening pillars, etc,” Banerjee toold The Telegraph Online, adding that renovation work of Panchet and Konar dams of DV, also funded by the World Bank, were nearing completion. The renovation of Maithon Dam, along with 249 other dams, is to be carried out under the supervision Central Dam Safety Organisation of Central Water Commission under DRIP project to ensure their safety, given that all the dams are 25 years old. The Maithon renovation worth Rs 60 crore is being carried out under the aegis of the World Bank’s Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project. It was meant to be an 18-month project that began in 2017. However, it has been delayed and is likely to be completed by the end of 2020 as most of the major work, like pillar strengthening and soil protection using the boulders, has already been done. DVC Maithon PRO Apurba Saha said, “The road on dam has been repaired towards the Jharkhand end, while work on some parts of the road towards Bengal is pending. This will be completed soon as work is under progress.” Situated about 48km from Dhanbad district headquarters, the major attractions of Maithon are the 15,712 feet long and 165 feet high dam over Barakar river and the lake spread over 65 sq km. Boating around several islands in the lake, including Sabuj Deep and Chamoch Deep, is a popular draw for tourists. Maa Kalyaneshwari Temple of Maithon, less than 100 metre from the dam, is another centre of attraction. This apart the lake is home to at least 35 species of migratory birds. Shatabdi Park near the dam is opened for visitors every year during January 1. It is also very popular among visitors who come from various parts of Jharkhand and Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally crosses 55,000, 2600 infected in a day||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 55,000 mark on Tuesday with over 2600 people, including 475 in East Singhbhum alone, found infected by the deadly virus in 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday night, as many as 2652 fresh cases of infection took the tally in Jharkhand to 55,296 on Tuesday, while the toll jumped to 496 as a dozen more Covid patients died during treatment. Besides reporting highest number of Covid cases on Tuesday, East Singhbhum also saw five of the 12 Covid deaths, which took the toll in the district to 226, nearly 50 per cent of the total number of casualties recorded in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, Saraikela reported 248 cases of infection on Tuesday, further increasing the number of patients in Kolhan division of the state. As per the NHM bulletin, Latehar and Hazaribag reported 210 and 294 fresh cases respectively. Despite 210 cases of infection surfacing in Ranchi on Tuesday, the number of active cases dropped with at least 622 Covid patients recovering from the infection in the state capital in 24 hours. As per government data, the Covid tally in Ranchi was 11,138 by the time this report was filed. The count of active cases here reduced to 3,276. The government on Tuesday collected swab samples of 86,937 people and tested 84,398 of them. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 12.48 lakh people and tested 12.36 lakh of them. Out of the 55,000-odd Covid cases reported in the state so far, as many as 39,362 patients have recovered, highlights government data. With 1812 recoveries on Tuesday, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate reached 71.18 per cent against the national average of 77.32 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state also dropped to 0.89 per cent on the day despite a dozen casualties. After Tuesday’s test results, the number of active cases in Jharkhand stood at 15,438. Despite reporting more recoveries than fresh cases on Tuesday, Ranchi continued to have the highest number of active Covid cases in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hurdle for U-17 women soccer team||The proposed training camp in Ranchi for the probables of the Indian team for Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup that was deferred because of the Covid-19 pandemic faced another hurdle. No bidder showed interest when the online bidding was done on Tuesday for awarding contracts for accommodation of the trainees, catering, grassing of the playground and preparation of dressing rooms. “We have to abide by the SOP (standard operating procedures) issued by the Central government and arrange separate rooms for each player for maintaining social distancing,” said Anil Kumar Singh, state’s sports director. He said there is still time left for organising the arrangements through another round of bidding. The authorities also visited Jamshedpur for exploring possibility of an alternate venue there if the need arises. Earlier, the camp was scheduled to begin at Birsa Munda Football Stadium, Ranchi, in August but was postponed because of the lockdown. The camp is now expected to begin from October 1. The trainees have to arrive in Ranchi latest by September 16 so that they can attend the camp on October 1 after completing the mandatory 14-day-quarantine. Though there is still time for organising the rest of the requirements, plantation of grass should have been completed by now, felt Mohammad Halimuddin, secretary of Ranchi district football association. The football tournament was originally planned to be held this year but was deferred to next year because of the pandemic. Thirty-five footballers were selected from across the country, including eight from Jharkhand, as probables for the Indian squad. The footballers had attended a training camp in Goa. They were given a short break in February and were supposed to return by March-end but that could not happen because of the nationwide lockdown. Hearing the plight of the girls from Jharkhand who were facing difficulties in their villages, chief minister Hemant Soren had arranged to shift them to Ranchi so that they could continue their practice. India will host the seventh edition of the Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup that was scheduled to be held in November but has been shifted to February-March 2021 due to the pandemic. According to the revised schedule, the tournament will now be held between February 17 and March 7 next year in Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Calcutta, Guwahati and Navi Mumbai. Besides host India, 15 other teams chosen through separate continental tournaments will participate in the World Cup.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid test mandatory for visitors at Jharkhand border checkpoint||Rapid antigen test for Covid was made mandatory for travellers entering Jharkhand from Bengal at the inter-state check points bordering Paschim Bardhaman and Nirsa block in the Dhanbad district. Following the directive of the Dhanbad deputy commissioner and chairperson district disaster management authority, Uma Shankar Singh, medical booths had been set up at Chirkunda-Panchet (along old GT Road) and at Maithon (along NH-2). “We carried out a special Rapid Antigen Test drive in different parts of the city on Tuesday which also included the two inter-state check points of Chirkunda and NH-2. However from September 9 onward any visitor entering the district from Bengal will have to undergo a rapid antigen test for Covid at the medical booths. We will be monitoring if the testing is done for all visitors or not through the high definition CCTVs installed at the checkpoints. These are steps to curb the spread of Covid infection in the district,” said Uma Shankar Singh. Significantly, the district administration had installed two CCTVs each at both Chirkunda-Panchet and NH-2 near Maithon on July 22 to contain the spread of Covid. The CCTV footage is being monitored at the Covid-19 control room functional in Circuit House building 24x7 to ensure that all those entering from Bengal have their valid e-passes giving strong reasons for coming to Dhanbad checked thoroughly. Incidentally, the first Covid-19 positive case detected in Kumardhubi block in Dhanbad on April 8 was also a migrant worker who had returned from Asansol (headquarter of Paschim Bardhaman). Even the state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni had in July blamed people coming from Bengal and Bihar for spurt in Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. Sources in the Dhanbad district transport office revealed that even during the current phase of lockdown over 50,000 vehicles (including heavy vehicles) cross the NH-2 and Old GT Road along the checkpoints between Dhanbad and Bengal on an average daily. Sources in the district administration informed that a three-member team from Union health ministry who had been to Dhanbad on Saturday and Sunday had also suggested the district health department to undertake rapid antigen test of all visitors coming to Dhanbad from outside as part of measures to check spread of Covid-19. “The special rapid antigen test drive at NH-2 near Maithon and at Chirkunda will be conducted from morning till evening 8pm while from September 9 it will function 24x7. Visitors will be taken for collection of throat and nasal swab at the temporary medical booths. Usually a rapid antigen test report will arrive in less than 15 minutes,” said Dhanbad additional collector Shyam Narayan Ram. As on September 8, Dhanbad had 3,424 Covid positive cases and 36 deaths. While the state figure had 52,644, Covid positive cases and 484 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||NGO spreads pre-school education in Jharkhand||A global NGO has been active during the pandemic spreading pre-school education in four blocks of Jharkhand at a time when Anganwadi centres meant for this purpose are closed. Its efforts are a testament to this year’s theme of International Literacy Day, “Literacy, teaching and learning in the Covid-19 crisis and beyond”. The day is observed on September 8 every year. The state branch of Save the Children, a global NGO working for children’s rights, is running the programme in two blocks each of Gumla and West Singhbhum districts in association with two partner organisations and other stakeholders. “We were already working on the project for strengthening pre-school education and still continuing during the pandemic with help from others,” said Mahadev Hansda, state leader of Save the Children. He said they were working in Bharno and Sisai blocks of Gumla districts and Tonto and Tantnagar blocks in West Singhbhum. The NGO has partnered with Lohardaga Gram Swaraj Sansthan in Gumla and The Centre for Social Welfare and Rehabilitation in West Singhbhum for conducting the programme in 477 Anganwadi centres, he said. They have also involved Anganwadi workers, teachers and guardians as stakeholders in the programme, he added. “We conduct the programme through a group of academic support fellows (ASFs) who used to visit Anganwadi centres earlier. They are now visiting the children’s homes as the centres are closed during the pandemic,” Hansda said. He said they help children aged between 3 and 6 years to learn alphabets, colours, patterns, shapes and sizes. “We now visit the houses to show mothers how to teach elementary literacy and mathematics, using such aids which are easily available in and around home like vegetables, pebbles and twigs,” said Sunanda Mishra, an academic support fellow working in Bharno. She said they sometimes also use printed materials. Once the mothers learn how we communicate with their children, they continue doing the same themselves, she said. Vegetables like potato, tomato, beans and lady’s finger and pebbles are used to make the children familiar with colours, shapes and sizes and even counting. “Yes, their method is very simple and I can now help my child learn,” said Mamta Barwar of Bharno basti, whose husband is a marginal farmer. “We have plans to continue the programme with primary school children also and have already conducted training programmes with teachers,” Hansda said. He said they expected the teachers to carry on the mission for spreading literacy as their programme will not last forever.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Four injured in cylinder blast at Koderma chemical plant||Four persons were grievously hurt in a cylinder blast at a chemical factory in Koderma on Tuesday. They have been referred to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). The workers were welding a tanker that had been lying unused outside the factory when the cylinder exploded. A police team reached the spot and arrangements were made for the injured to be sent to the Sadar hospital. Since the burns were serious, they were referred to the Ranchi hospital. The factory authorities feel that a short-circuit is to blame for the explosion. Manager Amrendra Jha said the injured worked for a contractor of the factory. Two groups of transporters on Tuesday clashed with each other at Sindri More on the Nirsa-Jamtara road, about 40km from the Dhanbad district headquarters, after one of the groups called a bandh. Police had to baton-charge the crowd to bring the situation under control. One of the groups was protesting Maithon Power Ltd awarding a contract to the rival group. A Dhanbad court on Tuesday allowed former Jharia legislator Sanjeev Singh, who is incarcerated, to transfer the power of attorney of his property to a relative. The transfer of property had been opposed by his cousin, Abhishek Singh Singh, alias Guddu Singh. The court also instructed the sub-registrar to visit Dhanbad jail to facilitate the transfer of power of attorney. Sanjeev Singh is lodged in Dhanbad divisional jail since his arrest on April 11, 2017, in connection with the murder of his cousin, Niraj Singh. As many as 168 people tested positive for the coronavirus during a special rapid antigen test (RAT) drive conducted by the Dhanbad administration on Tuesday at 20 spot across the district, including at IIT (ISM), BIT Sindri, Central Institute of Mining, various BCCL hospitals and community health centres. A total of 8,177 people were tested. A similar drive was conducted by the district administration on September 5, during which 107 people tested positive. Trade union leaders under the banner of Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti on Tuesday staged a protest at the Chasnala office of Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) in support of their eight-point charter of demands, including pay revision of regular employees and implementation of equal pay for equal work for contractual workers. A minor boy has been detained after a 14-year-old girl studying at a Palamau residential school for the disabled became pregnant. The boy, who is being held under the Pocso Act, is also an inmate of the school. Police detained the boy after the father of the girl lodged a complaint on Tuesday. A 21-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl after promising her marriage in the Ranka police station area. The man, identified as Arbind, has been remanded in judicial custody for two weeks. The crime came to light recently when the 17-year-old girl found out that she is pregnant. A case under Section 4 (aggravated sexual assault) of the Pocso Act and Section 376 (rape) of the IPC has been registered by the Ranka police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Central team visits health hubs in steel city amid rising cases in East Singhbhum||There has been a spike in coronavirus cases in East Singhbhum during the past 24 hours as the central health team visited three Covid-designated hospitals on Tuesday. They also  inspected the two Covid testing labs throughout the day. The three-member team first went over to Tata Main Hospital's Covid wards and to the Coronavirus testing lab of the health hub.  At the hospital's Covid ward, the team spoke with patients and inquired about their health condition. The inspecting team subsequently talked to doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff before holding a brief meeting with the Tata Main Hospital's general manager Rajan Chaudhury. District civil surgeon, Dr. Rajendra Jha, who accompanied the team, said members provided guidelines to make the line of treatment for Covid more effective during interaction. "At the Tata Main Hospital, the central team stayed for over half-an-hour after arriving there at about 11 am.  Having completed the inspection, the team headed for Tata Motors Hospital's Covid-designated ward at the Parivar Kalyan Sansthan in Telco. Following that, the team visited the Covid ward at the MGM Medical College Hospital in Sakchi," Jha told The Telegraph Online. He further informed that the team went to Patamda to inspect the standard of medical facilities being provided to villagers infected with Covid, and how containment was working in the rural pocket. Almost all of the 495 cases that have emerged in the last 24 hours have been clocked from rural areas in East Singhbhum. The total number of Covid cases in the district is 8,636.  The 495 new cases came out of 12,810 samples tested on Monday. The average number of Covid tests per day earlier used to be just 3,000. According to Dr. Jha, as the central team is making inspections at Covid-designated hospitals and testing facilities in the steel city, the district health department has kept the exercise of conducting rapid antigen tests confined to rural areas. He further said that despite the spike in cases in East Singhbhum, only six Covid deaths were reported till 11 pm on Monday, adding that the Covid death rate in the district is 2.7 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
