10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Nigerian international Stephen Eze signs up for Jamshedpur FC||Nigerian international Stephen Eze became a prized pick for Jamshedpur FC on Thursday . The 26-year-old is the sixth foreign signing and the second foreign centre-back along with the recently announced Peter Hartley. Eze is a current international with the Nigerian national team having represented them 13 times since his debut in 2016. In May 2018, he was named in Nigeria’s preliminary 30-man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia but did not make it to the final 23. His Super Eagles side finished runner-up in the African Nations Championship in 2018 with Eze playing all six games. The defender has been playing with Lokomotiv Plovidiv in the Bulgarian top division for the past three seasons and comes off the back of a runner-up finish in the 2019-20 season. He won the Bulgarian Cup in the 2018-19 season with Lokomotiv and represented them in the Europa League 2019-20 in four games. The right-footed Eze is an imposing 6’6” in stature. He is excellent in positioning and anticipation and calm while distributing the ball. His dominance in the air in defending as well as in the attacking third will be an asset for Jamshedpur. He is of high quality in attacking set pieces, which reflects in his 3 goals last season for Lokomotiv. Eze was thrilled with the move to Jamshedpur FC and said: “ I have been following the ISL closely and it is one of the  most exciting and competitive leagues. I have seen the passion of fans of Jamshedpur, which is why I’m excited and can’t wait to get started. My aim is simple, and it is to win. There have been some exciting signings by the club in the past few weeks and I look forward to working with my teammates and ending the season with silverware.” He also spoke of Owen Coyle influence on convincing him to join Jamshedpur. “ Owen Coyle is a top football manager who I have followed since my childhood when he was with Burnley, Bolton Wanderers and Wigan Athletic in the English Premier League. I looked up to him and was elated at the prospects when this opportunity was presented. He is clear in his vision and that made my decision easy,” Eze said. Lauding the defender, delighted head coach Owen Coyle said: “ Eze will be crucial in making our defence mean and miserly. His towering personality and unyielding attitude towards the game could make him one of the best centre-backs in the ISL.” Eze will be donning jersey number 66 for the upcoming ISL season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Author on 3-day fast for better roads in Santhal Pargana||A Sahitya Akademi-feted author launched a three-day hunger strike in Dumka on Thursday to protest against the poor condition of roads in Santhal Pargana, particularly the Nonihat-Basukinath stretch in Dumka, some 300km from Ranchi. Nilotpal Mrinal, recipient of the Youth Sahitya Akademi award for his novel Dark Horse: Ek ankahi dastaan in 2016, said that he was forced to resort to a fast because successive governments had paid little attention to public safety. Mrinal was accompanied by a handful of supporters holding banners titled “— Hemant hai toh himmat hai, but sadar kahan hain?” “I should have protested for a medical college, or for the improvement of a hospital, jobs for youths and so on. But I am forced to sit on a road for better roads because no one is concerned about public safety,” Mrinal said. Snubbing the political class cutting across the parties, he said, “Today, everyone is concerned about their own well-being, their lobbies and their future. But no one is talking about the improvement of roads in this part of the state, which has turned from bad to worse.” Santhal Pargana comprises six districts of Dumka, Jamtara, Sahebganj, Godda, Pakur and Deoghar and has 18 Assembly constituencies. Of them, 15 are held by the ruling JMM and Congress combine, while the rest are with Opposition BJP. In the last month, at least a dozen people have died in various road mishaps. On August 26, six persons, including a toddler, died in Dumka after a rice laden truck fell over a car while trying to negotiate a pothole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Rush for tickets for Dhanbad’s first Covid special train ||Of the 80 trains that are to resume operations across the country from Saturday, one is from Dhanbad and going by the huge demand on Thursday, when bookings opened, railway authorities had to increase the number of ticket counters at the station. The restored train is the Ganga Sutlej Express, now named Ganga Sutlej Covid-19 Special with number 03307, plying between Dhanbad and Ferozepur in Punjab. Instead of its usual departure time of 9.20pm, the train will leave Dhanbad station on September 12 half an hour late, at 9.50pm. It will, however, reach Ferozepur at the usual time of 10.45 am two days later, ie, on September 14. For its return journey, the train will leave Ferozepur on September 14 at 4.10pm and reach Dhanbad at 4.55am on September 16. Chief reservation supervisor of Dhanbad Sanjeev Kumar said, “Due to the rush, we have had to increase the number of counters. Instead of three counters we opened four counters on Thursday. In the first half, we registered a sale of Rs 2.35 lakh, more than three times the usual day sales.” There is no general category ticket in the train. Instead, second class seating tickets are being sold at Rs 15 extra. “Apart from September 12 bookings, we also registering bookings for journeys on September 13,14,15 also in all categories of AC, sleeper and second class seating,” said Kumar. Preparations are on at the coach depot for relaunching train services. Ranjit Dutta, who is in-charge of the yard in Dhanbad, said, “We have already prepared three rakes, ie, cleaning, watering and undergear work has been completed. We started work from August 28 itself.” Besides full sanitisation of all coaches, Data said rail personnel would also be deputed on the train to carry out regular cleaning and sanitisation at various stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two teenagers drown in Subernarekha river ||The body of one of the teenaged boys who drowned in the Subernarekha river at Sakchi on Wednesday afternoon was found floating 4km away near Babudih Ghat at Sidhogra on Thursday afternoon. The body, identified as that of Suman Kumar, was recovered from the swollen river by a team of divers pressed by the police. But the body of the second victim, Aman Kumar, is yet to be traced. A resident of Kunjnagar in Sonari, Suman was the son of a Tata Steel employee . Sidhgora OC Manoj Thakur said some residents of Babudih had spotted the body trapped in a rock in the river, and subsequently informed the Sidhgora police. "We had immediately pressed a divers to the point where the body was trapped in the rock and got it recovered.  As we were aware that two youths had drowned in the area on Wednesday afternoon, we informed Sakchi police who passed on the information to the families of the victims.  The victims' families rushed to Babudih Ghat and identified the body as that of Suman Kumar," Thakur told The Telegraph Online. Sakchi OC Kunal Kumar said efforts were on to trace the other body. According to family sources, five boys, namely Aman Kumar, Suman Kumar, Ayush, Ranjit and Sagar, all residents of various localities in Sonari, went to take a bath in the Subernarekha river on Wednesday afternoon. "First they had gone over to the Subernarekha river's Domuhani Bridge point, but seeing the river swollen, they did not dare to plunge into it.  Subsequently, the five rode to Sakchi, about 3 km away. Though the river was swollen there too, one of them, Aman,  stepped in. But the tide was so intense, he was swept away downstream.  At the sight of Aman being swept away, Suman, who is a Tata Steel employee's son, jumped into the river to save Aman.  But he too was swept away in the strong current," said Subodh Kumar, uncle of Ayush Kumar. According to Subodh, the three other boys, Ayush, Ranjit and Sagar, were in a state of shock as they could do nothing to save their friends. They kept on standing, shell-shocked, watching the duo being swept away in the river water. Family members of Aman Kumar, son of an assistant sub-inspector of police at Dhanbad, are frantically searching for his body along with police and divers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Medal-winning archer gets his cash award, finally ||Archer Anil Lohar’s stellar show in a national competition has finally been recognised. The 23-year-old, who used his days spent in lockdown to dig a well on the courtyard of his home to tide over water scarcity, has received a cash award of Rs 75,000 from the state government for claiming gold in the Indian round section (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) in the senior national archery championship in Cuttack in March last year. Lohar received the cash award three days back and has plans to buy medicines for his ailing father and spend some money to repair of his home at Pinderbera village in Gamharia block of Seraikela-Kharsawan district. “Teen din pehle paisa mere bank khate mein aaya. Bahut khush hun. Mein apne parivar ko kisi tarah chala rahan hu (The money was deposited in my bank account four days back. I am very happy. I am somehow managing my family),” Lohar said on phone from Pinderbera, 35 km from Jamshedpur. Lohar said he would use some of money to fund his poultry business. “Ab aachha lag rahan hain (I am feeling relieved),” he said, adding that he had stopped digging the well due to the rains. “The well I am digging is now filled with rainwater. I will wait when it dries up before resuming work,” he added. The talented archer said he was still fetching water from a nearby government school which is closed in view of the Covid pandemic. Lohar said sale of chicken was not much but he had to continue with it since he was without options. “I am able to sell four-five chickens a day. It’s better to do something than sit idle,” he added. He has stated practicing with his Indian round bow at a ground near his house. “I usually train in the evening. I cannot lose touch with archery as I want to grow in the sport. I think I am shooting well,” he added. According to him, he was still waiting for his compound bow to be given by the state sports department. “I am yet to receive the bow which I need badly since I am eager to compete in the compound section,” he added. Union tribal affairs minister and president of Archery Association of India Arjun Munda has recommended to the sports department to arrange a compound bow for Lohar. Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association secretary Sumant Mohanty said Lohar was in urgent need of money and the cash award was a big relief for him. “He (Lohar) is a talented archer who needs support. He also needs regular practice as it takes time to get back into the groove,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city loses a friend in need, as cases near 10,000-mark ||The number of Covid cases is fast approaching the 10,000-mark in East Singhbhum with 280 new cases recorded in the last 24 hours, district health officials said on Thursday while the steel city mourned the demise of a well-known social worker who was among six persons who succumbed to the deadly virus. Social worker and district president of RJD Ambika Banerjee (56) had been ill for the past week. According to family members, he was admitted to Tata Main Hospital's Covid ward after he developed breathing problems on Saturday. His condition deteriorated and he was shifted to the critical care unit of the hospital where he breathed his last at 7 pm on Wednesday. A resident of Haludbani in Parsudih, Banerjee was a social worker and residents remembered him as one who was always ready to help others. He was a member of the Central Durga Puja Committee. Advocate Sudhir Kumar said Banerjee’s demise was most shocking. “We lost a man who used to give all kinds of support to anyone in distress," he said. District civil surgeon Rajendra Jha said as many as 5,492 samples were tested on Wednesday. "Our target is to test 40,000 samples by Friday evening using rapid antigen test kits. Due to unavoidable circumstances, we could only test 5,492 samples,” he said. The total number cases in East Singhbhum was 9,391. Jha pointed out that of the targeted 40,000, over 25,000 samples had already been tested. The remaining 15,000 samples would be tested on Thursday and Friday. “The fresh round of rapid antigen tests which began on Monday began at a time when a Central health department team was in the city. Hence, bulk of the tests were conducted in the rural areas only,” he explained. The Centre's health department team left on Wednesday. Nitish Kumar Singh who joined as the new SDO of Jamshedpur on Monday, launched a special drive to penalise commuters for not wearing masks. He has moving around markets, slapping penalties on those violating Covid norms. He has also instructed OCs of various police stations to take over the drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi clocks 635 new cases in a single day, accounts for 25% of the total cases in the state||Over 1600 people, including 635 in Ranchi alone, tested positive for Covid-19 in 24 hours, taking the tally in Jharkhand close to 57,000, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday late night stated. The count of Covid fatalities in the state also crossed the 500 mark on Wednesday with nine patients dying during treatment, the bulletin highlighted. Out of the 512 Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand so far, at least 232 occurred in East Singhbhum, a district that reported six of state’s nine Covid deaths on Wednesday. While East Singhbhum accounted for nearly half of state’s Covid fatalities, Ranchi alone has reported over 25 per cent of cases in Jharkhand. As per latest figures with the health department, Wednesday’s findings took the tally in Ranchi to 11,983, while the number of active cases here stood at 3,545. The number of active cases of Covid infection in Jharkhand also drew close to 16,000 on Wednesday as only 1297 patients recovered while 1601 fresh cases were reported in 24 hours, the health department said in its bulletin. The recovery rate in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 71.46 per cent against the national average of 77.32 per cent. Of the 56,897 Covid people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, at least 40,659 have recovered, figures with the health department state. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported 250 fresh cases of infection and only 31 recoveries, which took the number of active cases in the district to 3417. The district is only behind Ranchi in terms of active Covid cases. Interestingly, besides Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all other districts in the state reported a double-digit spike in Covid cases. The government has so far collected swab samples of 12.80 lakh people and tested 12.69 lakh of them. Health workers on Wednesday tested swab samples of 20,437 people and 18,836 of them tested negative. The district administration in Ranchi ran a special Covid testing drive on Wednesday and tested swab samples of at least 3833 people as a part of the drive. As per government data, as many as 15,726 people were battling the lethal virus in Jharkhand by Wednesday midnight, and several hundred of them were in home quarantine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Father and son found dead on railway tracks at Khairbani||Bodies of a 45-year-old man, and a 10-year-old boy were found lying on the railway track near Khairbani level crossing early on Wednesday morning. The area falls under suburban Govindpur thana,12 km away from Jamshedpur. Police identified the deceased as Inder Sonkar (businessman) and Naitik Sonkar, father and son. They were residents of Dhatkidih in Bistupur. Govindpur thana OC Ranjit Kumar Sinha said a scooter was parked near the site where the bodies were found. The scooter's registration number, verified via the district transport office led to police to identify the two. Sinha then informed Bistupur OC Ranvijay Sharma about the incident. Inder’s family members had lodged a missing persons report with the Bistupur thana on Tuesday evening. The police have initiated an investigation into the deaths and recovered a suicidde note written by Inder from his room in Dhatkidih. Sharma informed that this is a case of double suicide and it was made clear by the note Inder left. Talking to The Telegraph Online, he said "Inder Sonkar has mentioned he was pushed to take his and his son’s lIfe because of his in-laws. We have registered a case under section 306 of the IPC against them on Wednesday." Sharma further said that a month ago (in August), Inder’s wife died of an unknown cause. Though her autopsy report is still pending, Inder’s in-laws alleged that it was he who was responsible for her death. "As per the statement made by Inder's nephew Kundan Sonkar, his brothers in-laws were constantly threatening to implicate him in the case. The threats made him live under constant fear,” Sharma said. Sharna informed that an investigation is underway and the police would arrest those who are responsible for the deaths. The police have sent the bodies to MGM Medical College Hospital for Covid tests before shifting them to the medical college in Dimna for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Film on loudspeaker model for online classes||An innovative effort by a school principal to use loudspeakers to impart education to tribal students not possessing smartphones in a village in Dumka in Jharkhand will soon feature in a documentary film. Delhi-based filmmaker Satyajit Sharma, with roots in Dumka, has started shooting for a nearly 50-minute documentary on the effort of the principal to continue education during the lockdown at Upgraded Middle School in Bankati in Masalia block of Dumka district, around 290km from state capital Ranchi. “I came to know about this through a news article and was impressed with the effort to ensure that lessons are not hampered for students who cannot afford smartphones to access online classes. I started shooting the film earlier this week and hope to complete it in the next week. I am yet to finalise the name of the documentary but it would be loosely based on Mohalla School: Bankati Model. The documentary will be screened at film festivals. I have also planned to send it to National Geographic Channel and Doordarshan,” said Sharma, 44, an alumnus of Kirorimal College, Delhi. Sharma has edited films for National Geographic Channel, BBC, Doordarshan and the reality show MTV Roadies. The principal, however, feels that the credit for the education initiative goes to the perseverance of the students. “There were a total of 250 students, mostly girls (nearly 60 per cent), of whom more than 206 did not have smartphones and hailed from very poor backgrounds. When the lockdown began and we were asked to start online classes with content provided by the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC), I was in a dilemma imagining the helpless situation of the students. I took two loudspeakers on rent (daily rent of Rs 800) and used one lying in the school to start the classes. I was not sure if it would be a success. All credit goes to my students who have made this innovative idea a success by religiously attending all classes during the specified time with almost 100 per cent attendance,” said Shyam Kishore Singh Gandhi, the principal of the school. The school has classes between I and VIII and has seven teachers. Seeing the efforts of the principal, 14 volunteers from the village came forward to assist the students. “The loudspeakers were installed on treetops and on high walls and wires were fitted to the microphone in the school and we played the online content from the smartphones. Gradually, a few matriculate and intermediate passed youths volunteered to assist us. Earlier students used to contact teachers for any clarification through other mobile phones. But after the volunteers came forward, we could cover almost all of the mohallas (areas) and students could get in touch with the volunteers who either solved it on the spot or routed it to the teachers who then solved it in the next class. Each class starts from 10.30am and lasts for 3 hours,” the principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand House session next week||The monsoon session of the Jharkhand Assembly will commence on September 18. “Though the session will last till September 22, there will be just three working days on September 18, 21 and 22,” said Vinay Kumar Singh, additional secretary at the Assembly secretariat. He said there will be no business on September 19 and 20. The state government is likely to present the first supplementary budget for the current fiscal (2020-21) and the ordinances that were introduced when the House was not in session. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Assembly secretariat has issued guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOP) for the monsoon session. All the MLAs have been requested get tested for Covid-19 three days before the session begins. Those MLAs who test positive for Covid-19 would not attend the session personally but can authorise, with prior intimation to the Assembly secretariat, other members to do business such as raising questions, etc, on their behalf as per rules, the guidelines said. The MLAs have also been requested not to take their personal staff members inside the Assembly premises. All other state government officials, magistrates, police personnel and staff members of the Assembly secretariat, who are required to be present during the session, have also been asked to get themselves tested for Covid-19 three days before the session begins. The mediapersons interested to cover the Assembly proceedings will also have to get themselves tested for Covid-19 three days prior to the session and can enter the premises only after showing their negative reports, the guidelines said. The Assembly secretariat has also decided that no visitor will be allowed in the visitors’ gallery during the session. Those entering the Assembly premises will be provided with sanitiser, face covers, shields, masks and hand gloves at the entrance. All have to also maintain social distancing. As the new Assembly building has enough space, it will not be a problem to make necessary sitting arrangements for the MLAs, sources said. The state cabinet, in its meeting on Tuesday evening, sanctioned Rs 141.56 crore for providing 5kg food grains, free of cost every month, to each beneficiary under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) 2013 during the period from July to November 2020. The state cabinet also decided to provide rice at a subsidised rate under the Jharkhand Rajya Khadya Suraksha Yojana to 15 lakh other beneficiaries who are not covered under the NFSA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
