11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mirchaiya Falls to get facelift||Tourist favourite Mirchaiya Falls under Garu East range of Palamau Tiger Reserve will get a facelift. Deputy director, South division of the tiger reserve, Mukesh Kumar said the project will be completed with central government funds. Kumar said that under the Swadesh Darshan programme, the Government of India had allotted Rs 50 lakh for a makeover of the falls. Gazebos and prefabricated toilets will be built for the tourists and the management of the spot will be given to the eco-development committee, he said. The two wooden bridges at the falls will also get a facelift. Kumar said the number of tourists has fallen drastically due to the pandemic. Mirchaiya Falls, which is rain-fed, is a favorite among tourists from Bengal. A joint team of Nirsa police, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Eastern Coalfields Ltd security personnel on Friday conducted a raid at Kusum Kanali area of Nirsa and seized 7 tonnes of smuggled coal stacked in gunny sacks. The officer in charge of the CISF at Baijna Camp, Vikrant Kumar, said the raid was conducted after a tip-off. The coal has been deposited in the Chapapur colliery of Eastern Coalfields. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Friday conducted a review of the ongoing rehabilitation of people from areas affected by underground fires to safer places in the district under the Jharia master plan. At the meeting, which was attended by Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority adviser Sunil Dalela and BCCL director (technical) Rakesh Kumar, the ways of accelerating the rehabilitation work by carrying out distribution of compensation among the legal title holders and allotment of homes at safer places to non-legal title holders of affected areas were discussed. Only around 4,000 families of the total 1.04 lakh families living in the 595 affected areas have so far been rehabilitated. Activists of the trade union Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh on Friday demonstrated at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad near the district headquarters and charged both the state and central governments of failing to address the problem of migrant labourers. The protesters said that though tall promises were made and several schemes announced to provide employment to migrant labourers under MNREGS, the ground reality seems different as the migrant labourers are again compelled to leave for their former workplaces due to a lack of employment opportunities at home. A 16-year-old girl, Reena Soren, who had cleared her matriculation exam last year, allegedly committed suicide at her rented flat in the posh Jullu Park area of Hazaribagh town. She committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. Her uncle, Suresh Soren, said Reena showed no signs of depression. He said she had been living at the flat for the past four years. When her parents went to meet a relative, she killed herself, he added. The dead body was handed over to her relatives after a post-mortem at Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Mustkim Ansari, 38, died and two of his young daughters were hurt on Thursday when a speeding truck hit their motorcycle on GT Road in Barhi, 47km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Police said Ansari was on his way to the block office with his daughters Tamana Khatoon, 15, and Salma Khatoon, 10. A truck coming from the opposite direction hit the bike, injuring the trio near Barhi subdivisional hospital. Local residents called Barhi police who took them to the hospital. Ansari’s condition deteriorated, however, prompting doctors to refer him to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital (HMCH), but he died on the way. Later, his dead body was handed over to relatives after a post-mortem at HMCH. The police have arrested the driver and seized his truck. An FIR has been lodged against him. Kumardubi police early on Friday arrested Tipu Yadav, a resident of Bardangal, during patrolling for illegal possession of a pistol. The police arrested three others, Jay Tiwari of Bardangal, Abhishek Singh of Panchmohli village and Rahul Singh of Dumarkunda village, and questioned them in connection with a robbery last week. To ensure the smooth flow of traffic on Dhanbad’s roads, a team of policemen led by DSP (traffic) Rajesh Kumar on Friday conducted a drive at Randhir Verma Chowk and City Centre chowk against encroachment and unauthorised parking on roads. Kumar said: “Many roads in the district witness regular traffic jams due to encroachment and haphazard parking of vehicles. This also affects the movement of vehicles, including ambulances carrying Covid-19 patients.” Kumar added that the traffic police will be conducting intensive awareness programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city witnesses spike in suicide cases||The steel city has witnessed a spate of suicides with as many as 29 people ending their lives last month. And so far, 11 persons have allegedly committed suicide this month. According to statistics provided by Jeevan, a Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre, 29 people (20 men and 9 women) committed suicide in August. “In most of the cases, people committed suicide by hanging. The Covid-19 cases in Jamshedpur are having a negative impact on the psyche of citizens who are stressed and frustrated,” said Jeevan director Jeoraj Jain. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Jain said a majority of the people who committed suicide last month were in the 40-45 years age group. “This shows young people are no longer happy with their lives due to various reasons, including job loss and financial crisis. It is not a very good signal,” he explained. According to Jain, the centre was trying its best to counsel people about the futility of committing suicide but the efforts seem not to be proving enough. “The number of distress calls to our volunteers has increased ever since the district administration publicised our telephone numbers in the city. People started calling for much-needed counselling. However, there is no stopping people from ending their lives,” he said. Volunteers of Jeevan are receiving 20-25 calls daily. A majority of calls are related to job loss, financial problems and closure of business establishments. Jain said Jeevan and Inner Wheel Club of Jamshedpur had organised a webinar on the occasion of World Suicide Prevention Day on Thursday. “East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar was the chief guest on the occasion, who expressed concern on the rise in suicide cases in the city. He appreciated our efforts and also assured all support,” Jain added. According to a Jeevan volunteer, people are stressed after being forced to stay indoors in view of the pandemic. “Job loss and the closure of educational institutions are driving people into depression. Young people have called us to inform us that they are at their wits end after losing their job. They are not finding any other jobs,” he added. Jeevan volunteers are available at 9297777499, 9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or WhatsApp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Cyber fraudsters siphon Rs 29,000 off Army jawan in steel city||An Army jawan fell prey to cyber criminals in the steel city on Friday. Rajiv Ranjan Singh, presently posted at the Bihar Regiment's battalion 17 in Nathula Pass, is at home in Adityapur on leave.  He had some Google Pay transaction issues which needed sorting out. He searched Google for the GPay customer care contact and came across a phone number. "I dialed the number but my call went unanswered.  Soon someone called back and introduced himself as a GPay customer care executive. I informed him that I was facing a transaction issue involving a few hundreds rupees. The person on the other end asked me to click a link that he would send immediately. I received a link on my phone and clicked it. A few minutes later I received an alert saying Rs 29,000 has been deducted from my bank account.  I called the number again, someone picked up, abused me and hung up," Singh told The Telegraph Online. Singh lodged a complaint at the Bistupur Cyber thana on Friday. On Thursday, Bistupur Cyber thana authorities shut down an SBI ATM at Circuit House petrol pump after receiving a complaint about criminals decamping with thousands of rupees by tampering the ATM dispenser on Wednesday, This is the first time that such a crime has been committed in the steel city. The same day, cyber criminals siphoned off thousands of rupees from Axis Bank ATMs at Jawaharnagar in Mango and Karandih in Parsudih, by cloning ATM cards of two customers. Inspector, Bistupur Cyber thana, Upendra Mandal confirmed that the cyber criminals have once again become active in the steel city recently. "We have received seven complaints of cyber crime during the past one week. We were successful in dismantling the network of such criminals in March by arresting three people and seizing card readers along with other equipment they used for fraudulent withdrawals.  It seems criminals have become active again and deploying new techniques, such as tampering with ATM dispensers," Mondal said. Singh further informed that fraudulent withdrawals are possible from older model and unmanned ATM kiosks. "Banks have now installed new ATMs in which a customer can withdraw money and also deposit cash. The new ATMs are not possible to breach by cloning cards. Criminals have, therefore, evolved a way out to take out cash by tampering the dispenser.  Once the dispenser is tampered, a customer will not be dispensed cash, although the amount will get deducted from their account," Mondal explained. He said that police have shut down three ATMs after receiving complaints of fraudulent withdrawals and have asked concerned banks to provide them with CCTV footage from the ATMs in questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Five held guilty for daylight shooting of gangster in Hazaribagh||Five accused, including the mastermind, were pronounced guilty on Friday for the daylight shooting of gangster Sushil Srivastava on the premises of the Hazaribagh civil court in June 2015, the sensational murder executed amid the presence of a large number of policemen. The court of additional district and sessions judge, which will announce the quantum of punishment on September 22, came to the decision after multiple hearings in which 42 witnesses recorded statements. Court found five accused guilty for the June 2, 2015 murder. They are mastermind and gunman Vikas Tiwary, Dileep Sahu, Vishal Kumar Singh, Rahul Dev Pandey and Santosh Dev Pandey. One of the accused, Deepak Sahu, is still at large. Another accused was acquitted, citing benefit of doubt. Tiwary is presently lodged in Palamau jail while Santosh and Rahul are in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central jail. The two others, Dileep and Vishal were on bail but were taken into custody as soon as the verdict was announced Friday afternoon. The shooting took place on June 2, 2015 at 10.40am on the civil court premises. Srivastava (53) came out of the court building after being produced before a judge in connection with a murder case in Ramgarh. Two of his aides - Gyas Khan and Kamal Khan _ who were out on bail in the same case reached out to greet him when amid a cloud of smoke there was firing. Srivastava’s aides took three bullets each and instantly fell to the ground dead. Srivastava instinctively flattened himself on the ground, but two gunmen  came out of hiding from behind an SUV on the court premises and pumped eight bullets into his body from point-blank range. Police investigation confirmed the involvement of one Vikas Tiwary as the mastermind who was also leader of the notorious Bhola Pandey Gang. The murder was planned to avenge the death of former gang chief Kishore Pandey in Jamshedpur. Soon after the incident, police sealed the borders of the district to catch the mastermind Vikas. But he managed to escape from Hazaribagh. Vikas was carrying seven to eight mobile phones. He switched off these numbers after the June 2 shooting. In August, he switched on one of his cell phones because of which police were able to track his location to Connaught Place in Delhi from where he was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad deputy commissioner inaugurates 30-bed Covid ICU||On a day Dhanbad Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh carried out the inauguration of a 30 bed state of the art Covid ICU at PMCH Cath lab Dhanbad meant for the treatment of seriously affected Covid patients, the district administration in the district also completed all preparation for carrying out special Covid testing drive on September 12 at various government offices, industrial instalments besides the NH-2 and Chirkunda Check posts situated on Jharkhand border, which had witnessed higher percentage of Covid infection recently and have been categorized as vulnerable. Notably, Rapid antigen tests of 5800 persons have been planned at 11 vulnerable places  including 500 at IIT (ISM); 400 at Mines Rescue station of BCCL in Bastacola; 500 at Kustore Regional Hospital of Putli Balihari area of BCCL; 300 at Baijna dispensary of BCCL; 500 at ECL Kumbardubi Colliery near Kumarbudi Railway station; 1000 tests in BCCL Dumra 1 and Dumra II office; 400 at Katras Tilatand office of BCCL; 600 at BIT Sindri;500 at Chirkunda Check post situated on Jharkhand Bengal border; 500 at NH Check Post and 600 at Dhanbad Railway station. During the special Rapid Antigen test of altogether 8177 persons conducted at 20 places across the district on September 8, altogether 168 person (2.1%) were found to be Covid Positive while during a similar drive conducted at different residential and commercial places of the district altogether 107 person out of total 3708 persons were detected to be Covid positive. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the Covid test of all persons coming from outside that state at Chirkunda Check post, NH-2 Check post and Dhanbad Railway station will continue till further orders from tomorrow. At present, altogether 328 persons of the Covid infected areas are admitted to different Covid treatment facilities of the district, out of which 29 are admitted to dedicated Covid Hospital at Jagjivan Nagar, Dhanbad meant for serious covid patients while rest 299 are undergoing treatment at other different health centers as well as hotels meant for treatment of asymptomatic patients with mild or moderate symptoms, including 41at PMCH Cath lab, 52 in  Sadar Hospital, 21 in  Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba;  29 at Regional Hospital of BCCL in Bhuli, 37 at Zonal Training Institute of Railway in Bhuli, two at  at SSLNT Hospita at temple road Dhanbad for pregnant women;  80 at Nirsa Polytechnic in Gopalpur area of Nirsa;  26 in  Wedlock greens at Govindpur at 11 at King's resort Govindpur of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC want to be in Goa well before start of ISL||The Jamshedpur FC contingent will assemble in Goa, the venue for the Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21 season, for pre-seasons by the end of this month. With most of the players, including the ones from abroad, on board, the Tata Steel-owned club is in no mood to lose precious time in slipping into the training groove. The club had arranged its pre-seasons in Thailand in the 2017-18 season and Spain was the destination in the following season. However, JFC conducted its pre-seasons in Jamshedpur for the 2019-20 calendar. The pandemic has forced ISL organisers Football Sports Development Limited to organise the tournament at a single venue (Goa). “Goa has already opened up for tourism. So there is no harm in reaching there early. We would be getting adequate time to prepare since the ISL is scheduled in November,” a team management said on condition of anonymity. According to him, the players and the support staff would go through Covid test and remain consigned to a secure bio-bubble environment for at least a week after reaching Goa. "Regular Covid testing will be done even though SOP (standard operating procedure) is yet to be announced," he said, adding that even the bus drivers ferrying the players to the ground for training would be quarantined. “Special precautionary measures will be taken to ensure the safety and security of the players, support staff and officials,” the member pointed out. The Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, the Tilak Nagar Stadium in Vasco da Gama and the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim are the three venues slated to host the matches with strict training and social distancing protocols. The JFC squad is almost in place and preparations for the Goa sojourn is underway. The club is currently busy in intimating the players and support staff about the proposed pre-season and working out the logistics. Jamshedpur has this time made serious efforts to form a strong unit. The robust team formation is aimed at making the club qualify for the play-offs this time. Appointing Owen Coyle as the head coach is also a step in that direction. Coyle has been instrumental in pulling in the top foreign players, including Nerijus Valskis, Peter Hartley and Stephen Eze. JFC has not been able to make it to the knock-out stage ever since it made its debut in the cash-rich tournament three years ago. “Goa could well prove lucky for us. We have a strong team and we see no reason why we won’t be able to make it to the play-offs and beyond. In fact, we have rivetted our attention on the trophy,” another team management member said. Chief executive officer of JFC Mukul Choudhari said they are very positive about their prospects and were sure the players would perform as per their reputation. “We have stitched out a strong unit and are optimistic about a positive outcome,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Pandal sanitization twice a day this year in Dhanbad||Puja organizers in Dhanbad have decided to carry out full sanitization of Puja Pandals twice every day in view of the Covid-19 pandemic this year. Any artist coming to perform in the district from outside the state will also have to undergo mandatory Covid test as per the rule meant for any person entering Jharkhand from outside the state. A delegation of newly constituted district level association of over 250 Puja Committees of the district , Dhanbad Zila Durgapuja Samiti, led by it’s president Prem Mandal today submitted a memorandum to the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh. The committee in the memorandum has asked for the district administration's logistical support in the form of chemicals and water tanker for carrying out the sanitization of process. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Gopal Bhattarcharya, general secretary of Bengali Welfare Society which organizes Durga Puja at Park Market Hirapur said, “Though we had decided in a meeting of all Puja Committees held on September 6 to take all possible steps to organize puja on smaller scale to avoid any violation of social distancing norms,  like not organizing any fair,  restricting the Pandal height and idol size (to 5-6 Feet), doing away with grandiose immersion ceremony but we will be giving equal attention to the safety measures to ensure cleanliness.” “We have only demanded Sodium Hypochlorite for making the sanitization solution, the extensive use of which will be carried in the puja pandal for sanitization work,” said Bhattacharya. He also added that no visitor would be allowed inside the pandal without mask and mandatory hand washing will be ensured. “Though we have decided to restrict the artists from outside the state during Puja Celebration but since majority of Dhakis come here from Bengal, they will have to undergo the mandatory Covid testing as per the norms” said Bhattacharya. He also mentioned that they will place the order for Idols only after meeting the Deputy Commissioner during the next week and after as they receive the district administration's guidelines. Notably, in Dhanbad more than 250 registered Puja Committees organize Durga Puja every year besides around 150 small unregistered pujas at small level. Large number of sculptors, pandal artist, light artist, Dhaki drummer also arrive from different parts of Bengal every year to work for various puja committee having a total budget of around Rs 10 lakh each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||State rejects Centre’s plan to amend mining rules under 1957 Act||Jharkhand has rejected the Centre’s proposal to change the definition of illegal mining under the sunshine law which governs mining in the country, saying that any drastic alterations could adversely impact the state’s economy and the industrial climate. In response to a letter from the Union ministry of mines on the proposed changes in the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957,  chief minister Hemant Soren demanded that all states with mineral deposits, specially Jharkhand, be consulted before drafting any final plan on mining. Tweeting his government’s objections to certain proposals, he also took a dig at the Centre for giving only 10 days for states to reply. The Union government’s proposals, that include a change in the definition of illegal mining, are in pursuance of mining reforms with a focus transparent allocation of resources and employment generation under its Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan. The Centre is keen on amending section 21 (4) and 21 (5) of the MMDR Act of 1957. While 21(4) empowers a competent authority to take action against illegal mining, lifting or transportation without due permit, 21 (5) empowers state governments to impose penalties on persons for illegal mining. The Hemant government has categorically disapproved of changes in these sections citing a Supreme Court verdict. His letter, uploaded on the chief minister’s twitter handle on Thursday, read, “We don’t agree with the proposed amendment in these sections or the proposed definition of illegal mining and the existing provisions shall continue. “The above matter has been deliberated in detail in the Supreme Court and the apex court has already given an unambiguous and clear verdict in this matter. We agree with the apex court’s judgement and there shall not be a change in the statutory provisions to circumvent Supreme Court’s order.” Jharkhand is also opposed to the Centre’s proposal to rationalise stamp duty, stating that it falls in the ambit of the state government and the latter would decide on as per the need. “Stamp duty isn’t governed by MMDR Act, 1957. It is governed by the state government’s land and registration department. Therefore, any attempt to change it is in violation of the federal structure of the country,” he noted. Hemant also rejected the idea of introducing a national mineral index (NMI) to replace the Indian Mines Bureau (IBM) average sale price on mined minerals to decide royalties. Notably, IBM was set up in 1948 as a multi-disciplinary government body for promotion of conservation, scientific development of mineral resources and protection of environment in mines besides computing average prices of leased mines in the country. Similarly, the state government also dismissed the Centre’s proposal to make the National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET) autonomous, stating that there wasn’t any need for it. The existing provisions related to NMET may be allowed to continue, Jharkhand has said. Hemant, however, demanded that the Union government consult states before preparing the final as the note forwarded by the Centre did not elaborate on its proposed mining reforms plan. The chief minister added that any changes in the MMDR Act can create a huge impact on the economy, jobs and the industrial climate. “Particularly for Jharkhand, which is dependent on mining and related industries, any drastic changes in the policy may create a huge impact on the existing scenario and socio-economic development of the people. Therefore, we request that before making any final draft, the state government may be consulted again,” read his letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases close to 16,000; 1,244 recoveries in 24 hours||Number of active cases of the Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand drew close to 15,500 on Thursday despite higher count of recoveries than fresh cases reported in 24 hours, figures with the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Thursday night, as many as 1152 people were found Covid-positive in the state, taking the tally to 58,097. Meanwhile, 1244 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection and were subsequently discharged from hospitals. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases, reported 382 cases of infection on Thursday, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The number of active cases of infection in the district was 3,811 by Thursday midnight despite 115 patients recovering from the viral infection in 24 hours, government data stated. Meanwhile, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand dropped to 0.89 per cent but the virtue of only two casualties on Thursday, the lowest in a day this month. Both the Covid victims, as per government data, were from East Singhbhum, a district that accounts for nearly 50 per cent of state’s Covid casualties. Out of the 517 Covid deaths in Jharkhand, 234 were from East Singhbhum, figures with the state health department state. The Covid tally in East Singhbhum inched towards 10,000 on Thursday, while the tally in Ranchi drew close to 12,000. Each of the remaining 22 districts in Jharkhand have reported fewer cases than 5000 so far, which is less than half of the tally in Ranchi, government data highlights. Except East Singhbhum and Ranchi, no other district reported cases in triple digits on Thursday. The government on Thursday collected swab samples of 18,861 people and tested 18,975 of them. Health workers have collected swab samples of 13.12 lakh people in the state so far and tested 12.99 lakh of them. Of the 13 lakh-odd people that have been tested for the virus, nearly 60,000 were found infected. As per figures with the health department, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate reached 72.51 per cent on Thursday, which is lower than the national average of 77.32 per cent. As per government records, at least 42,115 of the 58,079 Covid patients in Jharkhand have recovered from the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand|| New initiative for disabled tribals||An NGO has launched an initiative to provide a source of livelihood to disabled poor tribal people residing in rural areas of Dhanbad in Jharkhand. Nand Care Foundation, a 9-month-old NGO founded by final-year MBA student Deepak Kumar, started the project by helping two such families in Dhanbad on Wednesday. “During distribution of meals to the poor during the lockdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic since March, we have seen the pathetic condition of tribals who are disabled. We had a talk with our contributors to chalk out a strategy which would be sustainable for the disabled people in the long run instead of distribution of a few ration items and cash “ After discussion we have decided to contribute goats to such families which would not require any investment and provide them a sustainable livelihood in future. In addition we would distribute a one-time ration kit and Rs 5,000 in cash to tide over the emergency,” said Kumar, a student of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University. His NGO has so far distributed 10 lakh meals to the poor in and around Dhanbad during the lockdown. The NGO gave four goats and a male goat along with ration kits and cash to the beneficiaries on Wednesday. “We will be giving 5 goats (including the male goat) in the first phase. After a few months, we will provide them another lot of 5 goats after seeing if they are able to rear them well. We have also provided animal insurance for all the goats. The tribals know about goat rearing and since they are of local breed, the animals do not require much maintenance. They can earn income by selling goat milk,” said Kumar. The beneficiaries included Gajju Mahato, 35, a resident of Topchanchi in Dhanbad who suffers from paralysis in his right hand and leg due to polio while his wife has lost vision in one eye. The other beneficiary was 27-year-old Lakhi Munni from Sindurpur in Baliapur block of Dhanbad, who suffers from vision impairment sustained during a fire mishap in which her face was burnt. The NGO plans to select more such beneficiaries in the near future. “We would be searching for more such poor tribal people who have disabilities of any form and are residing in rural parts of Dhanbad and provide benefits under this project. We have plans to help 100 such people in the near future,” said Kumar. His NGO has also provided two truckloads of edible items for flood victims in Bihar and also runs several playschools for poor children in Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||NGT slaps Rs 113cr fine on Jharkhand||The cash-strapped Hemant Soren government has been burdened with the responsibility of paying a hefty fine of Rs 113 crore for the lapses made during the previous government run by his predecessor. The eastern zonal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday slapped a fine of Rs 66 crore for constructing the new high court building and Rs 47 crore for the new state Assembly building without obtaining the mandatory environment clearance certificates. Both the impressive structures were constructed at Kute village on the outskirts of Ranchi during the regime of the BJP government led by Raghubar Das. The Assembly building was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 12 last year (2019) that critics of the BJP felt was done by the then Das government in a hurry to grab the credit for doing it. Saryu Roy, Jamshedpur East MLA and former food minister in Das government who fought the last Assembly election as an Independent when the BJP denied him a ticket and defeated Das in his own bastion, lost no time to inform it through a tweet. Informing that a hefty fine was slapped for want of environment clearance,  Roy raised a question in his tweet on Wednesday, asking who would pay the fine —the contractors, the government officials (who were at fault) or the government exchequer made of taxpayers’ money. “I just came to know about it but am yet to receive the NGT order,” chief minister Hemant Soren replied when Roy’s question was repeated to him in the evening that day, adding he would discuss it after going through the detailed judgment. “I had even written a letter to the Prime Minister drawing his attention to the lapses that were being made not unknowingly,” Roy told The Telegraph when contacted on Thursday, adding a Delhi-based well known environmentalist R.K. Singh had moved the NGT on the matter. “Glaring lapses and wilful violations are being made by the responsible office holders sitting at the helms in the government system... in the process of construction of Jharkhand state Assembly building and others as well,” Roy informed in his letter to the PM a few days after the latter had inaugurated the assembly building, adding it was required “to procure necessary environment clearance before starting construction of such buildings”. Following Singh’s complaint, the state government had hurriedly applied to the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) that, in turn, issued clearance after imposing a fine of Rs 5.26 crore, Roy informed this paper. “But SEIAA was not competent to do so,” he further said, adding the NGT went ahead with the complaint and finally imposed the fine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren directs Bokaro DC to help ailing student||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday asked Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh to provide medical help to a Class X student ailing from chronic kidney disease. The move came after the chief minister was tagged in a video on Twitter. The student seen in the video is a resident of Bhandaridah in the Chandrapura block of Bokaro. He scored 96 per cent in his Class 10 board exam. The student says in the video that he dreams of becoming an IITian but both his kidneys have failed and he requires treatment immediately. Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta, education minister Jagarnath Mahato, Jama MLA Sita Soren and the DC Singh have also been tagged in the video. Hemant has directed the health minister and the DC to investigate the case and help the student under the incurable disease treatment scheme. Pappu Vishwakarma, an undertrial who was kept at an isolation ward in Koderma Sadar hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, escaped on Thursday morning. A resident of Deori village in Giridih, he was accused in a murder case. Pappu was shifted to Koderma jail due to large number of prisoners in Giridih jail. A doctor named Sharad Kumar said he jumped from the window of his room situated on the first floor to escape. A massive manhunt has been launched to catch him. Bokaro Steel Plant bagged the prestigious ELETS National Water Innovation Award in the category of Leading Corporate for its significant contribution in the field of industrial water conservation. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said that BSL a unit of SAIL, is a water-positive company where the water for production is not taken from the ground water sources, but rather the ground water level is raised by the water stored in the cooling pond spread over 5 sq. km. A rainwater harvesting project at BSL has also been completed and five other such projects are in the pipeline. The residents of Kujama Colliery on Thursday staged a protest at the Lodna area office against the allotment of quarters to 80 families by Jharia Rehabilitation and Developement Authority. Kujama Colliery is one of the 595 underground fire-affected areas of Jharia coalfield region. The protesters said that out of over 300 families living in the area, only 80 have been provided quarters at the new place. Some old settlers of Kujama, living in the area before 2004 (the cut-off date for rehabilitation benefits) have not been allotted quarters while others who are new settlers had been allotted quarters. The list of persons along with their allotted quarters in Belgarhia had been posted in Kujama Colliery office on September 8. The dead body of a 13-year-old boy was found in a small pond in the Topchanchi block on Thursday morning. Family members of Banti Rai said that he left the house last evening at around 7 to go to the market but didn't return all night. A team from Hariharpur police station sent the body for post-mortem and launched an investigation into the case as the body bore injury marks near the face and abdomen. Thirty-four Covid-19 patients have been discharged from various treatment facilities in Dhanbad, including 23 from the Sadar hospital, nine from the Zonal Training Institute of Railway at Bhuli and two from Wedlock Greens. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the discharged persons have been provided medical kits and instructed to remain in home quarantine for next 14 days. He said that currently, there are 328 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Traffic DSP Rajesh Kumar on Monday held a meeting with the officials of various road divisions to discuss the steps to be taken to prevent accidents with special focus on increasing safety at “black” spots. Kumar appealed to the road division officials to put signages, blinkers and speed restriction boards at all strategic positions. An electric substation of Eastern Coalfields was robbed by more than 20 armed criminals around 3am on Thursday. More than 50ft of electric cable was stolen by them from the substation situated near Central Pool Colliery of Mugma area. The criminals fled from the site when a mobile security team of ECL reached the site. Security forces in Latehar district have recovered an AK-47, one country-made rifle and around four dozen live rounds in two encounters with the rebels of a splinter group on Thursday. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said security forces also recovered cell phones and other articles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two post graduate students die in car crash at Chaingadha||Two post graduate students from Hazaribagh died in a car accident near Chaingadha four lane bridge, under the Bhadani Nagar outpost in Ramgarh district on Wednesday late evening They were travelling with two other friends, also students of the Vinoba Bhave University, to Ranchi for a friend’s birthday. The deceased Aditya Raj (19) and Ashutosh Singh (19) were accompanied by Golu and Abhishek Kumar. Eyewitnesses said the car was speeding while crossing Chaingadha bridge, and the driver lost control over the vehicle. The car wheeled off the bridge and landed 100meter ahead in a paddy field, eventually overturning. Local villagers present at the spot rushed to their help but one of them died on impact. Villagers informed police at the Bhadani nagar outpost, who took the three injured to Ramgarh sadar hospital where the second succumbed to his injuries. Aditya Raj was a resident of Shahpur village in Katkamsandi and Ashutosh Singh was a resident of Shivpuri mohalla in town. Golu hails from the Shivpuri mohalla in town and Abhishek resides in Hari Nagar. Both have sustained grave injuries and are now admitted at RIMS, Ranchi. The bodies have been handed over to the families after postmortem. Relatives expressed grief and shock at the tragic incident. Hazaribagh sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal expressed his condolences for family members of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Nursing college students protest over affiliation question||More than 20 students of Dhanbad College of Nursing at the town’s Asharfi Hospital on Thursday staged a protest and lodged a complaint against the management of the institute for allegedly deceiving them and operating the four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSc Nursing) course without the mandatory affiliation of the Indian Nursing Council. The students accompanied by their parents and guardians also met Dhanbad city superintendent of police R. Ramkumar and requested him to register a case against the hospital administration and take suitable action. Sudhanshu Ranjan Roy, the father of one of the protesting students, said: “A majority of the 42 students of the first batch, who will be studying from 2019-’23, are from nearby areas of Bengal such as Purulia, Asansol and Burdwan. During admissions, we were assured that the college is affiliated with the Indian Nursing Council. However, the college authorities could not submit the requisite documents.” “The fraud came to light in March when some of the senior students raised the issue of affiliation. This prompted us to seek the documents pertaining to affiliation with the council. The college authorities tried to avoid answering the question,” said a student from Purulia, adding that when the students demanded that the college authorities return their original certificates and marksheets, the college authorities said the students must first pay up the full course fee of Rs 5.5 lakh. “We also met the Bengal minister for labour and law, Moloy Ghatak, recently who advised us to take up the issue with the Jharkhand chief minister. We wrote a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren to intervene,” said the parent of another student requesting anonymity, and added that some of the students had already deposited the full course fee of Rs 5.5 lakh to the college. Harendra Singh, chief executive officer of Aharfi Hospital which runs the BSc Nursing course, said, “The charges of fraud are completely baseless. Rules have changed. An affiliation with INC is not necessary for operating the nursing course as per the latest ruling of the Supreme Court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
