12-09-2020||Jharkhand||State may have to shell out more than Rs 130 cr for green norm violations||The Hemant Soren government that has been slapped a fine of Rs 130 crore by the National Green Tribunal for lapses made during the previous BJP government may actually be staring at a much higher payout. According to the petitioner in the case, R. K. Singh, whose complaint led to the tribunal’s action, said the fine for not obtaining environmental clearances could increase if construction work on buildings under the scanner wasn’t halted. “A fine of Rs 56,250 will be added per day to the total compensation amount for government buildings in Ranchi which have not applied for environment clearance,” Singh said. The eastern zonal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday slapped fines on the government for constructing the new high court building and the new state Assembly building without obtaining mandatory environment clearance certificates. Both the impressive structures were constructed at Kute village on the outskirts of Ranchi during the regime of the BJP government led by Raghubar Das. “The additional fine will be added per day if construction continues in the new high court building as well,” Singh clarified, adding that the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had not specified the fine amount that would be slapped on the Jharkhand government, saying that the amount was subject to the assessment by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). “The CPCB has already assessed the two buildings and decided the amount of Rs 130 crore. The fine is Rs 49 crore for the Legislative Assembly and Rs 81 crore for the High Court building,” said Singh. “The fine is likely to further increase if construction continues as the NGT order clearly states that the buildings which do not have EC should stop construction work,” he added. The NGT order says, “It is stated that there are large number of other structures and, as per the information obtained from the State Government under the RTI application, only 20 buildings and construction projects have thus far applied for environmental clearance since the year 2006.” Besides the new high court building and Vidhan Sabha building, Singh said  P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall, Jamshedpur, Vijaya Garden Homes and Aastha Twin City were among buildings that had not obtained mandatory clearances. Member secretary of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) Rajiv Lochan Bakshi said on Saturday the CPCB had not sent any official communique to the JSPCB specifying the fine amount. “We have not received any order from the CPCB regarding the fine amount for violation of norms during construction of the high court and the Legislative Assembly buildings,” Bakshi said. While issuing the order on the new high court building and the legislative assembly building, the principal bench of the tribunal, comprising Justice SP Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda, ordered a ban on all ongoing constructions that do not have clearance. “Environmental compensation shall be assessed in respect of all the structures which have been raised without EC and shall be recovered from the appropriate authorities/persons/ builders/project proponent within a period of three months. Environment compensation with respect of those which have already been assessed shall also be recovered within the said period,” the NGT order said. Chief minister Hemant Soren had said on Thursday that the government was waiting for the official order of the NGT. “We will decide how to go ahead with the issue once we receive a copy of the official order. There are set parameters that should be followed for taking up such projects, and everyone should abide by the rules,” he told reporters. The ruling JMM has blamed the former NDA-led government in Jharkhand led by Raghubar Das for the lapses. The party demanded that the fine should be slapped on the ones responsible for the lapses _ read the BJP-led frmer state government. The construction of the buildings started during a BJP-led government in Jharkhand, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated one of them. BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said on Saturday that the order can be challenged in Supreme Court and the fine amount may also vary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||More than 100 students crack JEE Main in Bokaro||Sarthak, a student of Rainbow Public School, has scored the highest (with 99.982 percentile) in the district at Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main. The results were declared on Saturday. Rohit Ranjan, of ARS Public School, scored 99.91 percentile. More than 100 students from various schools in Bokaro proved their mettle, cracking JEE Main organised by the National Testing Agency (NTA). The students make their way to the next advanced-level entrance test. Sarthak is the son of Santosh Kumar, who is an employee of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). He is a resident of Sector-3. “I used to study five hours regularly. My ambition is to become a computer engineer and get admission in IIT Bombay,” said an elated Sarthak. JEE Main results announced on Saturday spread happiness among students, teachers and residents of the town. The April session of JEE Main was conducted from September 1 to 6 after being postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was held at two centres in the district following strict Covid-19 guidelines. As in previous years, a good number of students of schools such as Delhi Public School (DPS), Pentecostal School Assembly, Sree Ayyappa Public School and Guru Gobind Singh Public School (GGPS) have shined in the prestigious engineering entrance level test in the district. More than a dozen students of DPS Bokaro secured more than 99 percentile in JEE Main with Utkarsh Aditya scoring the highest at 99.87 percentile while Ashwin Sinha achieved 99.85 percentile. More than three dozen students have got more than 90 percentile while many others scored more than 80 percentile. Principal, DPS Bokaro, A.S. Gangwar said JEE Main is among the top examinations and many DPS students have proved their mettle by performing exemplary well. Twenty-five students of Sree Ayyappa School have cracked the JEE Main. Director of the institution S.S. Mahapatra said: “Shubham Kumar Jaiswal scored the highest (93.75 percentile) followed by Eshika Kumari, who scored 92 percentile.” More than 18 students of GGPS and 12 students of Pentecostal School Assembly (PAS) have qualified in the entrance examination. Aditya Anand of PAS scored 99.7 percentile. Principal of PAS, Dr Karuna Prasad, expressed happiness on the phenomenal achievement of students at JEE Main in the district. Parents claimed that once again, the students of the town have performed well in JEE Main and the result of JEE Advanced will also be remarkable. Many schools, including Chinmaya Vidyalaya and MGM Higher Secondary School, in the district have not announced their number of students who qualified as they are still in the process of confirmation. Those who have announced the number have said that the figure would increase as their compiling process is still on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid special leaves Dhanbad station for Ferozepur||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant meets Lalu, will fight Bihar polls together||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren met RJD president Lalu Prasad at  Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here on Saturday and indicated that they would fight the Bihar elections together. Hemant spent more than an hour with Lalu Prasad at the director's bungalow, where the RJD leader is staying. Coming out of RIMS, Hemant told reporters, "We will fight Bihar elections together." He said the former Bihar chief minister's health was better now. RJD is a partner in the coalition government headed by Hemant in Jharkhand. Besides JMM, the Congress is also part of the government in the state. Asked on how many seats JMM would field its candidates in Bihar where polls are due in October-November, Hemant said, "Wait for some more time to know who will enter the poll fray from where." JMM had recently demanded 12 seats in Bihar under the understanding within the Grand Alliance. But the RJD which heads the Opposition grouping there, had indicated it would spare not more than 2-3 seats to the Jharkhand based regional party. The Mahagathbandhan in Bihar comprises RJD, Congress, RLSP of former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha and VIP of Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni. The RJD supremo who is convicted in four cases in the multi crore fodder scam in Bihar is lodged in jail in Ranchi. He was shifted to RIMS on health grounds. Recently, in the wake of his attendants testing positive, Lalu Prasad was moved to the director's bungalow from the private ward of the state-run hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur banking on U-17 World Cup girls’ football camp||Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA) is looking at the upcoming national preparatory camp for next year’s Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup as an opportunity to mark its own platinum jubilee year. JSA has already cancelled the annual football league (for men) owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and officials have planned a fixture for girls. Unlike the lengthy event for men, the tournament for girls will be played in knock-out format and can be completed in three days. “We are already disappointed for not being able to conduct the annual football league for men. But we see the upcoming national camp for under-17 women as an opportunity to celebrate our platinum jubilee year,” said JSA secretary Avinash Kumar. According to him, they have plans to conduct an exhibition match between the national campers and footballers from Jamshedpur. “We are highly optimistic that the camp would be organised in Jamshedpur. We are looking to use the opportunity to line-up an exhibition match with the campers,” the JSA secretary said. A former Bihar Ranji captain, Kumar said they would invite national campers to Jamshedpur (for the exhibition match) even if the camp is organised in Ranchi by requesting the concerned authorities. Besides the exhibition match, JSA has also planned to felicitate the national campers. “This way we can celebrate our platinum jubilee year by felicitating players who would be coming from across the country. Our own girls can also rub shoulders with 35-odd probables, including eight from Jharkhand, who would be coming for the camp. We have already discussed the plans and are very positive about it,” a member of the JSA football sub-committee said. According to him, the national camp is an indication that football activity has resumed in Jharkhand. “We would also like to organise a camp for our footballers (for the tournament) and, in between, line up an exhibition match,” he said on condition of anonymity. Jamshedpur has emerged as a likely venue for hosting the national preparatory camp expected to begin on October 1. The camp, which is actually scheduled at Birsa Munda Football Stadium in Ranchi, looks a non-starter as no bidder has shown interest for taking up contracts for accommodation of trainees, catering, and preparing the ground and dressing rooms. A team from the state sports department led by sports director Anil Kumar Singh has already done a recce of JRD Tata Sports Complex and the Flatlet ground in Kadma earlier this month. The team also expressed satisfaction with the existing facilities. Tatas are also willing to make arrangements for the camp at short notice. The sports department has also earmarked Jamshedpur as an alternate venue for the camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Spot rapid antigen tests on visitors to Sakchi market||A team of district health department on Saturday carried out on-the-spot rapid antigen tests on shoppers at Sakchi, a commercial hub of Jamshedpur, in an effort to track new cases and gauge the extent of the spread of the coronavirus. The team, accompanied by administrative officials and police, zeroed in on two entrances to Sakchi market, one close to Payal Cinema and the other near Sakchi roundabout. The drive which began at 10.30 am continued till late in the afternoon in which shoppers and those coming to the market were stopped and made to undergo the test under the supervision of the new Dhalbum SDO, Nitish Singh, and special officer of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) Krishna Kumar. "The drive was carried out to detect Covid positive cases. Rapid antigen tests were conducted at different housing societies. We selected Sakchi as the market witnesses a rush," said Kumar. Notably, the East Singhbhum district health department is carrying out rapid antigen tests for detection of Covid-19 both in rural and urban areas for the last couple of days on a large scale. In Jamshedpur, 16 sample collection-cum-test centres have been earmarked for the rapid antigen tests, while 100 similar centres have been set up in the rural areas of the district. About 380 medical personnel, including doctors and technicians, are involved in the drive. Health department sources revealed that a similar on-the-spot rapid antigen test drive would be conducted simultaneously at Bistupur and Golmuri markets on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||RIMS guard shows the way, donates plasma to a critical patient||Suraj Kumar (26), a security guard at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), played good Samaritan and donated plasma to a 50-year-old Covid-19 patient late on Friday night. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan and RIMS officials have hailed Kumar’s gesture, saying he led by example at a time when with the district administration wasn’t getting enough donors despite conducting several awareness programmes. Kumar’s A+ plasma was administered to the patient on Saturday. Kumar, who is a resident of Palamau’s Hussainabad area, tested Covid positive on July 24 while on duty at RIMS. He recovered on August 10. “Last night, while on duty at the cardio thoracic & vascular surgery (CTVS) department, I learnt that doctors were in urgent need of A+ plasma. I volunteered to offer. After mandatory tests, I was able to donate,” he told the media. Kumar added that he felt good after the donation, conceding that he did not remember when he donated blood the last time. He, however, said that he would now donate blood as it was a noble cause. “I realised the importance of plasma and blood donation during the ongoing Covid crisis. I have decided to routinely donate blood in future to help the needy,” he said. The pandemic had impacted his family in several adverse ways, including denting his own earnings, Kumar said. After testing positive for the virus, he had to suffer a salary cut for the days he was off duty for treatment. “We are daily wagers and even a loss of one day’s salary counts for us. I have to run a family of seven, including my wife and mother,” he said. Ranchi district administration on Saturday announced the third round of its special drive to conduct Covid-19 tests from September 16. The drive would be conducted through the district and end on September 18. Deputy commissioner Ranjan said testing would be done using rapid antigen kits at markets, slum areas, hotels and eateries for early tracing of cases. “We are targeting 15,000 samples through this special drive,” he said. As per the state government’s bulletin on Friday night, Ranchi has witnessed 12,562 Covid cases since the outbreak, of which 3,811 were active. Eightyfive patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar airport will be ready for flights by November, says Union minister ||Flight operations at the upcoming airport in Deoghar is expected to commence from the first week of November, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said after conducting a review of preparations at the temple town on Saturday. BJP’s MP from Godda Nishikant Dubey along with a battery of officials from Airport Authority of India (AAI), Ranchi airport and Deoghar district administration were present during the review which began after Puri’s arrival at 11.30am. Once ready, Deoghar will be Jharkhand’s second airport after Ranchi’s Birsa Munda international terminal and is expected to boost regional connectivity and promote tourism. Talking to reporters in Deoghar, Puri said, “Covid-19 has slightly delayed the airport development work here (Deoghar) but things are still pretty much on track. We are now planning to commence flight operations from the first week of November.” He said they would be holding a meeting with all stakeholders in Delhi to chalk out the modalities after which a final date for the commencement of air services would be announced. The minister, who conducted a similar review in Bihar earlier in the day, said that operations at Darbhanga airport would begin in November before Chhath Puja. "Bookings for daily flights will start by the end of September from Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru," Puri was quoted as saying in a statement by the civil aviation ministry, PTI reported. The minister said he was satisfied with the progress of the project in Deoghar, Jharkhand, and thanked all those involved for having continued the work despite the ongoing pandemic. He also revealed plans to set up an “aerocity”, a kind of economic zone, in partnership with AAI and the state government to boost local employment around the airport area. “An aerocity plan is being chalked out and it will be set up gradually as a joint venture between GOI, AAI and state government to boost local jobs,” said Puri, adding that once the airport takes off, it would further strengthen Deoghar’s place _ it is home to one of the 12 jyotirlingas _  as a hub of religious tourism. “Currently, rail and road journeys are the only options for thousands who come to Deoghar annually for Lord Shiva’s darshan. Once air services begin, the footfall will multiply not just from within the country from across the globe, which will turnaround the local economy,” he said. The foundation stone of the Rs 401.34-crore Deoghar airport was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25, 2018. It is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government. The airport is spread over 653.75 acre and its terminal building is being built over an area of 4,000sqm, while the runway is 2,500 metre long. With an environment-friendly architectural design and state-of-the-art passenger facilities, the terminal building will be a composite structure inspired by the shikhars (rising towers) of the Baba Baidyanath temple. Once ready, the airport will be suitable for operation of Airbus A-320 type of aircraft. An airport official said that more than 90 per cent of the construction work was complete. This includes the terminal building with six check-in counters, ATC tower, fire station, power station, airport station, among others. Currently, work related to drainage systems, power, communication facilities and police posts is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1,000 recoveries; 15 deaths in a day||The Covid-19 claimed 15 more lives in Jharkhand on Friday, taking the toll in the state to 532, while nearly 1000 people were found infected across the state, figures with the health department stated. At least four of the 15 Covid casualties were reported from East Singhbhum, the district that accounts for nearly 50 per cent of state's Covid mortalities. As many as 238 of the 532 Covid deaths have occured in East Singhbhum, while three casualties in Ranchi took the toll here to 85 on Friday, the health department stated in its daily Covid bulletin. While the tally jumped to 59040 after Friday's test results, the number of recoveries reached 43328 as 1213 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection and were discharged from hospital, the government data highlighted. East Singhbhum not only reported the highest number of casualties on Friday, but also the highest number of fresh cases of infection. As many as 201 of the 961 Covid cases reported on Friday were from this district. Ranchi, which has the highest number of Covid cases in Jharkhand, reported 197 fresh cases on Friday. However, the count of active cases dropped in the district as 329 Covid patients recovered here, taking the number of active cases of infection to 3679. The tally in Ranchi was 12,562 by the time this report was filed. The government has so far collected swab samples of 13.33 lakh people and tested 13.20 lakh of them. On Friday, health workers tested 14960 people for Covid-19 and 13999 of them tested negative. As per government figures, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 73.38 per cent against the national average of 77.32 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.90 per cent, while the national mortality rate was 1.72 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri to review Deoghar airport progress||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri will visit Deoghar on Saturday to review the progress of development work of the airport in the Jharkhand town. Once complete, this will be the second airport after Ranchi in Jharkhand that will be capable of handling flights including large aircraft and is expected to boost regional connectivity and tourism. Puri will visit both Bihar and Jharkhand for the review of Darbhanga and Deoghar airports respectively on Saturday, said a release issued by the civil aviation ministry that was circulated by the Press Information Bureau on Thursday. “The minister will first go to Darbhanga (Bihar) tomorrow (Saturday) and will come here in the second half,” said a senior official of the Deoghar district administration, adding that they were expecting Puri to visit between 2pm and 4pm. “With the operationalisation of these airports, air connectivity of the region will be improved and it will give an impetus to local tourism and will generate employment in the region,” said the release. Deoghar airport is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government, the release said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the development work of Deoghar airport through a video link from an event in Sindri (Jharkhand) on May 25, 2018. Being developed at a project cost of Rs 401.34 crore, the Deoghar airport is spread over 653.75 acres of land and its terminal building is being built over an area of 4,000sqm, while the runway is 2,500 metres long. “Almost 90 per cent of the work is complete,” said Vinod Sharma, director of Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport who will be present in Deoghar during the minister’s visit. He said the rest of the work would soon be complete. “Yes, the airport will be suitable for operation of Airbus A320 type of aircraft,” he said when asked about the long runway. With an environment-friendly architectural design and state-of-the-art passenger facilities, the terminal building will be a composite structure inspired by the shikhars (rising towers) of the Baidyanath temple, the ministry release said. Ranchi airport: The post-lockdown operations at Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi are gradually returning to normal with the introduction of two more flights from Wednesday. Of the two new flights, one is a morning flight that arrives from Hyderabad and flies back after 40 minutes while the other one lands in the evening that comes from Mumbai and returns the same evening. “With these two, we now have a dozen pair of flights to handle here,” airport director Sharma said when asked. The airport earlier used to handle 30 flights before operations were stalled due to the lockdown in March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
