13-09-2020||Jharkhand||NEET medical students happy with easy question paper||Aspiring medical students were happy with the NEET exam held on Sunday. Students were also glad that they were allowed to write their exams without masks and gloves. Disposable gloves, sanitizers, temperature check-up machines, jammers, and contactless frisking were arranged for students before they entered the centre. One student was made to sit per bench, with a two metre gap from another. The three-hour exam that began at 2 pm. Students felt the physics paper was a little more difficult than the rest, with Biology being the easiest to crack. Students felt that though the pandemic made it difficult and the exam got delayed so much, not-so-hard question paper provided some relief. A total of 720 marks is equally divided across three subjects - physics, chemistry and biology. About 3119 students appeared across four centres - DAV Public School, Bistupur; Jamshedpur Public School in Baridih; Vidya Bharati Chinmaya Vidyalaya in Telco and NSIBM campus in Pokhari near NH-33. “We were scanned before we entered, and given gloves and masks. But thankfully the authorities allowed us to write without masks and gloves. Or else it would have been really difficult in this humidity. After so much speculation, we were happy to finally appear for the exam and happier to see an easy paper,” said Smriti Keetan, a student who wrote the exam at Vidya Bharati Chinmaya Vidyalaya. Another student, Hansraj Gupta, said, “I felt physics was difficult but the rest of the paper was easy. I think the students were happier because they could answer the exam. Though a section of students were unhappy and had protested, how long can we stay indoors?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||Myanmarese national escapes from high-security Hazaribagh jail||A Myanmarese national lodged in the high-security Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail in Hazaribagh managed to escape on Sunday by breaking the window rods of the bathroom. The borders of the district have been sealed and police in other districts have been alerted to nab Mohammad Abdulla. Abdulla jumped out from the window and walked out of the campus before an alarm could be sounded. According to jail sources, Abdulla was caught by the railway protection authorities in 2017 while he was travelling with two of his associates, Jahed Hussain and Mohammd Javed, without passport and visa. The three are from Myanmar’s Buthidaung. He was sent to the Hazaribagh jail from Dumka after three years of imprisonment on January 24. On the instructions of inspector-general (prison), a detention centre for illegal migrants declared foreigners by court was set up in January, and Abdulla was lodged there along with his associates and a Bangladeshi national. Jail superintendent Kumar Chandrashekar said Abdulla and the others had completed their court-mandated sentence. He said as Myanmar and Bangladesh had failed to take them back, a detention centre was established on the jail campus after which they were shifted to it. Officials refused to comment on Abdulla’s escape from the facility where hardened criminals and extremists are lodged. Karthik said Abdulla’s photograph had been shared with police stations of the district and efforts were on to arrest him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||Angling club members hope to resume activities in October||Jamshedpur Angling Club (JAC) has is planning to release fish fries into Beldih and Bara lakes later this month to revive fish stock in the hope of resuming their activities next month if and when Jubilee park is reopened. Sources within the JAC revealed that fish stock at both Beldih Lake in Dhatkidih and Bara Lake near Sidhgora is fast depleting. “Some fish died at the Beldih lake last month under mysterious circumstances. It is necessary to maintain the fish stock as angling activity was likely to take place next month,” one of the sources said. The fish fries will be procured from Ramsagar in Bankura district of Bengal. Fries of rui, katla and mirgal will be released into the two lakes. JAC secretary Sukumar Ghoshal confirmed that fries will be released into the two water tanks later this month. “It is time we release fries into the two water bodies. Fries weighing about a quintal each will be released into Beldih and Bara lakes,” he added. The club suspended angling activity at Beldih and Bara lakes from July in view of the pandemic. The landmark Jayanti Sarovar in Jubilee Park has been closed for nearly four months now. Ghoshal said they would shortly call a meeting to discuss their future course of action. “Transportation of the consignment of fish fries from Bengal and other related logistics would be discussed threadbare during the meeting,” he added. On when angling activities will resume, the JAC secretary said they were looking at next month but everything depended on the re-opening of Jubilee Park. “Angling would resume only after the park is re-opened. We want the activity to resume at Jayanti Sarovar first. The decision (on re-opening of the park) rests with Tata Steel utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (formerly Jusco). We are keeping our fingers closed,” Ghoshal said. The pandemic has already forced JAC to cancel its annual angling competition at Jayanti Sarovar held in July 29 to mark the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna J.R.D. Tata. Club members want angling to resume at Beldih and Bara lakes at least. “We are waiting for Jubilee Park to re-open. Angling can take place at Beldih and Bara lakes next month by maintaining social distancing. I am addicted to angling and it is difficult to wait any longer. Angling can resume a fortnight after the fries are release,” said Ehtesham Khan, a member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||JSCA creates bio-bubble at stadium ahead of T20 league||JSCA’s secretary Sanjay Sahay said the bio-bubble has been created at the stadium in adherence with Covid-19 safety protocols and they will follow strict rules for all players and match officials to minimise chances of transmission. “All officials and players will reside within the premises of the JSCA International Stadium. Only players with a negative Covid-19 test report will be allowed to play. A special committee headed by the president of JSCA has been constituted for enforcing Covid regulations. Players will have to undergo medical check-ups and thermal screening daily and a medical desk is operational round the clock,” he said. The league, which will be on till October 2, is the first one of its kind to be held in the country after the lockdown. It also hopes to set the tone for other sporting activities that have been stalled in Jharkhand since March end in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Jharkhand government has allowed reopening of stadiums sans spectators after announcing various unlock measures, sporting activities are yet to begin for want of standard operating procedures from the state sports department. Players for the T20 league started reporting to the stadium from Friday evening. From Saturday, practice sessions have started. The league will have six teams facing each other in 33 matches which will be streamed live on the FANCODE App from 9am-5pm. “As the tournament is played without the presence of spectators, everyone can watch the match live by downloading the FANCODE App from the Google play store for Android phones and the Apple app store for I-phones. The matches can also be seen live streamed on the web through www.fancode.com,” said Sahay, adding that the tournament is strictly for players registered from Jharkhand and there is no franchisee/team owner or prize money involved. A bio-secure environment or bio-bubble is set up to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and minimise the risk of transmission of the virus from one person to another during an ongoing tournament. It was first put to use during the West Indies’ tour of England earlier this year after the outbreak of the global pandemic. The series remained successful with no one testing positive during the event. Ahead of the upcoming Indian Premier League in UAE, the Board of Cricket Control of India will also set up bio-bubble to prevent infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||No sign of monsoon revival for the next three days||The ongoing dry spell is expected to continue in Jharkhand for another 72 hours or so, according to Met department forecasts. "Southwest monsoon activity was weak over Jharkhand for the last few days depriving most of the districts of rain. The situation is likely to remain same as we don't see any hope of revival of monsoon in another 72 hours, " said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Met office director went on to say that Sunday’s chart analysis and satellite pictures suggested formation of a low-pressure zone over west central Bay of Bengal and Andhra Pradesh coast. "The system is very weak now. It is likely to gain strength after the next 72 hours. The system might help in reviving the monsoon in Jharkhand after the next 72 hours, " he explained. Statistics available from Ranchi Meteorological Centre suggested that only two IMD observatories, Deoghar and Daltonganj, recorded light rain during the past 24 hours while it was primarily dry in rest of the districts. In its sector-wise forecast, IMD's Ranchi Met Centre has issued no warning of rain. The absence of rain for the last few days has resulted in a rise in rain deficit figure in Jharkhand. The deficit witnessed a 5 per cent rise in the last four days. Figures suggest that so far Jharkhand has received rainfall of 812.3 mm against a normal of  937.8 mm, a deficit of 13 per cent. Except for Dumka, East Singhbhum, Latehar, Palamau and Ramgarh, all the other 19 districts figure in the rain deficit list. The prevailing weather also resulted in a rise in day temperatures beyond normal and discomfort index in most of the districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad begins mandatory Covid tests at railway station ||Covid testing began at Dhanbad railway station on Sunday with two of 87 passengers who came here by the New-Delhi Howrah Rajdhani Express testing positive for the coronavirus. A joint team of Dhanbad police, Railway Protection Force and district health officials deputed on platform 1 at the station accompanied all the passengers who arrived here at 6.35 am to the first-class waiting hall of station. There, a team of officials, headed by the nodal officer of the Dedicated Covid Health Centre of Dhanbad, Dr Alok Vishwakarma, conducted tests on all 87 passengers using rapid antigen kits. The two persons who tested positive were sent to the Dedicated Covid Health Centre of Dhanbad at the railway’s zonal training institute at Bhuli in an  ambulance. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Vishwakarma said, “It took less than 45 minutes to complete the entire process of testing. All passengers cooperated with the process. And since the two passengers had mild symptoms they were admitted to Covid health centre meant for asymptomatic patients.” The nodal officer said that tests would be carried out on passengers everyday from now. “We started with two trains, the Rajdhani and the Jodhpur Howrah Superfast Express. Gradually, we will increase the number of tests on passengers arriving at Dhanbad,” he said. Dhanbad is connected by seven trains now. These are New Delhi-Howrah Rajdhani Express, Jodhpur-Howrah Superfast Express, Secunderabad- Darbhanga Express,  Shipra Express (Indore-Howrah),  Durgiana Express (Amritsar-Howrah), Ganga Sutlej Covid Special (Dhanbad-Ludhiana),  Poorva Express (New Delhi-Howrah). In-charge of the local RPF post Avinash Karosia said, “Sunday’s testing drive was carried out smoothly and after about 45 minutes, the time taken to complete all the tests on passengers, we were back at the RPF post at 7.15 am.” In a bid to break the Covid chain, the district administration has decided to carry out intensive rapid antigen tests across localities in addition to regular tests at the station. At present, there are 400 active Covid cases in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mutation Bill 2020 grants immunity to babus, helps land mafia, says BJP||The BJP has criticized the Hemant Soren-led coalition government for trying to enact the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill 2020, describing it as an attempt to provide immunity to revenue officials from legal consequences and making the state an easy hunting ground for land mafia. Former chief minister Babulal Marandi, addressing mediapersons at the party headquarters here on Sunday, demanded the withdrawal of the bill and threatened a major agitation by against the bill, which according to him, would facilitate land-grabbing and encourage corruption. “Section 22 of the bill clearly states that in case of any fraud in land mutation, revenue and land officials will be provided immunity from charges under civil as well as criminal laws,” said Marandi. “This law will provide protection to corrupt officials and land mafia, and be unfair on common public,” he added. The Jharkhand Cabinet on September 8 okayed the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill 2020, which is aimed at making “jamabandi” claims online and setting up of competent authorities for settlement of claims at district level. Jamabandi contains entries regarding ownership, cultivation and up-to-date data of various rights on the land. All changes of rights coming to the notice of the revenue agency are reflected in the jamabandi Marandi said that wrongful mutation of gair majurwa land was done in different parts of Jharkhand, and many officials were working hand in glove with land mafia to forge land details and mutation. “I had addressed a letter to the chief minister highlighting the malpractices of land and revenue officials. Instead of bringing stringent rules for officials, the government decided to provide immunity to them from legal consequences,” he said. The senior BJP leader demanded stringent rules for land and revenue officials and provision of imprisonment for officials found guilty of corruption. Prior to the Cabinet decision, there was no act in the state defining mutation and settlement of land. The mutation bill 2020 has three provisions defining the mutation law in the state. As per the first provision, the online mutation of land can be done by the circle officer (CO), the deputy collector land reforms officer (DCLR) and deputy commissioner. Also, as per the provisions in case of illegal land settlement, aggrieved parties can approach additional collectors for making an appeal. The deputy commissioner can hear the appeal, while the revision can be heard by the divisional commissioner. Marandi said that the ruling JMM, Congress and RJD government may try and pass the bill in the Monsoon session of the Assembly, and the BJP would ensure that the government doesn’t succeed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||State records 75.55 per cent recoveries, 2 points less than national rate||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 60,000 mark on Saturday after as many as 1,420 people were found infected by the virus in 24 hours, data released by the state health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Saturday night, as many as 1,746 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on the day, taking the state’s Covid recovery rate closer to the national average. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 75.55 per cent against the national recovery rate of 77.70 per cent. East Singhbhum reported the highest number of fresh cases of Coronavirus infection in Jharkhand for the second consecutive day, taking the tally in the district above 10,000. While 270 cases of infection surfaced in East Singhbhum on the day, Ranchi reported 231 cases of infection. However, both districts reported higher number of recoveries against fresh cases on Saturday, leading to a fall in their respective active cases. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 265 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi, while 306 patients overcame the virus in East Singhbhum. By Saturday night, there were 3,639 active cases of Covid infection in Ranchi, while the tally here was 12,793. In East Singhbhum, as many as 3,137 patients were battling the virus by the time this report was filed and more than 7,000 patients had recovered. Dhanbad reported 191 fresh cases of infection while 201 people were found infected in Bokaro. The number of active cases drew close to 1,000 in Dhanbad as only 57 patients recovered there. As per government data, the Covid tally crossed the 3,000 mark in Bokaro, a district that also reported two deaths on Saturday. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate further dropped to 0.89 per cent on Saturday after six patients, including one from Ranchi, died during treatment. East Singhbhum did not report any Covid casualty for the first time in several weeks on Saturday. The district accounts for nearly 50 per cent of the 542 Covid casualties in Jharkhand. The government on Saturday collected swab samples of 23,152 people and tested 22,238 of them. As per figures with the health department, health workers have so far collected swab samples of 13.67 lakh people and tested 13.52 lakh of them. The state has so far reported 60,460 cases of Covid infection. As per government records, as many as 45,074 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand, but at least 14,844 people are still undergoing treatment for the viral infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||123rd Saragarhi Day observed at Ramgarh Cantt||The Sikh Regimental Centre (SRC) at Ramgarh cantonment observed Saturday as the 123rd Saragarhi Day to pay respects to the 22 martyrs of the 1897 battle of Saragahi with SRC commandant Brig. M. Sri Kumar leading officers and jawans to lay wreaths at the Saragarhi Memorial. The ceremony, held every year on September 12, was followed by a function at Gurudwara Sahib. The Battle of Saragarhi was held on September 12, 1897 between the Sikh soldiers of the British raj and Afghan tribesmen.  That day, close to 24,000 Orakzai and Afridi tribesmen were seen near Gogra, at Samana Suk, and around Saragarhi, cutting off Fort Gulistan from Fort Lockhart. The Afghans attacked the outpost of Saragarhi where thousands of them surrounded the fort, preparing for a major assault. Led by Havildar Ishar Singh, the soldiers in the fort—all Sikhs _ chose to fight to the death, in what is considered by some military historians as one of the greatest last stands history.[ The post was recaptured two days later by another British Indian contingent. The Indian Army’s 4th battalion of the Sikh Regiment commemorates the battle every year on September 12 as Saragarhi Day. So does the British Army. A 40-year-old man’s body was found lying in a pool of blood on Slag Road in the densely-populated Bhuiyandih under Sitaramdera thana area on Saturday. There was no mark of injury on the body. Police recovered the body at about 10 am and sent it to the MGM Medical College Hospital for a Covid-19  test before sending it to the medical college mortuary at Dimna for a post-mortem. The police could not make out whether it is a case of murder or not. "We have seen the body meticulously and found no mark of injury on it.  But at the same time the extent of blood that oozed out from the victim's nose put us in a fix. It may be a case murder or a case of accident or something else, which can be detected only after an autopsy is done," said Sitaramdera thana OC, Anjani Kumar Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. An official posted at the Sitaramdera thana said even if the man was killed on being assaulted by someone the incident must have taken place around midnight or at the small hours as the road remains completely deserted after midnight. But for getting a clue to the circumstances that caused the man to die, the police have started scanning CCTV cameras installed privately along Slag Road. "We are getting footage of a number of CCTV cameras scanned so that we may at least spot the man in any of the footage, if not able to see the way he died.  If the man fell victim to any criminal gang that will also come to the fore," said the Sitaramdera OC. Significantly, a 35-year-old woman who was a resident of Chhayanagar, an urban slum in Bhuiyandih, was found bludgeoned to death near Water Filtration plant on Sakchi-Mango road under Sitaramdera thana area on August 28 morning. The NDRF team on Saturday conducted a massive search operation over a stretch of 10 kms of Barakar River in Chuglo under Muffasil police station of Giridih to locate the body of a 12-year-old boy, Sujal Kumar,who drowned two days ago, but failed to find it. DC, Giridih, Rahul Kumar Sinha and SP, Amit Renu visited the spot where the child drowned. The boy, a son of a para-teacher, drowned on Thursday evening when he was bathing with his mother and other women who went to Nawataad Ghat to perform rituals on the occasion of Jitia festival. The DC said that local divers earlier attempted but failed to find the boy. Now the team of NDRF 9th Battalion has been called. The child is being searched and they will take up the search operation upto 20 km radius in the river. Every effort is being made to find the child. Altogether 57 Covid patients were discharged from six Health Centres of Dhanbad out of which 22 were dicharged from Nirsa Polytechnic Dhanbad, 13 from Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad, 11 from Regional Hospital of BCCL in Bhuli, nine from Zonal training institute of Railway at Bhuli and one each from Wedlock Greens and PMCH Cath lab. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said that all discharged patients have been provided medical kits and asked to remain in home quarantine for next for next 1r days. Around 400 patients are undergoing treatment at different Covid Treatment facilities of Dhanbad. Dhanbad Superintendent of Rail Police, Deepak kumar Sinha has been transferred on Saturday and made SP of Jamtara. The transfer took place on Saturday along with 10 other IPS officers in the state. A team of policemen from three police stations namely Bakatha, Gorhar and Chouparan laid a trap chasing a SUV for a kilometer on GT road to nab five highway robbers. Subdivisional police officer of Barhi, Manish Kumar said after a tip off received by superintendent of police Karthik S. Three of the robbers managed to escape and two were caught. Police managed to arrest the three later. Police seized their SUV and recovered a country made pistol, hockey sticks, rods, cricket bats and five mobile phones. Kumar termed this as a big success claiming that in last few months, several such actions had sent highway robbers to jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
