14-09-2020||Jharkhand|| Masked men rob Dhanbad fish trader off Rs 2 lakh||Three unidentified bike men snatched Rs 2 lakh worth of cash from a wholesale fish trader in Dumariyatand locality under Dhanbad police station on Monday at 11.30 am. Masked individuals entered the office of Bipin Shaw posing as vehicle owners and enquired about a fish consignment, eventually looting him at gunpoint. They fled the area soon after. The incident follows traders from Wasseypur, associated with gangs, terrorizing some transporters who arrived at Purana Bazar locality from Kharagpur with a consignment of fish. The wasseypur bunch, who had also ordered fish from Bengal, wanted to sell it at a higher rate. But the arrival of a huge consignment  in 11 vehicles dipped the price. The wasseypur folks attacked some of the vehicles with hockey sticks, damaging windscreens, and manhandling and threatening two drivers. Talking to the media, Bipin's nephew Ayush Shaw said “The three criminals enquired the whereabouts of my uncle, saying they were vehicle owners who brought in our fish consignment. They claimed that their payment was due. As soon as my uncle arrived, they took  out pistols and snatched cash from him.” Bipin Shaw said, “The cash was from the sale of the fish consignment, and I couldn't identify any of them as they were wearing masks.” Officer in charge of Dhasar police station, Jayram Prasad, said, “Eyewitnesses at the site informed us that three people who arrived on an Apache motorcycle robbed a trader and  fled. We are investigating on the basis of inputs received from the victims, as well as other witnesses present at the scene. We are looking for the criminals, and have sealed the borders of the district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid test camps set up at Assembly for monsoon session||Covid-19 tests have been made mandatory for MLAs, bureaucrats and officials of the Jharkhand Assembly for entering the premises during the five-day monsoon session starting from Friday, September 18. On Monday, Ranchi district administration set up different points for testing at the Assembly premises which will continue till the end of the session. Ranchi’s ADM law and order Akhilesh Sinha said that two testing camps had already been made operational. “A camp on the left side of Gate 2 will be exclusively for MLAs while another set up on the right will be for officials,” said Sinha, who inspected the secretariat on Sunday to take stock of the preparations. Jharkhand Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said they were taking all precautions and would try to keep the premises Covid free throughout the proceedings. “It has been decided that all MLAs should get themselves tested at least 72 hours before the session commences. This apart, everyone is mandated to wear masks, gloves, face shields, among other safety gear. These will also be provided at the Assembly premises,” said Prasad, adding that sanitisation of the Assembly premises was also underway. Prasad explained that if any MLA is unable to attend the session due to Covid-19, he/she can appoint another MLA to raise questions on his behalf in the House. “In such cases, the House must be informed 24 hours in advance along with the question,” he said. Entry of visitors to the Assembly will be banned. But journalists covering the session would have to undergo a Covid test and must inform the Assembly office 72 hours in advance to be able to attend. The monsoon session got delayed this year because of the pandemic and was postponed to September. Usually, it is conducted between July and August every year. Since the outbreak of the virus, over a dozen MLAs cutting across party lines have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Of them many have recovered. Among those who contracted the virus are three cabinet ministers belonging to the Congress—Banna Gupta (health), Mithilesh Thakur (water resources) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture), and MLAs C.P. Singh (BJP), Mathura Prasad Mahto (JMM), Sudesh Mahto (AJSU-P) and  Vinod Singh (CPI-ML).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI admission test to be held online on January 3, 2021||The Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT- 2021) for admission to XLRI will be held online on January 3, 2021 the B-school announced on Monday. Registration for XAT started on September 12. The last date for applying is November 30. The test will be held from 9.30am. The duration of the test will be three hours. XAT- 2021 will accept applications for XLRI-Jamshedpur and XLRI's Delhi-NCR campus. A candidate can choose two preferred test cities for the test. Around 90 institutes across the country use the XAT score for their admission process. Director of XLRI Father P. Christie said the B-school has been conducting XAT for over 70 years on an all-India level to select suitable students for management education. "XAT, though one of the oldest competitive examinations in the country, has always kept pace with cutting-edge testing methodology. XATs multi-dimensional testing framework strives to assess the aptitude of candidates for business management education meaningfully. XAT has a multi-pronged examination structure and in-built fairness to evaluate candidates aspiring to be future business leaders, " he said. Candidates who hold a recognised bachelor's degree of minimum three years duration or equivalent in any discipline and those completing their final examination by June 10, 2021 may also apply. XAT- 2021 will be conducted in 185 centres across India.  Among them are Agra, Ahmedabad, Allahabad, Ambala, Amravati, Amritsar, Bengaluru, Berhampur, Bhatinda,  Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Bokaro Steel City, Chandigarh, Mohali, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuttack, Dehradun, Delhi-NCR, Dhanbad, Dibrugarh, Durgapur, Asansol, Ernakulam, Gandhinagar, Goa, Gorakhpur, Guwahati, Gwalior, Hooghly, Hyderabad, Indore, Jabalpur, Jaipur, Jammu, Jamshedpur, Kanpur, Calcutta, Kota, Kottayam, Kurnool, Kurukshetra, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Madurai, Mangalore, Mumbai, Mysore, Nagpur, Nashik, Patna, Pune, Raipur, Rourkela, Visakhapatnam and Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Opium seizures in Khunti, Chatra prompt probe into inter-state drug trade||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and other agencies have seized opium and marijuana worth Rs 60 lakh from various parts of  Jharkhand in the past one month, leading to an investigation into the financial backing of an interstate drug trade that seems to be in operation in Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected tribal districts of the state, highly placed sources said on Monday. An official overseeing the recoveries in Jharkhand said that various agencies seized opium worth around Rs 21.31 lakh and marijuana worth around Rs 35.56 lakh from different districts of the state in the past one month. While most of the seized opium was cultivated in the LWE-affected red zones of the state, the marijuana was seized from peddlers in transit. “The marijuana that we recovered was cultivated in Odisha and Chhattisgarh and seized in Jharkhand while it was being smuggled to northern states,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The Zonal Director of NCB in Patna, Kumar Manish, refused to comment on the value of the drugs that were seized in Jharkhand, but he admitted that opium grown in LWE-affected clusters in the interiors of the state were being smuggled to Haryana, Punjab and other northern states. “We have initiated a probe into the financial links of the interstate nexus. It cannot be denied that opium was cultivated illegally in LWE hotbeds of Jharkhand,” said Manish, adding that several members of the drug nexus were arrested from northern states as well as Jharkhand in the past year. As per records with the NCB office in Ranchi, over 1000 acres of opium cultivation was destroyed in Jharkhand in 2019-2020. This figure, NCB officials said, was only 20 per cent of the total area of land on which opium is cultivated in Jharkhand. Several LWE groups, including the CPI (Maoist) and the Peoples Liberation Front of India (PLFI), were active in Chatra and Khunti districts of Jharkhand, the hotbed of opium cultivation, officials said. “Illegal opium cultivation is being done in the interiors of Chatra and Khunti districts. The possibility of LWE group’s involvement in it cannot be denied,” said Manish. The Pathalgadi movement, which advocated the idea of having liberated lans in the interiors, also had its epicenter in Khunti district. The former NDA government of the state, which faced the heat during the Pathalgadi movement in 2017, had alleged that the agitation was partly aimed at safeguarding opium cultivations in those areas. In 2017, villagers in parts of Khunti district held Pathalgadi, a practice of demarcating the borders of a village and declaring it as liberated land through writings on stone plaques, and allegedly prohibited entry of the administration in their villages. After coming to power in the end of 2019, chief minister Hemant Soren scrapped all sedition charges against Pathalgadi supporters as a gesture of goodwill. According to the Union home ministry, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE-affected. Besides CPI (Maoist), at least 17 splinter outfits were active in various districts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Key Dhanbad roads have no traffic signals ||All key roads of the dsitrict,  including the recently widened Dhanbad-Barwaddah stretch, the Jharia-Dhanbad Road and the Govindpur- Mahuda Road, do not have traffic lights, leading to perennial snarls. It's not that Dhanbad Municipal Corporation hasn't tried. It has  made several attempts to install traffic signals, the latest one in January last year, but no one responded to its expressions of interest offer. As many as 16 locations had been listed in the offer document. Among them were  Memco More, City Centre, Shramik Chowk, Puja Talkies Chowk, Randhir Verma Chowk, Katras Bazar Chowk, Birsa Chowk (at Bank More), JP Chowk (at Bank More), Karkend More, Katras Thana Chowk; Katras More (at Jharia), Steel Gate, Hirapur Hatia More, Dhansar More, Govindpur More, Indra Chowk (Jharia) etc. Since no firm showed any interest, the project was shelved and never taken up again despite the inconvenience lack of traffic lights leads to. Notably, the  selection of sites for the installation of traffic signals had been carried out in consultation with Dhanbad police. Earlier, three digital traffic signals were installed at Randhir Verma Chowk, Puja Talkies Chowk and Combined Building Chowk at a cumulative cost of Rs 22 lakh in 2011, ahead of the 34th National Games. These traffic lights worked for barely a week due to a host of factors like lack of coordination between traffic police and municipal corporation authorities, lack of battery back-up at traffic signals, malfunctioning timers, besides budgetary issues plaguing DMC. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, former president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce Surendra Arora said, "As all major roads of the district, including the Bank More- Sindri Road (25.71 km), City Center- Barwaddah Road (5.5 Km)  and Govindpur- Mahuda Road,  have been widened to four lanes and vehicles are plying at higher speeds it is imperative to have traffic signals." Arora also appealed to the authorities to maintain street lights as most of the time, these stopped working after they were installed.  "No responsibility has been fixed for maintenance and operation of strete lights," he said. Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar said he would look into the matter at the ealriest.  “I have just taken over and have not been able to go through the files pertaining to the proposal for installation of traffic lights. I will look into it as per need,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||New Rajya Sabha members, including Shibu Soren, sworn in  ||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief Shibu Soren, DMK leader Tiruchi Siva and BJP's Syed Zafar Islam were among the 15 newly-elected members who took oath in Rajya Sabha on Monday. On the opening day of the Monsoon session of Parliament that is being held with several restrictions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the MPs walked to the designated spot, took the oath but did not go for the customary handshake with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Naidu welcomed them with folded hands as members came forward for the oath-taking, signed the register, and walked back to their designated seats, without approaching other leaders for greetings. Soren, 76, who had last month tested positive for the coronavirus, spoke feebly as he took oath in Hindi and was assisted by a Rajya Sabha staff member as he walked to his seat. Banker-turned-politician, Islam, who was elected to the Upper House from Uttar Pradesh last month, took oath in the name of God in Hindi. Siva took oath in Tamil as did his party colleagues N R Elango and Anthiyur P Selvarasu. From UP minister Jaiprakash Nishad of BJP also took the oath. Congress leader Phulo Devi Netam, who was elected to the Upper House from Chhattisgarh, took oath in Hindi while NCP's Fauzia Khan took oath in Marathi. While TRS leaders K Keshava Rao took oath in Telugu, his colleague K R Suresh Reddy, who sported a scarf with an image of his party president, took oath in English. TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi and his colleague Arpita Ghosh, M V Shreyams Kumar (LJD), Wanuiroy Kharlukhi (NPP), and Ajit Kumar Bhuyam (Ind) were the other members who took the oath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt focus on Dumka with eye on byelections ||Chief minister Hemant Soren will lay the foundation of several projects and hold interactive sessions with the people of Dumka when he begins a three-day tour of Jharkhand’s sub-capital in Santhal Pargana on Monday. Hemant’s trip _ he is scheduled to fly to Dumka in the afternoon _ comes ahead of byelections in Dumka, a seat he vacated after he became MLA from Barhait.  A bypoll will also be held in Bermo as sitting MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh of the Congress died in May. On Monday evening, Hemant will first hold meetings with notables of the district. On Tuesday, he will take part in as many as seven public programmes at various pockets of Dumka constituency to unveil a slew of public and social welfare projects. On Wednesday, Hemant is scheduled to inaugurate three operation theatres and other facilities at the newly constructed Dumka Medical College and Hospital. He will also inaugurate a sewing training centre for women at Haripur panchayat and hand over credit linkage cash transfers to women’s self-help groups. In the coming byelections, dates for which are yet to be announced, JMM is likely to contest Dumka, considered a traditional bastion, while ally Congress is expected to put up a candidate in Bermo. Sources close to Hemant said he was likely to visit Bermo soon. “The mahagatbandhan is gearing up for the twin bypolls which is expected to be held along with Bihar elections likely to be announced later this month,” said a JMM leader. He said the chief minister was keen on visiting both constituencies before the monsoon session of the state Assembly scheduled from September 18-22. “The government is of the view that the Election Commission of India may announce polls soon after the parliament session,” he added. The Congress has also begun mobilising manpower in Bermo. State party president Rameshwar Oraon was on a two-day tour of Bokaro in the Bermo constituency and is scheduled to return to Ranchi on Monday. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “We have begun preparations in Bermo, which has been our bastion. Our party president held extensive meetings with all block and mandal heads to assign poll related tasks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Coronavirus outbreak: more than 278 containment zones in Bokaro||Bokaro district is witnessing a rise in micro-containment zones. In a bid to contain the spread and rising Covid-19 cases, the administration has set up 278 containment zones, mostly in urban areas. More than 1000 cases have surfaced in the last 12 days of which 559 cases are active in the district. The maximum micro-containment zones are in Bokaro Steel Township and Chas Township areas. The administration has increased Covid testing which. Since August 31, two Covid-19 camps were installed in more than a dozen pockets across the district. “Administration also has a plan to organise a third mega camp on September, 16 at 14 places across the district specially in slums keeping a target to test more than 8000 residents,” said Shashi Prakash Singh, sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chas. More number of testing, leads to more detection of cases and therefore micro-containment zones are rising. More than 1500 residents are tested every day. The patients detected positive according to their health conditions were either sent to a dedicated Covid hospital or put in institutional Covid Care Centres.  At present  more than 180 residents are in home isolation. According to protocol, an administration declares a locality a micro-containment zone when the infected person is a resident of the area. A team from health department does contact tracing exercise and conduct sampling for Covid-19 of the family members and neighbours of the infected persons, said a health department officer. The positive cases in the district are rising. Assessing the situation, deputy commissioner, Rajesh Kumar Singh has appealed to people to take precautionary measures like wearing masks and maintain social-distancing. The number of micro-containment zones keeps varying as infected persons recover and health departments ensure that there are no other positive patients in the locality. Disaster management officer, Shakti Kumar, said at present there are 278 micro-containment zones in the district. In comparison to rural areas, the containment zones are high in urban areas. Bokaro had around 80 micro-containment zones in August, but spurt in cases has increased its number to 278. Health department sources said that the number of containment zones is likely to increase after a mega Covid-19 sampling camp organised for Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Father of dead policeman accuses daughter-in-law of murder||Bal Sudha Pandey, father of late assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Tarun Kumar Pandey, has submitted a petition with senior SP M Tamil Vanan alleging his daughter-in-law murdered his son. ASI Tarun Kumar Pandey allegedly shot himself at Golmuri police line over a month ago, following a quarrel with his wife. A resident of Nalanda district in Bihar, Bal Sudha Pandey has accused his daughter-in-law of adultery, and said she would often have telephonic conversations with a young man. He also said that he took her cell phone, and has asked SP Vanan to check her call detail record (CDR). He has also alleged that she might have conspired to murder his son, as she has changed her statement to the police repeatedly. The woman had told the police in one of her statements that her husband was tense, but she was unaware of the cause. ASI Pandey, who was married in July this year, allegedly shot himself on the second floor of a three-storeyed residential flat on August 10. The newly-wed couple had returned from Nalanda after their marriage, a week ago before the incident. They were in quarantine when the incident took place. SP Vanan confirmed receiving a petition from ASI Pandey’s father. "We will get the complaint probed soon. As the incident was registered as suicide,  an unnatural death case has been registered. If we find anything substantial, we will change the section accordingly," he told The Telegraph Online. "We will also obtain the CDR in question from the service provider and scrutinize it," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bag-snatchers caught and beaten up by villagers in Chatra||Villagers in Chatra managed to catch three bag-snatchers who had injured two women and tried to escape with cash. The villagers beat them up before handing them over to police. The incident occurred at Gospur in the Huntergunj police station area. Rinki Kumari and Fatima Khatoon were in the village as representatives of a microfinance company. They spoke to the villagers on applying for loans and collected EMIs from self-help groups. While they were walking towards another village, four men on two motorcycles swooped in and tried to snatch their bags. The women raised an alarm, prompting the bag-snatchers to hit them. They then tried to escape but villagers working in the field chased one of the motorcycles down and beat the riders. The women then called up the manager of the company, who along with another employee managed to stop the other motorcycle and catch one of the riders. The three bag-snatchers were identified as Sumit Kumar, Robin Singh and Abhishek Singh. Last month, a recovery agent of a private company was shot dead at Itkhori in Chatra. The alleged killers had fled with Rs 1 lakh in cash. The police had cracked the case and confirmed the involvement of local youths. Navjeevan Research and Development Society, Dhanbad, in association with Human Empowerment and Development Society, Varanasi, and My Dream Life Foundation, Jamshedpur, organised a National Youth Dialogue webinar on the theme, “Youth in the making of 21st century India”. The webinar was inaugurated on Sunday by Sanjay Paswan, a member of the Bihar legislative council, in presence of special guest Raj Sinha, the Dhanbad MLA. The renowned poet and litterateur, Anuj Lugun, and the social activist from Jamshedpur, Binoy Amber Minj, spoke during the programme, while the vice-chancellor of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University, Anjani Kumar Srivastava, presided over the programme. Paswan said the youth must develop the four Cs: critical thinking, communication skills, collaborative behaviour and comprehensive vision. Sinha said that without the active involvement of the youth in politics, it will be difficult to make India an influential country in the 21st century world. Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad on Sunday was discharged from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, after recovering from Covid-19. She reached her home at Hurhuru in Hazaribagh town where she was greeted by local Congress leaders. “I am thankful to doctors, nurses and other staff who looked after me,” she said. The Dhanbad administration plans to conduct rapid antigen tests at 59 vulnerable spots across the district, including 17 sites in Bagharma block and eight sites each in Kaliasol block and Dhanbad on a daily basis from September 15. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the vulnerable sites have been identified on the basis of the Covid-19 infection scenario, population density and the people’s socio-economic condition. He added that testing at Dhanbad railway station and two border check posts at Chirkunda and Maithon will also be conducted daily. A college student on Sunday drowned in the Shankdara river at Badal panchayat in Barkagaon block, around 46km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Vikas Kumar, also known as Vicky, had gone to the rain-fed river for a bath when he slipped into deep water. Divers were called in but they could not find Kumar. Villagers also tried fishing out his body but without luck. The search for his body will continue on Monday, police said. The district forest department in association with Jharia police on Sunday conducted raids at Bata More, Shiv Mandir Road and Sabji Patti and arrested two persons for caging and selling birds such as parrots, which is prohibited under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. An officer said the raids were conducted after a tip-off. The birds will be released in their natural habitat. CPM activists on Sunday protested at Ambedkar Chowk in Jharia’s Lodna against Delhi police for naming party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor and activist Apoorvanand and documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy as co-conspirators in the riots in the national capital in February. District unit secretary Shiv Balak Paswan said the police had acted on the instructions of the force’s political masters. The Eastern Central Railway Karmachari Union, in response to a call by the All India Railwaymen's Federation, has decided to organise a public awareness programme in support of its various demands from September 14 to September 19. The programme includes a motorcycle rally on Monday from the railways’ Hill Colony to the Dhanbad railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid ‘information overload’||An online survey conducted by two psychiatrists of Ranchi has found that information overload during the lockdown impacted the mental health of the people of Jharkhand, causing psychological distress that led to significant impairment in their social and daily functioning. The survey was conducted during the period from April 15 to May 3 and the responses of over 500 people were analysed. “We circulated a questionnaire among a large number of people of the state through email, etc, over 600 of whom responded,” said Dr Nishant Goyal, associate professor of Ranchi’s Central Institute of Psychiatry, who along with Dr Ajay Kumar Bakhla, his counterpart in the department of psychiatry at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, conducted the survey. Goyal said 513 filled-in forms were found to be complete and suitable for analysis. Asked about their major findings, he said: “Sixty-five per cent of the respondents said they felt ‘information overload’, while over 50 per cent reported significant impairment in their social and day to day functioning.” Besides, 45 per cent respondents said they felt significant psychological distress characterised by excessive concern about ill effects of Covid-19 infection, he said. Around 10 per cent of them also feared they would die if infected, he added. “Female respondents in the age group 25-35 years were found to be more affected than their male counterparts,” Goyal said. Asked how they assessed the overload of information, he said they had asked the respondents to specify how often they tried to gather Covid related information, adding that most of them replied “frequently” or “very frequently”. “Though many read newspapers or watched TV, most of them, about 80 to 90 percent, spent considerable time gathering such information through Facebook or WhatsApp groups many of which are not at all reliable or even spread fake news,” said Bakhla. The information which apparently looked like authentic increased insecurity among the people, so much that some even allegedly committed suicide, he said, adding that financial insecurity due to unemployment or fear of losing jobs were also additional factors. “Some of them were scared of getting infected and thought they would die as there was no treatment,” said Goyal. Asked about the changes they have observed among the people at present, Bakhla said, “If that was a case of panic, it’s now that of carelessness.” The saturation of information has now reached such a point that the same people who were panicking earlier and dared not go out are now moving about without even wearing masks, he said, adding that excessive behaviour could be risky and all should behave rationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
