15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city’s apex Puja committee gives go-ahead for dhakis||The organisers of Durga Puja in the steel city will be allowed to bring in dhakis provided they produce a certificate that they don’t have Covid-19 and a government testimony that they don’t pose a health hazard. This was decided during a two-hour-long meeting of the city’s Central Durga Puja Committee on Tuesday. Held at Golmuri, the committee meeting was presided over by general secretary Ram Babu Singh and attended by about a dozen of the 320 committees that organise Durga Puja. Singh said that the Puja will be organised while observing restrictions and any guidelines issued by the administration will be followed. “As many as five committee representatives proposed that dhakis be allowed during the Puja. But keeping in mind the pandemic, we have decided that at most two dhakis will be allowed at each Puja. The dhakis should produce certificates stating that they are Covid-19 negative. Moreover, the dhakis will also have to furnish testimonies from the health department that they will not spread the coronavirus,” Singh told The Telegraph Online. Singh added that the committees will see to it that the dhakis play strictly during rituals and they remain confined to the pandals. Singh pointed out that the decision of the Central Durga Puja Committee is subject to directives from the local administration. He said the members of the Central Durga Puja Committee will meet East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar seeking his nod. Kumar said permission for dhakis is subject to the guidelines to be issued by the state government. “Neither the Central Durga Puja Committee nor I can give permission for engaging dhakis during the festivities. The administration is giving priority to controlling the pandemic and any permission is subject to guidelines from the state government,” Kumar told this website, adding that he expects such guidelines shortly. Dhakis are traditional drummers who play “dhaks” during Hindu festivals, primarily in Bengal.  Drum beats are an integral part of the five-day-long annual festivities associated with Durga Puja. In the steel city, too, most organisers engage dhakis and tend to bring them mostly from Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bagey Bustee residents block Kadma-Sonari marine drive||Traffic on the Kadma-Sonari marine drive came to a standstill as residents of Bagey Bustee, under Kadma thana area, blocked the road for more than two hours on Tuesday. The residents were protesting police inaction in checking rash driving of heavy vehicles on the thoroughfare. A 22-wheeled speeding trailer rammed into a railing, having deviated from its course on the marine drive along Bagey Bustee at about 1 am on Tuesday. Fortunately no one was injured in the incident. Protesting residents detained the trailer driver, demanding an explanation for his rash driving. They were concerned that the accident could have caused fatal injury to someone, in case they were present on the sidewalk. When officers from Kadma thana arrived at the scene, protesters gheraoed the cops, asking what was the permissible speed limit and the course of action if someone was injured. A police official told them in case such a mishap occurs, Rs 10,000 will be given to the victim’s family and the body will be taken for post-mortem.  This irked the protesters further, and they called local Congress activist Shikha Chaudhury. Led by her, around 50 of them blocked the road, not allowing any vehicle to go through, and demanding the police officer be suspended for his cavalier remarks. The blockade, which began at around 10 am, was cleared by noon, after Kadma thana OC Ranjit Kumar assured the protestors that the policeman who made such irresponsible comments will be investigated. "This was not the first time that a heavy vehicle rammed into the railing here.  Earlier, several fatal road accidents have occured due to rash driving.  Had there been a speed limit, chances of such mishaps taking place would be less.  Instead of doing the needful, the police made irresponsible comments about bustee residents," Shikha Chaudhury told The Telegraph Online. "The driver of the trailer lost balance and hence the vehicle had deviated from its path. We are looking into the grievances presented by the bustee residents," OC Ranjit Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro General Hospital shuts some specialist OPDs ||Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), the largest heal hub of the region, has suspended its out-patient department in as many as five streams of medicine, including cardiology and nephrology, to direct resources and manpower towards treating Covid patients. BGH, run by Bokaro Steel Plant, a unit of SAIL, has also altered the timings of its general OPD, according to a circular issued by the hospital. The decision to wind up the OPDs _  chest, neurology and gastroenterology are  the others _has come as rude shock to patients suffering from heart, kidney and  neurological ailments. The circular quotes BSL chief of communications Manikant Dhan saying, “Special clinics will remain suspended till further notice”. But sources said these clinics would be resumed at the earliest after assessing the Covid-19 situation. BGH, which is a dedicated Covid hospital, is treating symptomatic cases. It has 90 beds across four wards, apart from an ICU and OT for Covid-19 patients. The Bokaro district administration has asked BGH to increase the number of beds, given the steady rise in the number of cases. Bokaro also has two Covid Care Centres of 100 beds each for asymptomatic patients. Several asymptomatic patients are in home isolation or hotels. BGH has 135 regular doctors, apart from about 70 contractual doctors and those pursuing DNB in BGH. All of them are over-worked because of which the BGH management decided to put senior doctors on Covid duty. However, the OPD’s in orthopaedics, physiotherapy, skin, ENT, psychiatry will continue to function. The timings will be changed till September 19, Dhan indicated. With 910 beds, BGH is the largest hospital of the coal belt region. It performs over 8,000 surgeries and receives 11 lakh outdoor patients who come from neighbouring districts of Dhanbad and Giridih, and even from Purulia in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand|| Unreasonable fears keep Covid survivors from donating plasma||Covid-19 survivors are refusing to donate blood plasma fearing relapse and other post-infection ailments, doctors manning the plasma bank at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said on Tuesday, highlighting that less than 1 per cent of eligible donors in the state have come forward to donate plasma for treatment of other patients. As per records with the plasma bank at RIMS, only 80 Covid survivors have donated blood plasma so far. Most of them were either policemen or doctors. According to RIMS plasma bank in-charge Dr Sushma, the hospital contacts at least 25 eligible donors every day for plasma donation and only one or two agree to oblige. “Most of the survivors fear that donating blood plasma will make them weak and susceptible to infections. Some are reluctant to visit the plasma donation centre fearing relapse and other infections which they may contract if they come for plasma donation,” said Dr. Sushma. As per records with the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 48,112 people have recovered from Covid in Jharkhand, and more than 20 per cent of them were eligible for plasma donation. As a part of the plasma therapy, blood plasma of a Covid survivor is injected into the body of an infected patient. It is believed that the person who survived the virus has developed antibodies in response to the Covid-19 antigen, and the survivor’s blood plasma may help the infected patient beat the virus, doctors said. Any Covid survivor, who has recovered from the infection at least 28 days ago, is eligible to donate plasma. However, the Covid survivors who have recovered more than four months ago cannot donate plasma, health officials said. The donor should fall in the age bracket of 18 to 60 years and should not have cardiac ailments, diabetes or thyroid malfunctions. Chief minister Hemant Soren inaugurated Jharkhand’s first plasma bank at RIMS on July 28. Since the inauguration, finding donors has been a challenge, doctors spearheading the plasma therapy initiative said. Later, the government also started a plasma donation facility at Jamshedpur Blood Bank, but the response there was as poor as in Ranchi, health officials said. According to sources in the health department, around 25 Covid survivors have donated plasma in Jamshedpur so far. The Ranchi district administration has also launched a mobile app to facilitate plasma donation by helping Covid patients contact eligible donors in their locality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Former cyclist dedicates life to train special athletes||Avtar Singh is anxiously waiting for the Covid-19 situation to improve before he catches up with the intellectually impaired athletes. For this, the 70-year-old is pedaling 10 km daily to keep himself in fine fettle. “I am trying to keep myself fit by pedalling on the Marine Drive. I am waiting for Covid-related situation to ease before I resume training my wards (read intellecually impaired). It is high time I’ve caught up with them,” Singh said. The septuagenarian captained the India cycling team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi and has been adjudged fastest cyclist of the country several times. He is also a seven-time national champion. After retiring from the sport, Singh dedicated his life for the cause of special athletes. He is training and channelising the lives of the special athletes  for over three decades now. He has produced 10 athletes  who have won medals in international competitions organised under the banner of Special Olympics International (SOI). “Well, I don’t think it’s a big feat. I feel immensely satisfied when my wards do well. Smile on their faces makes me a happy man. It’s as simple as that,” Singh said with modesty. The list of international medal winners trained by him include Achal Gaurav (cycling and  floor hockey), Jehangir Gandhy (cycling), Sanjeev Sharma (floor hockey), Raju Pati (football), Harpal Singh (handball), Rajesh Kumar Singh (handball), Alpana Kumari (floor hockey), Nandita (badminton), Tejinder Singh (athletics) and N Sai Krishna (athletics). “I have identified some special athletes who can be groomed for international competitions. I have my eyes on them but I cannot train them now owing to the prevailing situation,” Singh, a resident of Sonari who has coaching diplomas from National Institute of Sports (Patiala), Germany and Malaysia, added. Singh runs Jeevika, an NGO involved in promotion of the mentally challenged, with his wife Sukhdeep who had done a course on mental retardation from Deepshikha in Ranchi. “We use the NGO to bring our students to social mainstream. Some of our students have got married and leading a happy life. Besides sports and fitness drills, we train them on how to make Diwali diyas, paper bags and rakhis. We have also taught them the importance of social distancing, greet people with namaste  and to regularly wash their hands,” he informed. Singh is the only trainer from Asia invited as a technical official for three Special Olympics World Summer Games in Shanghai (2007), Los Angeles (2015) and Abu Dhabi (2019) by the Special Olympic Games organising committee. Singh has progressed from community, state, national and a regional trainer of Asia Pacific countries. He was recently honoured with the  Eunice Kennedy Shriver Award in lifetime category by Samarpan and Bihar Disabled Sports Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Vishwakarma puja sans idols in Adityapur industrial area  ||This year, Vishwakarma Puja at Adityapur industrial area, Jharkhand’s largest manufacturing hub, hub will be sans the usual revelry due to the Covid pandemic and hence there’ll be no lunch, no sweet packets and no idols. Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) has imposed certain restrictions on holding Vishwakarma Puja which is on September 17, Thursday, coinciding with Mahalaya. "Most small medium and largescale industries in Adityapur would perform rituals. But there won't be any idols. Priests would perform rituals in front of a photo," said Inder Agarwal, president of ASIA. He explained that restrictions have been imposed on idols to do away with immersion, which leads to crowding. An industrialist, who owns a forging plant, said, "Last year I had arranged lunch for 1,800 workers along with their families at my plant on the day of Vishwakarma Puja. But this year, we can’t organise a feast. The priest will perform rituals in presence of a restricted number of people. Social distancing and other Covid norms will be followed during the Puja." Another industrialist Santosh Khetan said this year's Vishwakarma Puja would be symbolic. "We pray to God that the situation improves. We will have a grand celebration next year," he said. Idol makers have, therefore, bee left high and dry. “Every year, I used to get orders to make anything between 100 to 150 Vishwakarma idols. But this year I have got orders for only 20 idols, that too only small ones of two to three feet which costs much less," said Ajit Paul, an artisan at Sakchi. He said small idols cost between Rs 600 and Rs 700, while the bigger idols of 6 feet and above fetch them more than Rs 7,000. This year because of the pandemic the size of Vishwakarma idols have been restricted to a maximum of 3 feet. Hence, here was no question of artisans making bigger idols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Allow us to stage shows, musicians, band operators cry out ||Over 50 out-of-work performing artistes, including band operators, singers, musicians and drummers, took out a silent march here on Tuesday to draw the attention of the authorities to their plight after the lockdown killed their livelihood. Walking from Rangatand to Randhir Verma Chowk, the protesters were carrying banners appealing to the state government to come to their help. “Apne halaton ko kaise kah payenge-jiteji sunlo sarkar ab ham to mar hi jayenge; Ehsan nahi ehsash karo, ab hamari pida ka Abhas Karo;” read some of the banners. The artistes demanded that the government grant them permission to start staging programmes so that they could start earning a living. Harish Kajaria, a Bhajan singer of Jharia, said, “My family of six, including my wife, two children and elderly parents, are dependent on my income of around Rs 40,000 per month. The last programme I did was at Barharwa in Bhagalpur in February. Since then, I have not earned a single paisa due to the lockdown,” he told The Telegraph Online on Tuesday. Kajaria, who does PR for Kalakar Sangh, an association of artists, said all his savings had been exhausted in the last six months. “We will be compelled to beg for alms if permission is not granted to us to organise programmes, which are our sole source of sustenance,” he said. Abhishek Singh, a sound system operator of Mugma area of Nirsa block, agreed with Kajaria. “Our income is dependent on religious programmes like Bhagvati Jagran held in temples, besides orchestra shows and marriages. But since none of these programmes, except marriages, is being allowed we have had zero income in the last six months,” he said. Raju Anuragi, president of Kalakar Sangh, Dhanbad, said, “If the government is giving permission to all activities gradually then there should be no harm in allowing artists to hold public programmes. We are committed to follow all the SOPs related to social distancing,” said Anuragi, a folk and devotional singer. Sangh general secretary Pankaj Modi claimed permissions had been granted to organise such programmes in states like Rajasthan and Bihar provided all Covid safety norms were adhered to. “We had written to the state authorities here but did not receive a response. This prompted us to hit the streets,” said Modi, also a devotional singer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Plea to increase limit of social gatherings to 300 in Dhanbad||The Covid lockdown has spelt doom for all whose livelihood depends on social programmes. The bar on holding religious, political and other programmes beside delayed restricted permission for marriage functions has had a impact of such severity that more than 400 decorators, tent house owners and caterers of Dhanbad today decided to make a human chain near the district headquarters on Randhir Verma Chowk on September 23 seeking permission for participation of at least 300 persons during marriage functions. The chain, of more than1500 persons, was done keeping all the social-distancing norms in place. The decision to organize agitation, which began with a Dharna demonstration, was taken during a meeting of executive committee of, Dhanabd Zila decorator association held under the chairmanship of it’s president, Pradeep Singh. Talking to The Telegraph Online after the meeting, Singh, said “All the participants of Dharna representing decorator associations from across the district including decorators besides, videographers, band party members, light mechanics etc besides the generator operators will be wearing, gloves, masks etc and stand in the circles made on the surface during  the human chain formation” “We are facing one of the worst period of our life and if the situation continues like this, we will be compelled to sell our equipments like generators, utensils for cooking food during the marriages, tents etc to sustain our life as we have lost all our savings during the last six months,” he said, adding that they will also put their assets like generators, musical instruments etc as exhibits on the street corner to express their protest. “Despite lack of income we are compelled to pay godown rent for keeping products like generators, curtain, tents, bamboos, utensils, chairs, tables etc” said Singh and added that upcoming marriage season beginning from November is the last opportunity for them during the year and  if the restriction of participation of only 50 persons during marriages continues then they will be deprived of any income and will have no option other than to start begging alms. “The life of  more than 1 lakh persons working as generator operators; caterer staff, band party members, electricians, florists, videographers, photographer, etc had been badly hit due to restricted permission for participation in marriage function and also lack of permission of other public religious and political functions” said Singh . "With the lack of fund collection for over 250 puja committees the puja is also likely to be very low-key and our income is also likely to minimal during  the Durga puja and in that condition if the restriction continues on marriage function it will be difficult for us to make both ends meet." he said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases for the fifth consecutive day||Jharkhand on Monday reported higher number of Covid-19 recoveries than fresh cases for the fifth consecutive day, taking the Covid recovery rate in the state further up to 76.68 per cent, figures released by the health department on Monday late night highlighted. As per figures with the health department, as many as 1263 people were found to be infected by the virus across Jharkhand on Monday, while 1529 Covid patients recovered from the infection and were subsequently discharged from hospital on the day. The Covid tally in the state, however, jumped to 62,737 on Monday, while the number of active cases dropped to 14,064, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) said. As per the bulletin, at least 48,112 Covid patients have overcome the virus in Jharkhand since the lethal virus made its way to the state in March. As many as 263 people were found to be infected in Ranchi and 151 in East Singhbhum in the past 24 hours. However, higher number of Covid patients recovered from the infection in both the districts. Ranchi reported 332 Covid recoveries, while East Singhbhum saw 419 patients defeat the virus. While the count of active cases reduced with several patients surviving the infection, the virus claimed three lives on Monday. All the three Covid victims, as per government data, were from East Singhbhum, a district that has reported nearly 50 per cent of Covid casualties in Jharkhand so far. Out of the 561 Covid deaths in state, at least 247 were from East Singhbhum, the NHM bulletin stated. Data compiled by the NHM highlights that at least 413 of the 516 Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years. As many as 277 of Covid victims were in the age bracket of 51 to 70 years, while 136 victims were older than 70 years. As many as 119 Covid-infected people, in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years could not survive, while 23 died in the age bracket of 11 to 30 years, the NHM data states. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 22,479 people and 21,216 of them came negative. Health workers across Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 14.21 lakh people so far and tested 14.07 lakh of them. While the Covid recovery rate in state was close to the national average, the mortality rate was much lower than the national average of 1.70 per cent. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate by Monday night was 0.89 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bypoll dates awaited but parties in poll mode||The Election Commission is yet to announce the dates for bypoll in two vacant Assembly seats of Jharkhand — Dumka and Bermo — but the political parties appear to have already come in election mode. The Dumka seat fell vacant after chief minister Hemant Soren who won two seats retained Barhait and vacated Dumka while the death of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh warranted bypoll in Bermo. Chief minister Soren reached Dumka on Monday afternoon and will return on Wednesday while Congress state president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon returned to Ranchi after spending two days in Bermo mobilising party workers for byelection. BJP state president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash and leader of its legislature party Babulal Marandi have already toured Dumka recently. Both Soren and Singh had wrested these two seats from the BJP in the last Assembly election in December 2019. Though Soren had won the Dumka seat in 2009, BJP’s Louise Marandi won it in 2014. Similarly, Rajendra Singh who had won the Bermo seat six times since 1985, lost twice, including 2014 to Yogeshwar Mahto of the BJP. So both the JMM and the Congress will try their best to retain their respective seats while the BJP will also fight hard to restore those. Minister Oraon, who held a booth level workers’ meeting at Bermo on Sunday, asked the party members and workers to start working seriously as the byelection would be announced soon. He also listed the works that the present UPA government did or was doing in the state such as waiving of farmers’ loan up to Rs 2 lakh, free electricity to those who consume up to 200 units per month and issuing 15 more ration cards to the needy. “Oraonji addressed party members at booth, panchayat and block level meetings and created enthusiasm among them,” said party spokesperson Alok Dubey. Soren, on the other hand, began his Dumka tour with a meeting with local prominent citizens on Monday evening but has tight schedule for both Tuesday and Wednesday. He will attend various programmes at villages like Dhobna Harinbahal, Sanpchala, Mohanpur, Parsimala and Rajbandh under Masalia and Dumka blocks during those two days and also interact with members of women self-help groups and distribute funds under credit linkage scheme among them. The chief minister will also inaugurate or lay foundation stones for several projects there, besides inaugurating three operation theatres, ultrasonography facility and Covid testing lab at Dumka Medical College Hospital. “If you ask about the upcoming bypoll, we are ready even if it’s held tomorrow,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said when asked if Soren’s tour was aimed at mobilising voters’ support, adding he has to do all these as a people’s representative and a chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||‘Maoist-turned-tormentor’ lynched in Gumla||A former Maoist cadre was allegedly beaten to death with sticks by a mob of over 80 people at a village in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Monday morning The incident took place at Tesera village under Sadar police station of Gumla district, around 100km southwest of state capital Ranchi. According to police sources, Sandeep Tirkey, 32, was associated with the People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) — a splinter group of CPI Maoist — and had been to jail in this connection a few years ago and was released on bail a year back. They said Tirkey had as many as four murder cases in his name. “After his release from jail, he left the PLFI and joined hands with a local criminal Basant Gope and used to extort local businessmen and also harass villagers for money. “The police had been searching for him but during a raid at his house in Tesera he escaped. Villagers who were fed up with his harassment had been keeping an eye on him. Yesterday (Sunday) evening when he came to his house, the villagers held a meeting at night and decided to eliminate him,” said a constable at the local police station preferring anonymity. Gumla superintendent of police Hrudeep P. Janardhanan confirmed the lynching incident. “It is difficult to identify the villagers who had taken part in the lynching as almost the entire village was involved. We have also heard about a meeting held by villagers. Had the meeting been held at the panchayat level, then we would have got a tip-off and prevented this incident. “It might have been a spontaneous meeting by the villagers as they had been harassed for long by Tirkey who had as many as seven criminal cases against him, including four murders. There have been several complaints of him harassing villagers with firearms,” the officer said. He, however, said the police have been asked to trace out the villagers involved in the crime by lodging an FIR against unidentified persons. “He (Tirkey) had been associated with the PLFI but after release from jail had joined hands with local criminals and used to threaten villagers causing resentment among them. However, there have no complaints of eve-teasing or molestation against the deceased,” Janardhanan said. Tesera residents, however, claimed that on Sunday evening Tirkey reportedly went to neighbouring village Baragaon and assaulted a youth. The villagers then decided to teach him a lesson and gheraod his house on Monday morning but could not find him. However, they found him at a roadside shop at a distance and after a chase in a field caught him and lynched him with sticks. According to data available with Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a human rights front, 24 people have been allegedly lynched by mobs in the state between March 2016 and June 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||2000 saplings planted on Dhanbad road ||The Dhanbad forest department has planted 2000 saplings in lieu of 417 trees uprooted during the construction of the 5.5 km Barwaddah Sindri road. Land search is on for carrying out plantation work for trees uprooted during the broadening of the 25.71 km Bank More Sindri road and Govindpur Mahuda road. “The plantation work for the City Center Barwaddah road has been carried out near apki road area, Jagjivan Nagar, police line area etc,” said Dhanbad forest officer Bimal Lakra to The Telegraph Online. The plantation work is generally carried out by the agency involved in the construction work. However, as the agencies concerned like the State Highway Authority of India and Road Construction Department lacked the expertise, the responsibility was given to the forest department. The number of trees to be planted is decided by a committee of the high court. “Finding vacant space within the town for carrying out plantation is a difficult job as sometimes there is no space left for carrying out plantation besides the roads,” Lakra said. At present, the department is grappling with lack of space in connection with plantation for Jharia Dhanbad and Govindpur Mahto roads. “As the cost of plantation work to be carried out by the concerned road construction agency is also to be borne by the same agency so we initially faced problems in fund transfer for carrying out the plantation as we have to also submit a report of fund transaction to Account General office but later a solution was found out and as a PL account was created for fund transfer and we  are using the fund deposited in PL account” explained Lakra. At present, plantation work is being carried out for the trees uprooted during the construction of the 19 km Kakomath road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||NDRF team discovers college student's body||A 15-member NDRF team on Monday located the body of a college student who drowned in Shankdara river at Badal panchayat, Barkagaon block. The team was called after local divers failed to find the body of Vicky who went to take a bath in the river but drowned. Led by inspector Mohammad Kalamuddin, the NDRF team started the search operation at around 7am on Monday. At around 10:30am the body was discovered. Barkagaon police sent the body for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Members of Indian National Trade Union Congress on Monday staged demonstration in different collieries of BCCL in Dhanbad by beating utensils to protest against the commercial mining and alleged attempt by central government  to bring changes in labour laws. National vice president of INTUC, Ak Jha said," more than 90000 workers of Coal India will have to suffer  due to wrong policies of the central government. " Traders of under the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry had a meeting with district administration led by Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad during which they discussed a host of issues including the negative impact on trade due to strict implementation of 14 days of quarantine for business related visitors. The traders led by the president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chetan Goenka also discussed other issues including the participation of shop keepers in the Rapid Antigen Test for Covid 19 conducted by the district administration. Talking to media after the meeting, Goenka said, “As we are facing difficulty in transport of goods from other states due to the 14 days of quarantine rule for the outsiders in state including  the business visitors we demanded the district the district administration to exempt such visitors from quarantine rule who return to the respective place within three days of their arrival in Jharkhand and SDO assured to discuss the issue with the Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh to find out a solution” President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce Prabhat Surolia who was also present during the occasion, said, “many traders of Dhanbad regularly visit Ranigang and Asansol as some of them have shops and commercial establishments there and if they are compelled to go on quarantine for 14 days after return of each visit of Bengal they will be not able to carry out trade and thus we raise the issue witht he SDO who assured to look into our demand for relaxation of rules for regular visitors” said Surolia and added that the 14 days of quarantine rule is also negatively impacting the hotel industry in Dhanbad as  the no visitor from the  outside the district is preferring to visit Dhanbad. “The SDO assured us that no shopkeepers will be forced for Covid testing but sought our cooperation for special Rapid Antigen Test which is quite crucial for breaking the Covid chain in the district” said Surolia and the added that he SDO also instructed the shop keepers not to indulge in any encroachment of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation shop failing which strict action would be taken against the violators. Ducks are a great source of recreation to the 134 battalion of the CRPF here in Daltonganj. The water fowls serve as a great stress buster to the jawans and officials. Commandant of the 134 battalion of the CRPF A.D. Sharma said the ducks are like family members. "Our jawans who have been incapacitated in our fight against the rebels look after the ducks" said the Commandant. Leftovers of our mess become the feed of our ducks he added. The water body in this CRPF base camp never goes dry even in the harshest of the summer said sources. The ducks spend their night in a fortified shed protected with wire mesh to keep cats and dogs at bay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
