16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Govt launches website to handle home isolation requests||Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in Jharkhand will now have to register and upload necessary information on a government-run website in order to get permission for home isolation, the health department said in a notification on Wednesday, announcing the launch of Swaraksha.nic.in. The Swaraksha website, designed by the state National Informatics Centre (NIC), will allow asymptomatic Covid patients to download home isolation certificates to prove that they are eligible to stay at home despite carrying an infection. However, in order to get the certificate, a patient will have to register on the website through his or her Specimen Referral Form (SRF) ID, a unique number which is given to every person who undergoes a Covid test. After registration, the patient will have to provide infrastructural details such as the number of rooms in the patient’s house, the number of toilets and whether the house had the facility of an oximeter. Besides, the patient will also have to provide details of family members older than 60 years and younger than 10 years. Also, details of all family members and their comorbidities, if any, will have to be specified while filling up the form on the website, the notification said. Along with the SRF ID, the patient seeking home isolation will also have to provide details of the collection date of his swab and the date on which his test result was out. In case the patient is suffering from any other disease, he or she will have to mention it on the website irrespective of the nature of the disease. Once the patient shares all the details on the website, the district administration will decide if he/she can be allowed to stay in home isolation. The patient will be able to download the home isolation certificate from the website once the district administration scrutinizes all the details provided and grants him or her permission to stay at home. As per government data, as many as 64,456 people across Jharkhand have been infected by Covid-19 virus so far. There were 14,135 active cases of infection in the state, and a majority of the patients were asymptomatic, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Firing at Hazaribagh banquet hall||Shots were fired at a banquet hall in Hazaribagh on Wednesday around 8pm. Though no one was injured in the incident, superintendent of police Karthik S. and Sadar subdivisional police officer Kamal Kishore went to the banquet hall and took some people into custody. Kishore said that the landlord and tenant were locked in a legal battle. Local sources said the landlord was not in favour of leasing the property to the present tenant. This angered the tenant which resulted in the legal battle. Garhwa police on Wednesday busted a seven-member gang involved in the illegal trade of firearms. Subdivisional police officer, Garhwa, Bahman Tuti identified the arrested men as Vivek Kumar Singh, 25, Ravi Kumar Mehta, 19 (both residents of village Pansa in Palamu), Prince Kumar Singh, 22 (a resident of Panchkhori in Palamau), Lalmohan Dubey, 25 (a resident of Baliyari in Garhwa) and Ramchella Rajwar, 38 (a resident of Bharat Pahari in Garhwa). After a tip-off, a team of Kandi police reached Rajwar’s house. They arrested three men with a bag containing weapons, including indigenous country-made items and tools. During interrogation, the men told the police that their companions were hiding in the forest, Tuti said. Two persons were arrested on Wednesday from the Saria area in Giridih in connection with a robbery in Nirsa’s Galfarbari on September 14. Vickey Sharma and Sanjay Sharma had allegedly stolen two laptops and a mobile phone from a shop which they reached ostensibly to get a photocopy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Marandi poser for JMM govt on rising crime||The leader of the Opposition, BJP leader Babulal Marandi, on Wednesday blamed the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) government in the state for deteriorating law and order triggered by a rise in Maoist violence, growing crime rate and flourishing illegal trade of minerals. Marandi alleged that in nine months of the JMM’s rule, the government has failed to perform in every front. The JMM government had the opportunity to bolster law and order and make healthcare available to coronavirus patients at government hospitals; however, it never focused on these areas, Marandi said. As a result, crime and Maoist violence are on the rise, and mismanagement at government hospitals is making Covid-19 patients suffer, he said. Private hospitals are charging exorbitantly high rates which the poor or middle class cannot afford, he added. Marandi said: “Maoist extremism had almost vanished under the BJP government, but has resurfaced across the state. At least 85 minor and major incidents of Maoist violence have taken place during the JMM’s rule.” According to Marandi, Maoists who had left the state have returned. Marandi, while talking to reporters at the Circuit House here, said that during the JMM’s rule, theft, dacoity, loot, murder and other crimes have increased manifold. Women and girls are insecure because of the rising cases of rape, he said. “It is noteworthy that criminal incidents have increased when compared to the situation under the BJP government. Why would police fail to deliver under this government?” Marandi asked. He also stated that the districts on the border have seen a rise in illegal trade of coal, stone and other minerals. These are being smuggled to other areas and government leaders are crying for funds, he said. Development projects have been badly affected. Central government funds for MGNREGA and other schemes are reaching the ground, but there are high levels of corruption. The BJP also condemned the JMM’s land mutation bill. The party will oppose the bill in the Assembly as well. The bill is not favourable to the people of Jharkhand, Marandi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tata academy graduate appointed Owen Coyle's deputy||Experienced coach Noel Wilson will join Owen Coyle’s backroom staff as an assistant coach for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) season alongside Sandy Stewart and goalkeeping coach Ezequiel Gomez. Noel, who worked as the reserve team’s head coach in the previous season, led the team to some excellent performances in the 2nd Division I-League and various other tournaments. On  being appointed as the first team assistant coach, Noel said: “ I thank God for giving me this opportunity and the management for handing me such a challenging position. It’s a great privilege for me to work alongside a well-established coach like Owen Coyle. I will share all my knowledge and support with Owen to help the players in the best possible manner so that we can have a successful season in the IPL.” Noel also comes with abundant experience from his playing career, which was established in Jamshedpur. He was enrolled in Tata Football Academy in 1996 and graduated with the third batch in 1998 with fellow cadets like Deepak Mondol and Mahesh Gawli. Being a former TFA player, I have a big connection with the city of Jamshedpur. For me, it is the city that made me what I am today. It’s an honour to serve this city as the club’s first team assistant coach,” Noel said. The 40-year-old began his career as a coach in 2013 and currently holds an AFC `A’ license certificate. He worked with Roots Football Academy and South United FC in Bangalore before joining Jamshedpur as the reserve team's head coach. Noel has also represented several major clubs like Churchill Brothers, Mohun Bagan, Mohammedan Sporting and Mumbai FC as a player and also played at the international level for Team India on numerous occasions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid positive MLA seeks virtual access to Assembly  ||A Congress MLA, who has tested positive for the coronavirus and is now on 14-day home quarantine, has requested the Speaker to make arrangements so that Covid patients like her can join the upcoming monsoon session of the state Assembly virtually. In a letter to Speaker Ravindranath Mahto on Wednesday, Barkagaon representative Amba Prasad pointed out that there were several MLAs who, like her, were in home isolation after testing Covid positive, but were asymptomatic. “The session is being convened after a long time. Hence, every MLA will have several burning issues of their constituency to raise within the House. Also, in the interest of public good, it is important to take part in the voting process for the passage of important bills. Therefore, I request, on behalf of several MLAs, to make online arrangements so that legislators can attend the session virtually,” she said. Speaker Mahto could not be contacted for his comments. But Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said he was yet to receive a formal request letter from the MLA. Nor had he received any directive from the Speaker. “The journalist fraternity has, in fact, requested for online arrangements to witness the proceedings of the House. This, we are exploring. As for the MLA’s request, we shall act accordingly after receiving formal directives,” he said. Another Congress MLA, Naman Bixal Kongari (Kolebira), tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, which means the strength of the party would be reduced in the Assembly during the monsoon session scheduled to be held between September 18 and September 22. Currently, the Congress has 17 MLAs in the 81-member House with an effective strength of 79. Following Kongari’s infection, the party’s strength in the House will be 15. Three other MLAs — Deepika Pandey (Mahagama), Banna Gupta (Jamshedpur West), Badal Patralekh (Jarmundi) _ who were infected have recovered. But it isn’t clear whether they will attend the session or not. In the wake of the pandemic, Covid-19 tests have been made mandatory for all MLAs, bureaucrats and officials taking part in the Assembly session. They have all been asked to provide Covid negative reports 72 hours before the commencement of the House session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||This Dhanbad Puja goes with Covid as pandal theme  ||The pandemic has caught the imagination of Puja committees with one of the most well known pujas of Dhanbad deciding to build a pandal based on the coronavirus theme. The pandal this year will be smaller compared to the last year's pandal of 40 feet.But it will be studded with a large number of posters intended at creating awareness about the significance of adhering to safety norms, including social distancing. Notably, the Puja will be held on a smaller scale this year with low-height pandals, smaller idols and without elaborated immersion ceremonies as per the decision taken last week by  organisers of over 250 pujas. Divulging details, Shyamal Sen, a renowned artist of Dhanbad who is one of the founder member of Navyuvak Sangharsh Samiti that organises the Puja at Manaitand , said, “After much pondering over various themes we decided to make the pandal on the real issue affecting humanity now. Instead of a Utopian theme, the padal will be based on the shape of the coronavirus and will be equated with a demon.” “The virus has changed the life of human beings, whether on the socio economic front or on the professional front. So, we can’t remain aloof from it. Hence, we decided to lend the opportunity to visitors to interact with the truth and get prepared for the fight. We must arm ourselves with necessary gear like masks, sanitizers, gloves and make changes in our behaviour  by adopting social distancing  as a way of life,” said Sen. He said this year, they will not allow devotees to offer pushpanjali as a social distancing measure. Instead, volunteers deputed outside the puja pandal will collect flowers from devotees and offer them before the idol. “We have also decided to instal two sanitization chambers at the entry point so that all visitors  get sanitized before the entering the pandal,” said Sen, adding that since the income of everyone has been hit, they will be not be collecting donations from visitors. Instead, they will manage through contributions of committee members. Navyuvak Sangharsh Samity has been organising Pujas every year since 1972. Every year, the pandal is based on a theme. Last year, the theme was based on the Chinnmastika temple of Rajrappa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant launches Covid lab, welfare measures in Dumka||Chief minister Hemant Soren launched a Covid-19 testing lab, an operation theatre and an ultrasound unit at Dumka Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday, describing the Rs 20 crore worth additions as key assets for the revival of the ailing health infrastructure of the Santhal Pargana region. While winding up his three-day tour of Dumka, Hemant said that setting up the RT-PCR lab at the hospital, recently renamed Fulo-Jhano Medical College and Hospital, was in keeping with his government’s endeavour to reach Covid care facilities to the grassroots to ensure early detection and cure of patients. “Since the outbreak of this global pandemic in Jharkhand in March, we have had to begin from the scratch to combat this menace. At one point in time, we didn’t have a single Covid testing lab in our state. But despite financial and other challenges, we have set up many labs both in government hospitals and private entities so that we can screen as many as we can to curb the spread of this virus,” he said. He also promised all-round support to develop the medical college and hospital in the days ahead. Dumka’s Covid-19 lab for RT-PCR tests is the first in the district and second in the Santhal Pargana region. Last month, a private lab set up similar facilities in Deoghar in association with the district administration. Principal of Dumka medical college Dr Hiralal Murmu said they had begun testing samples from August 28. “On an average, we are now testing 1,000-1,200 samples daily, covering three districts of Dumka, Pakur and Sahebganj. The lab is a boon for the people of the region who had to wait for weeks to get their Covid test reports, which in turn delayed timely detection and also complicated health parameters of people with comorbidities,” he said. Dr Murmu said the lab had been set up in association with a private agency named, Prejah Foundation. “We have signed an MoU with this agency for three months for setting up the lab, training our people for testing and for providing other support. The state government has spent close to Rs 2.5 crore,” said Murmu. Another official of the medical college appealed to the Hemant Soren government for ensuring proper teaching manpower. “Although, the college has started with 100 students of MBBS this year, we are struggling as there is an acute shortage of teachers. Against a required staff strength of 115 teachers, we now have only 58,” said the official on condition of anonymity. Later, Hemant also launched a sewing training centre at Hirapur panchayat in Dumka and doled out credit cash linkage facilities to women’s self-help groups. During his three-day tour, Hemant held extensive public meetings with civil society groups and notables, and also took part in government sponsored programmes. The visit, JMM sources said, was also aimed at gauging the public mood in Dumka, considered a party bastion, ahead of by-elections, dates of which are yet to be announced by the Election Commission of India. On Tuesday, Hemant announced at a public meeting that his government was committed to providing old age pension (60 years and above) to the needy and was working on plans to provide widow pensions irrespective of age.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Teacher makes model of IPL trophy to perk up students ||A schoolteacher here has built a replica of the IPL 2020 trophy from waste material and got his students to work on painting portraits of captains of the eight teams participating in the T20 tournament as a way to encourage them to take up sports. “Being born and brought up in a humble family, I have always had a soft corner for children of low-income group families living in slums. Hence, I will be gifting the model to such children after organising a cricket match among them in order to encourage them about sports,” said Arjun Ram Paul (31), an art teacher of Kamal Katesaria School, Dhanbad. Paul said the two feet model, weighing around 400gm, was made of wastepaper and broken utensils, all put together using adhesive during the last week. He had made similar models of the FIFA World Cup trophy in 2018 and the ICC World Cup in 2019. “The two students, who worked with me at my house developing the model and paintings, spent less than one hour every day for a week,” he said, adding that he was careful to ensure they observed social distancing norms while working on the project. “We maintained a distance of a metre among ourselves, wore masks and used sanitisers regularly,” Paul said. As for the paintings of all the captains _ M.S. Dhoni of Chennai Superkings,  Rohit Sharma of Mumbai Indians, Dinesh Karthik of Kolkata Knight Riders,  David Warner of Sunrisers Hyderabad, Steve Smith of Rajasthan Royals, K.L. Rahul of King’s XI Punjab, Virat Kohli of Royal Challengers, Bangalore; and Shreyas Iyer of Delhi Capitals _ they used acrylic colours. “I have been a sports lover since childhood. And I leave no opportunity to promote sports. Since IPL 2020 is being held outside the country in Dubai, I made the model of the trophy to create a buzz around the tournament here among young sports lovers,” Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||1702 people, including Ranchi Mayor Asha Lakra, tests Covid positive in a day||Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra was among the 1702 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the Covid tally in the state close to 65,000, health officials said. Lakra also met several policemen at Morabadi on Tuesday, hours before she took to social media to announce that she has tested positive for Covid-19. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday late night, as many as 457 of the 1700-odd cases of Covid infection reported in Jharkhand were from Ranchi. Meanwhile, at least 1638 Covid patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours, and 329 of them were from Ranchi. The Covid toll in Jharkhand jumped to 571 on Tuesday after eight patients, including three from East Singhbhum, died during treatment. As per government figures, the count of Covid casualties reached 250 in East Singhbhum on Tuesday, which is the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, Dhanbad and West Singhbhum reported two Covid casualties each and one patient died in Bokaro. Despite the casualties, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate dropped to 0.88 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. After witnessing a fall in active cases for the past five days, the count of active cases increased in Jharkhand. There were as many as 14118 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand by Tuesday midnight. The NHM bulletin stated that the tally in Ranchi was close to 14,000 on Tuesday, while the number of active cases reached 3,523 here. The number of active cases, however, dropped in East Singhbhum as 191 fresh cases surfaced there while 282 patients recovered. East Singhbhum, as per government records, had 2,703 active cases of Covid infection. The count of Covid recoveries also drew close to 50,000 on Tuesday and the recovery rate jumped to 77.20 per cent. As per records with the health department, as many as 49,750 people have overcome Covid-19 infection across Jharkhand, and 10,297 of them were from the state capital. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 51,795 people from across the state. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 14.83 lakh people and tested 14.71 lakh of them. The health department has intensified Covid testing across the state and several testing camps are being organised across cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand land bill faces opposition||At least three different organisations jointly demonstrated at 22 revenue circles across Ranchi districts on Tuesday to lodge their protest against the Jharkhand Mutation Bill 2020 that was approved by the state cabinet on September 8. The bill aimed at providing online facility for jamabandi or entries regarding ownership, cultivation and other rights and changes as noticed by the revenue agencies is facing opposition, not only from BJP but also from an alliance MLA. Bandhu Tirkey who won the Mandar assembly seat as a JVM-P (then headed by Babulal Marandi who later merged his party with the BJP) candidate and later joined Congress mobilised those organisations that protested against the bill at 22 circles — 4 in Ranchi city and 18 in rural areas — of the district on Tuesday. The protestors belonged to the organisations like Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch (not Mahasabha as another organisation is known), Adivasi Sena and CNT Act Bachao Morcha. “Land mafia has grabbed large parcels of land in connivance with the revenue officials of the state and the bill is trying to give them immunity,” Tirkey told this newspaper when asked about their grievances. The records are full of errors in names etc that made it very difficult for the owners to prove their rights over land legally, he further said, adding the system needs to be revamped and reports of surveys made from time to time should be published. Babulal Marandi, the leader of BJP legislature party in the state Assembly, also protested against the bill and threatened agitation if the government went ahead with the bill. Terming it as a “black bill” at a press conference on September 13, he also alleged that gair mazrua land (a type of land vested in government) were illegally transferred in the name of many people in connivance with revenue department officials, adding Section 22 of the bill gave protection to such officials as that section of the bill said no civil or criminal proceeding can be initiated against them. In a hurriedly called press conference on Monday, state’s revenue, registration and land reforms secretary K.K. Soan wanted to clarify the government stand. “The government has no intention to give immunity to any revenue official who does something with bad intention,” the secretary said. Though section 22 of the bill said about certain protection given to revenue officials, it also has a sub-section that has provision for initiating suitable action against erring officials with prior approval from competent authorities of both state and central governments, he clarified. But Tirkey was not convinced. “Does the secretary has any parameter for measuring bad intentions?” he asked and went ahead with the protest on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Wife, lover and friend lynched in Gumla||Mob lynching raised its ugly head in less than 24 hours again in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Monday late night. Barely, a day after a 32-year-old former Maoist Sandeep Tirkey with criminal antecedent was lynched by villagers at Tesera village under Sadar police station of Gumla on Monday, police on Tuesday morning recovered four bodies, including a woman at Derengdih village under Raidih police station in the same district, with three of them being lynched by villagers over illicit affair. Sources in the Raidih police station informed that bodies of the three lynching victims were lying in the courtyard of Marianus Kujur. The body of Marianus was lying outside the house. “We were alerted by the eldest son of Marianus, aged 12-years that two men along with their mother (Neelam Kujur) were strangulating their father in their house at around 10.30 pm. We rushed to the spot and found the three of them near the body of Marianus Kujur. We knew that she (Neelam) had an illicit affair with a man. We tied up the men and started beating them who then confessed that they had hatched a plan to murder Marianus on the advice of Neelam Kujur. Both the youths were from neighbouring Simdega district. We started beating three of them and killed them and in the morning informed police,” confessed Abraham Kujur, younger brother of Marianus Kujur to the police. Police sources also revealed that villagers have informed that in the past few months there had been fights between Marianus and his wife over her extramarital affairs. “Villagers claimed that there had been fights between the couple on several occasions as Marianus suspected his wife of having an extramarital affair while he was away working in a private company in Pune. He had returned last year and got suspicious of his wife after seeing the youths visit his house and had beaten up his wife. The wife had then hatched a plan to kill her husband with help of her paramour,” the sources said. Superintendent of police, Gumla Hrudeep P. Janardhanan said that two separate FIRs have been lodged in the case. “We have filed two separate FIRs in the case. While a brother of murdered Marianus has lodged a case against Neelam and two youths from Simdega for strangulating to death Marianus. On the other hand, another FIR has been lodged by administration against unknown villagers for beating to death the woman and two youths aged between 28 and 30. We have sent all the four bodies for post-mortem and will soon be identifying villagers involved in the incident. We will also try to arrange for compensation for orphaned children from the government who are now staying with their uncle,” the SP said. The senior police official confirmed of the illicit affair as the motive behind the murder and the subsequent lynching. “Marianus’s wife had an affair with one of the youth identified as Sudeep Dungdung a resident of Kersai thana in neighbouring Simdega district and yesterday night had conspired to kill her husband with help of her paramour who had come along with another youth Prakash Kullu from Simdega on a bike. The villagers got alerted somehow and gheraod the house and beat to death the two youths and the woman,” informed Janardhanan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Minor ‘raped’ by relative in Ramgarh||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a relative following which her parents brought her to the Patratu police station in Ramgarh on Tuesday where an FIR was lodged. The relative was identified as Deepak Rajwar, 26, who raped the minor girl on August 29. Some village women had been witness to the crime. They complained to the panchayat, which summoned Rajwar. He admitted to raping the girl. However, he denied committing the crime on Tuesday, prompting the girl’s father to approach the police. To revamp the infrastructure at the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Dhanbad’s Jagjivan Nagar, the district administration on Tuesday decided  to carry out some civil work with the help of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. The water supply system will be overhauled, toilets repaired and campus sanitised as part of the revamp in the next 15 days. The decision to revamp the infrastructure was taken at a meeting under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, where director (personnel), BCCL, Malikarjun Rao and others were present. No new patient will be admitted to the hospital for the next three days; instead, all serious patients will be sent to the Covid-19 ICU at PMCH cath lab. Dhanbad-based NGO Shubh Sandesh, engaged in providing counselling to those suffering from lockdown-induced depression, will now encourage people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma for the treatment of serious patients. The district administration is preparing to launch plasma therapy for serious Covid-19 patients from next week at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital. Shubh Sandesh had also helped returning migrant workers reach their homes by providing them transport. Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) officials from Palamu on Tuesday arrested the mukhiya and a member of the panchayat samiti of Baligarh at Ketar block in Bhawnathpur police station area while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 from a villager. According to ACB deputy superintendent Ram Pukar Singh, mukhiya Surendra Yadav allegedly demanded the bribe from Kameshwer Singh, 56, who had taken a contract for the construction of a culvert. He contacted the mukhiya for release of the last instalment. As a bribe, Yadav had demanded Rs 5,000. Three youths were swept away at the confluence of two rain-fed rivers, the Ouranga and the Koyal, when they were bathing on Tuesday. The body of one of them, identified as Niraj, has been fished out from Bakhari in Palamau district. A meeting of various stakeholders involved in the widening of a 20-km stretch of Kako Math-Gol Building road was held in Dhanbad on Tuesday. The meeting, led by the Dhanbad deputy commissioner, involved representatives of the road construction department, state highway authority, Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company and Dhanbad Municipal Corporation The meeting failed to arrive at a final decision as representatives of stakeholders such as the state urban development agency were not available. Two contractors, Tribeni Construction Ltd and Shivalaya Construction Pvt Ltd, are working on the World Bank-funded project. Work on widening the road has been stalled since June 17. A joint team of Ranchi and Chatra police on Tuesday arrested an alleged area commander of Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) after a tip-off. Rajesh Mahto, or “Pahadi”, was at Bachra village in Chatra’s Piparwar to watch a football match. The police have seized a motorcycle and a mobile phone from him. Officers said he was wanted in a dozen cases related to alleged extortion and violence. Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University administration led by vice-chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava on Tuesday held a meeting with the principals of all 28 colleges where BEd and MEd examinations are scheduled from September 21 and September 24. Srivastava cautioned the principals against any kind of relaxation in examination norms and directed that the tests be held as per UGC guidelines. MBBS examinations are also scheduled from September 25. Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University’s pro vice-chancellor Anil Kumar Mahto on Tuesday conducted an inspection of SSLNT Women’s College situated on Luby Circular Road in Dhanbad and directed all street food vendors near the college main gate to remove their stalls immediately. Social distancing norms were being flouted near these stalls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
