17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Congress gets cold feet over proposed changes in land mutation rules ||The controversial Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020, which was cleared by the state cabinet last week, may not get tabled in the upcoming monsoon session starting from Friday as the Congress, part of the ruling alliance, now believes that the bill is flawed and can hurt mass sentiments. The Congress reached the conclusion in the wake of protests against the proposed bill, forcing the Hemant Soren dispensation either to make a U-turn or introduce amendments. While the Opposition BJP had already threatened mass protests against the bill and demanded its rollback, Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who after winning as a JVM-P candidate had joined the Congress, led an agitation in Ranchi on Tuesday citing loopholes. Voices of protest against this bill also resonated at the Congress’s legislative party meeting on Thursday evening ahead of the monsoon session. The meeting, to strategise the party’s stand on various issues in the House and to defend the government against Opposition barbs, went on for three hours from 3pm. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the state’s finance minister, said: “We concede that the land mutation bill has some flaws and it needs to be amended. The bill was cleared by the cabinet but needs to pass many more stages to become an act. We will put our concerns before the chief minister so that we can come up with a law to suit everyone.” Oraon, who was flanked by Pakur MLA and state rural development and parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam, didn’t clarify whether this bill will be tabled in the upcoming session but reiterated that the feedback from MLAs and other quarters so far had suggested that it will not be good in public interest. Mandar MLA Tirkey, on the other hand, said the proposed bill is tilted more towards the bureaucracy and less towards the public. Explaining the loopholes, he said: “Section 22 of the bill is intended to provide immunity for officials engaged in land registration, mutation and other activities from any civil or criminal action even if any wrongdoing is done. So, if my land documents are forged and get falsely registered in someone else’s name in connivance with officials and the land mafia, I will have no option to file a case anywhere. This will be disastrous for the state, where land is always a sensitive issue and fraud and corruption are widespread.” Defending the bill a few days ago, state land and revenue secretary K.K. Soan had stressed that the focus of the bill was to introduce reforms in mutation and land registration by introducing time limits to enforce accountability on officials. On the question of immunity to officials, he had said: “The government will still be free to take action in case of any wrongdoing if prosecution against him/her is approved by the competent authority.” Tirkey, however, questioned the yardstick for judging wrongdoing. “What yardstick will the government (land revenue department) follow to assess wrongdoing? The bill doesn’t prescribe this. Moreover, the bill simply weans power from the common man in the event of any land crime against him and equips officials with more authority. Till the time this clause of protection to officials is not removed from the bill, I shall continue to block it, no matter what,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Residents demand Purushottam Express halt in Bokaro||Bokaro residents have demanded that the New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Purushottam Express make a halt at the local railway station. Purushottam Express has two stops in Jharkhand -- Jamshedpur and Koderma. Bokaro residents say that the train has not been halting at the local railway station since the Covid-19 pandemic began and this is causing them hardship. Bokaro is the only major station in the state under the Adra division of South Eastern Railway (SER). Usually, the Bokaro station records a daily footfall of about 6,000 passengers and earns big from freight. Bokaro residents consider Purushottam Express a convenient and economical option for travelling to and from Delhi. Before Covid-19 hit, as many as 32 pairs of trains passed through Bokaro railway station every day. Now, only two trains stop at the station: the New-Delhi Bhubaneswar Rajdhani (02801) and the Darbhanga-Secunderabad Express (07007). Many residents travel to Purulia in Bengal, 48km away, to catch the Purushottam Express. Between 110 and 120 passengers board the Rajdhani at Bokaro every day. Rajesh Kumar, a shopkeeper, said he has to go to Delhi for his younger brother’s treatment but cannot afford the Rajdhani's fares. So, he will buy a ticket in Purushottam Express. Similarly, people going to Gaya, Sasaram, Mughalsarai and Kanpur also go to Purulia and board the Purushottam Express. Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh demanded that the state government ensure that Purushottam Express makes a halt. He said: “I have requested the state government and asked the railway board to ensure Purushottam Express has a stoppage here. It is affordable for all classes of passengers.” The senior divisional commercial manager of Adra railway division, O.P. Charan, said: “Only after the railway board’s direction can Purushottam Express stop in Bokaro.” Railway officials said that proper sanitation and thermal checking of passengers are being conducted at Bokaro railway station. One other train, Patna-Ranchi Janshatabdi, used to stop at Bokaro, but the railway department had suspended its services in Jharkhand in August, as the state government asked the railway board to stop trains coming from Bihar. Currently, the Janshatabdi is making rounds between Patna and Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Marandi attacks govt on migrant labourer issue||The Jharkhand unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday attacked the state government on the issue of employing migrant workers and distributed offer letters from private company contractors among more than 70 of the workers in the district. The event was organised by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) on Thursday at the newly constructed party office on Baliapur road. Former chief minister Babulal Marandi was among those present. The event was part of the “seva saptah (service week)”, which also saw blood donation camps and food distribution for migrant workers being held, and organised a day after Marandi took on the state government over deteriorating law and order. A cake was cut at the event to celebrate the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While speaking at the event, Marandi praised the Centre led by Modi for the effective handling of the Covid-19 situation. He claimed that though initially PPE kits and ventilators were not manufactured in India and masks were made in small numbers, the country is now in a position to supply PPE kits to other parts of the world. “Although due to the large population of country, the number of infections is high, the death rate due to Covid-19 is marginal,” Marandi said and added that the food distribution for the poor and money transfers into the Jan Dhan accounts were unique initiatives by the Centre to mitigate the economic impact of Covid 19. “Despite the efforts of the Centre, the Jharkhand government is protesting,” he said. Earlier, only a portion of the money allocated would reach the common people, whereas Modi has ensured that the entire amount reaches the bank account of the beneficiaries and there are no middlemen involved, Marandi said. Exhorting the activists of the youth wing of the party to work to make the country self-sufficient, he said that production in India of various items will make the nation self-dependent and create employment for people. “Modi took the initiative in this regard by banning several foreign articles, including Chinese products and services. We also need to promote the interests of our farmers because when the industrial activity dipped, farmers ensured the wheels of economic progress kept rolling,” said Marandi in presence of former Dhanbad mayor Chandrashekhar Agawal, Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta and Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahto, besides the state unit president of BJYM, Kislay Tiwari, and others. Sudarshan Lal, a resident of Hirapur in Dhanbad, who has been provided an appointment letter from drug-supply company Shiv Shakti, said: “I was working as an accountant at a private company in Asansol and lost my job during the lockdown and remained idle for several months. BJYM activists liaised with the company and gave me a job.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||State unlikely to reopen schools for seniors by end of September||Jharkhand is unlikely to implement the Centre’s unlock 4.0 guidelines on staggered re-opening of schools for higher classes from September 21 with the education department thinking of slashing syllabuses by about 50 per cent on account of the prolonged shutdown of educational institutions due to the pandemic. Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) project director Shailesh Chourasiya said on Thursday they were unsure about implementing the Centre’s unlock guidelines vis-a vis schools. “Yes, we had sent a draft proposal to the education department but it is yet to be cleared so that it can be sent to the disaster management department for a final nod,” he said, stating that deliberations on it were still on. The JEPC had prepared a draft in early September. It was a proposal about re-opening schools in accordance to the Centre’s guidelines for those studying in classes 9 to 10 in case they wanted to come to school to consult their teachers. But there was no consensus on it. The JEPC draft proposal suggested that a maximum of 20 students be allowed in a class per day to ensure social distancing. After receiving requests from parents to allow students to attend school, the school would have to prepare a roster in which only 50 per cent teachers would attend classes per day. Chourasiya revealed that in view of the continued closure of schools the syllabus was expected to be trimmed for students across classes under Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC). “Following active consultations with all stakeholders of the state education department and JAC, we had prepared a class-wise proposal for revision of syllabus for this academic year. We have proposed 45 per cent to 50 per cent cut in syllabus for all classes through a formal proposal sent to the education department. The proposal is awaiting the government’s nod,” he said. As per the health department’s latest bulletin, the number of people who have recovered from Covid in Jharkhand crossed the 50,000 mark on Wednesday. The overall recovery rate touched 77.72 per cent, 0.2 per cent above the national average. The total number of cases in Jharkhand stood at 66,074.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Shibu Soren back home in Ranchi after beating Covid-19||Rajya Sabha MP and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) patriarch Shibu Soren returned to Ranchi on Thursday after recovering from Covid-19 at a private hospital in Gurugram and taking oath as a Rajya Sabha member three days ago. Chief minister Hemant Soren received him personally at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda International Airport in the afternoon around 1.30pm. Clad in white-kurta pyjama, face covered with a mask and wearing sports shoes. Soren looked comfortable as he walked out of the airport along with Hemant, who drove his own car to the airport to receive his father. While both Soren Senior and Junior did not speak to the media, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said that Guruji would continue to be under medical observation. “Everyone is happy with Guruji’s return after defeating Covid-19. He will rest for a few days and will be under medical observation. His return will be a great asset for the party ahead of the crucial Bihar polls and upcoming byelections in on two seats of Jharkhand,” he said. Notably, the state government’s Covid rules also prescribe 14-day mandatory home quarantine for anyone returning/coming from outside Jharkhand. Shibu Soren along with his wife Rupi Soren had tested positive for Covid-19 in the third week of August. After staying in home isolation for the first few days, Soren was shifted to Medanta Hospital in Ranchi owing to breathing problems. On August 25, he was admitted to Medanta in Gurugram after being referred from here. On September 6, he was finally declared Covid free after which he stayed put in Delhi in the official residence of Rajmahal MP Vijay Hansdak. On September 14, Soren finally took oath as Rajya Sabha member, almost three months after he won the election held on June 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Speeding train kills wild elephant in West Singhbhum||A wild elephant was hit by a speeding train and killed on the Howrah-Mumbai main line in the Saranda forest area of West Singhbhum, about 190 km from here in the wee hours of Thursday. Significantly, despite the stretch being an elephant-sensitive zone, the train that hit the elephant was running at a speed of over 110 kmph. Divisional forest officer, Saranda, Rajnish Kumar, who visited the spot, said, "The mishap took place while a herd of five elephants was crossing the railway track at about 1 am .  Four elephants had already crossed the track and while the fifth was crossing it, a speeding train hit it causing it to get flung away.  Subsequently, the train, which was an inspection train, ran over it. The animal died on the spot." Kumar said the elephant which was killed was waiting for another elephant to cross first. But in the meantime, the train, running at blistering speed, hit it. "There was an agreement between the railway and the forest department. The Saranda area is an elephant project area and elephants regularly cross tracks from one side of the dense forest to another. Hence, the speed limit of trains on the stretch should not be more than 40 kmph. But, the train that caused the mishap was running at 110 kmph," the DFO, Saranda, told Telegraph Online. The senior forest officer looked into the reason behind the speed limit violation. He quoted the train driver, S.R. Kundu, as saying that he did not have a "caution order". The railway line where the mishap took place falls under Chakradharpur railway division with headquarters at Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum district. Senior divisional commercial manager (DCM), Chakradhapur, Manish Pathak said he was aware of the accident. "The mishap took place after an inspection train was running at maximum speed as mandated for trials.  But when there was a herd of elephants near the railway track, the forest department should have alerted the nearest railway station. Then, the train driver would have been issued a caution order accordingly," said Pathak. The senior DCM further said that the speed limit pertained to 5km only, from Manoharpur to Bisra, during which time the train has to run at a speed under 40 kmph. But the accident  took place at Raikapath, far away from the restricted stretch. The absence of an alert from the forest department caused the mishap, he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur farmer turns around fortunes with organic farming||Singrai Soren is witnessing a positive turnaround in his fortune. The 37-year-old tribal farmer from Khikdihutu village in Gorgora panchayat of Jamshedpur block has started organic farming, a move which is to paying rich dividends. Soren is using Jeevamrut (in liquid form) as a fertiliser for vegetable farming. Jeevamrut is a liquid organic manure popularly used as a means of organic farming. It is considered to be an excellent source of natural carbon, biomass, nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium and a lot of other micro nutrients required for the crops. “I used chemical fertilisers in paddy and vegetable farming and spent Rs 8,000 to 10,000 every year. But after adopting Jeevamrut, my farmland has become more fertilised and expenses towards farming has come down,” Soren said, adding his profit has also gone up. Soren has started making Jeevamrut at his home thanks to help extended by district agriculture officer Mithilesh Kalindi. The progressive farmer grows sweet gourd, bitter gourd, radish, green beans and brinjal at his farm which is spread over an acre. The farmer sprinkles and also makes the fertliser reach to the crops via small drains. “I have started making Jeevamrut at my home. It’s easy to make. I am highly satisfied after adopting organic farming. I am not facing financial crisis any longer. My family is also happy,” said Soren. Jeevamrut is made from cow dung and urine, black jiggery, lentil powder and handful of soil. First lentil powder and jaggery are mixed and then cow dung is added. The solution is kept for 2-7 days in the shade for fermentation, Soren explained. According to him, the use of chemical insecticides has also become a thing of the past now. “I used to spray chemical insecticide but this practice has been discontinued after I adopted Jeevamrut as a means of fertiliser. The quality of the soil has also improved,” Soren pointed out. Besides paddy, Soren also grows vegetable in Kharif season. He sells vegetables at the local haat bazaar  with help from his wife.”I have started earning 40,000-50,000 yearly by selling vegetables. Now, I have become self-reliant and am able to take care of my family’s needs,” he added. Soren called upon the farmers to, besides  traditional paddy farming, also go for vegetable farming. “By using Jeevamrut, farmers will make profit and also become self-reliant and fulfil the needs of their families. I am an example,” Soren said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mahalaya: The beginning of Devi Paksha||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries cross the 50,000 mark||The count of Covid-19 recoveries in Jharkhand crossed the 50,000 mark on Wednesday as at least 1607 Covid patients, including nearly 700 in Ranchi alone, overcame the viral infection in 24 hours, data released by the health department on Wednesday night stated. Wednesday’s test results also took Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate above the national average of 77.70 per cent as the number of recovered patients jumped to 51,357 against the tally of 66,074, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The recovery rate in the state, as per government figures, had dropped to as low as 45 per cent by the end of July. Despite high recovery figures, the count of fresh Covid cases outnumbered the recoveries on Wednesday, causing a minor rise in the number of active cases in Jharkhand. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 1618 cases of infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 14,138. However, the number of active cases of infection reduced in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in the state, on Wednesday. As many as 342 fresh cases surfaced in Ranchi against 694 recoveries. Meanwhile, East Singbhum reported a major spike in the count of active cases as only 80 patients recovered from the infection there against 401 cases on Wednesday. As per government data, at least 3,171 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, while 3,021 patients were yet to recover in East Singhbhum. The Covid toll in Jharkhand rose to 579 on Wednesday after eight patients, including four from East Singhbhum and two from Ranchi, died during treatment, the NHM bulletin stated. Lohardaga and Pakur reported one death each on the day. The Covid mortality rate in the state, as per government data, was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.70 per cent. Health workers across Jharkhand tested swab samples of 55,761 people on Wednesday and 54,143 of came negative. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 1.55 lakh people and tested 1.53 lakh of them. Out of the 66,074 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, 51,357 have recovered, highlights government data. A majority of the Covid victims in Jharkhand, as per health officials, were already suffering from comorbid conditions, and most of them were above the age of 50 years. As per government data, at least 420 of the 579 Covid victims in the state were older than 50 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||UP man to demonstrate his invention in Jharkhand||A government sanitation worker from Jalaun in Uttar Pradesh has invented a mechanism which ensures a motorbike only starts if the rider is wearing a helmet. He will be live demonstrating his invention in Jharkhand later this month or in October. Dinesh Kumar has recently been made a member of the Youngistan Warriors of Martial Art, an NGO based out of the Gamharia block of Seraikela-Kharsawan. With branches in different parts of India, including Bengal, the organisation works for the promotion of martial arts among government school students, and also recognising inventions of people in different fields. Dinesh has already presented his invention to senior government functionaries, including the district magistrate, in Jalaun but is yet to commercialise it. “I don’t have money to patent my device. Though I have won accolades for my invention, nobody is coming up to help me financially. I thought of looking at Jharkhand where an NGO has promised to help me in getting the patent. Amit Modak, who is the president of the NGO, is a friend of mine and has assured all support,” 39 year old Dinesh said. Dinesh, who is a postgraduate in sociology and has also completed ITI, explained, “There are two components to my invention, once which is put on the helmet, and the other on the bike. The bike will not start unless one wears the helmet. I think my device will save people from getting killed in road mishaps.” “The demonstration will take place in front of politicians and senior government officials in Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The demonstration will also be uploaded on social media so that it reaches the central government,” Amit Modak told The Telegraph Online.. Dinesh has also invented a broom which can clean roads measuring 40 km in an hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid positive MLA seeks virtual access to Assembly||A Congress MLA, who has tested positive for the coronavirus and is now on 14-day home quarantine, has requested the Speaker to make arrangements so that Covid patients like her can join the upcoming monsoon session of the state Assembly virtually. In a letter to Speaker Ravindranath Mahto on Wednesday, Barkagaon representative Amba Prasad pointed out that there were several MLAs who, like her, were in home isolation after testing Covid positive, but were asymptomatic. “The session is being convened after a long time. Hence, every MLA will have several burning issues of their constituency to raise within the House. Also, in the interest of public good, it is important to take part in the voting process for the passage of important bills. Therefore, I request, on behalf of several MLAs, to make online arrangements so that legislators can attend the session virtually,” she said. Speaker Mahto could not be contacted for his comments. But Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said he was yet to receive a formal request letter from the MLA. Nor had he received any directive from the Speaker. “The journalist fraternity has, in fact, requested for online arrangements to witness the proceedings of the House. This, we are exploring. As for the MLA’s request, we shall act accordingly after receiving formal directives,” he said. Another Congress MLA, Naman Bixal Kongari (Kolebira), tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, which means the strength of the party would be reduced in the Assembly during the monsoon session scheduled to be held between September 18 and September 22. Currently, the Congress has 17 MLAs in the 81-member House with an effective strength of 79. Following Kongari’s infection, the party’s strength in the House will be 15. Three other MLAs — Deepika Pandey (Mahagama), Banna Gupta (Jamshedpur West), Badal Patralekh (Jarmundi) _ who were infected have recovered. But it isn’t clear whether they will attend the session or not. In the wake of the pandemic, Covid-19 tests have been made mandatory for all MLAs, bureaucrats and officials taking part in the Assembly session. They have all been asked to provide Covid negative reports 72 hours before the commencement of the House session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||CPI(Maoist) Posters and banners in Chaibasa||CPI (Maoist) launched a poster-campaign against the administration at Chaibasa marketplace and township in West Singhbhum on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Three banners, along with several posters denouncing the government's measure to eliminate naxalism from the tribal-dominated district were put up a day after Ajay Lynda joined as the new district superintendent of police. The posters and banners in Ho, written in Hindi script, were found at the Chaibasa bus-stand,  Birsa Munda Stadium and at Mangla Haat market, all under Sadar thana area in Chaibasa. The posters demand, among other things, the withdrawal of the Saranda Action Plan. They also call upon the young people to join the outfit in large numbers to work for the upliftment of tribals and fight against the administration. A team of police officials from the Sadar thana have seized the banners and posters and initiated a probe. "Having seized the posters and banners, we have started an investigation to know whether the poster-campaign was carried out by the outlawed naxal outfit, or by any criminal elements.  We are talking to people near whose shops or business establishments the posters-banners were found.  We are also scanning the footage of CCTV cameras," SP Ajay Lynda told The Telegraph Online. "As I joined on Tuesday,  I declared that the police will launch a more aggressive fight against naxals and will see to it that naxalism is wiped out from the district, including Saranda. Not only did the naxals throw a challenge to the police and administration, but also tried to show that they are very much present in the district headquarters," the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand caps test rate at  Rs 1,500||The Jharkhand government has slashed the price of the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 charged by private laboratories and hospitals for the second time. In a directive issued by mission director of National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), Ravishanker Shukla, on Tuesday evening, the maximum price which can be charged by private laboratories for the RT-PCR test has been capped at Rs 1,500 from the existing Rs 2,400 with immediate effect. “Action will be taken against any private lab or private hospital that charges more than the maximum fixed rate for RT-PCR test. The communiqué has been sent to the respective civil surgeons and the deputy commissioners. If any lab does not comply with the new order action would be initiated for violation of the Jharkhand State Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Regulation, 2020, and stringent action, as per rule, will be taken against the lab,” said state health minister Banna Gupta. Significantly, the state government had on June 29 capped the RT-PCR test rate at Rs 2,400 from the earlier Rs 4,500. “The decision was taken as part of the government’s effort to maximise the number of tests in the state. We had reduced the RT-PCR test cost from Rs 2,400 to Rs 1,500 for the benefit and betterment of the people. As it is, test drives are being carried out free of cost for any suspected cases in the government hospitals. This applies to only private hospitals and laboratories,” added Gupta. According to data available with the Union health ministry, Jharkhand has tested 35,689 samples per million and is placed in the 22nd position among states and Union Territories in terms of tests per million. Shukla said that the decision was taken following a reduction in prices of RT-PCR kits and the ICMR-validated viral transport medium (VTM) kits in the country. Sources in the state integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) said that a three-member expert team from the Union health ministry, which had visited the three cities of Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad (which had the highest number of positive cases) earlier this month, had also suggested increasing the number of tests. As on Wednesday afternoon, the state had a total of 64,456 Covid-19 positive cases while the deaths stood at 571 out of a total sample testing of 14,71,588. The state’s seven day growth rate was a tad higher than the national average of 2.01 per cent at 2.13 per cent. The seven-day doubling rate of Jharkhand stood at 32.82 days compared to the national average of 35.11 days. The recovery rate of Jharkhand was at 77.20 per cent compared to the national average of 77.70 per cent. The state had a low mortality rate of 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||NGT prod on sanctuary tag ||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has the directed Union ministry of environment and forests and Jharkhand’s forest department to submit report on the failure to declare Sasangada/Saranda sanctuary in West Singhbhum district as an eco-sensitive zone. The directive was given by the NGT’s eastern zonal bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda while hearing a petition filed by Delhi-based conservationist and trustee of non-profit entity Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment, R.K. Singh, last week. “Considering the facts and circumstances set out in the application we are satisfied that substantial question relating to the environment arises in the case,” the bench said and issued a notice to the respondents (ministry of environment and forests and Jharkhand forest department) to reply within six weeks. “The respondents shall file a report with regards to the questions raised in the application at least one week before the next date,” the directive said. The case is slated for its next hearing on October 19. “My fight is to give status of eco-sensitive zone to the Sasangada/Saranda sanctuary (considered to possess Asia’s largest sal reserves) which consists of 126 compartments of reserve forest blocks and two protected forest blocks in an area of 31,468.25 hectares which have been included in the working plan for management of the Saranda forest division prepared for the period from 1976-77 to 1994-95 (forest working plans are made for 20 years),” Singh told The Telegraph. The wildlife expert, who did his PhD on impact of mining on the elephant habitat in Saranda forest from the Wildlife Institute of India (Dehradun), in his application to the tribunal has alleged that successive Jharkhand governments and the ministry of environment, forests and climate change have failed to declare the eco-sensitive zone in respect of Sasangada/Saranda sanctuary and have excluded it from the exercise conducted across the country pursuant to the directive issued by the Supreme Court in the 2011 case of Goa Foundation vs Union of India. “The Jharkhand government is not even recognising Saranda as a sanctuary and has excluded it from the exercises conducted in pursuant to the Supreme Court judgement in the case of Goa Foundation vs Union of India (2011). “The Supreme Court had categorically asked the government to declare eco-sensitive zones around all notified sanctuaries and national parks. If the government fails to do so, then a 10km radius from the boundary of the sanctuaries and national parks would be deemed as eco-sensitive zones,” said Singh. Singh said that the Saranda sanctuary finds mention in the report prepared by the now defunct Indian Board for Wildlife (IBWL) on November 24, 1965, for a delegation of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The name of the sanctuary also features in the Indian Forest Records: Glossary of Terms used in nature conservation and wildlife management, published by the Forest Research Institute in 1970. “It was last mentioned in the working plan for the Saranda forest division from 1976-77 to 1995-96 wherein it mentions that the sanctuary was notified in February 1968 and covers forest areas of Thalkobad, Karampada, Kodalibad, Tagooda, Karujagdaburu, Samta and Tirilposi,” said Singh. A 2016 study by the Wildlife Institute of India found that plant species in the Saranda forest had come down to just 87, from over 300 species earlier. They also could not spot a single elephant, even though the 2010 census recorded 253 elephants. “If it is notified as an eco-sensitive zone, then the sanctuary’s diversity would be protected and all activities detrimental to the sanctuary would not be undertaken,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
