18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Social group delivers free oxygen cylinders to Covid patients ||Marwari Sahayak Samiti, a social organisation, has begun an initiative to offer free oxygen cylinders to Covid patients in home quarantine. Suresh Chandra Agarwal, one of the advisers of the samiti, said they started this drive about 10 days ago by gathering funds from members of the Marwari Samajh with the aim to assist anyone in need in times of the pandemic. “Initially, we began with two-three cylinders but as the initiative spread through word of mouth, likeminded individuals and a few more social groups donated funds to support our work. Today, we have managed to procure 35 cylinders in our stocks,” said Agarwal, adding that their service is open for all class of people irrespective of their social status. “It is because the virus doesn’t discriminate between caste and creed and hence, it is time for everyone to unite to defeat the pandemic. That is the motto with which we rolled out our service,” he said, adding that handsome donations have equipped them with enough resources to increase their inventory of cylinders as per the demand. Home isolation is allowed for those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and doesn’t require hospitalisation. According to the health department’s standard operating procedures, it is mandatory for the patient to routinely monitor their oxygen saturation levels, which should consistently remain at least above 90%. Anything below this could be lethal. Agarwal, a businessman and social worker, said that during the initial days when the district administration implemented home isolation rule, many asymptomatic people struggled with poor oxygen levels and had to be rushed to hospitals. “Arranging private oxygen facilities wasn’t easy as many hospitals even didn’t supply it readily due to various issues. That’s when our outfit decided to rollout this service to help the people,” he said. Manish Lodha, one of the nodal persons taking care of the day to day operations, said that on an average five to six fresh requests are coming to them. “We are open 24X7. Anyone requiring help with the cylinders can contact 7004702476/9430142321/7004501709,” he said. A beneficiary however has to submit a mandatory refundable deposit of Rs 5000. Agarwal added that only in exceptional cases they relax the mandatory refundable deposit rule but try not to deny service to anyone. A similar initiative was started in Jamshedpur over a week back by another social unit the Marwari Yuva Samit. A community of Jains too is considering a similar service in Ranchi while another social outfit is looking into the possibility to start it in Dhanbad soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||1,500 quintals of foodgrains seized from unauthorised warehouses in Jamshedpur||Police and supply department officials, acting on a tip-off, seized over 1,500 quintals of rice and wheat after raiding two unauthorised warehouses in the Sakchi and Golmuri police station areas on Friday. The seized foodgrains were meant for distribution among people in the below poverty line (BPL) category under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana scheme and had been brought to the steel city from Food Corporation of India (FCI) warehouses in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Delhi. One of the warehouses is situated behind the Kerala Samajam Model School in the Sakchi police station area, while the other is located near Howrah Bridge along the Kalimati Road in the Golmuri police station area. Special officer (rationing), East Singhbhum, Naveen Kumar who led the raids said both the warehouses belong to Sanjay Mohnani, who is absconding. “At the warehouse in Sakchi, there were 1,100 sacks, mostly of rice. At the Golmuri warehouse, the quantity of rice and wheat could not be ascertained as the foodgrains had been piled up loose. We have sealed the Sakchi warehouse and are in the process of sealing the one at Golmuri,” Kumar told The Telegraph Online. He pointed out that from both the warehouses, the authorities had seized a large number of stickers that had been removed from the government-supplied wheat and rice. “The stickers mention details of the FCI warehouse from where the foodgrains had been brought and the quantity. We have seized the stickers for making further investigation into the racket,” Kumar said. During the raid which started around 1pm on Friday, the supply department team nabbed two associates of Mohnani. One of associates told the Sakchi police that Mohnani was running the racket for the past decade, but business had picked up in the last three months. One of Mohnani’s staffers, who is yet to be formally arrested, said: “He would collect foodgrains provided by the government at subsidised rates for people belonging to the BPL category and sell them in the open market. He had taken the two warehouses on rent only three months ago after the Centre started giving people belonging to the category rice and wheat at a subsidised rate of Rs 1 per kg when the pandemic began spreading.” Kumar said he would lodge two FIRs with the Sakchi and Golmuri police stations and hand over the two associates, who are now in the administration’s custody, to the police for further investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt tables Rs 2,584 cr supplementary budget on Day One of monsoon session||The Hemant Soren government tabled a supplementary budget to the tune of Rs 2,584.83 crore on Day One of the monsoon session which commenced on Friday amid heightened safety protocols in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon tabled the budget amid protests by members of the Opposition over the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020, which had not been tabled in the House. The bill, that critics say seeks to unfairly shield officials and bureaucrats in case of wrongdoing, is now unlikely to be tabled during the monsoon session as several MLAs of Congress, which is a partner in the ruling alliance, have also demanded changes in the draft okayed by the cabinet. The supplementary demand for grants for 2020-21 fiscal included Rs 912.34 crore for home, jail and disaster management departments, Rs 548.87 crore for the rural development department, Rs 363.00 crore for the urban development department and Rs 312.26 crore for the women and child development department. Four ordinances were also tabled. These were the Jharkhand Motor Vehicles Taxation Ordinance 2020, Jharkhand Mineral Bearing Lands (Covid-19 pandemic cess) Ordinance, Jharkhand GST Amendment Ordinance 2020 and the Jharkhand Value Added Tax (VAT) Amendment, 2020. The House was adjourned after an hour’s business before lunch till Monday after chief minister Hemant Soren’s speech to condole the recent demise of several leaders, including former president Pranab Mukherjee and Bermo MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh. The monsoon session, the first sitting of the House since the coronavirus outbreak in March, was held amid various safety precautions, including mandatory distancing among MLAs as they were seated. While all wore masks, many even put on face shields for added precaution. Assembly sources maintained that hand sanitisers had been kept at all key places within the premises while everyone was allowed entry after thermal scanning. The 81-member House now has an effective strength of 79 MLAs. In all, 70 MLAs were in attendance on Friday. Among the absentees, at least three MLAs —two of Congress—Amba Prasad (Barkagaon) and Naman Bixal Kongari (Kolebira) _ and one BJP _ Neelkant Munda (Khunti) _ are in isolation after having tested positive for Covid-19. Before the start of proceedings, chief minister Hemant Soren appealed to all for the smooth conduct of the House in the interest of the state. “The monsoon session is beginning from today amid the ongoing pandemic. I am hopeful that all MLAs will contribute positively for a healthy session to provide new direction to the state,” he tweeted. Health minister Banna Gupta said the state government would welcome constructive criticism but appealed to the Opposition to refrain from creating a ruckus. On issues like the land mutation bill and law and order, he said, “We won’t shy away from taking questions as discussion is the basis for a healthy democracy. We will try to answer every MLA’s queries and concerns in a civilised manner. We are expecting the same in return.” Speaking to reporters briefly after the session, BJP’s Babulal Marandi criticised the state government for poor handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and giving criminals a free run. He also took a dig at the Hemant Soren government for trying to safeguard babus and land sharks by introducing the land mutation bill. “This government is continuously exposing its anti-poor, anti-tribal and anti-people face,” he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC set to let go of tiki-taka||The tiki-taka (short passes) style of play will be missing when Men of the Steel City take the field in the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21 season. Jamshedpur FC’s dependence on Spanish magic has become a thing of the past as is evident when one looks at the composition of foreign recruits in the current Jamshedpur FC squad. The Tata Steel-owned club has just two Spaniards in Aitroy Monroy and David Grande in the squad  vis-à-vis 6 in the last season. Both Monroy and Grande have a year left in their contract with JFC. Jamshedpur has a huge fan following and the club is no mood to disappoint its supporters who always come in numbers to pitch for the team whenever a home match is played at the JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur. Moreover, the club wants to move forward by making it to the play-offs and beyond. Foreign players have been drafted in keeping this key aspect in mind. Needless to say, JFC is yet to qualify for the knock-outs ever since making its debut three seasons ago. The Spaniards who were the fulcrum of the squad last season and have been not signed this season include Jose Luis Espinosa Arroyo (Tiri), Francisco Medina Luna (Piti), Noe Acosta and Sergio Castel. Even head coach Antonio Iriondo’s services has not been availed. Dependence on Spanish players has been the trend for at least the past two seasons. Besides the players, JFC had also experimented with Spanish coaches in Cesar Ferrando and Antonio Iriondo. However, the team did not derive the expected benefits, forcing it to look beyond Spain this time. To top it all, bringing in Scottish-born Owen Coyle as head coach was an indication that Jamshedpur wants a complete change in its style of play. Selection of foreign and Indian players has been done in consultation with Coyle who helped Chennaiyin FC qualify for the final the last season. Coyle has done special homework when it came to selection of foreign players, a member of the JFC team management revealed .  “He (Coyle) will also adopt his own style of play,” he pointed out. As per ISL guidelines, a franchise can select a maximum of seven foreign players, including one from the AFC-affiliated nation. JFC has already signed four foreign players in Nerijus Valskis  (Lithuania), Peter Hartley (England), Stephen Eze (Nigeria) and Alexandre Monteiro de Lima (Brazil). Monroy and Grande are already in the squad. Only one foreign player from an Asian nation is left to be signed. Jamshedpur FC Mukul Choudhari said they have tried to form a strong side which is expected to perform as per expectations. Asked about Spanish recruits, he said: “It is not the question of Spanish players. We have not looked at a particular country for signing players this season but have tried to pick the best with a proven track record.” The cash-rich tournament will unfold in Goa in November . JFC finished fifth under Ferrando and eighth when Iriondo was in charge last season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||For steel city’s Virat, fingers crossed for Monday’s IPL tie||Days spent in a bio-bubble may have tested his patience but Virat Singh is ready for the 13th edition of Indian Premier League (IPL) beginning in Dubai on Saturday. The 23-year-old southpaw from Jamshedpur has also picked up some vital lessons from well-established batsmen. It’s a key element for an IPL debutant when someone like New Zealand skipper Kane Williamson tells him how to go about it in the nets. “The six days in bio-bubble was difficult. But all of us in Sunrisers Hyderabad were on the same boat. Our bio-bubble routine comprised doing shadow practice, working on dumbbells and watching movies and cricket series on Netflix. I was holed up in my hotel room and food used to be kept at the door for me to pick it up. After all, it was a Covid protocol which all the teams had to follow,” Virat said. Speaking to The Telegraph Online over telephone from Dubai, he said the three-week camp (after the bio-bubble period was over) was of great help. “We worked out well at the nets. I was glad to pick vital tips from Williamson who advised me to not focus or try many shots. He told me to focus on only two shots. Talking to such a great batsman was valuable and an awesome feeling,” Virat recalled. The Jharkhand Ranji batsman said he was not sure if he would be able to make it to the XI in the first match against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Monday (September 21). “To be honest, I am not very sure as no one in the team management has spoken to me about it. Moreover, the final XI is announced before the start of the match. I am keeping my fingers crossed,” Virat said. According to him, he has been feeling good ever since he landed in Dubai last month. “I would like to grab the opportunity with both hands if given a chance to perform. I just need a solid knock to get going. I am really looking forward with confidence and want to use the opportunity to the fullest,” Virat added. The left-hander said he was in touch with his family in Jamshedpur. “Yes, I regularly talk to my parents and siblings to know about their health. I feel good talking to them,” Virat said. Asked if has met his Jharkhand mates – Saurabh Tiwary, Varun Aaron, Shahbaz Nadeem, Ishan Kishan, Monu Singh and Anukul Roy – who are also in Dubai for the IPL, Varun said barring Varun he has not been able to meet the rest. “I met Varun briefly in Dubai the other day,” Virat added. Virat, a talented batsman, was picked up by Sunrisers Hyderabad for Rs 1.90 crore during the auction in Calcutta last year. Virat has led Jharkhand under-19 team with aplomb. He is known for his quick reflexes and excels in crunch situations, key aspects in a tournament like IPL. He stays with his businessman father Binod Singh, homemaker mother Renu and brothers Vivek and Vishal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Monsoon revs up, heavy rains likely from Sunday onwards||The prevailing dry spell is likely to get over soon with IMD forecasting heavy rain in Jharkhand for three days from Sunday, September 20. " A low-pressure area is developing over north-east Bay of Bengal. Due to the influence of the low-pressure several parts of Jharkhand are expected to get heavy rain from Sunday. The intensity of rain will be more in central and southern Jharkhand,” deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said on Friday. According to Anand, the low-pressure area will help revive the monsoon in Jharkhand even as it moves towards the west and impact West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha. A dry spell was prevailing in Jharkhand as the monsoon had become weak. In the absence of rain, the deficit figure rose to 15 per cent in Jharkhand. Met statistics revealed that so far, the state has received 829.8 mm rain against a normal of 976.1 mm, which is a deficit of 15 per cent. Due to limited rain during the past two weeks, as many as 18 districts find themselves in the deficit list, except for Dumka, Latehar, Palamau, Pakur, Koderma and East Singhbhum which experienced surplus rain. Weatherman at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta also predicted heavy and widespread rain in Jharkhand from September 20 due to the impact of the low-pressure. "We are expecting a good spell of rain in Jharkhand for the first time in September due to the formation of the low-pressure over the Bay of Bengal. Apart from central and southern Jharkhand, heavy rain is also expected in some districts of north eastern Jharkhand, " said a duty officer. He said that as on Friday, the western end of the monsoon trough was running close to the foothills of Himalayas while the eastern end was passing through Bareilly, Faizabad, Patna Bhagalpur and Malda. The north-south trough was running close to Bihar and interior Odisha across Jharkhand, extending up to 1.5km above mean sea level. This will also help Jharkhand get rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Plasma therapy on offer in Dhanbad from next week||Plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients is likely to be introduced at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) here from next week as all preparations have been completed and lab technicians are on the verge of finishing their training in Ranchi. As for necessary equipment, a Corno Antibody IgG testing machine has been installed at the biochemistry department of PMCH. An aphaeresis machine, required for separating plasma from blood, was installed at the PMCH blood bank last week. In-charge of PMCH blood bank Dr A.K. Singh said, “Some primary steps for obtaining a license for carrying out plasma therapy has also been completed and with the completion of a week’s training of the workforce next week, we will be in a position to launch plasma therapy.” Singh said the lab workforce, being trained at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, would return to Dhanbad on Monday. Those who are undergoing training include a doctor, two GNMs and two lab technicians. “Although we have one trained technician at the laboratory, we decided to have at least three trained technicians to work in three shifts. Hence, we decided to organise training of two more technicians,” he said. Singh said a plasma donor would have to undergo an antibody test which would be conducted at the biochemistry department. Head of the department of PMCH biochemistry department Dr Sunil Kumar Verma said the newly installed machine can carry out 12 tests in one hour. “We are in the process of launching another bigger machine which can carry out 24 tests per hour. The antibody test is crucial for the launch of plasma therapy as the utility of a donor’s antibody can be ascertained only through such a test,” he explained. President of PMCH Teachers’ Association Dr D.P. Bhadani expressed his satisfaction at the preparations. “Plasma therapy will prove quite beneficial to serious Covid patients,” he said. Dhanbad based NGO Shubh Sandesh, engaged in providing counselling services to persons suffering from lockdown induced depression, has been entrusted with the task of encouraging plasma donations by those who have recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||BJP to target JMM govt on mutation bill, poor law and order||The Opposition BJP has decided to take on the JMM-led state government over the proposed Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020, and deteriorating law and order when the Assembly reconvenes on Monday for the monsoon session. Leader of the BJP legislature party and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi has set the tone for the Opposition’s stance in the House following a meeting with party MLAs at his residence on Friday. After the meeting, BJP’s Sahebganj MLA Anant Ojha said, “All party MLAs are on the same page over the controversial land mutation bill. The party has decided to go all out to corner the government on this anti-people bill. The party will hit the streets with full force to block this bill, if the government still decides to table it without bringing in required amendments.” Notably, the Congress, an ally in the ruling dispensation, has also developed cold feet over the bill and is now calling for amendments to strike out a clause which offers protection to land and revenue officials from civil or criminal cases in case of wrongdoing. Ojha said that all party MLAs were equally concerned about the state’s deteriorating law and order ever since the Hemant Soren government was sworn in. At least two BJP leaders—one in Dhanbad and another in Palamau were killed in the last six months. “Almost every day, one can hear and read news regarding rape, dacoity, police excesses and so on. The situation is such that there is now a feeling among people that criminals and Naxalites have got a free hand to operate under the current regime,” said Ojha. He said BJP leaders have met the governor over the law and order issue twice, but the state government seemed indifferent. BJP is currently without a leader of the Opposition even though it is the single largest Opposition party in the state assembly with 26 MLAs. While BJP has chosen Marandi, Jharkhand’s first chief minister who had merged his JVM-P with the BJP after the Assembly polls as leader of Opposition, the appointment is yet to be okayed by the Speaker. Ojha said the BJP would raise the issue in the House on Monday. “Election Commission of India (ECI) has recognised Babulalji’s merger with BJP and by virtue of it, he was included in the BJP’s voter’s list during the Rajya Sabha polls held in June this year. But despite this, his formal appointment as leader of Opposition in the Assembly is not being endorsed by the Speaker at the behest of the state government,” said Ojha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Coal worker killed in accident during morning walk||A coal worker of Mukunda Open Cast Project area of BCCL died after she was hit by a BCCL water tanker. The deceased, Arti Devi, was the sole bread earner of her family. She is survived by her husband, Baliram Rajbhar, sons Raja (10), Amit (8), Deepak (5) and daughter Khusbu (12). The local residents of MOCP and North Tisra area blocked the North Tisra- Jeenagora road for more than one hour, demanding compensation for the family. The family members of Arti Devi said she used to go for morning walks everyday towards the Gokuldham part, about 2 kms from her colony. The blockade was lifted around 9am when a police team led by officer in charge of North Tisra Police station, Chandraketu Singh arrived at the site and held talks with the protesters assuring them that compensation will be sought from BCCL authorities. “We have sent the dead body for post-mortem at PMCH and will initiate investigation on the basis of statement of the family members of the deceased after lodging a case”, said Chandraketu Singh. Ramgarh district’s police administration has issued a high alert on active bookies during the Indian Premier League fixture. The IPL commences from September 19. SP Prabhat Kumar said, “We are constantly getting information that bookies are active in the district. Bookies are consulting to gamble crores through mobile Apps and software”. Punters are present on every street to bet on the matches. The SP urged parents and young people to stay alert and not fall prey to the gambling system which sometimes has a fatal end. Emergency numbers 100 and 9162388444 have been issued. Anyone who has information about the bookies can inform the police. An attestation parade of 404 trainees was organised by The Punjab Regimental Centre on Thursday at Kilahari Drill Square, Ramgarh Cantt. The young soldiers took oath after nine months of training. Reviewing officer congratulated all newly inducted soldiers on the successful completion of their training. He presented medals and awards to the outstanding young soldiers for their performance during the training. Dhanbad police, arrested a car driver, Lalan Kumar Das in connection with the September 4 murder of BJP leader Kendua Mandal. Four more persons, including three of Baliapur and one person of Damodarpur, were arrested from Baliapur. Dhanbad SSP, Asim Vikrant Minz, said that police raided a hideout in Baliapur on the basis of information obtained from the interrogation of Lalan Kumar Das arrested the four criminals while raids are on to arrest more persons. He said that the murder plot was hatched by Vikash Singh, a noted criminal of Dhanbad in association with another criminal, SatIsh Kumar alias Samir who are still at large. Police also recovered a 7.62 mm country made pistol, a live catridge, a magazine, two motorcyles and a mobile phone from the arrested persons. Satish Singh, a close aide of the Dhanbad MLA was killed on the Dhanbad Bokaro road in Matkuari area at 3 pm on August 19 when he was walking to Vikash Nagar after disembarking from a SUV. Cash and properly worth over 6 lakh was stolen from the house of a resident of Barapandeydih locality under Baghamara Police station on Thursday. Ajay Pandey who lodged a case in this regard at Baghmara police station claimed that around 10 armed criminals entered his double storey house, held his family at gun point, stole jewellery and cash and then fled. Police recovered a mobile from Topchanchi area. Dhanbad based Central President of Commerce wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Amitesh Sahay, met Littipara JMM MLA, Dinesh Marandi during his brief stay at Govidpur and handed him a memorandum to resolve traffic congestion on the main road connecting Dhanbad to Santhal Pargana. According to the memorandum, Sahay urged Marandi to look into the demand for construction of four flyovers and resolve the power crisis in Dhanbad. Inauguration of a power grid substation in the district has been delayed by environmental and lockdown related factors. Once functional, the district will get uninterrupted power supply. An NOC is required for cutting down trees that fall under the newly erected transmission lines. The lockdown delayed the formal procedure. Executive engineer of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Chandramohan Sharma said,“ Work has been completed and there is some issue at Latehar side which will be sorted out at the earliest”. He claimed that it’s a matter of few months when Chorkari power sub grid will start working by January 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
