19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Police bust interstate gang of cybercriminals||Police on Saturday busted an interstate gang of alleged cybercriminals when it arrested two persons in Gamharia police station area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, about 10km from here. The arrested persons would allegedly steal cash from ATMs by prying open the machines using forceps after tampering with them. They would target ATMs without guards. Those arrested were identified as Niranjan Kumar Nirala, 32, a resident of Sirsia in Giridih district, and Ravi Ranjan Kumar, 26, a resident of Jamuar in Gaya district of Bihar. Two others, Laltu Kumar and Bipin Kumar, both residents of Gaya, also associated with the ATM heists, managed to escape. The police have seized four cloned ATMs, five ATMs of various banks and four smartphones, besides a car. Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police Mohammed Arshi said that on July 27, Sandeep Kumar who works as a vigilance officer at Ujjivan Small Finance Bank had lodged an FIR with the Adityapur police station regarding a fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 5,000 from the bank’s ATM in Adityapur. “The police obtained footage from a surveillance camera installed at the ATM. The footage showed three persons taking out cash from the machine using forceps. After getting their photographs, the officers alerted the Adityapur and Gamharia police,” Arshi said at a news conference. Arshi said that on Friday night, a patrolling party spotted a white car with four persons near an ATM in Gamharia. The faces of three matched with those in the footage. “As soon as the patrolling party passed on the information about the four suspected cybercriminals, a joint team from Adityapur and Gamharia police stations was constituted. The police team reached the spot, but could nab only two. Later, the police brought the two arrested persons to the Adityapur police station for interrogation. The duo confessed to their crimes and also divulged how they had been operating in Adityapur and Gamharia areas for the past three months,” said Arshi. He said the criminals would target ATMs where no guards were posted. They used to fix the forceps near the cash dispenser clandestinely. “When a customer tried to make a withdrawal at the ATM, the cash would not come out. After the customer left the ATM, they would enter and remove the forceps with the cash. Having taken out the cash, they would fix the forceps once again in the ATM and wait for the next customer,” Arshi said. According to him, the criminals confessed to making such fraudulent withdrawals at Asansol and Purulia in Bengal and in a number of districts, including Seraikela-Kharsawan, in Jharkhand. He said the police were trying to trace the two others who managed to escape. The arrested duo have been sent to Seraikela divisional jail after being produced before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Teams set up to check oxygen level of home-isolated patients||The Jharkhand government has constituted dedicated teams to go door-to-door and measure oxygen levels of Covid patients staying in home isolation across the state, health officials said on Saturday. The initiative, officials added, was taken in the wake of reports highlighting a sudden drop in oxygen levels of many asymptomatic patients across the country. “Many asymptomatic Covid patients were experiencing a fall in the oxygen level in their bodies, which could prove fatal if not treated on time,” said state health director Ravi Shankar Shukla. Shukla added that the teams were constituted at the panchayat level for rural Jharkhand and ward level in urban areas to keep a tab on patients staying in home isolation. As per the home isolation norms set by the government, patients should have an oximeter at home to keep a check on the oxygen level in their body. However, many patients cannot afford an oximeter, officials said. Inspection teams will identify such patients, who do not have an oximeter, in the first phase of the drive. “The teams will take all necessary precautions as per the protocol during the drive. All members of these teams will wear PPE kits when they visit homes of Covid patients,” said Shukla, adding that oximeters and PPE kits were already provided to the teams in various districts. An oximeter, available in medicine shops, comprises a monitor which contains the batteries and display, a probe, which consists of light emitting diodes, and a light detector called a photo-detector. The probe in the machine senses the user’s pulse. The oximeter measures pulse rate and the oxygen saturation of haemoglobin in arterial blood. Normal readings, according to doctors, range from 95 per cent to 100 per cent. Anything less, and the user should get medical assistance from a doctor. As per latest figures with the health department, there were 13,610 active  Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. More than half of these patients, sources said, were in home isolation. So far, the state has reported 68,638 cases, and nearly 55,000 Covid patients have recovered. More than 600 Covid patients have died in the state, and a majority of them were suffering from some or other comorbid condition, officials said. While nearly 75 per cent of the deceased were above 50 years, at least 29 Covid victims in the state were younger than 30 years. The government, however, is yet to compile data of patients who died in home isolation. As per government data, around 16.50 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far, and most of them were from urban areas. Latest figures show that around 3,000 people were battling the virus in Ranchi, while around 2,800 were undergoing treatment in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Church writes to Hemant demanding Sarna code for tribals||Heads of churches have thrown their weight behind a key demand of tribals, asking the Hemant Soren government to pass a bill in support of a separate Sarna code for adivasis during the ongoing monsoon session ahead of the 2021 Census. In a letter to the chief minister on Saturday, Catholic bishops of Jharkhand, under the banner of Ranchi Catholic Archdiocese, reminded him that advisasis had been given special status under the Constitution. “Article 25, 29 and 342 talk about their (tribals) fundamental rights, safety and identity. Therefore, they must be provided a separate Sarna code, guaranteeing the rights of the tribal community to their language, religion, culture and a separate identity,” the letter, signed by Archbishop Felix Toppo on behalf of all missionary heads, said. “We demand the chief minister pass a bill in this connection to safeguard tribal identity and send the proposal to the Union government to formally press for inclusion of the Sarna code in the impending Census,” the letter added. The bishops have also demanded that the state government to pass a resolution not to implement the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Jharkhand till such time the Centre grants a Sarna code to advisasis. Two days back, JD(U)’s state president and convenor of Adivasi Senghal Abhiyan Salkhan Murmu staged a daylong sit-in to demand a separate code for advisasis in the Census. In January, Murmu had also written to President Ramnath Kovind. According to Murmu, Jharkhand has about 32 tribal groups, of which eight are Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG). A few have converted to Christianity while others worship nature. “Jains and Buddhist are less in number vis-a-vis the tribal population but they have a separate religious code. The tribals are still fighting for it for decades. By denying a separate religious code for tribals, the government wants to put tribals in the category of Hindus, Muslim and Christian category, which isn’t right and logical because of advisasis’ distinct identity,” he said. Murmu said that in the 2011 Census, around 42 lakh people from Jharkhand and about six crore across the country had mentioned their religion as Sarna, which was later included in the “others” section. Notably, the JMM, Congress and RJD had promised to work towards a Sarna code for tribals in the run-up to last year’s Assembly polls. Missionaries were at odds with the previous BJP regime between 2014-2019 after the latter introduced an anti-conversion law accusing the Church of forcefully converting tribals and usurping their land. The former BJP-led government had also initiated probes against several NGOs run by missionaries and put curbs on their foreign funding, accusing them of duping poor tribals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Govt will consider ‘genuine demands of police assistants, says minister||The state government will work towards fulfilling the genuine demands of thousands of assistant police personnel, the state’s water resources minister, Mithilesh Thakur, assured them at a meeting on Saturday. After a meeting with the protesters, Thakur told reporters that the talks with the police assistants remained positive. “I have told them that they should not hold any grudges against the current government. At the same time, I assured them that the government will certainly consider all their genuine demands, but it requires time. They seem to have been convinced and should soon end their protest,” said Thakur, who resumed office about a month back after recovering from Covid-19. The protests by police assistants, hired on contract by the former BJP-led  government in 2017, turned violent on Friday after they clashed with police while attempting to march towards Raj Bhavan and the chief minister’s residence. At least a dozen people were injured in the clash. On Saturday, Chief minister Hemant Soren appointed Thakur to hold negotiations after which he headed to Morabadi ground where over 2000 protestors have been camping for more than a week to hear their concerns. Thakur said their key demands included regularisation of jobs. “This apart, they also wanted increased honorarium and facilities at par with regular police. I have noted their demands and will discuss with the chief minister. We should be able to workout an amicable solution, but it will take time,” said Thakur. The minister said generating employment was one of the key mottos of the state government which would explore avenues where these people could be accommodated keeping the police force as the first choice. “But all these are policy decisions and need time,” he reiterated. Till the time of filing this report, the protestors had not called off their stir. Rakesh Minz, a 26-year-old assistant policeman from Latehar, said, “Our leaders will take a call soon after discussing with all stakeholders.” Notably, assistant police personnel were hired on contract in 2017 on monthly honorarium of Rs 10,000 by the former BJP government headed by Raghubar Das. They were then assured permanent reinstatement gradually. However, their contract period ended in August this year, and these have not yet been renewed by the JMM-Congress-RJD government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Elephant dies of electrocution in village near Ranchi||An elephant died of electrocution in Ranchi’s Khalari block on Saturday morning after coming in contact with a high-tension wire placed by villagers at a farm to generate power for watering the field, forest officials said. While the residents of Dhelwatand village in Khalari, where the incident occurred, have pleaded innocence terming the death of the tusker, a female of 35, as an accident, forest officials have initiated a probe into the matter to see if the wire was deliberately placed in the field to harm elephants. “The possibility of villagers deliberately placing the wire in the field to harm elephants cannot be denied. However, prima facie, it seems that the wire was placed in the field to power machines used for irrigation,” said district forest officer (DFO), Ranchi, Ashok Kumar Dubey. Forest officials recently chased away a herd of elephants from Dhelwatand village, about 60 km from Ranchi, and the female elephant who died on Saturday is assumed to be a member of the same herd. The elephant came in contact with the naked wire, hanging from a pole, while she was crossing the field, forest officials said. According to the DFO, the naked wire was hanging at a height where it can only come in contact with an animal as tall as an elephant. “This indicates that the wire was not placed there to keep other wild animals at bay,” said Dubey, assuring that the villagers responsible for the incident will be prosecuted. As per records with the forest department, at least three elephants died of electrocution in Ranchi last year. The forest department, however, does not have any data on the total number of elephants that have died of electrocution across Jharkhand. On an average, eight elephants were killed annually in the past decade in Jharkhand. As per the elephant mortality data with the state forest department, 82 elephants were killed from 2009-10 to 2018-19. The man-elephant conflict in Jharkhand has been a concern for wildlife conservationists in the state. Since tuskers often go on the rampage in villages and even cause human fatalities, villagers in many areas of the state take measures at their own level to tackle the jumbo menace, sources said. Under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, people involved in harming an elephant or even attempting to harm an elephant can be imprisoned for up to seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Onion prices may cross Rs 50 a kg, fear traders||After potato and green vegetables, onion prices are now pinching consumer pockets. For the last couple of days retail vendors in Ranchi and Jamshedpur are selling onions at anywhere between Rs 35 and Rs 40 a kg depending on the quality. Coal town Dhanbad too is buying this key kitchen ingredient for Rs 38 a kg. Traders in Jamshedpur believe the tear-jerker crop would cross the Rs 50 mark and stay out of reach till October-end when the new crop arrives. “Onion production in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka was badly hit this year due to heavy rains which has damaged crops. Farmers themselves are selling at a very high rate. How can you expect a price buffer so soon?” said Ranganath, an onion dealer at Sakchi. Pritam Sahu, a wholesaler in Ranchi, said: "The rate would come down only after fresh stocks arrive by the end of October." He said onions, which sold at Rs 20 a kg in the retail market even a week ago, was now dearer at Rs 35 a kg in most markets of the state capital. In the steel city, Dhanbad and Bokaro onions were being sold at anywhere between Rs 20 and Rs 22 earlier this week, while pushcart vendors in some pockets are flaunting a price tag of more than Rs 40 a kg. Sources at Parsudih-based Krishi Utpad Bazaar Samiti (KUBS) said currently onions in most places across the state were supplied from Nashik and Pune. For the last three to four days five trucks have been carrying the consignment from Nashik and other districts of Maharashtra to Jamshedpur. Each truck carries around 25 tonne of onions. A wholesale dealer of onions, Rupesh Kumar Saw of Bistupur market, ruled out hoarding by dealers. "Whatever consignment is coming is getting consumed. Neither there is artificial hoarding nor scarcity. The retailers are to be blamed for jacking up the price, " he said The Union government recently issued a notification banning the export of onions. The trigger for this move was that the wholesale and retail price of onion was witnessing a steady increase. A wholesale onion dealer at Sakchi said, "If the ban on export of onions would not have been imposed, by now the prices would have crossed Rs 60 per kg." Homemakers are crying hoarse over the unfair deal and reluctantly making compromises in the kitchen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City to host football Baby League ||Budding footballers of Jharkhand now have a chance to showcase their talent at the Golden Baby League, a unique event of All India Football Federation (AIFF). The league, to be organised by Jharkhand Football Association (JFA) under AIFF’s banner, will be conducted in Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro. Khunti could also be a venue but a decision is awaited. JFA  secretary Ghulam Rabbani said the event for boys and girls will be played from under-6 to under-12 age groups.  Teams from each group will be playing over 30 matches . “The dates will be finalised once the Covid-19 situation improves. We are anxious to organise the matches,” he added. Speaking to The Telegraph Online over phone from Giridih, Rabbani said the Golden Baby League is an AIFF programme aimed at pepping up football at school level. “Some states like Maharashtra and Northeast already have grassroot development programmes. We also have the structure in Jharkhand but the Golden Baby League is a different programme which will be held under AIFF’s supervision and guidance,” he added. According to him, Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro have adequate infrastructure and matches can be conducted at these cities without much hassles. The JFA has already started the spadework to efficiently conducted the tournament. Rabbani had chaired a meeting last month to discuss the event and related logistics. AIFF’s consultant Deepak John Nayak, who was present at the meeting via video-conferce, explained the format through a virtual presentation. Matches for the under-6, under-7 and under-8 age group will be spread over 24 minutes while match duration for under-9 and under-10 age section will be of 40 minutes . Participants in the under-11 and under-12 age group will play matches of 50 minute duration. A maximum of 3 matches will be conducted daily. The tournament will go on for nearly four months and matches will be played in the mixed (boys and girls) format . There will no goalkeepers in the matches for under-6,under-7, under-8  categories while it will be optional for the under-9 and under-10 age section. Goalkeepers will be a part in the under-11 and under-12 age group, a JFA office bearer said. A team from the state football outfit will be visiting the four earmarked venues to discuss preparations with their district counterparts. The onus of conducting matches will be on the affiliated districts of the JFA. “It is essential to discuss the tournament with our district affiliates who will be responsible for conducting the matches. We have plans to visit the four venues next month. We want the event to be conduct efficiently," the officer bearer added. JFA will also spot talent from the Golden Baby League and work out training modules for them on regular basis. Tata Football Academy in Jamshedpur has a development programme for the under-12 boys. It also runs 15 football feeder centres across Kolhan. Jamshedpur FC is also developing an ecosystem for football  through its grassroot programmes. The club has started the programme in steel city schools where children are being trained by experienced coaches. Football festival and tournaments are also organised by the Tata Steel-owned club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Single-screen cinemas dying a slow, painful death||Single-screen cinema halls that were already reeling under the impact of high GST and low viewership are now staring at shutting down their enterprises because of the prolonged closure due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Owners predict that none of 30 operational single-screen theatres was likely to survive unless the government offered major tax concessions, now that various sectors of the economy were gradually opening up under Unlock-4 guidelines. Prashant Singh, owner of Puja Talkies of Dhanbad, said, “Even if the government allows us to open cinema halls, we are not going to open as we can’t bear the increased expenses of sanitisation, extra staff to ensure social distancing among viewers and renovation since the halls were closed for over six months.” Singh, whose hall has been screening movies for 35 years, said that while the government was not providing concessions, they were being pressured to pay exorbitant holding taxes by the local urban body. Apart from 18 per cent GST, hall owners cited several other factors that were impacting them adversely. These were low occupancy (about 9 per cent), high maintenance costs, fixed electricity charges and staff salaries. As many as 250 cinema halls were in operation in Jharkhand about two decades ago, said owners. Of these, only 30 were screening films before the March lockdown. Among these, six are in Dhanbad. Singh said they were staring at insolvency. “We are not going to take the risk of relaunching cinemas when the Covid scenario in the district is at its peak. We believe only 15 of the 30 cinema halls will survive the pandemic,” he said. “How will we bear the expenses of minimum guarantee sought by film distributors if halls get sealed in the name of violation of Covid norms? The minimum guarantee comes to around Rs 5 lakh for any new movie,” Singh noted. He said single-screen cinemas could not be equated with multiplexes which were the new-found choice of people, adding that the government should come up with a separate policy for promotion of single-screen cinema halls. “Otherwise, all cinema halls will eventually close down,” Singh said. Echoing similar sentiments, Nitesh Sahabadi, owner of Ray Talkies, one of the oldest cinema halls of Dhanbad, said only those who had witnessed the heydays of single-screen cinemas in the 70s,80s and part of the 90s would realise how bad the situation was now. “Any closure of the cinema halls will also affect the fate of our staff and others associated with eateries and stall owners situated in the periphery of  cinema halls,” said Shahbadi, adding that there were talks of slashing GST rates when the lockdown was announced. Gopal Agarwal, owner of Deshbandhu Cinema, said they were apprehensive about increased operational expenses with regard to sanitisation, etc. “Without some concessions, we will not be able to meet the expenses," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid casualties cross the 600 mark in Jharkhand||Jharkhand's Covid-19 fatalities crossed the 600 mark on Friday with six casualties reported in the past 24 hours. The State's death-count now stands at 602 while the total case load peaked to 68, 578 after 1478 new cases were recorded, state health department's bulletin issued on Friday night has stated. Of the total cases, 13697 are active and 52,807 have been recovered. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to report maximum spikes with 494 and 374 cases respectively in the past 24 hours. In terms of casualties, East Singhbhum continued to top among all the 24 districts with a total of nine casualties in 48 hours--six on Thursday and three on Friday. However, Ranchi saw three deaths on Thursday but managed to keep its slate clean on Friday. Ranchi district administration officials said that the spikes in their district has been because of the special drives for covid testing. An official of district covid taskforce said, "We have been focussing on routine drives to screen as many people as we can, hence, figures of infected people is on rise. For example, during a special testing drive between Sep 16-18, we took samples of 9143 people of which 311 tested positive. Drives will contine further." On the other hand, the state's seven days growth rate and seven days doubling rate, still higher than the national average, improved in comparison to the national level with 2.16 percent and 32 days respectively vis-a-vis 1.89 percent and 37 days nationally. With 0.89 percent, state's mortality rate however remains far lower than the national average of 1.60 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Many protesters injured after clash with police at Morabadi||At least a dozen people were injured in a clash between police and those who had been hired on contract three years ago to help them at Morabadi ground on Friday after an agitation for regularisation of jobs went out of hand. Over 2,000 assistant police personnel, including women, who had come to Ranchi from all parts of the state, have been camping at Morabadi ground for a week to demand proper pay and a permanent job as they had apparently been promised by the former BJP government of Raghubar Das when they were hired on contract in 2017. Despite spending the last few days in the open, braving the hot sun, many of them complained about being ignored by the Hemant government even though leaders of the Opposition parties lent them support. On Friday afternoon, the group had planned a march to Raj Bhavan and the chief minister’s residence. But the protesters were stopped by police around 2pm. Angry protestors, many of whom were with their toddlers, tried to demolish police barricades prompting security personnel to first  lathi-charge them and then fire teargas shells. This escalated into a clash with the protestors then resorting to stone pelting, leading to injuries on both sides. Tension prevailed for about two hours before Ranchi’s senior SP S.K. Jha, SDO Sameera S, among others, reached Morabadi to control the situation. Notably, the state government has banned any gathering or protests in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. SDO Sameera said that situation was brought under control by the evening. “Police was forced to resort to mild lathi-charge to control the crowd that had started moving towards Raj Bhavan and the chief minister’s house. Soon, all of them turned back,” she said. Chief minister Hemant Soren told reporters at Project Building later that his government was open to holding talks to understand the problems of the assistant policemen. But he clarified that the state government would not tolerate lawlessness. “They are free to represent their concerns in a delegation in a peaceful manner. The government will be sympathetic to their cause and will do whatever possible under the law. However, if anyone tries to break the law, then the administration will have to act tough,” he said. Opposition BJP, however, dubbed the police lathi-charge as barbaric. “The incident has exposed the Hemant Soren government’s concerns towards those fighting for jobs, employment. The alliance government had promised one lakh jobs each year. But after coming to power, it has forgotten their poll promise. The assistant police personnel had given their blood and sweat for the state government and all they are getting now are lathis,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo. Notably, assistant police personnel were hired on contract basis in 2017 on monthly honorarium of Rs 10,000 by the former BJP government headed by Raghubar Das. They were then assured permanent reinstatement gradually. However, after their contract period ended in August this year, their contracts have not yet been renewed by the JMM-Congress-RJD government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Illegal lubricant factory in Dhanbad busted||A joint team of Dhanbad’s district administration and police busted a nexus operating an illegal lubricant factory in Barmasia area. Four persons were arrested including two operators of the factory. The team seized more than 400 litres of locally made lubricants besides wrappers and stickers of branded lubricant manufacturers like Gulf Oil, HP and Max. Dhanbad, Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Prasad, said, "We received information about the nexus operating in Barmasia area through one official of Gulf Oil Lubricant Ltd”. “We are in the process of identifying those involved in the illegal business and if during the investigation it comes to light that some of the shop keepers used to regularly purchase the adulterated lubricant from  the factory then we will take against those shop keepers also”, said Prasad. Forest personnel of Palamau tiger sanctuary recovered eighty pieces of high commercial value timber of the sal and bija tree abandoned near Khajuri More under Bhandarya police station on Thursday night. Deputy director of North division of the tiger reserve Kumar Ashish said two police officials were involved in the smuggling. Madgari police picket official P. Singh was involved in the felling of the tress and Bhandarya police station’s officer in charge K. Kumar helped the timber loaded pick-up van to pass through his jurisdiction. Ashish said the DIG and IG of police would be informed about the illegal activities of the two police officers. Six children sustained minor burn injuries from lightning in Peto village around 42kms away from Hazaribagh. The children were playing cricket and had to take shelter under a tree when it started raining. Soon after, lightning struck and they fell unconscious. One of them remained unscathed and immediately ran towards the village calling elders who rushed all to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Hazaribagh sadar BJP MLA, Manish Jaiswal ensured all of them were provided treatment. Doctors said the children were out of danger. Petrol pump owners have been directed not to give petrol to customers without masks. The policy will be applied to bikers without helmets too. Subdivisional officer Manish Kumar on Friday chaired a meeting with petrol pump owners, asking them to spread awareness on the importance of wearing masks. The owners were instructed to hand out masks to heavy vehicle drivers if they didn’t wear one. A total of 107 Covid patients were discharged on Friday from different treatment and isolation centers  of Dhanbad including 35 from CMRI Health Centre; 18 each from BCCL hospital at Bhuli and Nirsa Polytechnic; 10 from Sadar Hospital; 14 from Zonal Training Institute of Railway in Bhuli, 10 from Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad, seven from BCCL Central Hospital and five from Wedlock greens. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said that the discharged patients have been provided health kits and asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. He said that 199 persons were discharged during the last two days. 92 were discharged from different Covid treatment facilities of which 55 were discharged from Nirsa Polytechnic; 19 from Sadar Hospital; seven from Wedlock greens; six from PMCH Cath lab; two from BCCL Hospital in Bhuli etc. At present there are only 402 active cases in the district. Dhanbad District Transport Officer Om Prakash Yadav on Friday transferred Rs 25,000 each to the bank accounts of the dependents of three persons who died earlier in three seperate hit and run cases. Chandani Chaubey received compensation in lieu of her husband who died in an accident on NH-2 in Rajganj, Bhagirath Dhivar, husband of Kanchana Dhivar, who died in accident in Sindri and Dilip Ruj whose father Anil Chandra Ruj was also killed in an accident in Govindpur. Voting will be held in 468 polling booths in which polling agents of above 55 years of age will not be deployed while voters who have tested positive can vote through postal ballot. Bokaro DC, Rajesh Kumar Singh held meetings with senior officials and a total of 18 cells including Covid-19 cell and Coordinating Cell have been formed for the election. The administration will appeal to all 3,11,107 eligible electors to exercise their franchise but also ensure that Covid-19 protocols be followed. Sanitization of EVM-VVPAT machines will be ensured. District Social Welfare Officer Manisha Vats has been directed to arrange wheelchairs and vehicles on polling day for physically challenged voters. The Bokaro district industry department has geared up for the revival of sick units in the region known for being one of the investor-friendly hubs of the state. General Manager, District Industries Center, Dipak Kumar Sharma on Friday requested all the industrial associations to provide the list of closed industries. “Every effort is being made by the state government to revive the sick and closed units for the industrial development of the state. We are in process of assessing how many small and medium industries are sick or get closed in this region,” Sharma. He added that they have sought information about the sick industries from Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Jharkhand Tiny Service and Business Enterprises Association, Bokaro Industries Association and others. Sampling of as many as 8400 people has been done through Rapid Antigen Tests. This was the third such mega camp organised by the district administration. The test results will be declared on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Couple die in honey bee attack||A couple in their fifties died and a middle-aged woman was critically injured after being attacked by a swarm of honey bees in a forest in Dandai block of Garhwa district in Jharkhand on Thursday evening. Panchayat samiti member Sandeep Gupta said daily-wage earner Nandu Paswan, 57, and his wife Meena Devi, 54, both residents of Jarhi Damar Tola village in Dandai block, had gone to collect firewood for cooking from the nearby Mahudand forest around 3pm. “The couple had gone along with several other villagers to collect firewood. After nearly two hours the villagers sat down under trees to take a break and were eating when they were attacked by a swarm of bees. While the remaining villagers scampered to safety, the two could not escape. “Meena Devi died in the forest itself and was declared brought dead at the Sadar Hospital while Nandu died later in the evening at the hospital. A relative of the couple, Urmila Devi, 35, who was also caught in the bee attack is in a critical condition at the Sadar Hospital,” said Gupta. According to locals, most of those who had gone to collect firewood escaped and informed other villagers after returning from the forest. The villagers then rushed to the spot along with a local medical practitioner to find Meena dead and Nandu senseless. The other woman had somehow managed to flee and collapsed at a distance from the village. The village is around 250km northwest of state capital Ranchi. Jitendra Paswan, 26, the only son of the deceased couple accused the central government for not transferring the domestic gas (LPG) subsidy amount in their bank account as the reason for the death of his parents. “We have a gas connection in the name of my mother under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana but for the last four months we are not able to refill cylinders as the subsidy amount was not being transferred. We are jobless in the lockdown and my parents had no option but to go to the forest to collect firewood and meet a tragic death,” alleged Jitendra. Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak said they did not have knowledge about any provision for compensation in case of death due to honey bee attack. “However, if the son gives in writing about the LPG subsidy not being transferred to their bank account lead to their pitiable condition, then we can arrange for some financial aid on humanitarian grounds,” said Pathak. The bodies of the couple were sent by Dandai police for post-mortem on Friday morning before being handed over to the relatives for their last rites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Probe into trauma of disabled undertrial||The state disability commissioner on Wednesday asked the Jharkhand inspector-general of prisons to investigate and submit a report on the alleged mental trauma undergone by a physically challenged undertrial at the district jail in Garhwa. “A social organisation, Jharkhand Viklang Manch, had informed me about the mental trauma suffered by an undertrial in Garhwa district jail in April after the jail authorities allegedly took away the crutches of the victim in the jail. “It is a blatant violation of provisions mandated in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, ensuring barrier-free accessibility in government buildings. I have asked the inspector-general of prisons to conduct a probe into the allegation and inform me after undertaking suitable action,” said disability commissioner Satish Chandra. Arun Kumar, president of the Manch, an organisation working for persons with disabilities in the state, had written to Chandra on September 14 informing about the alleged mental trauma suffered by the undertrial. “I came to know from local media reports about orthopedically challenged Koril Kumar, a resident of Palamau, who was lodged in Garhwa jail on April 11 for allegedly circulating communally sensitive messages on social media, was facing mental harassment as his crutches were taken away by the jail authorities,” said the Manch president. “We recently got in touch with Koril, who was released on May 1, and were informed that he is 60 per cent disabled in both legs and had faced severe hardship in doing his daily chores inside the jail for want of crutches. We decided to take up the case and wrote a letter to the chief minister (Hemant Soren) with a copy to the disability commissioner and state director-general of police (M.V. Rao),” the Manch president added. Meanwhile, inspector-general of prisons Birendra Bhusan confirmed receiving the letter from the disability commissioner. “We have received the letter from the state disability commissioner and have already asked Garhwa deputy commissioner (Rajesh Kumar Pathak) to submit a report after a thorough probe into the incident as it is a violation of the provisions mandated for disabled,” said Bhusan. The disability commissioner admitted that they do not possess any statistics on the facilities available for disabled in the the state’s prisons. “At the moment we do not possess data about the facilities provided in different prisons for the disabled undertrials and prisoners. I would soon be writing to the inspector-general of prisons to compile a data about the number of disabled undertrials and prisoners in different jails and the facilities existing in prisons for them,” said Chandra. Jharkhand has seven central jails, 16 district jails, six subdivisional jails, one open jail and a Covid jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
