20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Nearly 1500 cases in Jharkhand take Covid tally above 70,000||Nearly 1,500 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday in Jharkhand, taking the tally in the state to above 70,000, according to figures released by the health department. As per the government data, while 1,492 cases of infection surfaced across Jharkhand on Sunday, the state did not report even a single casualty due to the coronavirus during the day. However, as many as 13,791 people were still battling the infection by the time this report was filed late on Sunday. At least 617 people have died of the infection in the state so far, and East Singhbhum accounts for 268 of them, the government data showed. The mortality rate in the state stood at 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent. Ranchi reported nearly 500 cases of infection on Sunday, while only 128 Covid-19 patients recovered here, taking the count of active cases in the district close to 3,500. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), there were 3,474 active cases of infection in Ranchi after 468 people were found infected in 24 hours. The number of active cases reduced in East Singhbhum after 371 patients recovered against the 129 fresh cases surfacing in 24 hours. However, there were over 2,500 active cases in the district despite the healthy recovery rate. As per the NHM bulletin, 2,563 people were battling the virus in the district. As many as 1,235 patients recovered from the infection on Sunday, taking the total count of recoveries in the state to 56,944 and the recovery rate to 79.80 per cent, data with the health department stated. The government has so far collected swab samples of 1.77 lakh people and tested 1.76 lakh of them. Of those tested, 71,352 were found positive. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 81,169 people and 79,677 of them were found to be Covid-19 negative. As per figures with the health department, nearly 75 per cent of the 600-odd Covid-19 victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years, and a majority of them were already suffering from comorbid health conditions when they got infected by the coronavirus. The virus has also killed as many as 129 people in the 31-50 years age bracket, and many of the victims did not have a severe comorbid condition, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||NIT students bag plum job offers||Placements at the Adityapur-based NIT Jamshedpur got off to a stellar start with as many as 80 students so far getting plum jobs offered by recruiters through an online process. Around 600 BTech students of the 2017-21 batch from various streams are to participate in this year’s placements. The process is online this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Usually, recruiters visit the campus for head-hunting. Prahlad Prasad, the professor in charge of training and placement, said that so far, 80 students have been recruited since the placement process began in the last week of August. “Around 20 companies have already participated in the online recruitment drive. We are expecting another 10 companies by the end of September,” Prasad told The Telegraph Online. He added that the highest package of Rs 30 lakh per annum was offered by Amazon. Most students who have been already recruited belong to the computer science engineering stream. The average package offered by the companies is around Rs 18 lakh per annum. “As per the trends and feedback received from our past as well new recruiters, we expect that more than 90 per cent of the students will be recruited by the end of the placement season. Most of the companies will visit the campus once the situation becomes normal,” said Prasad. Significantly, no offers have been revoked for the 2020 batch despite tough economic conditions. Around 92 per cent of the students in the previous batch (2016-20) secured placements, and the average CTC was Rs 8.71 lakh per annum. One of the students in the previous batch landed the highest salary package in the history of the institute. Vaibhaav Srinath Dev of the mechanical engineering stream was offered 85,000 euros (Rs 70 lakh) per annum by BMS United Bunkers Ltd, an oil trading company with headquarters in Athens, Greece. The second-highest package of Rs 43.3 lakh was secured by Aman Kumar and Kanishka, both from the computer science engineering stream. They were picked up by IT major Microsoft. An official of the training and placement cell said: “We have been getting good placements for the past few years due to the hard work put in by the cell members.” He said that over 100 companies are expected to recruit students in the ongoing placement drive which will continue for one year till July next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||BJP attacks govt over hunger deaths, atrocities against Dalits||BJP legislator Amar Bauri, who is also state president of the party’s SC wing, attacked the ruling Hemant Soren-led government as “anti-Dalit” on Sunday, pointing to the alleged hunger deaths in the community in Jharkhand. Addressing the media at the party headquarters here, Bauri, a former state minister, accused the government of overlooking the plight of Bhukal Ghasi, who allegedly died of starvation in Bokaro on March 6. Bauri also accused the bureaucracy of mounting pressure on Ghasi’s family to prove that he died of a disease and not starvation. “The government is afraid that the topic of Ghasi’s death may again be discussed in the ongoing monsoon session of the Assembly. In order to save face, the government has kept his family members at a government guest house in Bokaro,” said Bauri. Bauri added that two more members of Ghasi’s family died later in the year. Demanding a judicial inquiry into the deaths, he said that many members of the Dalit community have died of hunger in Ramgarh, Garhwa, Deoghar and Latehar, but the government was tightlipped. The hunger deaths of members of BPL families during the former Raghubar Das-led government had stirred a political storm in 2016 after independent investigations by Right to Food activists found that at least two dozen people had died of starvation. Addressing the anomalies in the public distribution system (PDS) and bringing an end to hunger deaths was also one of the key agendas of the JMM for the 2019 assembly polls. On Sunday, the BJP also demanded compensation of Rs 25 lakh for the kin of Bhukkhal Ghasi and a government job for his son. Bauri asked the government to also make arrangements for employment of youths belonging to the Ghasi community. Besides, the former minister also questioned the government over delays in solving cases lodged with SC/ST police stations across Jharkhand. Sharing a couple of instances with the media, Bauri demanded quick action and speedy trial in cases lodged under Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989. Further stressing the alleged anti-Dalit approach of the government, Bauri said that at least nine of 11 labourers who died in an accident at Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya while returning home during lockdown were Dalits. The Uttar Pradesh government, he said, had announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of each of the diseased, and the money too was disbursed. However, the beneficiaries in Jharkhand did not get the compensation for five months. “There is still ambiguity over whether the beneficiaries got the money or not,” said Bauri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Blackout in Jharia, Putki areas after blast at DVC feeder||The power crisis prevailing in Jharia and Putki areas for over a week is likely to be prolonged further after a feeder at Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) was shut down after a cable blast on Saturday night, affecting over five lakh residents of the localities. Also, the disruption in the Putki feeder also affected the inter-linked Godhar 1 and Godhar II feeders of DVC affecting supply to some parts of Katras and suburban areas of Dhanbad. Residents were furious. President of Jharia chamber of Commerce Amit Sahu said the power shutdown at a time when businesses were down had adversely impacted market sentiments. “As the retail market in Jharia is situated in narrow streets, lights are crucial for shops to operate. We cannot sustain businesses on power back-up for long,” said Sahu, who also runs a hotel. He said they have appealed to Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam authorities that have, in turn, blamed DVC for being responsible for poor supply. Pratosh Kumar, GM of Dhanbad electric supply area of JBVNL said repairs were on and promised restoration soon. “The breakdown that occurred in the Putki feeder led to a power failure in major parts of Jharia, Dhanbad and Putki. But repair work has almost been completed and power supply is likely to be restored by Sunday night,” he claimed. Deepak Keshri, a resident of Dharmshala Road at Jharia, is a wholesaler of mosquito nets. “Although we were facing difficulty since over a week, the situation worsened on Saturday when we spent the entire night in darkness” Pinaki Roy, a resident of Hetli Bandh in Jharia and a private tutor, said, “The lack of power supply also affects filling of overhead tanks. Residents of large buildings with multiple tenants are the worst sufferers. After sweating it out for the entire night, we could not even have a proper bath during the day.” Deepak Kumar, a security guard of Sumitra Extension Apartment at Polytechnic road in Dhanbad, said he was busy the entire night switching the generator on and off due to intermittent power supply. “The entire stock of petrol was exhausted by morning,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Animal lovers feed stray dogs, cows across steel city||Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation and the steel city chapter of Robin Hood Army joined hands to organise to feed strays on Sunday. Enthusiastic members of the both outfits showered their love on cows, dogs, donkeys, birds and pigs by moving in two-wheelers to various localities of the city. Chhapatis, biscuits, leaves, choker (cow food) and pedigree (dog food) were fed to the animals in localities like Bistupur, Kadma, Sonari, Ciruit House Area and Sakchi. The food was kept in a van which moved along with the members on two-wheelers. The “Feed the strays” drive was flagged off from G Town ground in Bistupur at 9.30 am. “We thank the people who came forward with essential food items for the strays. We organised the drive for the first time and would like to continue with it. We felt highly satisfied. It was a super drive to say the least. We will be conducting more animal welfare activities in the near future,” said founder of the foundation Aniz Patel. The members found a good number of cows at Ramleela ground in Sakchi. The volunteers went about their job in front of onlookers, some of whom appreciated the noble initiative. Established in 2018, the Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation conducted an anti-rabies drive and also put reflective collars around necks of stray dogs in July. The NGO also appealed to the citizens to provide shelter to the stray animals last month. “We are doing our bit for the stray animals and would like more people to show love and compassion towards these hapless animals. We would like more and more people to join us,” said Kishore Oza, an active member of the foundation. Robin Hood Army is a voluntary organisation that works to get surplus food from restaurants to the less fortunate sections of society in cities across India and 12 other countries. A chapter is also operational in Ranchi. “We decided to chip in with our support to the foundation for this noble initiative. We had covered and delivered food items to around 2 lakh needy people as part of our Covid-19 initiative. XLRI, Jamshedpur has been of great help,” said Loveleen Kaur, a member of the Jamshedpur chapter of Robin Hood Army. Stray animals had suffered a lot during the nationwide lockdown as people were consigned indoors. The landmark Jubilee Park, where people used to come and feed birds, has also been closed in view of the pandemic. However, some members of the foundation continue to feed the birds outside the park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally nears 70k after 1222 test positive||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand drew close to 70,000 on Saturday after as many as 1,222 people across the state tested positive for the virus in 24 hours, figures released by the state health department stated. Meanwhile, the Covid tally in Ranchi crossed the 15,000 mark as 284 cases of infection surfaced here, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Saturday night highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, despite a four-digit increase in the number of Covid cases in Jharkhand, the Covid recovery rate in the state touched 80 per cent after 1,274 patients recovered from the infection. Jharkhand’s recovery rate is higher than the national average of 78.60 per cent. While the count of patients recovering from the infection has been fast increasing in Jharkhand, as many as 615 Covid fatalities have been reported in the state so far. As many as 10 Covid patients, including two each in Ranchi, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum, died during treatment on Saturday, government data stated. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent on Saturday night, which is lower than the national Covid mortality rate of 1.60 per cent. East Singhbhum, the district which has reported the highest number of Covid fatalities in the state so far, reported 179 cases of infection on the same day. However, the count of active cases there reduced as 200 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the same day. By Saturday night, there were nearly 3000 active cases in East Singhbhum and more than 3,000 active cases of infection in Ranchi. As per government data, there were 13,548 active cases of infection in Jharkhand after Saturday’s test results were out. The government collected swab samples of 24,756 people and tested 23,042 of them. So far, health workers across Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 1.68 lakh people and tested 1.67 lakh of them. Out of the 1.67 lakh people tested, 69,860 were found infected. Government data stated that nearly 75 per cent of the Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years, while 128 were within the age bracket of 31 to 50 years. As many as 26 people in the age bracket of 11 to 30 years have died of Covid infection in the state, and three children below the age of 10 years have lost their battle against the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Illegal arms factory raid||An illegal arms manufacturing factory was raided in Kusmahi village and eight persons arrested on Friday. Garhwa police followed a tip off on the operation of the factory. The SP Garhwa, Khotre Srikant S. Rao said that the factory was set up around 15 days ago. “It seemed that a large consignment was being manufactured that included four revolver, three half made revolver.” said the police officer. The arrested persons said that they were hired by a man named Anand to manufacture guns. “We also recovered three drill machines along with other tools,” said Rao. “It is possible that the weapons were to be supplied in the district and neighbouring state border villages,” the police officer added. The arrested persons were produced in a district court on Friday. A total of 11 Covid patients were discharged on Friday from different covid treatment facilities of Dhanbad including, Wedlock greens, Sadar Hospital and SSLNT Women's hospital of Dhanbad. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said, "All the discharged persons have been provided health kits and instructed to remain in home quarantine for next 14 days. At present there are 422 active cases in the district of which 101 are undergoing treatment in Nirsa Polytechnic, 96 in PMCH Cath lab,90 in Sadar Hospital; 60 in  Zonal Training Institute of Railway; 22 in wedlock greens; 17 in King's resort;16 in Tata Central Hospital Jamadoba; seven each in regional hospital of BCCL in Bhuli amd CIMFR health centre; and six in SSLNT Hospital, Dhanbad. A 42 wagon goods train loaded with fertiliser arrived at the Daltonganj Railway Station on Saturday. SDO sadar Ajay S. Baraik said the unloading of the fertilizer bags would be under police watch due to black marketing scare. Black marketing of fertilisers has caused a major problem to the farmers. A fertilizer bag worth Rs 260 is sold as high as 330 or 340 rupees in Palamau. Administration has issued strict warnings to fertiliser sellers to prevent black marketing or face license cancellation. Thirteen passengers sustained minor injuries when a bus going to Ranchi from Bhagalpur met with an accident on Hazaribagh-Giridih road (NH-100) near Arghwa river on Saturday. Local people said the roads are in bad condition laden with potholes. No fatalities were reported. Tatijharia police station officer-in-charge Chandan Kumar Saw ensured all injured passengers were taken to a nearby health centre. All the 13 injured were discharged after treatment. A team of administrative, police and mining officials raided illegal stone mines and crusher units in Tepsa and Sadam village of Ichak block. The team recovered detonators, explosives, wires, power gel, ammonium nitrate explosive, compressor machines and machines fitted in tractors. Officials said illegal mines operating in the area were causing environmental issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
