21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tribals threaten to step up stir if govt ignores Sarna code demand||A conglomerate of various tribal rights outfits in Jharkhand has threatened violent protests if the government fails to pass a bill for a separate Sarna code during the ongoing monsoon session of the Assembly scheduled to end on Tuesday. Arbind Oraon, the convener of National Adivasi Indigenous Religion Coordination Committee of India, which has been running extensive campaigns for inclusion of a Sarna code in the national Census since 2015, said on Monday that the government should not take the tribal community’s demand lightly as the peaceful protests may not take much time to turn violent if the government continues to be apathetic towards the demands. “So far, our protests have been peaceful. We also maintained social distancing on the streets. This should in no way be seen as our weakness. We will take to the streets and resort to violent protests if the government does not pass a bill for a Sarna code during the ongoing monsoon session,” said Oraon. Including a Sarna code in the religious census was one of the promises made by the ruling JMM during the 2019 Assembly polls in which the party toppled the BJP government and came to power. “In March, we met the chief minister and he assured us that the government will pass a bill for inclusion of a Sarna code in the religious census. However, Covid-19 pandemic diverted the attention of the government, and we also remained quiet as the situation demanded immediate attention,” said Oraon. On Monday, tribal youths formed a human chain on both sides of the road near Shehjanand Chowk in Ranchi and held posters carrying slogans like, “No Sarna Code, No Vote” and “Garv Se Kaho Hum Sarna hai (take pride in calling yourself Sarna)” when Chief Minister Hemant Soren’s convoy crossed the road on way to the Assembly. A Sarna code has been a long-pending demand of the tribal community in Jharkhand. Several hundred members of the tribal community staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on February 18 demanding a separate Sarna code in the 2021 census. Bablu Munda, president of Kendriya Sarna Samiti, a tribal rights group that participated in the protests, said the tribal community in Jharkhand has been pressing for a Sarna code since decades, but no government had bothered to pay heed to their demands. “But former chief minister Raghubar Das had assured us that he will speak to the Centre about our demands. But his government was toppled before he could take any initiative regarding our issues,” Munda said. Sarna followers are nature worshippers who do not consider themselves Hindus and have been fighting for a separate religious identity in India for decades. Lakhs of tribesmen who were born in Sarna-following families got converted to Christianity over the past century after the advent of missionaries, claim tribal gurus. These tribesmen have also been at loggerheads with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) over being tagged as Hindus by the saffron outfit. In 2014, thousands of Sarna followers handed over a memorandum to then Union minister P. Chidambaram and demanded recognition of Sarna as a separate religion. The crusaders back then had also staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi, but their pleas went unheeded. In 2015, about 30,000 tribals held a nationwide campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Power bill: fixed charges waived for April, May June ||The state electricity regulator has decided to waive fixed charges for all categories of consumers, including industrial units, for three months from April in view of the nationwide lockdown that plunged households and businesses into financial turmoil. The order issued on Monday by Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) also provides a three-month moratorium on payments pertaining to April, May and June till September-end, and directs power distribution companies not to impose any delayed payment surcharges (DPS). “The lockdown has adversely impacted the public and some respite is the need of the hour. The commission, after careful consideration of the situation, has decided to provide relaxations," the order, signed jointly by JSERC member R.N. Singh (engineering) and P.K. Singh (legal), noted. On pending payment of bills between April 1 to June 30, JSERC has ordered a moratorium till September 30, directing power companies to not charge late fees. "If any discom has already received payment with DPS or fixed charges from consumers for the waiver period, it should be adjusted in the next bills of subsequent months," the order read. JSERC had invited comments and feedback from all stakeholders following requests from various quarters. While all trade bodies have, time and again, demanded waivers during the lockdown period, a delegation of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) also met state electricity department officials with an appeal for concessions. Power companies on the other hand pleaded that any moratorium on bills would increase their financial burden. FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani welcomed the regulator’s move. “The industrial downturn coupled with lockdown has completely put business entities on the brink. Medium and small-scale enterprises are worst hit with many unable to even manage their recurring monthly expenses. In that respect, the JSERC order will give some respite,” he said. Domestic consumers also welcomed the regulator’s order. Subodh Kashyap, a Morabadi resident, said he had already paid his bills for three months in August. “But I hope that in the next bill, I will have to bear less burden as additional money paid will be adjusted,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Low-pressure zone brings rain, revives monsoon in Jharkhand||A low-pressure area which originated from the Bay of Bengal and moved northwest, led to widespread rain over Jharkhand in the past 24 hours as forecast and helped revive the monsoon over the state. The low-pressure coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6km above mean sea level resulted in rains in several districts. Simdega, Rajmahal in Sahebganj district, Dumka and Koderma received around 50mm rain during the last 24 hours (8.30am of Sunday to 8.30am of Monday). Tundi and Koner in Dhanbad district recorded over 35mm rain, while Ramgarh, Hindgir in Ranchi district and Hazaribagh recorded over 25mm rain. Ormanjhi and Mandar in Ranchi district experienced around 20mm rain, while as many as 20 IMD observatories, including those in Daltonganj, Latehar, Garhwa, Deoghar and Chatra, recorded rainfall between 10mm and 15mm. "Southwest monsoon has been active in Jharkhandi during the past 24 hours. The low-pressure helped in reviving the monsoon. Moderate to heavy rain is expected at a few isolated places in northern Jharkhand during the next 24 hours," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said the monsoon trough was passing through Ajmer, Jabalpur, Champa, the centre of low pressure over north west Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal Odisha. Weathermen at IMD's Patna Met Centre said overcast conditions were expected to prevail in most parts of the state till the next 48 hours. The Met office also issued an alert of lightning and thunder in northern Jharkhand on Thursday, September 24. Weatherman at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said that monsoon is going to remain active over Jharkhand for the next three to four days at least.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand going back under JMM govt, says Jayant Sinha||Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha described chief minister Hemant Soren as “vinash purush” because ever since his government had come to power, Jharkhand had taken a turn for the worse with respect to power, law and order and condition of roads. Speaking to the media from Delhi, Sinha said as long as the BJP was in power in the state, Jharkhand was the beneficiary of a “double-engine” government with “vikas purush” Narendra Modi leading at the Centre. But now Jharkhand had lost that momentum, he said and accused the Hemant Soren government of plunging the state towards destruction. The former Union minister and BJP leader told the local media that he had chaired a meeting of the district development coordination and monitoring committee last week and asked officials to undertake an inspection of 150 roads constructed in the last five years with funds from the Prime Minister’s Gram Sadak Yojana. “Some of the roads are not in good condition. I have asked officials to identify such contractors and tell them to maintain the roads for five years,” he said. On plans for an airport in Hazaribagh, Sinha blamed the delay on the state government’s failure to acquire land. “People have started realising that the present government is not capable of running the state. So, we wanted to request Hemant Soren to improve the situation at the earliest,” he said. Sinha said the state tourism department had failed to maintain tourist spots because of which he had asked deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand to ensure cleanliness and proper maintenance of the popular Hazaribagh Lake. The MP said the state had failed to tackle the pandemic and that he was in touch with officials to ensure the setting up of two Covid care facilities in Hazaribagh. Sinha said around 60,000 migrant labourers had returned after the coronavirus-induced lockdown and that efforts were on to provide them jobs under MGNREGS.  He asked the people of Hazaribagh to remain vigilant and follow Covid guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mechanised sweepers lie unused in highly polluted Dhanbad||Five dust-sweeping machines, bought at a cost of Rs 2.25 cr to curb air pollution in Dhanbad, are lying unused since the imposition of the lockdown, but that’s not stopping the local corporation from making preparations to buy more such machines with a fund od Rs 10 cr that is now at its disposal, courtesy Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board. The five machines were put to use partially between June 15 to July 15. But after that these haven’t been used. One reason for that is that roads are wet and muddy during the monsoon. But the other reason is that Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) doesn’t have the required funds to maintain the machines and buy fuel to run them. Manoj Singh, a Jharia-based environmentalist, said, “We understand that Covid control is of utmost priority for the government. But in a district where Jharia and Dhanbad towns have been declared most polluted, steps to ensure cleaner air are equally important. A large number of people in Jharia and Dhanbad suffer from breathing disorders like bronchitis and asthma.” The five mechanised dust sweeping machines _ three large ones mounted on trucks and two smaller ones mounted on vans _ were bought in June last year from Roots Multiclean, a supplier of cleaning products. They were deployed after finalisation of a route chart during November last year. But less than five month later, their use was stopped due to the imposition of a national lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Sources in DMC revealed that there was talk now to buy more dust sweeping machines by using a fund of Rs 10 crore provided by Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board in March under the National Clean Air programme meant for the 102 cities/towns that have failed to attain clean air goals. Madhurendra Singh, an activist and former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce, said, “Not using the mechanised dust sweeping machines on the pretext of a funds crunch is nothing but a sheer wastage of public money due to inadequate planning. “A large number of vehicles, including dust sweeping machines, tractors, small tippers and garbage vans, procured during 2012 as per DMC’s solid waste management project, are lying unused since 2014 due to a legal dispute. Now, the dust sweeping machines, procured only last year, will soon become useless,” said Singh Huban Mallick, director of Pay and Clean, the agency looking after the operation and maintenance of the vehicles, blamed the problem on the DMC’s funds crunch. “But we have been assured by the district administration that it is keen on relaunching the services of mechanised dust sweeping machines,” he claimed. Uday Kachhap, DMC assistant engineer in charge of transport, said, “The mechanised dust sweepers have been non-functional since the imposition of the lockdown. We will take a decision in this regard very soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum conducts 10,000 Covid tests in a day||The East Singhbhum health department claimed on Monday that it had achieved the target of carrying out 10,000 rapid antigen tests on people at various places including containment zones and markets to speed up detection of Covid cases. All visitors to Sakchi, the biggest commercial centre of steel city, had to undergo rapid antigen tests. The drive which began at 10 am continued for about five hours till 3 pm. The on-the-spot rapid antigen test drive was supervised by the new Dhalbum SDO Nitish Kumar and special officer of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) Krishna Kumar. "We achieved the target of conducting 10,000 rapid antigen tests on a single day on Monday. The test was also conducted at different housing societies which were declared as containment zones," Dr R.N. Jha, civil surgeon of East Singhbhum district, told The Telegraph Online. The health department had engaged around 400 medical personnel for the success of the drive. Jha explained that rapid antigen tests detect the presence of viral proteins (antigens) expressed by the Covid-19 virus in a sample taken from the respiratory tract of a person. "The result of the test is made available within 15 minutes, " he said, adding that the objective was to trace, track and treat Covid positive patients. The East Singhbhum health department has intensified the rapid antigen test drive keeping in view the spurt in Covid-19 cases. So far, the district has reported 12,252 positive cases with 2,563 active cases. Around 9,400 patients have recovered while the death toll due to Covid in the district is 268.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||High court scraps state recruitment policy framed in 2016||Jharkhand High Court on Monday cancelled the recruitment of thousands of teachers and officials that was finalised on a 2016 policy providing 100 per cent reservation for local candidates living in 13 scheduled districts of the state, describing it as a violation of fundamental rights. The court declared the policy null and void and scrapped the advertisement that was issued to announce the recruitment drive in 2016. The then government headed by chief minister Raghubar Das had advertised for 17,572 vacancies of teachers in the state in 2016. Of these, the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) has so far filled up about 9,000 posts in both scheduled and non-scheduled districts. As per rough estimates, the order will adversely impact around 5,000 teachers in 13 scheduled districts, besides recruitments made in several other departments, like police and forest. The decision will also affect all future appointments in class III and IV posts in government services. A full bench of Jharkhand High Court comprising justices H.C. Mishra, S. Chandrashekhar and Deepak Roshan pronounced the judgement through video conferencing on Monday after hearing a series of writ petitions filed against the recruitment policy. The bench had on August 21 reserved its order. The Raghubar Das government had on July 14, 2016 issued a notification reserving all class III and IV jobs in government departments for local residents in 13 scheduled districts for a period of 10 years. The 13 districts were Ranchi, Khunti, Gumla, Sidmdega, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum, Seraikela- Kharsawan, Latehar, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara and Sahebganj. But one of the applicants, Soni Kumari, who was a resident of a non-scheduled district, moved court challenging the policy. The petitioner’s counsel, L.K. Singh, said, “The impact of this notification would mean that candidates outside the scheduled district will be deprived from being considered for government appointments to class-III and class-IV posts in the scheduled districts which is against one’s fundamental rights enshrined under the Constitution.” The court finally held that the policy robs equality of opportunity in government jobs and is a violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. The court order puts a question mark on all immediate appointments lined up by the state staff selection commission. Sources in JSSC said that the recruitment process for around 3,000 posts in various departments were underway. “For example, the process for recruitment tests for data entry operators and panchayat workers were to be done in the next few months. Those will be on hold now. Since 2016, similar drives for appointment of over 20,000 people in different capacities like excise inspectors, forest guards, and constables have been undertaken. These will also be affected,” said a JSSC official. He explained that since JSSC was an examination conducting body for recruitments, further modalities would have to be chalked out after studying the judgement thoroughly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Demand for cash in Sindri ATMs||Sindri Chamber of Commerce president Dipak Kumar Dipu on Sunday sent a mail to the Reserve Bank of India demanding regular filling of cash in ATMs. Several ATMs of banks including State Bank of India, Bank of India and Canara Bank have been lying cashless. Dipu in his mail expressed concern that people will have to stand in long queues at banks to draw cash during the festive season which may lead to violation of social distancing norms. Dhanbad district administration has decided to include 15 BCCL areas under its ambit of Rapid Antigen Test from September 21 to curb the spread of Covid-19. In a joint order issued on Sunday by Dhanabd Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh and  Senior Superintendent of Police, Asim Vikrant Minz it was announced that testing will take place in the areas including Modidih, Tetulmari, Nichitpur, Lodna, North Tisra-South Tisra, Laikdih, Amlabad Colliery, Mahuda dispensary, Regional Hospital Tilatand, Kustore, Jealgora,Community Hall Barora, Bhowra Hospital, GVT Kenduadih and Durga Mandir. More than100 tribal people on Sunday took out a procession in Putki area of Dhanbad demanding inclusion of Sarna code. The protesters said the resolution for inclusion, if passed in the Assembly in the monsoon session, will give them an identity crucial for the 2021 census. Four members of a family carrying a dead body in an ambulance had a close save when their ambulance hit a concrete slab near Debiyana locality of Nirsa about 35 km from Dhanbad. The family was travelling from Calcutta to Mujaffarpur in Bihar. A police team from Nirsa Police station led by Assistant Sub Inspector of Police J.S.Tigga sent the family with the body in another vehicle since the ambulance was damaged in the accident. An acting principal of G.C.A. inter college Chhaterpur P.R. Pathak was remanded in judicial custody on Saturday. Sub divisional police officer Shambhu Kumar Singh said a criminal case was lodged by a tribal employee accusing him and another male employee of harassment and mental torture. The complainant Asha Tigga works as an accountant in the college. Chhaterpur police are bound to invoke sections of the SC/ST prevention of the atrocities act if the accused are found guilty. Asha Tigga said P.R. Pathak had withheld her salary after she divulged information to an investigating team that was probing financial irregularities in the college. Police are still in search of the co-accused employee. BJP workers burnt copies of land mutation bills at Birsa Chowk under City police station in Bokaro on Sunday.  The workers raised anti-slogans against the JMM government. The Jharkhand government passed  the bill in a covert manner. “This Land Mutation Bill is black law which gives shelter to land mafias. We are opposing it. The law suggests that there will be no civil or criminal case against corrupt officers in land related matters, Is this justified?”said a BJP worker. Residents of Gawan and Tisri block of Giridih are living in fear of a jackal in the area. About 13 people have been injured by the jackal. Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Khori Mahua, Navin Kumar Singh said that residents have witnessed a rise in jackal attack in recent days. Sonam Devi, a villager, said that she was going to farmland when a jackal attacked her and she suffered injury to her hand. Jackal attacks are mostly seen at day time. A delegation from Jharkhand Guardian Association has announced a dharna on Monday against private schools at Collectorate Building, Bokaro. The protesters accused private schools of harassing parents to depositing fees till September. The association sought the intervention of the District Education Officer. The group led by Mahender Rai also invited state education minister Jagarnath Mahto  to participate in the protest. Mahto on Saturday deposited the school fees of his granddaughter after her name was struck off from the online classes. Two brothers drowned in a pond in Balhara village of Ghodtamba at Giridih on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Saurabh Kumar (15) and Sachin Kumar(9). They left the house saying that they were going to take a bath in the pond. But when they had not returned after a long time, their family launched a search and found their bicycle, cloth and slippers on the bank of the pond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Police solve UP contractor murder case in Giridih||Police have solved the murder of a contractor from Uttar Pradesg, whose headless body was found in a farmland at Parsan, Jamuniataad under Dhanwar police station, 21 days ago. A special investigation team headed by sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Navin Kumar Singh, has arrested all the five accused in the homicide. Amit Renu, SP, Giridih, said that it was one of the difficult murder cases the police team handled here.  After the body was found, a massive search operation was conducted in the area. Almost 24 hours later, the severed was found in a water-filled pit, situated 500 meters away from the spot where the body was discovered. Neighbouring districts were notified to determine the identity of the person, but it did not throw up any leads. More than a week later, information relating to a missing man of similar age was received from Bhadoi police in Uttar Pradesh. Satyanderanath Mishra (39) alias Dablu alias Pandit, an affluent contractor from Bhadoi, left his house on 30 August, saying he was going to celebrate Muharram with his friends Maksud Ansari and Ibrahim Ansari at their native place in Giridih. His brother Harenderanth Mishra and other relatives came to Giridih and confirmed that the deceased was Pandit on seeing his photos, clothes and shoes. . Acting on information, police conducted a raid and arrested Ibrahim from his house in Herodih. During interrogation, Ibrahim confessed that he and his cousin Maksud worked in a construction company at Kolapur area in Bhadoi. They got acquainted with Pandit as he was a local contractor. After sometime, Maksud borrowed two lakh rupees from Pandit, but failed to return it on time. This prompted Pandit to visit Maksud’s house and ask for his money. During his visits, he came in contact with Maksud's wife and developed an affair with her. When Maksud came to know about this, he asked Pandit to stop visiting his house. But he did not listen, and continued with his visitations during his absence. Maksud shared his agony with Ibrahim and other close ones in Giridih and hatched a plan to kill Pandit. The SDPO informed that the police also arrested Maksud Ansari, his father Navi Miya, and Ibrahim’s father Khalil Miya, along with two of their friends Hazart and Nizam Miya. Following his arrest, Maksud confessed to the crime and said that his father Navi Miya supported his decision to kill Pandit. Maksud and Ibrahim drove down to Giridih with Pandit, where Hazarat and Nizam were waiting for them. They purchased alcohol and chicken on the way and partied on the farmland. Pandit was made to consume liquor and marijuana in excess to get him incapaciated. Maksud then beheaded him and disposed of the head. Later, they went to Ibrahim’s house and burnt their own blood stained shirts, along with Pandits mobile, belt and wallet. The police have recovered four mobile handsets, two motorbikes and ashes of the deceased’s mobile and wallet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Food grain racket busted, police on the lookout for perpetrators||Following the discovery of a major food grain racket on Friday, police have started looking for absconding racketeers. The police raided the house of one Sanjay Mohnani and his brother Deepak Mohnani at Golmuri on Sunday, both identified as the ones running the racket of selling rice provided for below poverty line (BPL) people through public distribution system (PDS) shops. Kunal Kumar, officer-in-charge of Sakchi thana, where one of the cases has been registered against the Mohnani brothers, said that the two have either gone underground, or fled the city. "We raided the Mohnani house at Golmuri on Sunday and had also carried out the similar raid on Saturday as well as the day before.  Now we will have to  resort to obtaining `kurki-jabti' (attachment) warrant so that the absconders may be compelled to surrender either before the police or in the court," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. Meanwhile, the food and supply department on Saturday cancelled the license of a PDS shop that Sanjay Mohnani used to run.  The department has also cancelled the food-grain transportation tender of Deepak Mohnani. "Sanjay Mohnani used to run a PDS shop at Sakchi and had set up a godown privately for stocking rice and wheat procured by unfair means. Deepak Mohnani, who had a contract for transporting food-grains from Food Corporation of India's godown to the PDS shops across the East Singhbhum district, used to unload the food-grains at his brother's private godown instead of unloading them at the PDS shops.  Therefore we have cancelled the license of Sanjay's PDS shop and also the transportation contract of his brother Deepak.  Now we have decided to do the transportation of the food-grains from the FCI godown in Burmamines to the PDS shops across the district departmentally," East Singhbhum district Special Officer (Rationing) told The Telegraph Online. As per the system in the rationing department, on an average 35 kgs of rice and 10 kgs wheat at a rate of Re 1 per kg is given to a family every month from a PDS shop.  Racketeers like the Mohnani brothers collude with PDS shop owners to siphon off half of the total stock and sell them at Rs 15 per kg in the market. An insider informed the Mohnanis enjoyed the backing of politicians and also of the food and supply department which turned a blind eye when beneficiaries lodged complaints of not getting food-grains from a PDS shop regularly. A case in point is a PDS shop at Bagbera where beneficiaries had seized a mini truck of rice and wheat being taken out of the PDS shop owned by one Jitendra Yadav in August Despite there being eyewitness accounts and video clips of the incident, the department did not take any action against the PDS shop. The insider also said that out of the 250 PDS shop owners in East Singhbhum, most have a role to play in the food-grain rackets, depriving beneficiaries of their due.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cities to host U-17 Women’s World Cup soccer camp ||Jharkhand capital Ranchi and Jamshedpur will jointly host the national preparatory camp for the under-17 women’s World Cup team from mid-October in a phase-wise manner. State sports department, after getting a nod from chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday evening, has intimated the same to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and All India Football Federation (AIFF) general secretary Kushal Das. “Jamshedpur would host the first leg of the national preparatory camp for FIFA Under-17 Women’s World Cup tentatively scheduled from October 15 till November end by which the physical upgradation works for accommodation of trainees (at Khelgaon near Hotwar in Ranchi) and ground preparation work (at Morabadi in Ranchi) would be completed. Thereafter the camp would shift to Ranchi. A joint team from SAI and state sports department had already expressed satisfaction at the infrastructure in Jamshedpur,” said state sports director Anil Kumar Singh. Significantly, a four-member team from SAI had inspected the facilities at Ranchi in July and given suggestions on the infrastructure to be required both at the ground and at accommodation front in view of the standard operating procedures prepared for the camp due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “There were some procedural delays in finalisation of schedule of rates for physical upgradation works in Ranchi which delayed the actual commencement of work. Till that time when everything is ready in Ranchi we have decided to conduct the national camp in Jamshedpur. We were awaiting CM’s nod which we got on Saturday evening,” said a close aide of Soren. In Jamshedpur, the players would practice at the JRD Tata Sports Complex utilising the state-of-the-arts facilities for football created in view of the Indian Super League (ISL) while they would be accommodated at the Ramada Hotel, barely 3km from JRD Tata Sports Complex. AIFF general secretary Das who is assisting as an expert to SAI for hosting of the FIFA football tournament after AIFF was temporarily derecognised by the Union sports ministry earlier this year, confirmed of the camp commencing from October 15. “We have picked Jharkhand as the venue for the camp as they were eager to host the camp and their chief minister Hemant Soren has assured full support,” said Das. The U-17 Women’s World Cup, which was scheduled for November 2020, was postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the tournament is scheduled to be held from February 17 to March 7, 2021 in five cities of Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, Calcutta and Navi Mumbai. At the moment, eight footballers from remote villages of Jharkhand who are in the national probable have been accommodated in the Birsa Munda Stadium hostel at Morabadi with government looking after their accommodation, food and training on the directive of the state chief minister Hemant Soren (who also holds the sports portfolio) following media reports of their poor diets in their villages in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
