22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Businessman murder: Criminals in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro involved, say police||The murder of a businessman on September 6 at Ritudih in the Maraphari police station area was planned by a hardened criminal in Bokaro, executed with the help of his associate currently lodged in Ranchi jail and committed by Jamshedpur- and Bokaro-based miscreants. The vehicle used in the crime was stolen from Dhanbad. The intention for the crime was robbery and to create terror in the area, which the businessman had opposed, prompting the criminals to open fire on him. The incident occurred around 7.30pm on September 6. Three motorcycle-borne criminals visited the shop of brothers Raju and Suresh Gupta. They pointed pistols at them and asked for cash, but the brothers resisted. The goons then sprayed bullets on them and fled. While Raju died on the spot, Suresh suffered a bullet injury. The incident made local businessmen and political leaders demand the arrest of the criminals involved. Bokaro superintendent of police (SP) Chandan Kumar Jha on Tuesday said at a news conference that following the incident, the force formed a special investigation team (SIT) led by deputy SP (city) Gyan Ranjan. The team found a bag at the crime scene, which indicated that the motive for the crime was robbery. The SIT found out that the motorcycle used in the crime was stolen from Bank Moad area of Dhanbad. The police then turned their attention to arresting Jamshedpur resident Bhanu Manjhi. Fortunately, Manjhi was arrested on September 21 by Jamshedpur police in connection with another case. Jha then interrogated Manjhi, who spoke of his involvement in the murder. He also revealed the names of Akash Singh Deo of Jamshedpur and Aamir Ansari of Bokaro who carried out the crime. Manjhi also said Sahnawaz Ahmed, a resident of Azadnagar in Bokaro, had planned the incident. Ahmed involved one of his close associates, Rajeev Ram, who is currently lodged in Ranchi jail. It was Ram on whose direction Manjhi, Deo and Aamir committed the crime on that day, said Jha. Jha later conducted raids and arrested Deo in Jamshedpur. They brought him to Bokaro on Tuesday. Ahmed and Aamir were both lodged in Bokaro jail. Jha said: “Five persons were involved in the crime. We will get vital information from Ahmed and Ram once they are taken into police custody.” Jha added: “The motive behind the murder was robbery and to create a reign of terror. The police have recovered two country-made pistols and live cartridges from the possession of Deo.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hatia dam: water rationing to end from Wednesday||Over two lakh residents dependent on the Hatia dam for water supply for domestic use can heave a sigh of relief as the authorities have decided to end water rationing effective from Wednesday. Residents living in Hatia, Dhurwa, parts of Doranda, Hinoo and other localities in and around the dam’s catchment area were forced to avail water supply only five days a week since April due to a fall in the reservior’s water level. There was no supply on Mondays and Thursdays. Suresh Prasad, executive engineer of the water supply department and in charge of Hatia dam, said the recent rains have improved the water level in the dam. “The dam’s water level is currently over 28ft, far above the danger mark. On an average, we supply 10 million gallons of water daily. So by that rate, we now have water till July 2021. Hence, we have decided to end water rationing from Wednesday,” he said. The dam’s water levels plunged to an alarming 4ft against its total storage capacity of 39ft towards the end of July in the middle of this year’s monsoon, triggering panic among officials. State water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur too had visited the dam to take stock of the situation while forming a special team to probe why the Hatia dam was drying up. The department also began working on sourcing water from the Rukka dam to feed parched areas under Hatia dam’s command areas. However, subsequent rains since then have led to an increase in the dam’s water level, giving some respite to the officials. An official of the Hatia dam said the reservoir needs to be further deepened by clearing its silt in order to revive its underground water recharging capacity. “Additionally, there is a need to explore alternative options for supplying water by identifying new reservoirs to feed the entire Ranchi district which is expanding both in terms of population and size,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Das defends 2016 jobs policy, says Hemant govt should move SC||Former chief minister Raghubar Das has come out in defence of the 2016 recruitment policy that has been scrapped by Jharkhand High Court and accused the Hemant Soren government of acting out of political vendetta in not defending it convincingly in court. The policy, which was drafted and implemented during Das’s tenure, had reserved all class III and IV government jobs in 13 scheduled districts for local applicants. The court, while hearing a series of petitions against it, ruled against the policy on Monday, saying it violated fundamental rights. The court cancelled the ongoing recruitment process of 17,572 high school teachers. As a result, the fate of thousands of applicants, including those who have been hired on the basis of the policy, is now uncertain. Das said that the policy was in favour of tribals and moolvasis. It was notified by Jharkhand governor, who was empowered to frame laws in scheduled areas under the provisions of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution. The idea, he explained, was to provide them equal opportunities in jobs. “The main idea behind reserving jobs for locals in 13 scheduled districts was to provide them equal opportunities. Jharkhand was facing an acute crisis of teachers which was affecting the overall education system. This apart, the scheduled areas struggled with infrastructure and development as a result of which those living in these areas often failed to compete with those with better resources in non-scheduled areas. Taking all these aspects into consideration, we drafted a policy for scheduled and non-scheduled areas which was completely in sync with the Constitution of India,” Das said. “However, the current government failed to impress upon the court the right intentions behind this policy only because of political vendetta,” he added. The ruling JMM countered Das by stating that the former chief minister should accept responsibility for rendering thousands jobless overnight.  "We had objected to the policy, saying it would not stand judicial scrutiny. Now, that's what has happened. Who will take the responsibility of duping thousands in the name of employment now?” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee. Das went to suggest that the Hemant Soren government appeal against the high court order in Supreme Court if it was serious about uplifting adivasis and moolvasis. “The JMM-Congress-RJD government should challenge the order in Supreme Court only if it wants to create jobs for tribals and indigenous people of this state. Ironically, in last 14 years before five years of BJP rule, the JMM and other parties that claim to be pro-tribal did nothing to define a local residents’ policy. But it was our government which worked towards it sincerely,” Das said. He went on to attack the coalition government, saying it had done precious little since it came to power in December last year. “They (coalition) promised five lakh jobs every year in their election manifesto but it is doing the exact opposite now,” Das said. JMM’s Bhattacharya said the BJP misled everyone via a faulty policy to use people as vote banks. "But intoxicated in power, the BJP did no pay heed to anyone and went on breaking all rules and laws during its stint in the state,” the JMM spokesman said. The state government is now waiting for a copy of the high court judgement before planning its next move, chief Hemant Soren told reporters on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Row over nixed jobs policy mars last day of monsoon session of Assembly||Uproarious scenes marked the last day of the Jharkhand Assembly's monsoon session, with the Speaker adjourning the House twice during the day as BJP members created a ruckus, demanding a discussion over cancellation of a job policy by the high court. The Jharkhand High Court had on Monday scrapped the recruitment of over thousands of teachers and officials, finalised in accordance with a 2016 policy, which prescribed 100 per cent reservation in grade III and grade IV government jobs for local candidates in 13 scheduled districts. The court declared the policy, which came into being during the BJP rule, as null and void, saying that 100 per cent reservation for jobs violated Fundamental Rights. Shortly after Question Hour began, BJP MLAs sought a discussion on unemployment, and the fate of candidates who had lost job due to the high court's decision. The party had earlier moved an adjournment motion in the Assembly in this regard. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato, however, refused to entertain their demand, prompting the BJP legislators to storm the Well of the House and raise slogans against the JMM-led state government. Mahato said he would not tolerate "hooliganism" and asked the protesting MLAs to stop the ruckus, to which BJP legislator Randhir Singh said they would not budge and the "House shall continue to run in this manner". Singh was subsequently marshalled out of the House. Talking to reporters outside, the BJP MLA said, "Is it hooliganism to oppose the government?" As the din continued, BJP MLA Bhanupratap Shahi sought a statement on the high court verdict from chief minister Hemant Soren, who was not present in the House at the time. The Speaker then adjourned the Assembly for an hour. The CM arrived in the House when the proceedings resumed at 12.30 pm and said his government was suffering due to the mistakes made by the erstwhile BJP dispensation. The previous government went against the Constitution and reserved all class III and IV government jobs for local people in 13 scheduled districts, as a result of which the high court scrapped the policy, he said. Hemant said, "Jaisi karni, waisi bharni (as you sow, so you shall reap)", targeting the previous government, following which the BJP MLAs created another uproar in the House, claiming that the policy was made in the interest of local people, and the government did not present proper arguments in its favour in the high court. The Speaker adjourned the House again till 2 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 170 booked in Ranchi for violating home quarantine norms||The Ranchi district administration has lodged FIRs against at least 170 people in the past two months for violating home quarantine norms after returning to the Jharkhand capital from other states, officials said. The violators were booked under sections of the Disaster Management Act in Ranchi for leaving their homes during the mandatory 14-day quarantine period and posing a risk to the wellbeing of other citizens, officials from the district administration said. The government, officials added, was committed to ensuring that travelers from other states, and those who return to Jharkhand after visiting other states, must stay in home quarantine for 14 days or face legal consequences. “Around 170 people have been booked under sections of the Disaster Management Act in Ranchi in the past two months for violating home quarantine norms. These include travelers from other states, and the ones who returned to Ranchi,” said Ranchi sub-divisional officer Sameera S. The district administration constituted special teams to keep a tab on such travelers. During inspections, the teams found that many people, supposed to stay at home, were either going to office, visiting relatives and even going to banks and other public places, sources said. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had on July 17 made it mandatory for all visitors from other states to stay in home quarantine for at least 14 days. Officials in Jharkhand also put VIPs like BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj on quarantine when he visited Giridih last month. He was not allowed to leave until he tested negative for Covid-19. As per the Jharkhand Contagious Disease Ordinance, a person violating the preventive measures for Covid-19 could be slapped a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh and imprisoned for up to two years. Earlier in August, authorities had lodged an FIR against RJD leader Tej Prasad Yadav for allegedly violating lockdown rules. Ranchi is the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases. As per records with the health department, as many as 15,707 coronavirus infection have surfaced in the district so far, which is around 25 per cent of the total Covid tally in Jharkhand. The district has also reported 101 Covid casualties, which is the second highest among all 24 districts in Jharkhand. The district administration here recently started door-to-door screening of Ranchi residents to identify asymptomatic cases of infection and spread awareness about the precautions needed to be taken. It has also constituted teams to monitor oxygen levels of asymptomatic Covid patients in home isolation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Life-terms for five held guilty of gangster’s shooting in court||Five persons, held guilty earlier for the sensational murder of gangster Sushil Srivastava, were on Tuesday sentenced to life imprisonment and multiple fines with the district court premises, where the sensational daylight shooting took place in June 2015, cordoned off like a fortress since morning. In all, 42 witnesses recorded their statements after which the court of additional district and session judge-VI Amit Shekhar had pronounced the five guilty on September 11. They are mastermind Vikas Tiwary, Dileep Sahu, Vishal Kumar Singh, Rahul Dev Pandey and Santosh Dev Pandey. Additional public prosecutor Bharat Ram said all five were awarded life imprisonment, but two of the convicts, Vikas Tiwary and Santosh Pandey, would have to remain in jail till death. Tiwary is presently lodged in Palamau jail while Santosh and Rahul are in Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central jail. The two others, namely, Dileep and Vishal, were taken into custody on September 11 after they were pronounced guilty. Shambhu Nath Tiwary who is the father of Vikas Tiwary was given the benefit of doubt and acquitted. One accused, Deepak Sahu, is still at large. The entire court premises was sealed with policemen deployed at the two gates in large numbers since the morning on Tuesday. No one other than lawyers were allowed entry with SP Karthik S personally supervising security arrangements. The shooting took place on June 2, 2015 at 10.40am on the civil court premises. Srivastava (53) came out of the court building after being produced before a judge in connection with a murder case in Ramgarh. Two of his aides - Gyas Khan and Kamal Khan - who were out on bail in the same case reached out to greet him when amid a cloud of smoke there was firing. Srivastava’s aides took three bullets each and instantly fell to the ground dead. Srivastava instinctively flattened himself on the ground, but two gunmen  came out of hiding from behind an SUV on the court premises and pumped eight bullets into his body from point-blank range. Police investigation confirmed the involvement of one Vikas Tiwary as the mastermind who was also leader of the notorious Bhola Pandey Gang. The murder was planned to avenge the death of former gang chief Kishore Pandey in Jamshedpur. Soon after the incident, police sealed the borders of the district to catch the mastermind Vikas. But he managed to escape from Hazaribagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel senior manager dies in mishap at plant||A 27-year-old Tata Steel senior manager (operations), posted at the cold rolling mill, (CRM), died in a mishap in the plant early on Tuesday morning. A resident of Adityapur, Sheeraz Zama Khan died in the accident which occurred at 5am when he got trapped in the galvanising line, probably while attending to a fault. "We are extremely sorry about the unfortunate death of Sheeraz Zama Khan, a senior manager (Operations) at CRM. He was in the C-shift duty when he got trapped in the galvanizing line and died.  Prima facie evidence indicates that he was attending to a fault in the line. The matter is being investigated and the area around the accident site has been cordoned off," said Kulvin Suri, Tata Steel chief of corporate communications told The Telegraph Online Suri said the family of the mishap victim had been informed. “The company expresses a deep sense of grief and stands by the family in this difficult moment. The bereaved family will get all support as per company policy,” he said, adding that Tata Steel was committed to the health and safety of its employees and has always strived towards ensuring a safe workplace for all its employees. Soon after receiving information about the accident, DSP Arvind Kumar and cops from Bistupur police station reached the spot to launch a probe. Factory inspector (Jamshedpur circle) Vineet Kumar also inspected the spot of the mishap. He went around the cold rolling plant and recorded statements of employees and officials. "The matter is being probed. We recorded statements of employees and officials of the plant. We will prepare an inquiry report," said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad in urgent need of hearses, only one of two work||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) is left with only one of two hearses, bought at cost of Rs 10 lakh each in 2017, leading to a peculiar crisis for the needy who were promised free access to them in case of bereavements. One of the hearses is idling for more than six months, awaiting urgent repairs while the other one in operations is in bad shape. Because of poor maintenance, sources in DMC admitted, the seats were loose and coming off. Those who have used the vehicle recently say it is a terribly uncomfortable ride. Social activist Kumar Madhurendra Singh said those living in adjoining villages of Dhanbad and slums were in desperate need for a hearse. “Many a times they face a lot of difficulty since there is no vehicle to carry the dead. Sometimes, families are forced to use autorickshaws. Some have to carry dead bodies on their shoulders,” said Singh, who is former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce, a unit of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commmerce and Industry. Singh has written to municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar, asking him to expedite repairs of both the hearses that are meant for the service of the poor. “Both vehicles were launched with much fanfare in August, 2017 to provide free of cost service to residents of Dhanbad. However, they have been rendered unusable now due to lack of maintenance,” he said. Apart from the two hearses run by DMC, the Bengali Welfare Society has been running a hears since 2011. The social organisation, however, levies a nominal charge for its use. DMC transport in-charge Uday Kachhap said one of the two hearses was being repaired. “It will be available for use soon. The repair of second vehicle will also be carried out after the first vehicle is back from repairs,” he said, adding that they did not want to send both hearses for repair together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recovery rate jumps above 80 per cent in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate went above 80 per cent for the first time since the emergence of the virus in the state after 1599 patients recovered from the lethal infection on Monday, figures released by the state health department stated. The national Covid recovery rate on Monday was 80.10 per cent against Jharkhand’s 80.55 per cent. The number of active cases dropped in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand, despite 1321 people testing positive for the viral infection across the state in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, Ranchi Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) SK Jha tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, health officials said. Jha has gone into home quarantine, and a team of doctors is keeping a tab on his health, the officials added. At least 259 patients recovered in Ranchi against 176 fresh cases of infection, while East Singhbhum reported 402 recoveries against 361 cases. The number of active cases, however, shot up in Dhanbad after 111 people were found infected there and 34 patients recovered on the day. As per government data, there were 3,394 active cases in Ranchi, 2,522 active cases in East Singhbhum and 968 active cases in Dhanbad by Saturday evening. Of the 72,673 people infected by Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, 58,543 have recovered and 13,504 were still battling the virus, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday night. The Covid toll, however, jumped to 626 on Monday in the state as eight more patients died during treatment. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 1.60 per cent. Three of the eight Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand on Monday occurred in East Singhbhum, a district that accounts for nearly 50 per cent of state’s Covid fatalities, government data stated. The district has reported 271 Covid deaths so far. Meanwhile, three patients died in Dhanbad and one each in Ranchi and Deoghar. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 37,483 people and 16162 of them came negative. So far, health workers across Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 1.81 lakh people and tested 1.80 lakh of them. As per 2011 census, the state has a population of 3.29 crore, which means that not even 1 per cent of Jharkhand residents have been tested for the virus yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Blast at DVC plant, 2 seriously injured||Two labourers suffered burn injuries from a blast at Koderma Thermal power station on Sunday. The plant, situated in Banjhedih area in Jai Nagar block, is owned by Damodar Valley Corporation. Workers at the plant rushed the injured labourers to KTPS hospital. The hospital, seeing the severity of their injuries, referred them to RIIMS in Ranchi. Vijay Paswan, convenor of a labour union in Banjhedih, said the incident took place due to DVC’s negligence. He has called for an agitation if the injured are not provided with better treatment facilities. BJP's Jai Nagar president Ramdev Modi said DVC was not adhering to the safety guidelines which resulted in the blast. He demanded a compensation for the duo. The injured Rajendra Yadav and Ranjeet Yadav are residents of Banjhedih and Singardih areas respectively. DVC officials have not issued any statement on the accident. The two injured are undergoing treatment in Devkamal hospital in Ranchi. Police arrested Tuntun Yadav and Bhanu Majhi, two notorious criminals, from Mango and Kadma thana area on Monday. Bhanu Majhi, arrested from Uliyan Gurudwara, was arrested on murder and extortion charges. He had murdered a 22-year-old youth at Bhatia Bustee. On Monday, Bhanu had fired at the murder victim’s brother for deposing in court. On Friday he fired at a scrap depot owner along the Marine Drive under Sonari thana area for being unable to pay Rs 2 lakh as extortion money. The OC, Kadma thana, Ranjit Kumar said, Bhanu had committed a murder a fortnight ago in Bokaro and had taken refuge at Jamshedpur where he was extorting businessmen. He was arrested after a tip-off. Bhanu was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail. Tuntun Yadav was arrested for allegedly demanding Rs 25,000 from a grill manufacturer of Mango on Saturday. Mango thana OC, Mithilesh Kumar said that Tuntun had returned from jail a month ago and had been demanding Rs 25,000 every month Vijendra Kumar. He held a pistol to the grill manufacturer’s head on Saturday night. An FIR was lodged against him leading to his arrest. Tuntun was also sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail. A Ramgarh petrol pump employee’s bag containing Rs six lakh was snatched by five criminals on Monday. The employee, Rajendra Bedia, was on his way to deposit the money in a bank. Police sealed the borders, conducted checking drive and circulated information about the criminals. Officials said the crime could not have been committed without proper planning. Simaria police in Chatra arrested an opium smuggler on Monday. The police had launched a vehicle check drive after a tip-off on the Bagra-Jabra road. Three people on two bikes tried to evade the police. Two managed to escape while one was arrested, identified as Sunil Kumar. Police recovered 2 kg opium from him worth Rs.2 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||New Covid health centre at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital||A 300-bed dedicated Covid health centre was inaugurated on Monday at PG hospital block of Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (presently Shahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital) in Dhanbad. The facility is equipped with a yoga Centre, library and music room. Maithon Power Limited HR head Mritunjay Rai, Centre nodal officer Dr DP Bhushan, and Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh were present, among others. Speaking at the occasion, Singh said that CEO of Maithon Power Limited, Ramesh Jha, provided financial assistance under the Centre-mandated corporate social responsibility fund (CSR) for development. He also mentioned that additional collector of Dhanbad, Shyam Narayan Ram and head of the department of orthopaedics at PMCH, Dr DP Bhushan played crucial roles in establishing the centre. He further noted that the district administration is committed to provide all kinds of facilities for better treatment of covid patients, besides other facilities for over 30 lakh residents of the district. "The common resident need not worry about anything as doctors are also working with utmost dedication to provide best medical care," Singh claimed. He further informed that the district had just a 100-bed dedicated covid hospital at Jagjivan Nagar two months ago, which has now increased to 1005 beds including 300 at PMCH PG block, 200 at Nirsa Polytechnic;100 each at Sadar Hospital, Zonal Training Institute of Railway in Bhuli, PMCH Cath lab; 50 at Regional Hospital Bhuli; 30 at Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba and 25 at SSLNT Hospital. "We are also working to launch the plasma therapy treatment facility in PMCH. Three doctors and GNM, along with lab technicians, have obtained necessary training. All kinds of infrastructure have also been developed in the  PMCH blood bank " Singh noted. “Only the mandatory license for the launch of plasma therapy remains pending. NGO Shubh Sandesh has been roped in by the district administration for encouraging and counselling plasma donors in the district,” he added. "We are carrying out special Covid testing camps all across the district on a daily basis since September 15 in order to check the spread of infection and identify and isolate patients to provide them with necessary treatment" said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||CAG flags Jharkhand finance issues ||The Jharkhand government is certainly not in the pink of its financial health, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India report indicates. “The Jharkhand government should rationalise its investments and loans advanced to various entities so that the return on investments and loans at least matches the government borrowing cost,” the CAG recommended in the audit report on state finances for 2018-19 that was laid in the Jharkhand Assembly on Monday. The state had not achieved revenue surplus and fiscal deficit to gross state domestic product (GSDP) ratio as was targeted in the medium term fiscal policy (MTFP) statement, the report pointed out, adding it also did not achieve the normative projection of the Fourteenth Finance Commission in respect of outstanding debt to GSDP ratio for the year ended March 2019. The fiscal deficit of Rs 6,629 crore in that year was 2.16 per cent of GSDP against 3.25 per cent recommended by the 14th Finance Commission and 2.61 per cent targeted under MTFP. Primary deficit of the state improved significantly from Rs 7,271 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 1,777 crore in 2018-19. Though revenue receipt increased by 6.44 per cent — from previous year’s Rs 52,756 to Rs 56,152 crore — it was lower than budget estimate of Rs 69,578 crore, CAG report said, adding revenue expenditure of Rs 50,631 crore against estimated Rs 61,523 crore was even less than previous year’s amount of Rs 50,952 while capital expenditure also decreased by 10.38 per cent. Major government departments such as agriculture, rural development, urban development, education, forest and welfare did not utilise the budget grants in full, resulting in savings of Rs 20,223.74 crore, the report further said. In case of 21 grants, 62.48 per cent of the total expenditure of Rs 10,151.23 crore was made in the last quarter of the financial year and 36.37 per cent in March 2019 alone, the report further said, indicating a tendency of hurriedly exhausting the grant. Utilisation certificates in respect of grants-in-aid bills for Rs 53,379 crore that were drawn by different departments till March 2018 remained outstanding at the end of March 2019, the report further pointed out and added detailed contingent bills for Rs 5,479 crore were also due till that time. In the second and penultimate day of the monsoon session of the Assembly, chief minister Hemant Soren assured that the government would look into the demand of assistant police personnel who had been camping at Ranchi’s Morbadi ground since September 12 for pressing their demand for regularisation of their service. Describing it to be “the burden given by the previous government” Soren assured that the case of the assistant police personnel would be considered sympathetically..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Bokaro records 90% recovery||Bokaro recorded a Covid-19 recovery rate of 90.41 %, about 11 % higher than the country and state’s rate. Jharkhand’s recovery rate is 79.80 % and the countrys’ 79.70 %. Bokaro registered 0.60 % mortality rate, less than Jharkhand’s 0.86 % and the country’s 1.60 %. The health department had conducted five mega Covid-19 camps in the last 21 days, testing more than 30,000 people in the district. “At present there are 299 active cases and the majority of them are recovering well. They will also get discharged in a few days once it comes positive. While the mortality rate is as low as 0.60 % with only 20 deaths registered yet,” said Dr A K Pathak, civil surgeon. The district is witnessing a sharp decline in the number of cases in the last five days. “There was a spike in cases between August 25 and September 15, which is now on the decline,” said Pathak. In a camp organised in Mohan Kumar Mangalam Stadium of Bokaro Township on Monday, sampling was done on 904 people. Of them only 10 tested positive. They were mostly BSL staff.  This was the lowest figure of positive cases detected in the organised Covid camp till date. In the first camp conducted at 14 places in the district on August 31 there were 9000 people tested of which 130 were positive. The figure increased in the second camp organised in 16 places on September 8. Of the 9552 people tested, 335 of them tested positive. The third mega camp organised on September 18 at 11 places recorded 91 positive cases among the 7283 people tested. Decline in the number of cases continued in the fourth camp on September 20 in which 7200 residents mostly from slum areas were tested and 56 of them tested positive. Nodal officer, Dr Rakesh Gautam said, “Initially the patients which were coming till July were asymptomatic, later symptomatic patients started coming who were treated well. Apart from administering medicine as ICMR guidelines we were focused on building their immunity and also encouraged them to be positive. That practically works”. District disaster management officer, Shakti Kumar said at present the number of containment zones has come down to 42 and are mostly in urban areas. Residents found the declining numbers encouraging. DC, Bokaro, Rajesh Kumar Singh appealed to people to wear masks and maintain social distance to keep themselves safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
