23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jumbos from Bengal on rampage in Chandil forest range||Attempts by foresters to drive away elephants from near Asanbani village in Chandil forest range of Seraikela-Kharsawan in the wee hours of Wednesday proved futile as the pachyderms returned after a few hours. Separate herds of 30 elephants from Bengal are giving sleepless nights to foresters as well as villagers for the past five days, damaging standing crops and pulling down homes. Petrified villagers remain holed up at their homes in the night in fear of elephant attack. The herds are currently scattered near human settlements at Anda, Kalyanpur, Biyasisai and Punihara in the Chandil forest range. The elephants remain in the dense jungles during the day and venture out late afternoon to target crops and human settlements. “The herds are posing a big problem for us. So far, the herds have damaged crops and also targeted some homes but man-elephant conflict cannot be ruled out. We are trying hard to drive away the elephants by deploying our forest patrol teams but we are yet to get the desired results. We have even distributed firecrackers among the villagers,” said Chandil forest range officer Ashok Kumar. According to Kumar, they were also getting assistance from village youths. “The Bengal jumbos seem to have developed a special liking for the Chandil forest range. Earlier, herds from the neighbouring state used to come and leave after two-three days but now the trend has changed. The elephants are overstaying in our range,” Kumar added. Elephants damaged the home of Sudhir Pramkanik at Ramchandarpur earlier this week and also wiped out the rice crop. Another herd destroyed and devoured vegetables grown by Bhrigu Bhagat in Asanbani the same day. A forester pointed out that the elephants usually don’t attack unless they are teased. “Villagers tend to drive away elephants by throwing stones and coming close to the animals. We are lucky that the elephant herds from Bengal have not killed anyone but man-animal conflict can take place if the villagers continue teasing the jumbos,” he added on condition of anonymity. Moreover, the forester said, mahua-brewing units have reopened and the scent is attracting the elephants who not only wipe out the liquor but also attack humans. The Chandil forest range has of late emerged as a favourite place for the elephants. Jumbos from Tamar and Kandra forests (in Seraikela-Kharsawan) also make their presence felt here.  A forest team had shepherded a herd from Kandra to Chandil last week. However, the elephants went back to the Seraikala forest after two days. The herds from Bengal are still anchored at Chandil forest range. “We are trying our best but keeping our fingers crossed. It all depends upon the mood of elephants when it comes to going back to Bengal. Elephants are moody animals,” the range officer said. A lone male tusker has created havoc in villages situated in bordering areas of Hazaribagh, Giridih and Bokaro. On Wednesday, it killed a 45-year-old Parvati Devi while she was sitting in front of her house at Nawadih village in Sarukudar panchayat of Vishnugarh police station area of Hazaribagh district. Earlier on Tuesday, the tusker killed a 55-year-old woman Rohini Devi near Karanj Mor in Vishnugarh block headquarter in Hazaribagh. The woman came out of her house to tend her cattle when the elephant attacked her, said Smita Pankaj, divisional forest officer of Bagodar. Later, the tusker, while wandering in the jungle, entered Giridih and killed Parvati Devi at Nawadih village. Village resident Subodh Mahto said that Devi was unaware of a stray elephant in the surrounding areas and was sitting outside her house when it came and attacked her. She died on the spot. Her body was sent for post-mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Pankaj said the tusker seems to have been separated from its herd and is wandering in the area. They are keeping vigil on its movement. “It was last spotted entering the Dumri area,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Spare a thought for those who help hold that perfect wedding||Over 1,500 service providers like caterers, tent house owners, musicians and photographers, all of whom are essential elements of wedding celebrations, held an exhibition of their wares here on Wednesday, demanding that the government withdraw attendance curbs on social functions. The 90-minute protest exhibition, with counters set up on the stretch between Randhir Verma Chowk and SSLNT Women’s College on Luby Circular Road from 10am, displayed articles used by such service providers to drive home the point that these had been rendered useless for the last six months. The only way to revive the fortunes of these service providers was to lift the curbs on social gatherings and allow participation of 300 or more people. On display were utensils like cauldrons, trays, crockery and cutlery, flowerpots, cameras, lens, drums, trumpets and generators, all laid out in organised fashion with participants wearing masks and gloves and adhering to social distancing. Some protestors held placards bearing slogans in Hindi like, “Sabhi gharo me khushiyan dene wale aaj ho gaye hain berojgar,” “Vivah samaroh me pachas vyakti se adhik hone ka swikriti pradan kare sarkar” and “Berozgari ki maar, hamari bhi sune sarkar, ham ho gaye berojgar,hamare pariwar ke baare me bhi soche Sarkar”. Later they handed over a memorandum to the district administration. The protest was held in accordance with a decision taken on September 15 at the executive committee meeting of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association, an umbrella organisation of decorators, tent house owners, caterers, florists and musicians. Vinod Rawani (42), a decorator of Godhar area of Dhanbad, said, “I am in this trade since the last 12 years. But never have I faced such a situation. I am unable to pay an EMI of Rs 22,000 for a loan wroth Rs 10 lakh which I took t start my business.” He said the last six months have been terrible as he found it extremely difficult to take care of his family. “The last marriage function for which we worked was in Baseria on March 11. Since then I have earned nothing. I can only hope that the government provide some relaxation in norms so that we can also earn our livelihood,” said Rawani. Navin Kumar Gupta, a photographer of Hirapur, said he used to earn around Rs 30,000 per month on an average, working on assignments ranging from weddings to anniversaries and birthdays. “Now, my income is almost zero. And I have to pay a studio rent of Rs 2,500 per month, along with an EMI of Rs 3,000 per month for my mirrorless camera,” he said. Gupta appealed to the government to provide some relief. “Otherwise, we will be compelled to sell our articles and leave our profession,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Monsoon to bid goodbye around October 10||The southwest monsoon is expected to bid adieu to Jharkhand by early October, which IMD officials described as normal on Wednesday. Unlike last year when the monsoon overstayed in Jharkhand for four days till October 14, this year, the withdrawal is expected around October 10. "Usually the monsoon withdrawal starts from Rajasthan. But today's Met studies indicate that conditions are favourable and that the withdrawal process is likely to begin from north western parts in another 48 hours. In that case, the season of rains would exit from Jharkhand around October 10," said a senior official at the forecasting wing of IMD-New Delhi. IMD 's Ranchi Met Centre corroborated this finding. "Monsoon withdrawal from the north western parts of the country is expected to begin in another 48 hours. Conditions are conducive. Under normal circumstances, the withdrawal process is expected to reach Jharkhand within a fortnight. Thus, we are expecting a normal withdrawal of monsoon this year," explained S.D. Kotal, director of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre. Last year, the withdrawal process of monsoon began late from Rajasthan so its exit from Jharkhand also got delayed. The normal date of monsoon withdrawal from Jharkhand is October 10. Last year (2019), the process got delayed by four days while 2018 witnessed an early withdrawal on October 3. In 2017, the monsoon withdrawal from Jharkhand was delayed by five days and in 2016, there was a delay of nine days. On Wednesday, there was widespread rain across Jharkhand for the third consecutive day because of an active monsoon, coupled with the impact of a low-pressure system originating in the Bay of Bengal. Most places in the Kolhan region, including Jamshedpur, Ghatshila and Seraikela, experienced a good shower show. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded 25 mm rain on Wednesday. According to Met data, Rajmahal in Sahebganj district recorded the highest rainfall of 116 mm in the past 24 hours. Papunki, Putki and Topchanchi in Dhanbad district and Chas in Bokaro district recorded over 60 mm rain . There were reports of moderate rain in Simdega, Dumka, Ramgarh, Gumla, Pakur, Deoghar and other districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Minister keeps his promise, gifts cars to JAC science toppers||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto gifted two cars to Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) matric and intermediate (science) toppers on Wednesday, keeping a promise he had made to meritorious students when the results were declared in July. Accompanied by Assembly Speaker Ravindranath Mahto and (JAC) chairman Arvind Prasad, the minister handed over keys of Alto cars to inter science topper Amit Kumar and matric topper Manish Kumar Katiyar at a low-key ceremony on the premises of the Vidhan Sabha in the afternoon. “During declaration of results, I had announced to give cars to those who topped in the state. Today, I kept my promise. Others will also get soon,” the education minister said, referring to the toppers in arts and commerce streams. “I also announce that I will bear all the expenses of further studies of the toppers from next year. This apart, if any student faces financial or other problems while pursuing their studies, he/she can approach me. I shall try my best to help them,” he said, adding that as the education minister, it was his responsibility to ensure a proper education system in the state and also encourage students to aim high. Jagarnath Mahto has enrolled himself in an intermediate college in Bokaro to pursue studies. He said that he had already bought books and had begun studies even though educational institutions in the state were still closed in the wake of the pandemic. “Whenever I get free time, I study; in the car while travelling from one place to another.  I may be a minister, but I am also a student now. Who knows, I may be one of the topper’s next year,” he said as the gathering clapped. Speaker Mahto hailed the minister’s initiative. “Students of this state are good … all that they need is encouragement and support,” he said. Both toppers were elated about their gifts. Manish, who scored 98 per cent in this year’s matriculation, is from Sahebganj district but appeared as a student of Netarhat Vidyalaya. Son of a small-time farmer, he said that he will cherish this all his life. “I come from a very poor family of farmers. But my father, Kedar Mahto, never stopped me from pursuing studies. This car will be a gift to him,” he said, adding that he aims to get into administrative services in the future. Amit Kumar of Giridih, who topped in inter science with 91.4 per cent, is the son of Birendra Kumar Burnwal, who runs a battery shop near Sariya railway crossing. He appeared for the exams from SRSSR High School, Bagodar, in Giridih. Kumar said after clearing JEE Mains, he is now preparing for JEE advance scheduled on September 27. “I hope to clear the exam and get admission in one of the top IITs in the country,” he said, adding that ultimately, he would try and crack UPSC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Assistant police personnel get two-year extension as state gives in ||Assistant police personnel called off their agitation on Wednesday after the Hemant Soren government agreed to extend their services for two more years and promised to look into their remaining demands. The protestors announced a truce after a marathon 5 hour-long meeting with state water resource’s minister Mithilesh Thakur that was held at his residence from 12 noon. Over 2,500 assistant policemen and women had been camping at Morabadi ground since September 11 to press for their demands which included regularisation of jobs, increase in honorarium from the existing Rs 10,000 per month and allowances at par with regular policemen. On Friday, September 18, their protest turned violent when they clashed with police. Over a dozen people sustained injuries. On Saturday, chief minister Hemant Soren appointed Thakur to negotiate with the protestors, who did not budge from the venue till the state government provided them a commitment in writing. On Wednesday, the state government agreed to extend their services for two years and assured them that a high-level committee would look into their demands on priority. Thakur said, “The assistant police personnel have announced an end to their protest. They will return to their districts immediately. After speaking with the chief minister, I have assured them that their services would be extended for another two years. We will form a committee to look into their other demands.” Avinash Kumar Dwivedi, one of the protestors, who took part in Wednesday’s discussions, sounded satisfied. “We got a two-year extension to begin with. We are hopeful of positive steps with regard to our other demands. We are returning to our place of posting to work in tandem with the state government,” he said. Notably, assistant police personnel were hired on contract basis in 2017 on monthly honorarium of Rs 10,000 by the former BJP government headed by Raghubar Das. They were then assured permanent reinstatement gradually. However, after their contract period ended in August this year, their contracts weren’t renewed by the JMM-Congress-RJD government until they resorted to their stir which culminated today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s testing rate higher than national average||Jharkhand government has tested nearly 6 per cent of the state’s population for the coronavirus in the past six months, notching up a testing rate higher than the national average of around 5 per cent, figures with the Union ministry of health and family welfare reveal. Jharkhand, till date, has tested 18.86 lakh people for Covid-19, which is around 5.9 per cent of the state’s total population of 3.29 crore, as per the 2011 census. As per figures with the health ministry, around 6.62 crore people have been tested for the virus across the country, which is around 5 per cent of the country’s population of 130 crore. Officials from the Jharkhand National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday said that the state’s cumulative tests per million (TPM) was also higher than the national figure because of intensified Covid testing drives. “Our cumulative TPM is 50,028, while the national TPM is 49,209,” said the state NHM director, Dr Ravi Shankar Shukla. “We are way ahead of the World Health Organisation’s target of conducting 140 tests per million per day,” he added. As per figures with the NHM, Jharkhand’s TPM on Tuesday was 1,303, while that of India was 708. Despite achieving a higher testing rate than the rest of the country, Jharkhand’s positivity rate for the tests conducted was much lower than the national average, officials said. “Higher testing rate will allow the government to find more cases and thereby check the spread of the virus through asymptomatic carriers,” said Dr Ajay Singh, coordinator of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Jharkhand chapter. India’s positivity rate, as per the health ministry, was 8.51 per cent and Jharkhand’s positivity rate was 3.29 per cent. The figures, officials said, indicated that although cases of infection increased in Jharkhand, the percentage of people testing positive among the ones tested every day was lower than the national average. As per government data, as many as 73,948 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far. At least 60,327 of these patients have recovered, while 12,976 of them are still battling the virus. The virus has claimed the lives of 645 people across the state so far. “Our recovery rate is also higher than the national average, and the mortality rate is lower. As on September 22, our recovery rate was 81.19 per cent and the national recovery rate was 80.90 per cent,” said Shukla. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate was 0.86 per cent, against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.60 per cent, as per government figures. The Union health ministry on Wednesday admitted that several states and union territories had a higher TPM than the country as a whole, while it announced that India’s Covid testing capacity surged above 12 lakh daily tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||1200 Covid cases in a day, tally close to 74000 in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Tuesday recorded over 1200 cases of Covid-19 infection, taking the tally in the state close to 74,000, while 10 casualties took the toll to 641, figures released by the health department stated. West Singhbhum reported four of the 10 Covid casualties on Tuesday, while three deaths occurred in East Singhbhum. Both the districts are in the Kolhan division of Jharkhand. Koderma, Dumka and Hazaribag reported one death each, while Ranchi did not report any Covid casualty on the day. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent on Tuesday night, the government data highlighted, However, by the virtue of the higher number of Covid recoveries reported in 24 hours, the total count of patients who have overcome the virus in Jharkhand rose above 60,000. As per government data, at least 1427 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Tuesday, which took the number of recoveries in the state to 60,027. While Ranchi reported the highest number of cases on Tuesday, East Singhbhum registered the highest count of recoveries. As many as 278 people were found infected in Ranchi and 124 in East Singhbhum. Both the districts reported over 300 recoveries, it further stated. With 304 recoveries, the number of active cases in Ranchi dropped to 3,364, while the active cases dropped to 2,381 after 326 patients recovered there. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate further rose to 81.17 per cent on Tuesday and the number of total active cases stood at 13,280, highlighted government data. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), there were more than 15,000 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand last week. The government so far has collected swab samples of 1.87 lakh people and tested 1.86 lakh of them. Out of the 1.86 lakh tested, as many as 73,948 were found infected, the NHM bulletin stated. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 26,763 people and 25,556 of them came negative. As per the NHM data, the doubling rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 36 days, against the national doubling rate of 40.2 days. The Covid growth rate in Jharkhand in the past seven days was 1.97 per cent, against the national average of 1.67 per cent. As per the bulletin, 589 of the 626 Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Portal soon for Covid patients’ kin in East Singhbhum||Family members of Covid-infected persons who are admitted at various hospitals will no longer be anxious about the patients’ condition as the East Singhbhum district administration will soon develop a portal to bridge the gap. Each of the Covid-designated hospitals in the steel city will have a system through which the family members of each patient will know his or her condition by means of a portal. A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level meeting of administrative officials, district health officials and representatives of various hospitals at Ravindra Bhawan in Sakchi on Tuesday. The meeting was presided over by Kolhan commissioner Manish Ranjan and attended by, among others, deputy inspector-general (Kolhan) Rajiv Ranjan Singh, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior superintendent of police M. Tamil Vanan and district civil surgeon Rajendra Nath Jha. “It was a review meeting related to Covid-19 case detection in the district and treatment at the various hospitals. But the main focus of the meeting was how to increase the number of beds for coronavirus patients and intensify testing of suspected patients,” the civil surgeon told The Telegraph Online. Jha pointed out that stress was laid on better coordination among private labs that conduct testing for Covid-19 so that the pandemic can be tackled more effectively. On the proposed portal, the civil surgeon said the district administration has been instructed by the Kolhan commissioner to develop such a website as soon as possible so that the patients’ kin may not have to remain anxious about their condition at the hospital. During the meeting, which started at 11am and continued till 3pm, the management of various hospitals, including Tata Main Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital, Mercy Hospital and MGM Medical College Hospital, expressed their views on various matters, including the scope for increasing the bed capacity for the treatment of the Covid-19 patients. The number of coronavirus cases has crossed the 12,000 mark in the East Singhbhum district.  In the past 24 hours, 429 new cases were detected, taking the total number to 12,246.  The new cases were detected following rapid antigen testing of about 10,000 samples. Seven persons died of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths in the district to 300.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Separated from herd, elephant enters village and tramples woman to death||A wild elephant, separated from its herd, entered Vishnugarh block headquarter in Hazaribagh, and crushed a 50-year-old woman to death on Tuesday morning. This is the first time an elephant entered a locality close to the block headquarter. The animal, which entered from Kausamba, also ended up damaging standing crops of 50 fields, apart from boundary walls of houses. One of the houses belongs to Mandu BJP MLA Jai Prakash Bhai Patel. Vishnugarh is situated 50kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Villagers said Rohini Devi came out of her house at 4:30 am to tend to her cattle. The elephant which was present there trampled her to death as it made its way to an open field, later taking a dip in a nearby pond named Tribhuvan talab. A forest department team reached the spot and used crackers to make the elephant come out of the pond. Acting out of fear, it ran through Barhmoriya, reaching Patel’s house in Banaso, eventually  damaging the boundary walls. It also razed down the walls of the office of the irrigation department building, before escaping into the forest. Frightened villagers anticipated a return of the animal, but were assured by range officer Abhay Kumar Sinha. He gave Rs.10,000 to Rohini Devi’s family and said a compensation of Rs 4 lakh will be processed. He also said the forest team will stay in the area and keep a watch so that the elephant does not return. He requested villagers not to disturb wild animals and to inform the forest department if they see them entering the village area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jumbo alarm to curb human deaths||Jharkhand will use Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System (Aniders) devices on a pilot basis in Chaibasa south forest division from October to check the growing human casualties in man-elephant conflict. The state has the highest human casualties in man-elephant conflict and is incurring huge crop losses because of frequent elephant intrusions. “The wildlife management plan (mandated for mining firms) of Tata Steel (which has iron ore mining lease in Noamundi under Chaibasa forest division) was approved by the forest department last month and installation of Aniders devices are part of this plan. We have already held talks with a Ghaziabad-based firm, Kyari, who are pioneers in the installation of this device, for installing it in October. In the first phase we have selected 18 worst affected villages falling in the elephant corridor and after observing its success we would replicate it in other villages of the forest division,” said divisional forest officer (DFO), Chaibasa, Satyam Kumar. Significantly, the raging conflict between man and elephants in Jharkhand has killed 1,405 people and over 80 elephants from 2000 (since creation of the state) to June 2020. According to documents available with the forest department, on an average there are two incidents of man-elephant conflict daily in Jharkhand, killing 74 people annually and injuring at least 130. “Due to an increase in mining and forest degradation, the elephant habitat has been disturbed, forcing them to change their diet. Bamboo plant is a staple for elephants, but it has been depleted and now they are attracted towards paddy and maize. An elephant calf that sees its mother feeding on grains does the same later. This apart human habitats have developed along the elephant corridor which has also increased man-elephant conflict,” said wildlife biologist D.S. Srivastava, while terming the state’s approach to elephant conservation as half-hearted. From 2016 to January 2020, there have been 30,341 instances of damage to crops, houses, grains and cattle in Jharkhand by wild animals and the government has paid Rs 14.25 crore in compensation. Aniders is a device that works like a mechanised scarecrow. “Existing methods like electric fences are no longer efficient and lead to animal casualties. The Aniders device works like a mechanised scarecrow. It detects the animals that intrude the field and scares them away before they can cause any damage to crops. The device uses the combination of active and passive infrared sensors to detect the animal movement and then uses a light and alarm system to repel them. Features such as solar-powered, automatic on/off, multiple sound and light patterns and real-time communication through GSM networks makes it an effective and a greener technology. Results of testing done by the World Wide Fund for Nature in India has found the device successfully repelled animals 86 per cent of the time which in turn resulted in a 60 per cent increase in crop yield,” said Shirish Ojha of Kyari. The Chaibasa DFO said that the total cost for installation of Aniders would be around Rs 47 lakh. “Each village will have six active infrared sensors and six passive infrared sensors. The total cost for all the 18 villages would be around Rs 47 lakh. The expense would be borne by Tata Steel. The firm would be maintaining the device for seven years. Each of the devices would also have in-built cameras which would help in maintaining elephant counts,” said Satyam Kumar. The elephant corridor stretches from Similipal wildlife sanctuary (Mayurbhanj, Odisha) to Dalma sanctuary in (Jharkhand-Bengal) with large patches of Singhbhum region comprising Saranda, Chaibasa and parts of Seraikela-Kharsawan falling in between.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dead body found in river in Koderma||A dead body was found in the Gauri river near the Chandawara-Jongi road in Koderma’s Chandwara block on Tuesday. Binod Swarnkar, a resident of Bajrang Bali Chowk in Chandwara, identified the dead as his son-in-law Ritesh Kumar Soni. He had gone out to meet someone on Monday night but did not return. Police have launched an investigation to find out who was behind the murder. The body was sent for post-mortem to Koderma sadar hospital. Soni’s motorcycle is missing. The cleaner of a truck died by electrocution when he tried to remove a low-hanging wire which had come in the path of the vehicle in Hazaribagh on Tuesday. The incident took place near St Robert High School on Ranchi-Patna Highway (NH33). Police officers said the truck was on its way to Barhi. The dead body was sent for post-mortem to the Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Gulam Ansari, 17, a resident of Dipu Dhaura at Digwadih area in the Jorapokhar police station area of Dhanbad was stabbed to death by Mohammed Sohail on Tuesday afternoon over personal rivalry around 3pm. The incident took place near an isolated spot about 200m from Ansari’s home. Ansari was on his way to the market when Sohail attacked him and fled. Passers-by took him to a nearby nursing home from where he was referred to Patliputra Medical College & Hospital, Dhanbad, where he died during the course of treatment in the evening. According to Ansari’s relatives, Sohail had threatened to kill him several times. A speeding tanker struck an electric pole which fell on a house and injured a woman and her son at Kosma in Barkatha, around 65km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Police said the driver lost control of the vehicle and hit the pole on Tuesday afternoon. It fell on a nearby house, injuring Rakhi Devi, 30, and her five-year-old son, Langu Saw, who were sitting outside. Local residents caught the driver and handed him to the police. The injured duo were provided treatment at the local government hospital. Anupriya Mishra, 32, the married daughter of former BCCL director (technical) D.C. Jha on Tuesday lodged an FIR against a coal trader, Badal Gautam, in Bank More police station alleging rape and jewellery theft. Mishra had reached Dhanbad from Calcutta along with a friend, Sanket Krishnani. Gautam is a friend of Krishnani who allegedly raped her during her Dhanbad stay. Armed criminals stole cables, electric poles and other articles from the Bhelatand-based storehouse of Gopi Krishna, the agency engaged in underground cabling work for Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, late on Monday. Fifteen criminals took the three security guards of the company hostage and then proceeded to rob the site. Dhanbad police on Tuesday arrested four persons for stealing cables at Shimla Bahal Colliery under Borragarh police outpost in Jharia on September 9. Dhanbad city superintendent of police R. Ramkumar said the police arrested Md Riyaz Ansari, 25, Sarfaraj Ansari, 20, and Hasim Ansari, 18, all residents of Shamsher Nagar area of Jharia, besides Nisar Ansari, 30, a resident of Hamid Nagar locality of Jharia, after conducting raids. They seized 18kg copper wire and two mobile phones. Sixty-eight people were discharged on Tuesday from various Covid-19 treatment facilities in Dhanbad. Twenty people were discharged from Nirsa Polytechnic, 18 from the railway zonal training institute at Bhuli, 15 from PMCH Cath lab, seven from Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba, three each from the BCCL regional hospital in Bhuli and CIMFR health centre and two from Wedlock Greens. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the discharged persons will have to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. They have been provided medical kits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
