24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Prominent steel city physician dies of post-Covid complications||Dr HK Gardin, an infectious diseases specialist, died of post-Covid complications at Tata Main Hospital on Thursday noon. With the death of Dr Gardin, the coronavirus has claimed the life of the fourth doctor in East Singhbhum. A resident of Sakchi, Gardin (61) served at Tata Main Hospital till his retirement last year. He achieved acclaim in the field of treatment and control of HIV and AIDS in the city. He was admitted at the Tata Main Hospital on September 5 with breathing trouble.  He tested Covid positive the next day. Dr Gardin eventually tested Covid negative on September 15, but wasn’t discharged from the hospital due to post-Covid complications. According to hospital sources, his lungs were badly damaged. He could not survive the post-Covid complications despite all necessary treatment. "Dr Gardin died this afternoon after he was admitted at the Tata Main Hospital on September 5 with breathing trouble. He had subsequently tested Covid positive. He tested negative on September 15, but continued to receive treatment at the hospital.  Whether his demise can be counted as a Covid death is up to the Tata Main Hospital authority," district civil surgeon Ralendra Nath Jha told The Telegraph Online. Earlier, Dr MM Agrawal, Dr JP Lal and Dr Birendra Baitha died of Covid. Dr Gardin’s death has affected the  doctors' fraternity at Tata Main Hospital and also in the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Jamshedpur unit. Dr Mritunjay Singh, president IMA, Jamshedpur said the steel city and the medical fraternity lost a very efficient physician. "Dr Gardin was a very esteemed member of the IMA.  Not only the medical fraternity, but also the people of Jamshedpur lost a jewel," Singh said. In all, 117 more people were tested Covid positive during the past 24 hours here, taking the total number of cases in the East Singhbhum district to 12,487. Four people died of Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 301.  As of now 10,190 people have been cured of Covid and have returned to their homes across the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hundreds stage protest at Bokaro Steel Plant ||More than 200 disgruntled land losers on Thursday staged a demonstration before Ispat Bhavan at Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) to demand jobs and other benefits. The agitators, who are calling their agitation “Mahkukur Kundoli Janakroash Talabandi (lockout)”, have vowed to continue their demonstration for 72 hours. They will also lock the main gate of BSL if their demands are not met in this period. There were minor scuffles between the protesters and Home Guard jawans when they tried to stop the demonstrators from reaching Ispat Bhavan. Harinand Rai, director (technical) of SAIL, who has been in charge of BSL as the interim CEO for the past 10 months, has reached Bokaro from Delhi. This is his second visit to Bokaro after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed. The protesters feel that this time, the management and the district administration will take their demands seriously and respond positively. Else, they will intensify their protests. A large number of CISF and police personnel have been deployed at the protest site. The flow of traffic was affected for two hours between City Centre and Nayamoad under the City police station. Nirmal Digar, who is leading the agitation, said: “We gave our land so that BSL could be set up, but the management cheated many of us by not providing jobs and compensation against our land. This time, we have vowed to fight till the end. We have begun our agitation and will continue it for 72 hours staying at the spot. And if our demands are not fulfilled, we will lock the BSL main gate and intensify the stir.” Digar also said that “the displaced people of BSL are the worst sufferers”. “Our villages lack basic facilities like roads, electricity and water. Our children suffer due to a lack of good education. We are not provided healthcare services. We are forced to fight for our rights. We have given a letter detailing our 14 demands, including jobs, rehabilitation and basic facilities, to the BSL management,” Digar said. The land losers, who are residents of villages near the plant, in the afternoon assembled at Birsa Chowk. There they garlanded the statue of Birsa Munda and marched towards BSL’s Ispat Bhavan, which is about 1km away. Home Guards and BSL’s security personnel tried to stop them, but they resisted and moved ahead. They held flags and placards and raised slogans against the BSL management. In front of Ispat Bhavan, the security personnel had already put barricades and stopped them. Police officers and magistrates were also present. City deputy superintendent of police Gyan Ranjan said they will be keeping strict vigil to avert any untoward incident. “We are here to handle the situation if any law-and-order issue arises,” he added. This is not the first time that agitators have demanded jobs and other benefits at Ispat Bhavan. Earlier, several agitations have taken place. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said: “Efforts for talks with the agitators are on. However, there has been no disruption of work at Ispat Bhavan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Elephants use 3 corridors to reach Hazaribagh: Regional conservator||Elephants use three corridors to reach Hazaribagh every year, regional chief conservator of forests (Hazaribagh range) Sanjeev Kumar said on Thursday while asking people to remain alert during this time of the year. On the lone male elephant which has killed two women in the Vishnugarh block, Kumar said the forest department was keeping an eye on its movements. It was last spotted on Thursday at Madmo village on the border of Hazaribagh and Giridih. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Kumar said the three corridors elephants use to reach Hazaribagh lie in three districts: Giridih, Latehar and Bokaro. He said herds coming from Giridih use Bagodar forests which are connected with Hazaribagh to sneak in here or neighbouring Bokaro. The herds also follow this path of retreat but sometimes go to Koderma via Barhi as well. The second route is from Latehar from where elephants pass through Tandwa of Chatra to enter Barkagaon in Hazaribagh. Currently, a herd which has unleashed a reign of terror in this part of the district entered using the Latehar corridor. The third route is via Bokaro, and the lone elephant which is on a killing spree used Churchu forests to enter Hazaribagh. Kumar said the lone elephant was separated from its herd and so out of anger, it’s behaving this way. “I urge people to be extra cautious as a herd can be spotted from a distance but not a lone tusker,” he said. He said the elephant was spotted in Madmo of Hazaribagh for the last time in the morning and later information came about it going to Giridih forests via Dumri. Kumar said that they have received multiple reports of villagers disturbing the herd while taking pictures and selfies by getting close to the animals. “It’s time of their migration, which will continue till December. So, don't disturb them and if they enter a human settlement, make use of torches,” he added. Kumar said a herd never stays at one place for long. But in case any female is pregnant, the herd may prefer to stay at one spot instead of moving around, he added. Kumar even asked people to inform the forest department if they see elephants entering their village. “Though we keep a watch on the movement of elephants, especially this time of the year, still villagers should inform the department officials,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Pollution within limits, but higher than lockdown months||Pollution levels in the steel city of Jamshedpur and adjoining Adityapur are higher than what they were during the lockdown, but are still within permissible limits, an ambient air quality survey by the state pollution board carried out in August has revealed. According to the findings of the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board survey, pollutants like sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) were below prescribed limits in Bistupur, Sakchi, Golmuri in Jamshedpur and in the Adityapur industrial area in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) was also found to be within specified limits in all these places. JSPCB regional officer Suresh Paswan said they conducted the survey to determine the extent of pollutants in the air since more vehicles had started plying and industries had re-opened after lockdown rules were relaxed. He said that during the May survey, there was an appreciable improvement in the air quality index of Jamshedpur and Adityapur due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown which prompted closure of industries and running of diesel-run heavy vehicles and auto-rickshaws, both major contributors to air pollution. "During the survey (August) we found that all the parameters were within prescribed limits," Paswan told The Telegraph Online. But the numbers were higher than what they were during the lockdown. According to the August survey, RSPM at Bistupur was 85.0 µg/m3, which was 15 µg/m3, less than the permissible limit of 100 µg/m3.  A similar survey in May, during the lockdown, had revealed that RSPM was 72.04 µg/m3, which was 28 µg/m3 less than the permissible limit of 100 µg/m3. At Sakchi, a commercial hub, RSPM was 85.66 µg/m3 and at Golmuri market it was 80.12 µg/m3. The May reading at Sakchi was 75.5 µg/m3 and at Golmuri 73.68 µg/m3. RSPM in Adityapur, an industrial hub, was marginally higher at 94.56 µg/m3, around 6 µg/m3 less than the permissible limit of 100 µg/m3. During the May lockdown, the reading was 80.23 µg/m3 in Adityapur. The JSPCB survey team used respirable dust samplers to measure air pollution levels at all places. The other two elements, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, on which ambient air quality is judged, were also found to be below prescribed limits. The August survey revealed that sulphur dioxide (SO2) levels in Bistupur, Golmuri and Sakchi were 55 µg/m3, 47 µg/m3, and 62 µg/m3, respectively. At Adityapur, SO2 was found to be 63.25 µg/m3. The prescribed limit is 80 µg/m3. Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels in ambient air in Bistupur, Golmuri and Sakchi were found to be 61.32 µg/m3, 59.0 µg/m3 and 64.10 µg/m3. The NO2 level in Adityapur was 68.24 µg/m3. The prescribed limit for NO2 is 80 µg/m3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hard coke factories choking due to poor quality raw material||A majority of the 100-odd hard coke factories of the district have not been able to resume operations due to a host of reasons primarily centred around lack of demand due to a sluggish economy, inadequate workforce and poor quality raw materials in the form of coal supplied by Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL). Only around 30 of 100 factories have so far resumed operations after closing down since the imposition of the nationwide lockdown in March. Rajeev Sharma, general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, an umbrella organisation of industries based in Dhanbad, Giridih and Koderma, explained their plight. “It is a general rule for any supplier to keep in mind the requirement of buyers. But hard coke factory owners, who buy from BCCL, are in a terrible state since they are being provided with non-coking coal which is of no use to them,” he said. “Non-coking coal creates problems while making hard coke,” explained Sharma, adding that they had raised the issue, time and again, with BCCL authorities, but to no avail. He alleged that the marketing division of the PSU was ineffective as a little value addition, by washing the coal, could help the company fetch rates higher than the auction price. “It is ironic that despite being in Dhanbad, the workplace of BCCL, which is the largest producer of coking coal in India, hard coke factories here are facing such a crisis. Their counterparts in Gujarat are doing brisk business with imported coal,” Sharma said. B.N. Singh, the president of Industries and Commerce Association that represents over 150 hard coke factories of Dhanbad, Giridih and Koderma, said there was no way a factory could operate fully in view of the lack of raw materials. The Telegraph Online made multiple efforts to contact the CMD of BCCL, Gopal Singh, and BCCL director (technical) Rakesh Kumar for their comments. Their views will be added as and when they respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Doctors to visit Covid patients in home isolation||Covid-19 patients staying in home isolation in Ranchi will now be visited by a government doctor twice in 10 days to keep a tab on their health, officials from the district administration said on Thursday. The district administration has constituted a dedicated team of 24 doctors for this purpose. These doctors, officials said, have been treating Covid-19 patients since the appearance of the virus in Jharkhand and have expertise in dealing with Covid cases. “One of our 24 doctors will visit the house of a Covid patient, who decides to stay in home isolation, as soon as the person tests positive. The doctor will check the patient’s condition and keep in touch with him/her over phone,” said Ranchi Deputy Development Commissioner Ananya Mittal. “The same doctor will revisit the patient within the next 10 days and examine his or her condition,” Mittal added. The doctors, officials said, will also interact with patients over video calls and ensure timely admission to a hospital if he or she starts developing severe symptoms that cannot be treated at home. As per government data, as many as 16,574 people have been infected by the novel coronavirus in Ranchi so far, and at least 3,491 of them were still battling the infection. In Ranchi, a majority of the patients were asymptomatic and staying in home isolation, officials said. The district administration here has also started providing free of cost medical kits to Covid patients in home isolation in a bid to ensure that all such patients have access to necessary medications, including some anti-malarial drugs and a 1 per cent hypochlorite solution to clean floors. The patients, who do not have thermometers at home, are also provided with one by the district administration, the DDC said. “All Covid patients may not be able to afford medication, so we decided to provide free medicines to them at home,” said Mittal. The state health department had earlier constituted a team for checking oxygen level in Covid patients staying in home isolation. This team is active in Ranchi, and visits patients, who do not have an oximeter at home. Ranchi is among the worst-affected districts of Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases and fatality rate. As many as 102 people have died of Covid-19 in the district and some of them were initially in home isolation, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Motors chips in to support anti-rabies drive||Tata Motors, as part of ongoing Tata Volunteering Week, will be supporting an active animal welfare group to hold a five-day drive to administer anti-rabies vaccines on strays in the steel city. This will be the first time that Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation will be getting much-needed support from the automobile giant. The drive will be undertaken between 9.30 am and 12 noon on all five days, beginning on September 26, across different areas of the Telco township, including Kharangajhar, Plaza Market and Sector Market. Tata Motors is providing the vaccines. It will also provide reflective collars to be put on dogs after they are vaccinated. The drive is being organised to commemorate World Rabies Day on September 28. It is observed annually to raise awareness about rabies prevention and to highlight progress in defeating this horrifying disease. September 28 also marks the anniversary of Louis Pasteur’s death, the French chemist and microbiologist, who developed the first rabies vaccine. “We have set a target of over 100 stray dogs. The entire process of anti-rabies vaccination and putting on reflective collars on dogs will be executed by us. We are thankful to Tata Motors for its support,” said foundation founder Aniz Patel. Patel said an 8-member team would be conducting the drive. “We have members who have the required experience of vaccination. We need to be very careful. We are looking to the endeavour,” Patel told The Telegraph Online. Such a drive has rarely been conducted at Telco even though stray dogs are found in good numbers in the township maintained by Tata Motors. Established in 2018, the foundation had on Sunday last conducted a “feed-the- stray drive” wherein members drove to different localities to provide food to dogs, cows, donkeys and pigs. In July, it had conducted an anti-rabies vaccination drive across the steel city. Around 100 dogs were vaccinated and reflective collars put around their necks. The essentials were procured from Dinky Mart, a New Delhi-based NGO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town residents want city buses to start plying again ||The suspension of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation’s city bus service since March, the time there was, first, a “janata curfew”, followed by a national lockdown, has dealt a cruel blow to daily wagers, vendors and office-goers living in distant areas of Sindri, Katras, Nirsa, Chirkunda. Commuters have been further inconvenienced as local trains, connecting Dhanbad with Sindri and Chandrapura, have also been suspended, while auto-rickshaw fares have gone through the roof after the administration imposed a cap on the number of passengers three-wheelers can carry. Only 14 of 70 city buses were operational before the lockdown. Most of the buses were plying on the Dhanbad-Katras, Dhanbad-Sindri and Dhanbad-Chirkunda routes. The remaining 56 buses are idling, in various stages of disrepair. DMC transport services in-charge Uday Kachhap did not have much to explain. “How can we operate the buses on our own when the transport department has not given specific permission” he said, trying to point the finger at another department. Ranjit Singh, a resident of Ranibazar locality of Katras block, said, “The auto fare between Katras and Dhanbad was Rs 20 per person. Now, it has increased to Rs 50 per person. This has led to of difficulty for people like us.” Singh said if city buses were plying, then the fares would not have been more than Rs 30 per passenger. “Even if social distancing norms were imposed on buses, like in autos, the fares would not have gone up this much,” said the speech therapist at Jeevan Jyoti School for physically and mentally challenged children at Bekar Bandh in Dhanbad. “Daily wagers and vendors visiting Dhanbad from Katras are finding it extremely difficult to commute,” he added. Councillor of ward 3 of Katras circle Vinayak Gupta said trade was suffering too as Katras is the centre of the garment trade with traders visiting from across the district. “These days traders are facing difficulty to come to Katras due to the lack of city bus services and exorbitant auto fares. We will be writing to the Dhanbad municipal commissioner, Satyendra Kumar, demanding the resumption of city buses so that common people, suffering due to the pandemic induced economic downturn, can have some relief,” Gupta said. President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce Deepak Kumar Dipu said residents of Sindri were the worst sufferers. “In the absence of city buses, auto rickshaws are charging Rs 100 per person per trip. This is too expensive for most people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally crosses 75000 in state, more than 1200 recoveries in a day ||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 75,000 mark on Wednesday after as many as 1141 people tested positive in the state in 24 hours, figures released by the state health department stated. However, the number of Covid patients recovering from the infection surpassed the number of fresh cases on Wednesday. As many as 1232 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on the day, taking the total number of Covid recoveries in the state to 61,559, government data highlighted. While the number of active cases further dropped to 12,882 in Jharkhand, the count increased in Ranchi, which reported 413 cases against 285 recoveries. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the number of active cases also increased in East Singhbhum after the district reported 131 cases against 50 recoveries. These two districts are the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases in fatality rate. The number of active cases of infection in Ranchi jumped to 3,491, while as many as 2,459 people were still battling the virus in East Singhbhum. The number of active cases was around 900 in Dhanbad, above 600 in Hazaribag district. There were around 600 active cases in Koderma too, while all other districts had fewer than 500 active cases. The Covid toll in Jharkhand rose to 648 on Wednesday after three Covid patients, including one each from Ranchi and East Singhbhum, died during treatment, the NHM bulletin further stated. West Singhbhum reported one death on Wednesday, further increasing the number of fatalities in Kolhan division. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate, as per government records, was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent on Wednesday night. The government has so far collected swab samples of 19.19 lakh people and tested 19.08 lakh of them in Jharkhand. On Wednesday, health workers tested the swab samples of 21,755 people and 20,614 of them came negative, highlighted government data. State’s Covid recovery rate was 81.98 per cent on Wednesday, which is higher than the national Covid recovery rate of 81.30 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. It further highlighted that state’s Covid doubling rate was 36.04 days against the national Covid doubling rate of 41.1 days. The Growth rate of Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand was 1.99 per cent against the national Covid growth rate of 1.69 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt to move SC to try save 9000 teachers’ jobs   ||The Jharkhand government has decided to move the Supreme Court against a high court directive cancelling the ongoing recruitment of high school teachers for 17,572 vacancies based on a 2016 policy that reserves all class III and IV government jobs in 13 scheduled districts for local applicants. At Project Building on Wednesday night, Hemant’s comment to reporters was brief. “We have decided to approach the Supreme Court against the high court ruling on teacher’s recruitment.” But sources close to the chief minister confirmed that the state advocate general Rajiv Ranjan and his team had been asked to begin the legal formalities. Delivering a judgment through video conferencing on Monday, a full bench of Jharkhand High Court comprising justices H.C. Mishra, S. Chandrashekhar and Deepak Roshan scrapped the recruitment based on the 2016 policy calling it as violation of fundamental rights. “The state is already facing problems of joblessness, besides other collateral challenges in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Cancellation of appointment of thousands of teachers and stalling of the process would aggravate the situation and lead to further unrest. The government is treading cautiously to find a way out,” said an official, unwilling to be named. The BJP government headed by former chief minister Raghubar Das came up with the recruitment policy in 2016. It was notified by the Jharkhand Governor. Under the policy, all class III and IV government jobs in 13 scheduled districts were reserved for locals while in non-scheduled districts it was open to all. After the policy was notified in mid-2016, the Das government floated an advertisement for recruitment of 17,572 high school teachers. Of these, the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) has so far recruited 9,000 people in both scheduled and non-scheduled districts. Subsequently, the government also filled thousands of other vacancies in departments such as police, forests, etc. The high court order has now put a question mark on the fate of all those who have secured jobs. Das has, however, defended the 2016 recruitment policy. On Tuesday, he described the recruitment policy as pro-tribal and pro-moolvasi and accused the Hemant Soren government of acting out of political vendetta in not defending it convincingly in court. The former chief minister also advised the Hemant government to move the Supreme Court against the ruling. Hemant and his party, the JMM, however, criticised Das and his BJP government for shoddy drafting of a policy that had perpetuated chao. He also asked Das to accept responsibility for the turn of events that has left thousands jobless overnight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Youth dies in truck accident||A newly-married couple met with an accident on Urimari road, killing the husband on the spot. Ami Raza and his wife Sania Perween were returning from Bariatu on Wednesday afternoon when a mini truck coming from the opposite direction hit their bike. Sania sustained serious injuries and was being given treatment at a local hospital in Barkagaon. Doctors said she was in a critical condition. Girender Ganjhu, zonal commander of TPC, a banned splinter group of rebels was caught on Tuesday and remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday in Daltonganj. Ganjhu has 8 cases against him from 2015 in Palamau. SDPO Shambhu Kumar Singh said Ganjhu’s arresr has weakened the TPC. The commander was caught in Chhaterpur. The rebel outfit is now left with Udesh Ganjhu. A 12-year-old boy sustained serious head injuries when a tractor hit him near Kheskaro Mor on Jai Nagar-Jhumriteliya road in Koderma on Wednesday afternoon. Local villagers said the boy was playing on road when the tractor was passing. Officer-in-charge of Jai Nagar police station, Shyamlal Yadav said tractor was seized and a case registered against the driver. The driver told the police that he had failed to notice the boy. PMCH Blood Bank of Dhanbad has been granted plasma therapy license by the Central Licenses Approving Authority and state drugs control directorate on Wednesday. The plasma therapy is likely to begin from September 25. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said, "The SOP for launching the plasma therapy is ready and the core advisory task force, coordinating task force, executing task force and antibody testing task force have also been constituted much earlier". PMCH is the second centre after RIIMS, Ranchi to get the license in the state. In a bid to encourage creative activities among children admitted to different Covid centres in Dhanbad, Shubh Sandesh is distributing comics and drawing books to them. District Mineral Foundation Trust officer, Asha Rosaline Kujur said that the distribution programme began on September 18 and so far materials have been distributed among 17 children admitted in different treatment facilities. "During teleconference the children show the painting made by to the doctors present in the Telemedicine studio and they in turn encourage them to further engage in creative activity," said Kajur. A former BCCL officer’s daughter who was raped by a family friend was recorded before the judicial magistrate of Dhanbad.on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the 32-year-old married woman had lodged an FIR against a coal trader named Badal Gautam. In her FIR, she said that Badal, a friend of her childhood friend, had raped her multiple times Delhi and Dhanbad when she was living in an accommodation by him. The woman had left her husband’s house in Calcutta on July 11 due to complications in her marriage. A camera, laptop, Rs 3000 cash and other articles were stolen from a photo studio by unidentified assailants in in Telipara locality on Tuesday night. The owner, Vickey Kumar, reached the studio on Wednesday morning and found the front shutter gate broken. He has lodged a case against the assailants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Plea for food security in Jharkhand||A delegation of the Jharkhand chapter of Right to Food Campaign met food and public distribution minister Rameshwar Oraon here on Wednesday and urged the government to ensure that all eligible persons are covered under the state’s food security scheme. The delegation also handed over a letter apprising the minister of some related problems. The state government recently announced expansion of coverage of the public distribution system (PDS) by giving new ration cards to 15 lakh people but the link for online application was not activated though the deadline of September 30 was approaching fast, the letter said. The delegation included, among others, economist Jean Dreze, state convener of the Right to Food campaign, Asharfi Nand Prasad, and former state adviser to the Supreme Court-appointed committee on food related cases, Balram, who also signed the letter. About 10 lakh people had already applied for ration cards and were waiting for to get one but it was not clear if they would also be included among the 15 lakh people who would be given the new green, the delegation said. “The notification inviting online application for new cards by September 30 was issued on September 15 but the application link was not activated even on Tuesday,” Prasad told The Telegraph. He said Oraon, however, assured that the application link would be activated immediately. There was also no clarity about the eligibility of persons who could apply for the proposed new cards and the selection process or if such applicants who were waiting for ration cards would also require to apply afresh, he said. The delegation also told the minister that the 15 lakh new cards would cover about 3 to 3.5 lakh families only as those cards would be issued in the name of individual members of a family and requested Oraon to include all eligible persons. The deadline of September 30 for applying online was too short and should be extended by another month, the delegation told the minister. They said some publicity should also be carried out in rural areas so that people know about the green cards and apply for them. The members of the delegation also requested Oraon to arrange for distribution of pulses, oil and salt through the PDS and not to ask the old applicants to do it again. They also requested for engaging local teachers to assist rural people in applying online for the green cards. “The minister welcomed the campaign’s demands and suggestions and also proposed a follow-up meeting with the food secretary within a few days to discuss how to act on those (suggestions),” Dreze said, when asked about the outcome of their meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Man posing as Army officer dupes two Sonari youth into losing over Rs 9 lakh||Two young men from Sonari have been duped into losing over Rs 9 lakh by a man posing as an army officer. Mukesh Kumar Kushbah and Avinash Chowdhury, residents of Bal Vihar and Ashiana in Sonari respectively, lodged separate FIRs against the impersonator. According to the FIR,  Mukesh had seen a car for sale on OLX online recently and subsequently contacted the seller on the phone number provided. After speaking with the seller, who introduced himself as an Army officer, Mukesh received a few photographs of the vehicle from him. After negotiations, the price was settled at Rs 5 lakh. Mukesh was first asked to pay Rs 5,000 for the delivery of the car.  Subsequently, the accused asked him to deposit money online under various pretences, making him pay a total of Rs 9.13 lakh via 11 transactions. The seller then went incognito without delivering the car. Avinash Kumar said that he wanted to sell his laptop on OLX. According to the FIR, a person contacted Avinash, claiming to be an Army officer, and showed interest in buying his laptop. He then sent Avinash a barcode, asking him to scan it in order to receive payment for the laptop. The moment the barcode was scanned, Rs 60,000 was deducted from Avinash’s account. The perpetrator then went off the grid. Cyber thana Bistupur inspector Upendra Mandal confirmed that two FIRs have been lodged against an unknown man, posing as an Army officer for duping two young men of over 9 lakh rupees. "We have received FIRs from Mukesh Kumar Kushbah and Avinash Kumar on Wednesday. The frauds took place in the month of June.  We have registered separate cases against the perpetrator and started investigation," Mandal told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
