25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Residents walk to protest poor condition of Hazaribagh’s main road||The poor condition of Hazaribagh’s Main Road, which is a part of NH100, prompted a group of residents to march 8km to demand repairs. Craters and potholes dot the road that passes through the heart of the town. Several important businesses line the road in Hazaribagh. The condition of the road is such that bikers are frequently injured in accidents. Residents, angered by the nonchalance of the administration, have demanded immediate repairs of the road that connects Hazaribagh and Chatra districts. Sachidanand Pandey, who is spearheading the protests, led the march from Katkamdag block headquarters to Jhanda Chowk in Hazaribagh town. “We faced a tough time even while walking on the road. It’s not tough to imagine the pain commuters face while travelling on this important stretch of the road,” he told The Telegraph Online. Prasad said that in addition to NH100, other roads in the town too are in poor condition, but the authorities are not taking steps to fill the potholes. “Kisi ko bhi logon ki taklif ki chinta nahi hai (No one is concerned about the people’s problems),” he added. Around 200 people walked in the protest march. Some even joined the march on their motorcycles. Priyanka Kumari, a zila parishad member from Katkamdag, said she had threatened to block the road that is also used to transport coal from NTPC mines. “After my threat, the potholes were filled with mud, which was washed away by rain in a day or two,” she said. “I have written to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials, as well as to the district administration, and have been told that the tender has been awarded to an agency that would start work after the monsoon ends,” she said. “The way the issue has been neglected shows that no one is serious about sorting out the people’s problems,” she added. Manish Jaiswal, the Hazaribagh Sadar MLA and BJP leader who raised the issue in the Assembly, said an agency had been tasked with constructing the 14.65-km stretch of NH100 from Singhani Chowk to Sultana, including the town’s main road, for Rs 20 crore. He said the construction will start once the monsoon is over and completed within 11 months. Officials of the state’s highways authority have said work will start in the next few days to fill the potholes in this stretch. When this correspondent brought this matter to the notice of former Union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha, he said he would talk to NHAI officials on when the work will start to construct this road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Youth shot at for taking on chain snatchers||A youth was shot at and injured when he tried to stop two bike-borne chain snatchers from robbing an elderly woman in a densely populated Sonari police station area on Friday morning. Kalicharan Sahu, who lives near the Sonari police outpost, suffered a bullet injury in his right leg. The incident took place near Sonari gurdwara around 7am, while the area was bustling with morning walkers. As soon as Sahu, 28, fell, some local residents rushed him to MGM Medical College and Hospital where he is undergoing treatment. According to sources, the two bike-borne chain snatchers had stopped near an elderly couple who were returning to their Sonari home after their morning walk. After stopping the couple, one of the bikers tried to snatch the gold chain from the woman’s neck. As Sahu was passing by, he tried to save the elderly woman. One of the bikers first asked him to leave, but when he resisted, the youth fished out a pistol and fired at Sahu’s leg. Having fired the shot, the bike-borne duo sped away towards Kagalnagar market area. Some local residents chased them but in vain. About 15 minutes later, police arrived at the scene. The Sonari police station officer in charge, Renu Gupta, inquired about the incident at the scene of the crime and then went over to the hospital to take a statement from the victim. City superintendent of police Subhash Chandra Jat, who is monitoring the investigations, said: “An incident of firing took place near the gurdwara in Sonari and a youth suffered a bullet injury.  We are investigating the case.” Jat said the police were scanning footage from surveillance cameras installed at the gurdwara and adjoining buildings to identify the chain snatchers. He said the old couple had lodged a complaint after a nudge from the police. After the incident, the residents of Sonari have become apprehensive. “Crimes are being committed with impunity. The criminals don’t fear the police. Even walking in our own locality could be dangerous,” local resident Satbir Singh told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant pans new laws, says farmers will be pushed to the brink||Jharkhand joined the list of states that are opposing the recently passed agriculture bills with chief minister Hemant Soren calling them “the biggest attack on the country's federal structure” on Saturday. On a day when farmers and trade unions observed a Bharat Bandh, Hemant criticised the Narendra Modi-led NDA government for leaving the nation’s “annadata (famers)” at the mercy of his corporate friends by “forcefully” and “unconstitutionally” getting the bills passed in Parliament earlier this week. Hemant said Jharkhand would never be on board with the Centre’s anti-people decisions. “Chanakya ne ek baat kahi thi, ‘jis desh ka raja vyapari hota hai, us desk ka janta hamesha bhikari hota hai.’ (Chanakya had said that if the ruler of a country is a businessman, its people will always live in penury). Our farmers have been duped by this law and it’s time to stand against it,” he said. The chief minister hinted at not implementing the laws in Jharkhand, even as he was exploring various legal options. Addressing the media at Project Building, Hemant said, “Today, all farmers are out on streets as part of the Bharat Bandh against the farm bill. I don’t know what our PM is up to in his second stint and where he wants to push this country to in the garb of reforms? “After the failure of goods and services taxes (GST), his government tried to push through coal block privatisation, then brought in a new education policy and now the farm laws. All these without taking the states on board. For me, this farm bill is the biggest attack on the country's federal structure till date by any elected government.” Hemant accused the Union government of playing into the hands of corporates to privatise the country’s farming sector, which in turn would push farmers to the brink. “The contract framing section has enough indications of the horrors our farmers are likely to confront in the coming days. We all know the condition of contract workers in the country, how they often struggle to earn a day’s meal. Now, our farmers will join this rank, thanks to the Modi government. “The law doesn’t talk about whom farmers should approach if companies abruptly end their contracts. Can a petty farmer of Ranchi fight with giants like Adani and Ambanis in case their contract turns up in court? In a nutshell, this law will give birth to a new kind of mahajan pratha to exploit farmers.” Asked if Jharkhand was planning to pass a resolution against the laws in the state Assembly, he said, “If need be, we will do it after talking with our alliance partners, the Congress and RJD.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Puja organisers await guidelines from government||Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti, the apex body which monitors pujas in the steel city, is concerned that even though the festival is less than a month away, the administration is yet to issue any guidelines for organisers. Samity functionaries said on Friday that they were yet to get any directives from the district administration with respect to pandals and idols. "We had recently met health minister Banna Gupta, who also looks after the disaster management portfolio. But he is yet to get back to us. We have, therefore, asked several puja organisers not to book idols with local artisans, " said Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of the samiti. The samiti has started zonal meetings with puja organisers in the run up to the festival to be held between October 22 to 26 and has also issued certain guidelines for puja organisers. It has banned donations and has asked organisers to do away with bhog, dhaki, fairs, lighting and lavish pandals. Organisers of community pujas at housing societies have been asked to use photographs of the goddess instead of idols. Singh said it was time the state government made its stand clear. This year’s community puja count for Jamshedpur is 320, the same as last year. However, sources said, so far orders have been placed with local artisans for only 150 idols. " We are waiting for government guidelines on the Puja. If it imposes restrictions on pandals and idols we will perform puja using a photograph, " said a member of a Durga Puja committee at Sakchi. The samiti has announced a number of Covid-related restrictions for pujas such as social distancing and use of face masks. The festive mood is, however, missing among people of the steel city although a couple of companies, including Tata Steel, have already declared their annual bonus, a welcome announcement at this time of the year. There is no rush at markets too. Puja shopping, a big part of the celebrations, is yet to pick up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||State’s first virtual lok adalat to be held on Saturday||Jharkhand is all set to hold its first ever online lok adalat on Saturday wherein cases related to insurance claims and redressals, together estimated at Rs 50 crore, will be heard and resolved. Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (JHALSA) executive chairman and high court judge H. C. Mishra said, “There are about 9,000 cases in the pre-litigation stage and 500 ongoing cases pending in various courts. The lok adalat will aim to settle these disputes through virtual mode this time.” He said the lok adalat would be inaugurated by National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) executive chairman M.V. Ramana and Aniruddha Bose, both judges of the Supreme Court. The district legal services authority (DLSA) will form virtual benches and ensure the smooth conduct of the lok adalat. Mishra said the concerned people had been contacted and informed about Saturday’s lok adalat. The pandemic has already pushed courts to function through virtual mode like many other institutions. Officials said JHALSA’s future public initiatives would also be conducted using online modes to continue to help those in need. “This lok adalat to solve insurance disputes is the first such initiative towards our endeavour,” said the judge. Even during the lockdown JHALSA and DLSA worked overtime to help people in distress by organising various activities such as food and mask distribution, and creating awareness on Covid precautions with the help of para-legal volunteers. In May, JHALSA launched a scheme titled, Shramev Vadante, to help migrant workers through its district affiliates (DLSA) by educating them about legal rights and government schemes meant for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Maithon boatmen, shopkeepers stare at penury as tourist flow dries up||Over 150 boatmen, tea sellers and owners of roadside eateries of Maithon, one of the most familiar tourist attractions of the region, are without any earnings ever since visitors stopped coming and the government imposed restrictions on boating ever since the lockdown was imposed. Over 70 boatmen, from adjoining villages, including Goghna and Kalibasti, were operating their boats in the dam under various self-help groups as per district administration guidelines. Although many of them have started repairing their boats in the hope of certain relaxations ahead of December tourist season, most are apprehensive about the future. Nepal Chaudhary (42), a boatman of Goghna village of Maithon, said, “All 24 members of our group, Matsya Gandha, which is authorised to operate boats from one of the three ghats, are facing penury of the worst kind. We are finding it difficult to meet family expenses.” Chaudhary explained that theirs was primarily seasonal income that takes place during the tourist season of December to January. “We are hoping that the government will allow some relaxation in norms. Otherwise, all will be lost,” he said. He said usually, during peak tourist season, their income is in the range of Rs 3,000 a day. On other days, they would earn around Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 a day. “Our income is almost zero since the last six months of lockdown due to lack of permission for operating boats,” said Chaudhary. Surendra Soren (22), another boatman of the same village, said they were ready to adhere to all Covid protocols, like maintaining social distancing and using sanitisers and allowing less number of people on boats. “The dam has been given a new look with the recent renovation work carried out by DVC. Now is the best opportunity for the authorities to attract tourists,” he said. The plight of those running the 80 roadside eateries is no better. Kanchan Sao, a coffee shop owner of Kali Basti village, said, “Very few tourists are visiting the dam these days. Our income, which used to be around Rs 1,500 a month, has reduced to less than Rs 100 per month. During the first few months of the lockdown, our income was almost zero.” Situated about 48 km from Dhanbad district headquarters, the major attraction of Maithon is the 15,712 feet long and 165 feet high Maithon Dam situated over the Barakar river, and the Maithon Lake spread over 65 sq km. Boating around the lake’s many islands, including Sabuj Deep and Chamoch Deep, is an enjoyable experience. The Maa Kalyaneshwari Temple, less than 100 meter from the dam is another attraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||4 cyber criminals arrested from Dhanbad||Police arrested a gang of four cyber criminals who posed as customer service executives of a payment app and siphoned off close to Rs 50 lakh from unsuspecting customers. Dhanbad SP (city) SP R. Ramkumar told the media that the members of gang, three from Jamtara and one from Giridih, were arrested from Vrindavan Apartment of Dhaiya locality of Dhanbad after a tip-off. Police seized two iphones, one Apple laptop, a car (Innova Cresta), two motorcycles, five debit cards and six smartphones from the arrested persons who have been identified as Shambhu Nath Mandal (22), Praduman Mandal (20), Rohit Kumar Mandal (19) and Abhishek Kumar Mandal (19). Ramkumar said the members of the gang of cyber criminals would pose as Google Pay customer care representatives after taking out fake advertisements. The modus operandi wasn’t immediately clear, but police said they had enough evidence against them. “We have sufficient evidence against the arrested persons. The seized laptop and mobile phones have video recordings of their operations by virtue of which they would obtain access to their victims’ devices and then siphon off money,” Ramkumar said. Ramkumar appealed to people to never attend to calls from unknown numbers and never to share OTPs, QR codes etc. “Never share passwords with anyone, he said. “We will also request people also to not download any software at the instruction of any strange controller as they may get access to your mobile phone or computer” said Ramkumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||More than 1300 infected in a day, death toll crosses 650 ||Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to witness a spike in the number of Covid-19 active cases on Thursday despite the count of active cases dipping in Jharkhand, figures released by the state health department stated. As per figures compiled by the health department, as many as 1349 people were found infected by the lethal virus across Jharkhand on Thursday, taking the Covid-19 tally in the state to 76,438. However, at least 1386 Covid patients recovered from the infection during the same duration, bringing the total number of active cases in the state down to 12,841. As many as 362 people were found to be infected in Ranchi against 229 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 123 cases and only 41 recoveries. The findings take the number of active cases in Ranchi up to 3,624 and that in East Singhbhum to 2,540. The figures indicate that these two districts account for around 50 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. Koderma district reported the highest number of Covid recoveries in 24 hours. A bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that as many as 264 patients recovered in the district in 24 hours, while only 36 fresh cases surfaced. The number of active cases of infection in the district dropped below 500 on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Covid toll in Jharkhand jumped to 652 after four patients, including three from East Singhbhum, died during treatment on Thursday. East Singhbhum alone has reported 282 Covid casualties so far, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The toll rose to 18 in Ramgarh, where one patient died on Thursday. Despite four casualties occurring in 24 hours, Jharkhand’s Covid-19 mortality rate dropped to 0.85 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. The Covid recovery rate in the state jumped to 82.34 per cent, which is higher than the national Covid recovery rate of 81.60 per cent. The state government has so far collected swab samples of 19.62 lakh people and tested 19.49 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 23,482 people and 22,133 of them came negative. As per data compiled by the NHM, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 37.24 days against the national average of 41.34 days. The past seven days growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 1.88 per cent, against the national average of 1.67 per cent, the data further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Liquor haul at Bihar border||Harihurganj police in Palamau recovered and seized a huge consignment of liquour near the Bihar border on Thursday. The consignment had thousands of bottles of alcohol which was being smuggled to Bihar. Police have stepped up border checks before the Bihar Assembly elections. SDPO Shambhu Kumar Singh said as the election gets nearer, smuggling of illicit wine will be rampant which they are determined to foil. Singh said along with the illicit wine police have recovered a huge consignment of government rice meant for the public distribution through PDS shops. The wine and government rice were clandestinely stocked in a godown owned by Umesh Sao, a  mukhiya and PDS shop owner. Singh said Sao who is absconding will face criminal charges under essential commodities act. Sao will also be charged for stocking illicit wine with the purpose of inter state smuggling. Vinoba Bhave University will be conducting its final year examination from Friday across five districts. Around 30,000 undergraduate students are expected to appear for the exam. The exams were delayed by two months due to the Covid induced lockdown. There are 25 centres in Hazaribagh, Koderma, Chatra, Ramgarh and Giridih. Pro-vice chancellor Ajeet Sinha said the varsity had left no stone unturned to conduct the examination by keeping all the Covid norms in mind. He said distance between two examinees will be three feet. Classrooms will be sanitised and it is mandatory for students to wear masks and gloves. "We have conveyed all these guidelines to principals in a meeting recently",said Sinha. Vice chancellor Dr. Mukul Narayan Deo said he has passed clear instructions to the principals. He said he had inspected the arrangements and found it satisfactory. Activists of CPI (M) on Thursday took out a procession at Randhir Verma Chowk against the new farm bill and also against the proposed changes in  the labour laws. The protesters said at a time when common people are facing the problem of economic constriants and recession during the pandemic, the central government is bringing new anti people bills to add to their woes. They claimed the proposed changes in the labour laws will benefit the capitalist forces and will deprive the common workers of all their rights. Deputy commissioner of Bokaro, Rajesh Kumar Singh on Thursday asked the district mining officer and police officials to ensure that there is no illegal mining and transportation of minerals including stone, sand and coal in the district. A meeting of the district mining task force was held under the chairmanship of the DC. Information related to stone, sand, brick kiln and coal mining lease located in the district was given by the district mining officer at the meeting. The circle officer and divisional forest officer have been asked to give a point-wise report of the sand ghats. The CCL and BCCL management should carry out regualar checks in their authorised areas to stop illegal mining and transportation of coal. The DC said illegal mining and transportation of minerals will not be tolerated in the district. Barwaddah Police on Thursday seized 182 bottles of liquor from an SUV during a vehicle checking drive conducted at Kalyanpur area. The police arrested three persons, all residents of Patna, on the charges of smuggling illicit liquor to Bihar. Officer in charge of Barwaddah Police station, Ganga Sagar Upadhyay said, "we received a tip off regarding the liquor being smuggled from Durgapur in Bengal to Bihar through national highway-2 and organised the vehicle checking drive in various places of the district on the basis of which the liquor consignment was found lying hidden beneath the seat of the SUV and arrests were made".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||CAG finds hurdles to Jharkhand cop upgrade||The scheme for modernisation of police force in Jharkhand could not achieve its target owing to several factors, ranging from irregular pattern of funding to shortage of modern weapons and inadequate training. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India observed this in the report on general, social and economic sectors for the year ended March 2018. The report was tabled on Monday during the just concluded monsoon session of Jharkhand Assembly. The CAG conducted a performance audit on the activities related to the modernisation scheme from 2013 to 2018. The scheme aimed at making state police force capable of facing emerging challenges and to reduce its dependence on the army and central armed police forces. Under the scheme, the Union and state governments were to share the expenditure in the ratio of 60:40, but neither the Centre nor the state released full components of funds during the period, the CAG observed. Though, the police needed to equip itself adequately to combat sophisticated weapons used by criminals and Maoists, it was still dependent on phased out weapons as shortage of modern weapons increased from 28 per cent in April 2013 to 32 per cent in April 2018, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
