26-09-2020||Jharkhand||NDRF team fishes out Adityapur boy’s body from river||A 14-member team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) fished out the body of a 17-year-old boy from the Kharkai river along the RIT police station area in Adityapur on Saturday. The NDRF team was pressed into service after local divers failed to locate the body of the boy, identified as Aditya Kumar Mahto, who drowned in the Kharkai river while bathing near Platinum City in Adityapur on Friday afternoon. Family members and neighbours of the boy said there is an acute water crisis in Adityapur, which prompted Aditya, like many other local residents, to go to the river for a bath. He went to the river around 12.30pm on Friday. While taking a bath, he slipped into deep water and drowned. Others at the scene had come to the victim’s rescue and even dived into the river, but could not save him. Later in the afternoon, police and family members of the boy asked some local divers to find the body, but they failed. A local social worker, Sudhir Chowdhury, arranged to get the NDRF involved following reports of the incident. Chowdhury met the Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner, Iqwal Alam, and requested him to write to the secretary of the Jharkhand department of disaster management. After Alam had written the letter, Chowdhury spoke to Amitabh Kaushal, the secretary of the department. Kaushal then communicated with officials at the NDRF headquarters in New Delhi to get a nod. The NDRF authorities then instructed the team stationed at Ranchi to rush to Adityapur. A 14-member team from Ranchi came to Adityapur early on Saturday morning and started work from around 8am. The NDRF team traced and recovered the body within 30 minutes of starting its operation. The body was found within 20m from the spot where the boy drowned. One of the team members said the body was trapped in a rock about 15ft deep in the water. The officer in charge of RIT police station, Srinivash Kumar, confirmed the events: “The boy, who was a resident of Janata Row House area near NIT, Jamshedpur, drowned while taking a bath in the river on Friday afternoon. We had pressed some local divers into service, but the body could not be found. It was ultimately fished out of the river by an NDRF team,” Srinivash told The Telegraph Online. Son of Bajrang Mahto, an auto-rickshaw driver, Aditya had passed his matric examination this year and was about to take admission in a Plus Two course soon. A pall of gloom descended in the Janata Row House area after the NDRF team found the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate jumps to 83.40%||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate jumped further to 83.40 per cent on Saturday after as many as 1,324 patients recovered from the infection, while 1,226 people tested positive for the virus in 24 hours, figures released by the state health department stated. Jharkhand is among the few states that have a better recovery rate than the national average of 82.10 per cent, officials said. Despite the drop in the number of active cases in Jharkhand on Saturday, the number of patients increased in Ranchi, which continues to be the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of cases. As many as 425 cases surfaced in Ranchi against 318 recoveries during the day, taking the number of active cases in the district to 3,955, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per the bulletin, Ranchi accounted for nearly 35 per cent of the total 12,426 active cases of infection in Jharkhand. The number of active cases dropped in East Singhbhum on Saturday after 214 people were found infected there against 263 recoveries. As per the NHM bulletin, the number of active cases in East Singhbhum dropped to 2,119. The figures also highlighted that Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for around 50 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand. Six more patients died during treatment in the state on Saturday, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 670, the NHM bulletin stated. As per the bulletin, East Singhbhum reported two of the six deaths on Saturday and the toll in the district alone jumped to 287, which is the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. The mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.84 per cent on Saturday against the national mortality rate of 1.60 per cent. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 20.42 lakh people across Jharkhand and tested 20.29 lakh of them. Of those tested, 78,935 have been found Covid-19 positive since March. As many as 65,839 of these patients have recovered from the infection. As per government data, on Saturday, health workers tested swab samples of 30,152 people and 28,926 of them came negative. The Covid-19 tally in Ranchi was close to 18,000, while that in East Singhbhum was nearly 13,500, the government data stated. These two districts have reported 391 casualties, which is nearly 60 per cent of the total deaths that have occurred in Jharkhand since March this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant okays CBI probe into death of freedom fighter kin||Chief minister Hemant Soren recommended a CBI investigation into the death of freedom fighter Sidhu Murmu’s descendant, Rameshwar, on Saturday to try and quell dissent within his constituency of Barhait where his body was found ahead of the upcoming byelections in Dumka. A brief communiqué issued by the CMO read: “CM has approved recommendation of CBI probe in connection with the murder of late Rameshwar Murmu, who was killed on June 12, 2020 in Bhognadih under Barhait police station in Sahebganj following a proposal from Jharkhand DGP MV Rao.” Later, Hemant issued a statement to say, “The decision for a CBI probe has been taken in view of several representations and demands by social and political organisations.” Rameshwar’s (28) body was found in a field at Bhognadih in Barhait, the Assembly segment in Dumka in the Santhal Parganas, a traditional stronghold of the ruling JMM. Four days later, the deceased’s family lodged an FIR at Barhait police station in Sahebganj district accusing one Saddam Ansari of the crime. According to family members, Rameshwar had protested against Ansari for allegedly passing lewd remarks against a village girl. But, police, citing post-mortem reports, said Rameshwar, who was an alcoholic, died of heart attack. On June 23, Ansari surrendered in court and was sent to judicial custody. The incident triggered massive protests with the Opposition BJP accusing lawlessness under the Hemant Soren government. Leaders met governor Droupadi Murmu to demand a CBI probe. The saffron camp even accused the Hemant government of covering up the murder through a shoddy police probe. Hemant’s decision to recommend a CBI probe comes a day after the Election Commision of India (ECI) announced dates for the Bihar Assembly polls, stating that a separate notification for pending bypolls would be issued soon. Political observers believe that the coming bypolls in Dumka and Bermo may have played a part in the state government recommending a CBI probe even though the culprit was in jail and the state police had not hinted at foul play in the death of Rameshwar. A political science professor of Sidho Kanho University in Dumka agreed, saying he believed that the recommendation of a CBI probe was driven by politics. “Bhognadih happens be the epicentre of Santhal rebellion by tribal brothers—Sidhu and Kanhu Murmu. That is why Hul Diwas is observed in memory of the Murmu brothers on June 30 there every year. For any elections here, you can’t but talk of tribal rebellion and freedom fighters to strike a chord with adivasi voters. By recommending a CBI probe, JMM tried to counter the BJP’s barbs,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||RPF’s prized tracker dog Shakti retires, finds new home||Shakti, a 10-year-old Doberman, who was with Railway Protection Force as a tracker for a decade, retired from active service on Thursday, but found a new home days later with Jharkhand Animal Welfare Society that has decided to adopt him. Shakti was accorded a ceremonial farewell at the RPF post near Tatanagar railway station on Thursday. On Saturday, Jharkhand Animal Welfare Society (JAWS got formal custody. JAWS deputy secretary Utkarsh Kashyap said in the past, retired RPF dogs were euthanised through intravenous injections if they weren’t bought in an auction. "JAWS president Arun Kumar Jha intervened and wrote to RPF national headquarters in 2009 for changing the practice. This led RPF to amend the policy of auctioning retired dogs at a minimum price of Rs 150 and make their adoption smooth through local animal welfare associations," he told The Telegraph Online after taking custody of the dog. Shakti is the third RPF dog to be adopted by JAWS, one of the oldest animal welfare associations of the steel city. Earlier, two RPF sniffers _ Nidhi and Diana _ were also adopted by the animal welfare outfit. As per RPF records, Shakti won several laurels in his career. Born in July 2010,  the Doberman has solved many theft cases, murder mysteries and rape cases in railway jurisdiction under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway. JAWS undertakes various animal welfare activities. In June and July, it was involved in the campaign to save street dogs by providing reflective collars to strays. The campaign was undertaken in collaboration with a Ranchi-based animal welfare organisation, Mission Trust, and Pawsitivity of Indore. As many as 70 reflective collars were put on strays as a result of the campaign. Recently, JAWS volunteers rescued two Indian Rick pythons near a residential apartment on NH-33 at Pardih. The snakes were later released at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Flights to Calcutta resume ahead of Durga Puja||Airport authorities in Ranchi have resumed flight services to Calcutta ahead of Durga Puja, one of the largest festivals of the Bengali community during which thousands of residents of Jharkhand travel to Bengal, officials said on Saturday. “We have resumed four weekly flights to Calcutta ahead of Durga Puja. A high demand for flights is anticipated during the festive season,” said director of Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi Vinod Sharma. Sharma added that the new flights to Calcutta would take off from Ranchi on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays. All the four flights are run by Indigo Airlines, he said. All flights from Ranchi remained suspended since the imposition of a nationwide lockdown on March 24 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Once flight services resumed on May 25, the Ranchi airport was permitted to operate only seven flights, airport officials said. While the count of flights gradually increased to 10 by August-end, the number was still less than half the number of flights that took off from Ranchi before the lockdown. Also, there were no flights to Calcutta. “We have also resumed passenger flights from Ranchi to Mumbai. Flights to New Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad were already operational after the resumption of air services,” said Sharma. While Jharkhand residents now have the option to fly to Calcutta during Durga Puja, railway services connecting Ranchi to Howrah have remained suspended despite demands by various groups. The government has not given any indication regarding the resumption of passenger trains from Ranchi to Howrah. The public relation officer of Ranchi Railway Division, Neeraj Kumar, said there was no plan to resume trains connecting Ranchi to Howrah in the near future. “However, passengers can travel to Dhanbad or Jamshedpur and take connecting trains to Howrah during the festive season,” said Kumar. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FJCCI) recently demanded resumption of the Kriya Yoga Express, a daily express train between Ranchi and Howrah. However, the railways is yet to take a call on their demands. Interstate bus services are yet to start, and no buses are plying between Ranchi and Calcutta as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||JFC juniors to train with senior team in Goa next month||Players from Jamshedpur FC (Reserves) can look forward to rubbing shoulders with their seniors when it comes to training. Ten footballers, including eight from the reserves side, will be part of the JFC pre-seasons in Goa, the venue of the cash-rich edition VII of Indian Super League (ISL), next month. The move is aimed at giving exposure to the juniors who can learn new techniques from the likes of Nerijus Valskis, Stephen Eze and Peter Hartley, the prized possessions of the Tata-Steel-owned club. Moreover, the juniors have an opportunity to impress head coach Owen Coyle and stand a chance of getting slots in the Jamshedpur senior outfit. Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari said players of the reserves side would also train with the seniors. “We are working out the numbers to finalise who will train with our senior side in Goa. The names will be decided soon,” he added. Sources within JFC revealed that juniors will stay in Goa throughout the ISL season which begins at three venues _ Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, the Tilak Nagar Stadium in Vasco da Gama and the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim in November. Matches will be played with strict social distancing protocols. “The entire objective is to provide adequate exposure to the boys from the reserves outfit. After all, the plan is to draft Jharkhand players to the senior side in future. The process has to begin. We had already picked the likes of Tata Football Academy graduates Mobashir Rahman, Vishal Das and Sandeep Mandi who were part of the senior side last season,” one of the sources said. Some of the reserve players identified for the pre-seasons include Gorachand Mardi, Harsh Kumar, Billu Teli, Mani Sana,  Manas Gorai, Gourav Kumar and Vishal Yadav. Two upcoming footballers from Dhanbad Raj Mahto and S. Bauri will also train with the seniors in Goa. The JFC (Reserves) plays in the 2nd Division I League and some of the players had caught the eye of coaches with their performance. The boys travel to different cities to compete in the tournament organised under the banner of All India Football Federation (AIFF). Most of the players in the reserves side are from Jharkhand. The juniors stay anchored in Jamshedur during the season and are provide good facilities, including food and accommodation. They are also provided top class training facilties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bank More-Birsa Bridge road repair next week||For over two lakh commuters, who have been suffering backbreaking rides on the 23km-stretch of road between Bank More and Birsa Bridge for over two years now, the news that the authorities will begin repairs next week is likely to be greeted with cautious optimism. Executive engineer of national highway division Amrendra Saha said, “We have completed the tender process for the ordinary repair of a part of the road from Bank More to Birsa Bridge for which work is likely to begin next week. Besides filling up all potholes, we will also repair the damaged railings of the bridge.” Saha explained that an underlying water supply pipeline, belonging to civic body JMADA, was the primary reason behind the damage of the road. Water leaking from the pipeline damaged the road surface. “We expect JMADA to shift the pipeline ahead of a comprehensive repair project worth Rs 80 crore to be undertaken for the 50km stretch of the Dhanbad-Jharia Road from Bank More to the Purulia border. The work order has been issued, but work will begin only in four to five months," he said. Niranjan Prasad, councillor of Bastacola in Jharia, expressed satisfaction that the road would finally be repaired. “The state of the road near Bastacola is dreadful. It gets worse during monsoon, leading to repeated traffic jams. Hopefully, now people will see some relief ahead of Durga Purja,” he said. The 23km-stretch between Bank More in Dhanbad to Birsa Bridge is in terrible shape with potholes and craters dotting the road at various places, including Bastacola, Ena Islampur, besides Jharia and Sudamdih. A comprehensive project, worth Rs 44.83 crore, to widen the road was implemented by the state road construction department in 2015-16 using contractor M/s Balkrishna Bhalotia. But the road, which was later handed over to the national highway division in 2018, developed potholes at various places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Babulal Marandi among 1261 to test positive in Jharkhand||Jharkhand's first chief minister and BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi was among 1261 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Marandi, who represents Dhanwar constituency in the state assembly announced his status through his social media handle. He wrote, "After facing mild symptoms, I underwent covid test and was found positive for the virus today. I have self isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me in recent days to be alert and get themselves tested." Soon after the monsoon session ended on September 22, Marandi flew to Delhi to meet BJP top brass in the wake of upcoming byelections in Dumka and Bermo and chalk out other modalities related to party's affairs in the state, where the saffron camp is currently in Opposition. He returned Ranchi on Thursday. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in Jharkhand in March a total of 77709 have so far been tested positive for the virus so far including Friday's count. Of these, 12533 are currently active cases and 64515 have recovered. Many lawmakers, including over half a dozen MLAs from the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD coalition fell prey to the virus, majority of whom had successfuly overcame it and returned back to their normal public life. State water resources minister and JMM MLA from Garhwa, Mithilesh Thakur, who was one of the few to have tested positive for the virus recently also donated his plasma at Rims. On the other hand, with six fresh casualties on Friday, state fatalty toll now stood at 691. Of these, two deaths each were reported from East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum and one each surfaced from Dhanbad and Godda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Partial nude demonstration for BSL jobs||Contract workers of Bokaro Steel Plant staged demonstrations partially nude demanding to be reinstated to their jobs lost during lockdown. The protesters under the banner of Bokaro Ispat Kamgar Morcha an outfit affiliated to AITUC, marched on the road in Ghandhi Chowk shouting slogans and waving red flags.
The workers worked for a private company engaged in Ingot Mold Foundry in BSL.Around 65 of them were removed three months ago. Pran Singh, a contract worker who was leading the agitation said that the labourers have been working in the IMF for more than 20 years. “We are jobless since past three months. We have approached senior officials many times but no one is listening to our plea. So today we are forced to stage a demonstration,” Singh said. The protesters threatened self-immolate if they were not hired back. A BSL officer said the contract with the private company was not renewed as there is no work hence the workers were removed. BSL is seeing a rise in agitations. On Thursday hundreds of workers staged demonstrations in front of BSL’s headquarter demanding job and compensation. Ramgarh police have arrested one of the five assailants who had stolen Rs six lakh from an employee of a petrol pump. On September 21, Rajendra Bedia, an employee of Danish petrol pump was going to deposit the amount in the bank when he was robbed near Ghutuwa Basti Kabristan area.
Ramgarh superintendent of police Prabhat Kumar said after the robbery, a team was constituted and with the help of technical cell they managed to identify the criminals. He said one of the involved, Manish Kusahawa(20) was arrested from Hutpa village under Muffasil police station of Hazaribagh district. Kumar said the police have recovered Rs.55,320. The general secretary of Bengali welfare society Gopal Bhattacharya expressed surprise over the appointment of NGO Shubh Sandesh as the authorized motivator for plasma therapy at PMCH. Bhattacharya is a blood donation motivator of Jharkhand State AIDS control society. "Our organisation always organises blood donation camps whenever the PMCH based blood bank faces any blood crisis while Shubh Sandesh has never organized any camp and neither motivated any person for blood donation," said Bhattacharya. He said organisations like his and Rotary Club were ignored while selecting a motivator for the plasma therapy. The Dhanbad district administration has developed an exclusive portal for redressal of various complaints of residents. The issues range from non disbursement of old age or widow pension and pension for physically challenged to non receipt of food grains. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh conducted the portal's trial run on Friday. "The portal developed by district unit of National Informatics Center and District Mineral Foundation Trust will help to avoid unnecessary rush at the district collectorate for redressal of complaints during the time of pandemic when social distancing is key to check the spread of infection as people can register their complain from their places or any common service center of even their respective block offices using the portal," said Singh. The portal will be launched officially in a couple of days. Four improvised explosive devices were discovered by the security forces near the road between Masurya and Chak pickets in Palamau. The stretch is always on high alert for Maoist rebels. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar said the bombs were kept hidden in the shrubs meant for security forces. The bomb disposal squad of the Jharkhand Jaguar neutralised the explosives on Friday after its discovery on Thursday. Kumar said the explosives were not planted in the Masurya Chak pickets axis but were abandoned and camouflaged in the shrubs to be used later by the CPI Maoists to strike the security forces. Communist parties on Friday took out a protest march on Hazaribagh roads opposing the recently passed farm bills. The march was led by veteran communist leader and former parliamentarian Bhuvneshwar Prasad Mehta. CPM district secretary Ganesh Kumar Citu said march started from District Mor and ended at Indrapuri Chowk in town. A massive fire broke out in the godown of the Shriram Sales at Bhalotia lane on Friday. About half a dozen fire extinguishers took eight hours to douse the flames completely, and saved other shops located nearby from getting affected by the fire, said Amitabh Chaudhary, a police officer. The loss is being assessed. Around seven years ago Shriram Sales had a similar fire accident. At that time, goods worth lakhs of rupees were burnt to ashes. The cause of the fire was stated to be a short circuit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tribal Christians tonsured and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' in Jharkhand village ||Seven tribal Christians were allegedly beaten, partially tonsured and forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in a Jharkhand village on the unproven allegation that they had slaughtered a cow. Although the incident happened on September 16 and a police complaint was lodged the next day, the matter became public only on September 25 when former zilla parishad member and social activist Neel Justin Beck told a local news portal about it. Police confirmed the incident. Shams Tabrez, the superintendent of police in Simdega district where the attack took place, said four of the nine accused named in the FIR had been arrested and the rest would be picked up soon. The FIR also mentions 10 unnamed accused. Jharkhand had witnessed the lynching of several tribal people and Muslims on unsubstantiated charges of cow slaughter or beef possession during the tenure of its previous BJP-led government (2014-19). This is the first reported communal attack since the JMM-Congress-RJD-Left alliance came to power last December. Deepak Kullu, 26, a tribal Christian from Bherikudar in Simdega, about 145km southwest of Ranchi, said a group of more than 25 stick and rod-wielding people had entered the village early on September 16 morning. The men were apparently residents of nearby villages. Deepak said: “I saw them beating a villager, Raj Singh Kullu, and hurling caste-based expletives at his wife Jacqueline Kullu. When I sought an explanation, they started mouthing caste-based expletives at me too and accused us of slaughtering cows.” “Raj continued to plead that no one had killed any cows. But the mob showed us what seemed a fake video of an elderly man from a neighbouring village saying he had seen cows being slaughtered in our village.” Deepak alleged the mob dragged him and six other Christian tribal men from the village to neighbouring Mahato Tola, about half a kilometre away, all the while slapping and beating them with sticks and forcing them to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. At Mahato Tola, they were made to squat under a tree and had portions of their heads shaved by the mob. Cow slaughter was banned in Jharkhand by a 2005 law, which the state’s erstwhile BJP-led government began strictly enforcing since 2017. “The attackers called the local Simdega police station, accusing us of cow slaughter. The police arrived in a few minutes and took us to the police station,” Deepak said. “The police searched our homes but could not find any trace of cow slaughter and released all of us later in the day. The next day, Jacqueline lodged complaints with Simdega police station and the district SC/ST police station.” Police officer Tabrez said: “A case has been registered under the SC/ST Act and several Indian Penal Code sections. A special investigation team led by the sub-divisional police officer is conducting raids to arrest the remaining accused.” Beck, the activist, identified the seven victims as Raj, Deepak, Emmanuel Tete, Sugad Dang, Sulin Barla, Soshan Dang and Sem Kido. Rabindra Prasad Singh, officer in charge of Simdega police station, said the nine named accused were Nayan Keshri, Sonu Singh, Sonu Nayak, Tulsi Sahu, Shrikant Prasad, Deepak Prasad, Aman Keshri, Rajendra Prasad and Nakul Patar. ]“We have arrested Sonu Singh, Sonu Nayak, Nayan and Rajendra so far,” he said. “We searched every house whose occupants were accused of cow slaughter but found nothing conclusive.” Rabindra said the victims did not suffer serious injuries in the beating, and none of them needed medical attention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
