27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid claims 9 more lives in Jharkhand||Covid-19 claimed nine more lives in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the total number of casualties in the state to 679, figures released by the health department stated. Nearly 1,000 people across Jharkhand were found infected by the coronavirus on Sunday, taking the tally close to 80,000. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 226 of the 974 cases that surfaced on Sunday were from East Singhbhum, while 214 were from Ranchi. The number of active cases, however, dropped in East Singhbhum as 303 patients recovered from the infection. Among the nine Covid patients who died on Sunday, at least four were from East Singhbhum, a district which accounts for 291 of the state’s 679 Covid-19 casualties, government data highlighted. As per government data, Bokaro reported two deaths while Ranchi, Khunti and Hazaribagh reported one death each. The number of active cases rose above 4,000 on Sunday with new patients outnumbering recoveries for the third consecutive day here. As per government data, as many as 4,016 people were battling the infection in Ranchi on Sunday after only 153 recoveries were reported against 214 new cases during the day. The government has so far collected the swab samples of 20.71 lakh people in Jharkhand and tested 20.59 lakh of them. Of those tested for the coronavirus, as many as 79,909 were found positive. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 22,342 people and 21,368 of them came negative. As per government data, Jharkhand has one of the best recovery rates in India. Of the 80,000-odd people found infected in the state so far, at least 66,797 have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state to 83.59 per cent. The national recovery rate, as per government figures, was 82.40 per cent on Sunday. Despite the nine casualties reported on Sunday, Jharkhand’s mortality rate was 0.84 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 1.60 per cent. As per government data, the time taken for the number of Covid-19 cases to double in Jharkhand was 42.8 days against the national rate of 47.25 days. In the past seven days, infection grew in Jharkhand at the rate of 1.63 per cent. As per data compiled by the NHM, at least 502 of the 679 victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years. As many as 137 patients were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, while 31 others were below the age of 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Pujas to be live streamed on Facebook, Instagram this year||Puja rituals at all leading Durga Puja pandals across Ranchi will be live streamed on social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram this year in a bid to allow devotees to worship deities from the comfort of their homes amid Covid-19 restrictions. “We have decided to livestream all puja rituals on social media platforms during the four days of Durga Puja. Dedicated pages for Durga Puja 2020 will be created on Facebook and Instagram, which devotees can follow to watch our live videos,” Ashok Purohit, the president of Ranchi District Durga Puja Committee (RDDPC), said on Sunday. While the government is yet to announce rules and regulations to be followed during the days of Puja, the committee, which is the umbrella body for over 500 puja organisers in Ranchi, has decided to install LED screens outside every pandal to live telecast the rituals to prevent crowding inside the pandal. “We have unanimously decided that only puja committee members will be allowed inside pandals as a preventive measure against coronavirus,” said Purohit. He, however, added that a limited number of devotees could be eventually allowed to enter the pandals if the government specified a number in its puja guidelines. Puja committees in Ranchi have also decided against organising Durga Puja fairs this year in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The committees have decided to erect small pandals and not make grand arrangements to attract pandal hoppers. “The idols will not be taller than 15 feet this year, and the pandals too will be ordinary. There won’t be any themes for puja this year,” said Ramesh Singh, a member of the Chandrashekhar Azad Puja Committee. The Pujas begin on October 22. Sources in the Ranchi district administration said that the government was likely to issue a notification on the dos and don’ts during Puja in the first week of October. Puja committee members said all precautionary measures would be followed at the pandals, and nobody will be allowed to enter without a face mask. It will also be made mandatory for all puja pandals to keep hand sanitisers at the gate and make announcements related to Covid-19 precautions on loudspeakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Former state Congress chief Ajoy Kumar back in party||Former Jharkhand Congress president Ajoy Kumar returned to the party with its chief Sonia Gandhi approving his re-joining on Sunday. "Congress president has approved the proposal for re-joining of Ajoy Kumar, ex-MP and former president of Jharkhand PCC, to the Congress party," said AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal. Kumar announced on Twitter, "Driven by my conscience to speak up against injustice and institutional capture, I've been inspired by Shri Rahul Gandhi and decided to come back to Congress today." He also cited a quote of Mahatma Gandhi that "Silence becomes cowardice when occasion demands speaking out the whole truth and acting accordingly." “Amid a health, farmers, unemployment and economic crisis, it is Shri Rahul Gandhi & Smt. Sonia Gandhi who have been steadfast in their support for the people and idea of India. I really admire this tenacity and they have inspired me to come back to @INCIndia again,” he said in another tweet. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh welcomed Kumar in the party through a tweet. “You had never actually left as far as I was concerned,” he said. Kumar, a former IPS officer and an MP from Jamshedpur in the 15th Lok Sabha, had quit the party ahead of the Jharkhand Assembly elections last year. He was appointed JPCC president in November 2017, but resigned in August 2019 and joined the Aam Aadmi Party the next month. He had then alleged that the local leadership in Jharkhand Congress was corrupt and had compared many of his colleagues as even worse than criminals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tata zoo gets ready for annual wildlife week from September 30||Wildlife conservation and protection will take centrestage in Jamshedpur with Tata Steel Zoological Park gearing up for the annual wildlife week celebrations beginning on September 30. The celebrations will start with an essay writing competition (1,000 words in English or Hindi) for students of classes IX to XII on the topic, Man-animal conflict: causes and remedy. The opening day event will also witness a painting competition for students of standard II to V (group of plants and animals), standard VI to VIII (forest ecosystem) and standard IX and X (a day in the wild). The best eco club teacher award for 2019-20 has also been lined up. Entries can be submitted online at tatazoo.nec@gmail.com. October 5 has been reserved for a prize distribution ceremony at the zoo education centre lawns. It will include the best eco club teacher award comprising a running trophy and Rs 3,000 cash prize for the winner and a trophy and Rs 2,000 cash for the runner-up. Prizes will also be given to toppers in the essay writing and painting competitions, as well as to the winners of the International Biodiversity Day 2020. The prize distribution will be followed (on October 6 and 7) by a talk on animal health during Covid-19 by Tata Zoo vet Manik Palit and on butterflies by zoo curator S.K. Mahato.  The event will also have a keeper talk (sloth bear, Hanuman languor and tiger). The concluding day on October 8 will also have a talk on nature by Tata Steel head (biodiversity) Hishmi Jamil Hussain and on elephants of Jharkhand (with special reference to Dalma wildlife sanctuary) by regional chief conservator of forest, Ranchi, A.T. Mishra. The talks will be streamed live on Facebook. “A formal physical inauguration on zoo campus will depend upon the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government at that point in time,” a zoo official clarified. Entries should be sent on or before September 30 with details (name, standard, school/organisations, contact number and e-mail ID). For more information one may call: 9297953437.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Porters hit hard as only two trains have halt at Tatanagar||Porters at Tatanagar are sitting idle most of the day as only two trains have halts at the station these days. Only the 22823 Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express and 12801 Puri-New Delhi Purshottam Express have stops in Jamshedpur. This has hit the porters hard with all of them struggling to make ends meet. Most of the 102 porters, who are primarily from Bihar, have left for their homes. Only 35 are in Jamshedpur. “Hamari stithi bahut hi kharab hain. Kamai nahin ho rahi. Parivar kaise chalayen (Our condition is extremely bad. There is no source of income. How can we sustain our families)?” said Vinod Kumar, a porter who lives at Gwala Bustee in nearby Kitadih. Porter Pramod Raut said they were dependent on social organisations who distributed groceries during the lockdown. But that too had stopped now. “The station manager had also arranged groceries through a social outfit once. But now the situation has changed, and we are finding it very hard to feed our families.” he added. The porters said they used to earn between Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 before the lockdown. But now that has come down drastically. “Kisi din kaam milta hain kisi din nahin. Bahut mushkil se 1,500-2,000 rupya kamate hain. (Sometimes we get work and sometime not. I earn Rs 1,500-2,000 a month with great difficulty),” added Kumar. Some of the porters are borrowing money at 10 per cent interest to get things going. “I had used up all my savings to sustain my family. The groceries I got from social outfits have also exhausted. Me and my wife eat once a day since I have to look after our two young children. Don’t know what to do,” said Jai Balak, a resident of Golpahari. Kumar said the then railway minister, Lalu Prasad, had in 2008 recruited porters across the country in the “group category”.  “However, only 85 per cent porters got inducted while the rest 20 per cent got omitted due to over-age and medical issues. The group D porters get salary and residential quarters from the railway. But we have been left out,” the 45-year-old rued. “We hear that the railways is going to be privatised. We are already facing huge problems. We don’t know what will happen to us when the railway is actually privatised. We all are praying to the almighty,” added Chandan Mukhi, a porter who lives at Golpahari too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city wakes up to two mishaps; one dead, two injured||Two accidents in suburban Parsudih and Sundernagar thana areas in the wee hours of Sunday claimed the life of one person and led to traffic congestion for hours on the Station-Parsudih Road. The mishaps, occurring between 1am and 2.30am, involved a speeding car and a truck. The first accident at Sundernagar saw a car ramming a lamp-post killing the man at the wheel on the spot. The collision was so loud that local residents living near Maa Tara Sweet House rushed out to see what had happened. There were two others in the car, who were extricated from the mangled vehicle and sent to MGM Medical College Hospital for treatment. Police said they had serious injuries. OC of Sundernagar Jagdish Prasad said the youth who died had been identified as Dilip Singh (26), a resident of Narwa Colony in Sundernagar. The two others are his friends. "From statements of local residents we have concluded that the deceased may have lost control while driving. The car was speeding," Prasad told The Telegraph Online. The second mishap occurred when a truck carrying iron rods hit a tree in the middle of the Station-Parsudih Road near the Golpahadi turning at Parsudih at 2.30 am. Although the truck was also speeding, no one was injured. But since the heavy vehicle had stopped in the middle of the road, traffic was stalled for hours. OC of Parsudih Ajay Kumar confirmed that no one was injured in the mishap. "The driver of the truck was either drunk or had missed the tree which is in the middle of the road. We are probing the matter,” he said. Notably, the presence of the tree in the middle of the Parsudih-Station Road makes the busy thoroughfare mishap-prone. Many commuters in cars and on two-wheelers have missed it on a number of occasions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Robbery at Dhanbad jewellery shop ||Armed assailants robbed jewellery worth over Rs 15 lakh from Jewar House in Dhanbad on Saturday. The owner Tripurari Barnwal and an employee were cleaning the shop in the morning after its opening when eight to ten assailants entered the shop, held the owner at gunpoint and robbed it. Before fleeing, the criminals took the CCTV footage tapes too. SSP, Asim Vikrant Minz said, "it is too early to say who were involved but some local criminals may be involved in the incident and we are in process of identifying those involved in the incident." A 17-year-old intermediate student of S.B. Patel inter college committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her room in Hazaribagh on Saturday. The body was sent for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Police officials did not find any suicide note. Dhanbad Camera Club on Saturday conducted a webinar as part its fortnightly series during which legendary photographer from Ireland Brian Hopper presented his award winning photographs. Mukesh Srivastava, president of the club, interacted with Hopper and put forth a set of questionnaire. Mukesh said that the aim of organising the webinar is to make people aware about the nuances of photography. Over 100 photographers of Dhanbad and other parts of the country took part in webinar. Dhanbad faculty members of Art of Living, including Sonali Singh and Mayank Singh on Saturday conducted an online interactive session with Class IX and X students of De Nobili School, Sindri on dealing with Stress, how to set goals in life and work towards achieving them. The members asked the students to never get upset over failures as failures provide opportunities to learn. The disagreement between Bokaro BJP leader Biranchi Narayan and state education minister Jagarnath Mahto over delay in commencement of Phudnidih Power Sub-Station operations intensified on Saturday. JMM leaders of the district unit organised a press conference and  termed Narayan a ‘liar’ and also targeted BJP, MP of Dhanbad, P.N.Singh by calling him the most “helpless” leader. Mahto has ordered the electricity department to ensure the power sub-station is functional in the next 15. He stated that Hemant Soren had announced a sum of Rs 2 crores to DVC as security deposit to start Phudnidih power station. Narayan on Friday said, “If he manages to start the Phudnidih power sub-station within 15 days I will take retirement from politics.” Narayan said it was under the BJP government that four power sub-stations have been installed, but not yet started by the JMM government. An unemployed 24-year-old killed his father when he refused to give him money to start his own business on Saturday in Koderma. Rajkumar Singh, 46, was working as a private driver in Delhi. He had returned home 15 days back to meet his family. His son, Bablu Kumar Singh was pressuring him to give him a sum of Rs 2 lakh. A verbal altercation between the duo led to Bablu hitting his father with a wooden log on his head. Rajkumar died on the spot. Markachcho police have arrested Bablu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand tribute to Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar||Over 100 people reached Karmatar in Jharkhand’s Jamtara district to pay tributes to Bengali polymath Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar on his 200th birth anniversary on Saturday, despite cancellation of a regular programme because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Some of us represent Vidyasagar Smriti Raksha Samiti (VSRS), while others are members of Bharat Gyan Bigyan Samiti (BGBS), who reached Jamtara from seven districts and brought out a motorcycle rally to reach here on the occasion,” VSRS member Madan Sarkar said from Karmatar. He said many of the people belong to the Santhal tribe, a community which Vidyasagar served during his stay in Karmatar. The participants held a programme to reminisce about the life and work of Vidyasagar  and paid tributes to him. “We had to cancel our main programme in Karmatar due to the pandemic but organised some online competitions for students and also a memorial lecture series beginning today (Saturday),” VSRS general secretary Sunirmal Das said from Patna. Born as Ishwar Chandra Bandyopadhyay on September 26, 1820, Vidyasagar was an author, educator and social reformer who laid the foundation of modern Bengali prose, authored many books including the Bengali primer Bornoporichoy and also campaigned vigorously for Hindu widow remarriage. He lived over 17 of his sunset years in Karmatar, now named Vidyasagar after him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
