28-09-2020||Jharkhand||NCLAT holds virtual hearing on Incab liquidation||The New Delhi-based National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) conducted a virtual hearing on Incab Industries Limited on Monday. During the 20-minute hearing a two-member bench comprising Justice Bansilal Bhatt, chairperson of NCLAT, and Justice J.K. Jain heard the appeal of the workers who had challenged the liquidation order of the company earlier passed by the Calcutta bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The appellate authority (NCLAT) asked advocates and counsels fighting the case on behalf of workers -- both from Jamshedpur and the company's head office in Calcutta _ to file notes on arguments which is a concise presentation of a claim on a problem. NCLAT fixed November 6 as the next date of hearing. In all 277 workers of the company from Jamshedpur led by Bhagwati Prasad Singh had appealed to the NCLAT on March 19 seeking rejection of the liquidation order passed by NCLT on February 7. The hearing was supposed to take place on March 24, but could not take place because of the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown. Later, on August 27 NCLAT conducted an online hearing and admitted the plea of the workers challenging the liquidation order. A similar plea challenging the liquidation order was also filed by Jayanta Banerjee, an official based at Incab's Calcutta head office. A Supreme Court lawyer, S.K. Mohanty and senior advocate Akhilesh Srivastava are fighting the case on behalf of the 277 workers in NCLAT. They  attended the virtual hearing. "The next hearing will take place on November 6. NCLAT would either uphold or set-aside the liquidation order passed by the Calcutta bench of NCLT," Mohanty told The Telegraph Online over phone from New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recovery rate of Ranchi district poorest in Jharkhand||Ranchi, the district with the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, also has the poorest Covid recovery rate among all 24 districts in the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) reveal. The capital district, as per figures with the health department, reported 17,985 Covid-19 cases by Monday afternoon, and 13,865 of these have patients recovered. Based on these numbers, the Covid recovery rate of Ranchi was 77.09 per cent on Monday against the state’s Covid recovery rate of 83.59 per cent. Ranchi also had the highest number of active cases of coronavirus infection among districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 4,016 people in the district were still battling the infection. Interestingly, East Singhbhum, the district with the second highest number of cases, had only 2,040 active cases, which was almost half of the figure in Ranchi. Jharkhand’s first Covid-19 case was reported from Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality on March 31. Since then, Ranchi has continued to report the lion’s share of Covid cases in the state. Ranchi has also reported 105 Covid casualties so far, which is the second highest among all districts in the state. Health experts are of the opinion that the virus could be spreading faster in Ranchi due to frequent visits by travelers from other states, and more people attending social gatherings in the urban clusters of the district. The Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi is the only operational airport in Jharkhand, and around a dozen flights land here every day. “We all know that the virus spreads faster in urban areas. It is primarily due to urban lifestyle and population density that people are at a higher risk of infection in cities,” said state coordinator of Indian Medical Association Dr Ajay Kumar Singh. East Singhbhum, the district with second highest cases of infection in Jharkhand, registered a Covid recovery rate of 82.94 per cent. Despite reporting 291 Covid casualties, the rate of recovery in this district was better than that in Ranchi. The district reported 13,643 cases so far and 11,316 recoveries. Among other densely populated districts, Dhanbad reported a Covid recovery rate of 83.21 per cent, while Bokaro registered a recovery rate of 85.01 per cent. Giridih district, which saw a little more than 3,000 cases, had a recovery rate of 91.87 per cent. Ramgarh, too, had a Covid recovery rate of above 91 per cent. The government did not release the district-wise rate of recovery in its bulletin. The figures were calculated on the basis of the total number of cases and recoveries provided by the government. As per latest figures with the government, as many as 79,909 Covid-19 cases had surfaced in Jharkhand until Monday afternoon. Of these, 66,797 had been cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Zomato joins JAWS to deliver food to strays of steel city||A food delivery start-up has tied up with Jharkhand Animal Welfare Society (JAWS) to ensure that steel city strays do not go hungry. The Food for Paws campaign will be shepherded by JAWS in collaboration with Zomato Feeding India, a leading online start-up that delivers food. As a part of its CSR activities, the India chapter of Zomato Feeding Foundation will henceforth channel leftovers for strays. The local unit of the outfit today provided 20kg raw food materials to JAWS. Another local outfit, Doggie Oye, which operates a pedigree store in Bistupur, also donated 20kg dog food. Later, members and volunteers joined the effort and distributed food across the steel city at Sakchi, Bistupur, Tatanagar Station area, Sonari and Kadma. JAWS members also appealed to residents to participate, volunteer and support the cause of animal welfare. "We have been taking care of homeless animals for over two decades now. We have limited resources and often have to choose between feeding stray animals or investing in their medical care. The partnership with Zomato Feeding India for the Food for Paws campaign will be of much help," said A.K. Jha, president of JAWS. As per rough estimates, he said, the steel city has over 5,000 stray animals that do not have access to food. "Through the campaign, our aim is to prioritise the health for these homeless strays," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||ICSE schools hold debate competition online||Students of various schools took to debating on Monday, the first time the annual inter-school competition organised by the Association of Schools for the Indian School Certificate (ASISC) was held online. Dayanand Public School hosted as many as 26 students from 13 CISCE schools who took part in the ASISC zonal level debate in the junior category. The topic was, “Honesty is a waste of time in the modern world”, and participants had to justify what they believed. Some argued that honesty was indeed a waste of time because playing smart was what was respected in the modern world. Others still wanted to hold on to the traditional belief of character building which, they felt, mattered in the long run while dishonesty was short lived. As schools were holding online classes because of the pandemic, no inter-school even was to be held. But ASISC decided to go ahead and organise the debating competition online. "Usually, we organise these events physically where there is a lot of interaction among students and judges. But though organising the event online was easy, it lacked the feel," said principal of Dayanand Public School Swarna Mishra. The judges were Khushwant Kaur, assistant professor of BEd at Jamshedpur Cooperative College and Dipika, head of mass communication and journalism at Netaji Subhash University. Convenor of ASISC, Jamshedpur chapter, Amy Billimoria said more online events would be organised and hosted by various schools. "May be students benefited today as far as content is concerned. Also, since they weren't speaking on stage it was easier for schools to host it online,” said Billimoria, who is also principal of Tarapore School, Agrico. A similar debating competition for senior students, from classes XI and XII, will be held on Tuesday. Billimoria said that an ASISC inter-school quiz and declamation competition would also be held online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto tests positive, being treated at RIMS||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and was taken to Rajendera Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) in Ranchi after doctors treating him felt his blood saturation level was a concern. According to the medical officer of the Nawadih community health centre, Dr Kameshwar Mahto, a district health department team reached Mahto’s residence at Bhandaridah at Chandrapura Block after he complained of breathing problems accompanied by bouts of coughing and vomiting. “A rapid antigen test revealed he was Covid positive after which it was decided to shift him to RIMS for better treatment,” said civil surgeon Dr A.K Pathak. Dr Kameshwar Mahto said they found the minister’s sugar and BP levels to be normal. “But his saturation level had decreased because of which he was immediately shifted to RIMS," said the medical officer. The minister was taken to Ranchi in a government 108 ambulance, he added. Soon after testing positive, minister Jagarnath Mahto sent out a tweet from his official twitter handle. “Dear friends, my report came positive in the corona test, for which I am admitted to RIMS. Those who have come in contact with me in the past few days, this is my appeal that you all should go for the corona test”. In another tweet, he said, “friends, I have been feeling a little sick for the last few days and going to RIMS for treatment due to which all my programmes remain cancelled”. The district health department has started contact tracing to identify people who may have met or been with the minister in the past few days. The authorities have also asked members of the JMM district unit to undergo Covid-19 tests immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||JFC players to stay and train near Panjim during ISL  ||Sources in the team management said the Tata Steel-owned club will be accommodated at a Taj facility and will train at a  ground located in Sangolda village in Bardez sub-district in North Goa, some 9 km from Panjim. A two-member team from JFC is in Goa for a recce of facilities with special focus on a training ground. “It’s raining heavily in Goa and the Sangolda ground needs to be prepared for training. However, that process has been hampered due to showers,” a source revealed. According to him, unlike Jamshedpur where Princess 77, a Bermuda grass variant, has been sown at  JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur and the Flatlet greens in Kadma, the grass at Sangolda is not of very high quality. Moreover, the ground  in Goa is soil-based vis-à-vis sand-based in the steel city. We will have to go through the functioning of the drainage system,” he added. Imported ryegrass has also been sown to cover the barren patches at the JRD Tata Sports Complex. The ground in Sangolda will be decked up by Dehradun-based L.R. Brothers that also prepared the greens in Jamshedpur . The ISL management has roped in the agency for ground preparation at various match venues, including Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim and Tilak Nagar Stadium in Vasco da Gama. “You cannot compare the facility in Jamshedpur with the one in Sangolda. We have been training on feather-soft greens which is not available in Sangolda. But we have to make adjustments,” another JFC team management member said. The JFC contingent, which will be assembling in Goa in a day or two, will go into quarantine for two weeks. Players and the support staff will also undergo Covid-19 tests five times. Only negative players and support staff will be allowed to travel to the training venue. “Some of the players will reach Goa in a day or two but the entire squad, including head coach Owen Coyle, will drop anchor by October 5. The players will start training after the quarantine period and Covid tests are over,” a team management member informed. The team will stay in a secure bio-bubble throughout its stay in Panjim for ISL. “It ‘s a difficult situation and we have to be very cautious and cannot take unnecessary risks. We need to follow the prescribed protocols,” he added. JFC CEO Mukul Choudhari said the team was in high spirits and would perform well in the tournament. “We have formed a strong unit which is expected to deliver expected results. We are hoping for the best,” he added. Jamshedpur has never qualified for the play-offs. It made its debut in ISL three seasons back . The outfit finished fifth under Spanish coach Antonio Iriando in the last season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Home Guard constables launch indefinite stir in Dhanbad||Over 100 candidates selected for the post of Home Guard constable in 2017 launched an indefinite protest at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters on Monday to demand immediate appointment. Palak Rai (23), who was among those who took part, said, “We applied as per the recruitment notice of 2017 for 1,038 candidates. As many as 735 were selected following a physical test, written examination and medical examination held in 2018. But two years have gone by and we are yet to join work.” Rai, whose mother is a cancer patient and father suffers from heart ailments, said it was impossible to continue any further without a job. “My elder brother is unemployed. I also lost my job as a salesman in a garment shop during the lockdown. Our family of four persons is dependent on the income of my mother, who despite suffering from cancer, is compelled to work as a house maid,” he said. Rai, a resident of Baramsia, said they had opened bank accounts on the instruction of the authorities, but the process of their appointment was still not over. “Even basic training, a prerequisite for appointment in the Home Guard, is yet to be conducted,” he rued. Chhamori Hembrom (29), a resident of Kenduatand village of Naxal affected Purbi Tundi block of Dhanbad, said she had joined the protest after leaving her six-month-old daughter at home. “My husband, Mirinlal Marandi, is a daily wager at a construction site. My family, including my mother-in-law and father-in-law, are dependent on the little but uncertain income of my husband. That has also been affected because of the lockdown due to slow pace of construction work,” she said. Marandi said they have been approaching the authorities, including the DGP, DIG, DG of Home Guard and even the chief minister, since 2018, but nothing had happened. “Some of the candidates later got selected for other services, like Border Security Force, but they opted for Home Guard in the hope of remaining in their home districts. Who knew that they would end up like this?” she said. Dolly Kumari, another candidate protesting at the site, said they were fed up. “The assurances of authorities are yielding no results. We have come here to seek a date for our joining,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Leopard death in Bokaro zoo||A 12-year-old leopard was found dead in its enclosure at Bokaro zoo on Sunday morning. The leopard’s death is the second in the zoo in the last four months. On June 3, the only lioness was also found dead in its enclosure. The zoo has been closed to visitors since March due to the Covid induced lockdown. Bokaro zoo also known as Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park is owned and maintained by Bokaro Steel Plant. The leopard, Akshay, was brought in from Tata Zoo, Jamshedpur in July 2014. “It seems leopard died of internal haemorrhage. However we will submit a post mortem report on Monday defining the cause thoroughly”, said Dr Mukesh Kumar Sinha of the animal husbandry department. Zoo in-charge, Dr. Gautam Chakraborty said, Akshay was perfectly healthy till Satursday. He had his normal diet. Akshay’s death has shocked everyone at the zoo. The Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad and Teertiay Sammelan Prastuti Committee, two splinter groups of Maoists have started putting up handwritten posters on the walls houses and on trees in Palamau. SP Sanjeev Kumar said police have removed a few of these posters. Sources said following police action, posters remained out of the sight on Sunday. Kumar said the posters harp on the death threats to police informers and asks government to abstain from making special economic zone. A man shot and killed his friend in Ramgarh district on Saturday. Mohammad Imtiyaz (35) and Mohammad Muzafar Khan (40) were close friends but their relationship turned sour with money related issues. Muzafar shot Imtiyaz in front of a tea stall and escaped. DSP Prakash Soy said a police team is on the lookout to arrest Muzafar. A woman in Dhanbad was conned into transferring Rs 53,000 from her bank account. In her FIR lodged at cyber thana, Rajni Agarwal said an unidentified person posing as a mobile service provider asked for her UPI number and transferred the money without her knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Illegal coal laden trucks caught by villagers in Maoist hotspot ||Police in Kothi village did not turn up when villagers caught five illegal coal laden trucks, Illegal coal mining is a source of revenue in the Maoist active area. The villagers tried in vain to inform local police and held up the trucks for seven hours when they had to finally let them go since their calls went unanswered by the police. The villagers are now scared of facing the wrath of the coal mafia, Maoists and police for their action. The incident occurred three days after deputy commissioner, Rajesh Singh ordered officials of police, forest and mining departments to ensure no illegal mining and transportation of minerals took place in Bokaro. The incident occurred within two kilometres of the Pek-Narayan police station. Superintendent of police (SP), Bokaro, Chandan Kumar Jha said, “Inquiry has been initiated. Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) has been asked to inquire and submit a report in this connection. Based on the report, suitable action will be taken. Action will also be taken against police personnel if found involved.” Nawadih block has a hilly terrain covered with dense forests. Illegal coal trade operations are allegedly run by Maoists. The coal mafias smuggle the coal to Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. These coal mafias also give levies to the banned CPI (Maoists). The villagers have lost their confidence in police and thus do not want to issue statement in fear of being identified by the police who are close to those involved in the illegal coal trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand rally on farm bills today||Some ministers and MLAs of the ruling UPA in Jharkhand will play the role of agitators when the Congress organises a protest march here on Monday. The party planned the march in the capital to protest against what it called “passing of three farm bills in violation of the parliamentary norms”. R.P.N. Singh, former Union minister and at present in charge of Jharkhand unit of the Congress, reached Ranchi on Sunday to lead the march. “They (the BJP) are trying to re-impose the zamindari system in the country that the Congress had abolished long ago,” Singh told reporters on his arrival at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport on Sunday, adding those three farm bills would destroy the farmers. “All have been asked to gather near the Gandhi statue at Morabadi grounds at 10.30am on Monday,” said Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
