29-09-2020||Jharkhand||New BSL boss puts stress on  health and safety, quality & cost reduction||Bokaro Steel Plant’s newly appointed director in charge Amarendu Prakash on Tuesday held a Facebook Live session to speak to the company’s 11,000 employees and officials, where he underscored the importance of focusing on three areas: health and safety, quality and cost reduction. Several residents, union leaders, politicians and others also watched Prakash speak during the session which was his first interaction as the director in charge of the company. “I need 100 per cent (focus on) health and safety, 100 per cent (effort put into) quality and 100 per cent (attention on) cost reduction,” said Prakash, underscoring the fact that he was relying on his experience of 24 years of working at the company while giving the advice. In a speech that lasted 40 minutes, he spoke about the problems he had faced on the floor, which may be similar to those being faced by current employees. “If each one of us, whether we are deployed in a plant or outside, makes a vow to ourselves that we will not compromise with quality and follow it sincerely, we will achieve the maximum output. This will also bring you appreciation,” said Prakash. He said that while it was important to focus on quality, health and safety should be prioritised. Prakash stressed that health and safety of the employees were important and he wanted everyone to achieve 100 per cent in the area. As an officer who worked for several years in the hot strip mill (HSM) of the plant, Prakash stressed on improving the quality of the product as the second important task. Last year, SAIL achieved the distinction of being the largest steel producer in the country, ahead of Tata Steel and JSW. But SAIL’s production was only 80 per cent of its capacity. “SAIL, which has a capacity to produce 20 MTPA crude steel, produced only 16 MTPA. What if it could have achieved 100 per cent production?” he asked. BSL has a production capacity of 4.8 MTPA, Prakash said. He pointed out that BSL’s production currently remains the same as it was 10 years ago. He asked employees to think about why despite investments, the company was failing to increase the production. Prakash added that cost reduction could be achieved by proper utilisation of resources and preventing wastage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Prolonged power cuts crippling Dhanbad industries||Industries in Dhanbad, already impacted by a sluggish economy that has taken a further downturn because of the lockdown, are facing yet another crippling blow: inadequate power supply. In Baliapur block, with 12 hard coke factories, over 50 stones crusher units and around half a dozen oil mills, there is no power for more than six hours a day. This has been happening for the last six months. President of Industries and Commerce Association B.N. Singh handed over a petition to Paritosh Kumar, the GM of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam’s (JBVNL) Dhanbad supply area, demanding his immediate intervention. Ratan Lal Agarwal, owner of two hard coke factories in Baliapur, said, “The 5 to 6 hours of electricity in a 24-hour day is no use for industries as it is supplied during the evening or night when our factories do not operate. Also, diesel consumption is so high with generators running all the time that we are finding it difficult to bear this cost in the time of such financial crisis.” Agarwal said they had complained to the local JBVNL authorities on several occasions. “They always cite a breakdown in the feeder or cable theft or wire snapping or transformer malfunction as reason. There has been no improvement is in last four months as promised,” he added. Singh has pointed out in his petition that production at industrial units had dropped significantly due to poor power supply. “Less than 30 per cent industries have resumed operation following relaxation in the norms, that too with less than 25 per cent efficiency. Now, if they continue to incur losses due to high diesel charges, none of the units will be able to sustain for long,” he said. JBVNL GM of Dhanbad supply area Paritosh Kumar claimed the overall power situation in Dhanbad was good and that he was unaware of any specific problem in Baliapur. “I will certainly look into it and try to resolve the matter at the earliest,” he said, adding that JBVNL was planning to integrate one more circuit with the newly established Kandra grid substation of Dhanbad to improve supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mega fortnight-long blood donation drive planned||A mega blood donation camp will be held across the state from October 1 to 15 with the aim of making Jharkhand self-sufficient in the availability of blood, Jharkhand Aids Control Society (JACS), an arm of the state health department, announced on Tuesday. Talking to reporters, JACS project director Rajiv Ranjan said the special drive would be held at blood banks across all districts following directives of the state government. The society has prepared a special annual calendar based on which blood donation camps will be held in all departments, organisations and institutions on a weekly and monthly basis round-the-year. “Jharkhand is now planning to become self-sufficient in the field of blood by equipping all blood banks to full capacity through voluntary donations. The maiden fortnight-long drive will begin from October 1. We appeal to all eligible donors to turn up in large numbers. We have set a collection target of 50,000 units,” he said. Ranjan said that from March 23 when the lockdown was clamped till September 23, they had collected about 97,612 units of blood through donations with the help of several organisations. “It has benefitted over a lakh people so far. We aim to keep all our blood banks full now,” he said. He said that eight new blood banks had become functional. “these blodd banks are in Godda, Jamtara, Seraikela-Khersawan, Ramgarh, Khunti, Jamshedpur Sadar, Ranchi Sadar and Bokaro. This apart, blood banks at RIMS in Ranchi, MGM in Jamshedpur and PMCH in Dhanbad have already been designated transfusion centres,” he informed. On the status of plasma donation, which Jharkhand introduced at the end of June in the fight against Covid-19, Ranjan said so far, 210 units of plasma had been collected. Of these, 200 units had been used for treating Covid-19 patients. “Many have recovered successfully,” he noted, adding that JACS had also introduced the “e-rakt” portal through which public can find availability of blood in the banks as per their requirement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Rapid test not enough to rule out infection in asymptomatic patients  ||Symptomatic Covid-19 patients testing negative in a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) will have to undergo Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) test in order to qualify as non-carrier of the virus, the state health department has mandated. Health officials said on Tuesday that directions have been given to civil surgeons of all 24 districts in Jharkhand to ensure that all symptomatic Covid patients undergo RT PCR tests before qualifying as Covid negative. Asymptomatic patients, however, may be treated as Covid negative if RAT test concludes the same, officials added. The decision of making RT PCR tests mandatory for symptomatic Covid-19 patients, officials said, was taken in accordance with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. “The decision has been taken in accordance with the ICMR guidelines. Researchers at ICMR may have found that RT PCR tests were more reliable than rapid tests in detecting whether an infected person has recovered or not,” said State National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravi Shankar Shukla. Rapid Antigen Tests are also conducted through nasal and throat swabs like RT PCR tests. However, the result of the test is out within an hour. Doctors say that RAT is a low sensitivity test compared to RT PCR, and may not be as accurate as the latter. The RT PCR test, on the other hand, takes around 48 hours, but the results are more accurate, doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said. However, patients testing Covid-19 positive in RAT test will not have to subsequently get tested through RT PCR in order to confirm that they were infected, health officials said. The health department on Monday capped the charges for RAT at Rs 550, and said that private laboratories found guilty of charging exorbitantly will be booked under relevant sections of the State Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Regulation, 2020. A person volunteering to undergo Covid test will have the option to get tested through RAT as well as RT PCR. The government in Jharkhand has been running extensive Covid testing drives through RAT across the state. Health officials said that positive results in RAT are as accurate as the lengthier RT PCR test, but the latter was more accurate in testing if a patient has recovered from the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||CII holds Green Conclave on virtual platform||Buoyed by the success of earlier editions, Confederation of Indian Industry's (CII) Jharkhand State Council organised the fourth edition of its annual flagship event, Green Conclave, on a virtual platform on Tuesday. The theme of the conclave, organised in association with UN Global Compact Network India and Citizens Foundation, was “realising sustainable development goals”. Over 150 delegates took part. The fourth Green Conclave deliberated on some important environment sustainability issues in India. The forum highlighted and tried to address some immediate gaps where policy intervention could help accelerate implementation of a circular economy, promote resource efficiency and help create a climate resilient Indian industry. Addressing the conclave, Sandeep Shrivastava, senior vice-president (Corporate Environment and Sustainability) Aditya Birla Group, pointed out that industrialisation is inevitable for the development of a nation. He affirmed that industry should focus on using the waste generated by itself as inputs for production. He said that waste management was not only essential from a public welfare perspective but could contribute to economic growth if the recycling industry was promoted alongside eco-industrial production. Sanjay Sabherwal, chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council, and managing director, Metaldyne Industries, said industry should see undertaking green initiatives as an opportunity rather than additional cost. "Green industrialisation offers huge opportunities for entrepreneurship development. Creating green industries that provide different types of environmental goods and services and contribute towards reducing negative environmental impacts is crucial at this juncture of globalisation," he explained. K.S. Venkatagiri, executive director, CII-Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre. said that CII was continuously working in the areas of environment sustainability. CII-Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre (CII-Godrej GBC) was established in 2004 to promote green practices and businesses. Among the other speakers were Ganesh Reddy, secretary-cum-chief executive officer, Citizens Foundation, and Kamal Singh, executive director, UN Global Compact Network India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Assembly bypolls in Dumka, Bermo on November 3||By-elections in Dumka and Bermo will be held on November 3, Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Tuesday. As per the schedule, an official gazette notification will be issued on October 9 and the last date for nominations will be October 17. The last date for withdrawal of names is October 19. Counting will be held on November 10. The Dumka Assembly seat fell vacant after chief minister Hemant Soren vacated it to retain Barhait. On the other hand, bypoll is necessary in Bermo because of the demise of sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May. For the ruling grand alliance of the JMM, Congress and RJD, the bypolls will also be litmus test of its popularity since the formation of the Hemant Soren-led government in January. On the other hand, Opposition BJP will go all out to queer the pitch of the alliance, hoping to corner it on the issue of job losses because of the pandemic. While the JMM will contest Dumka, considered a traditional bastion of the party, ally Congress will put up a candidate in Bermo. Currently, the ruling coalition has 47 MLAs in the 81-member Assembly with an effective strength of 79. JMM has 29 MLAs, Congress 17 and RJD 1. This apart, two former JVM-P MLAs—Bandhu Tirkey (Mandar) and Pradeep Yadav _ (Poriyahat) joined the Congress after the Assembly polls of December 2019, taking the total count of MLAs of the ruling dispensation to 49. The BJP on the other hand has 26 MLAs after Babulal Marandi merged his party with the saffron camp, while AJSU-P has two seats, taking the NDA’s count to 28. Both the camps are upbeat. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “We shall win Dumka with a record margin like we did in 2019, running on the government’s good work despite all-round challenges and non-cooperation from the Centre in timely issuance of funds to tackle Covid-19.” He said the JMM had already begun preparations, mobilising foot soldiers and finalising strategies to take on the Opposition. The Congress, too, has focussed all its energies in Bermo. Last month, state party president Rameshwar Oraon and other senior leaders undertook several field visits there. BJP will continue to bank on “Modi magic” in the upcoming bypolls. “In the last eight months, the Hemant Soren government has thrown the state into lawlessness because of lack of governance. There is all-round unemployment. Also, the state has failed to effectively handle Covid-19. We will approach voters with these issues. We will also talk about Narendra Modi’s historic achievements for all sections of society,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Special athletes mentored on mini javelin in Jamshedpur ||Intellectually-impaired athletes of the state on Tuesday took part in the maiden training session of mini-javelin throw at Joggers’ Park in Sonari, maintaining all social distancing norms. Training for this sport has been introduced in Jharkhand for the first time, though it is also underway in a few other affiliated states of Special Olympics Bharat. Avtar Singh, a former university champion in javelin throw and founder of Jeevika, a Jamshedpur-based organisation, has taken the onus to train the specials. “I have taken pains to procure plastic mini javelins as per prescribed weight and size. Each javelin weighs between 300 gram to 600 gram and length is between 27 inches to 44 inches. Hard rubbers have been inserted on the rear for making javelin travel like an arrow,” Singh, who is an NIS (National Institute of Sports, Patiala)-accredited coach said. The Jeevika students who underwent training included N. Sai Krishna, Pankaj Kumar, Ankit Mukherjee, Ashish Kumar and Ryan Francis. “It was a new and exciting experience for me,” said Krishna, who won two medals (in athletics) in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games held in Abu Dhabi last year. Singh had been to Washington in 2007-08 on his own expenses to gain knowledge under experts involved in introducing mini javelin among special athletes globally. “It was a learning experience for me as I picked up some vital lessons. I was very keen to train my wards in mini javelin. It has materialised now,” he added. He explained that since the event is new from the Special Olympics point of view, it would take time for his wards to get adjusted. “I had started the training process a week back by experimenting with wood used for floor hockey . The effort was just to make the wards have a feel about the upcoming training process. The actual training only started on Tuesday,” Singh, a resident of Sonari said. He also informed that the training will be conducted twice a week. “It would not be wise to put too much load on our students. Let the students enjoy the new event,” he added Thomas Alan Petranof of the US is the founder of throwing zone athletics and inventor of Turbojav. He represented the US in three Olympic Games and is among the top 5 javelin throwers in the world. He is currently working on grassroots track and field development in Los Angeles. The Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) is conducting training webinars on mini javelin across its state chapters, including Jharkhand. Ten candidates from the state were part of the online training held recently. The SOB will start onfield training once the Covid-related situation improves. Singh, who has produced 10 medal-winning special athletes in Special Olympics International competitions, said he was looking forward to adding more to the numbers. “I have the required experience in mini javelin training and am optimistic of preparing more medal-winning special athletes,” he added. The training programme was inaugurated by Sonari police station OC Renu Gupta in presence of State Disability Commission advisor Arun Singh .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jewellery store robbers nabbed in Palamau||A special investigation team (SIT) has cracked the robbery case that took place in a jeweller’s shop in Jharkhand's Palamau district on September 20. The Murari Jewellers was robbed by a gang of five criminals who stole 5 kilograms of silver, 100 grams of gold and cash. The daylight robbery had caused enormous embarrassment to the police as the town’s jewellers launched a silent agitation in the street demanding arrest and recovery of the stolen materials. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar set up a SIT led by the SDPO Sandip Kumar Gupta and his team of dedicated police officers namely Sunit Kumar, Arun Kr Mahatha and R K Ravi and set them with the task of nabbing the criminals as this robbery took place just days after Sanjeev Kumar’s joining here as SP. “It was a challenging case for us. The jeweller’s shop was open on September 20 and this robbery took place around 3 pm. The robbers decamped with silver and cash on two bikes.”  said Sandip Kumar Gupta. Gupta said the agitation by the town’s jewellers put the police in a great tight spot. He further informed that the case now stands cracked with the arrest of 4 robbers and recovery of one kilogram of silver, cash worth 2.87 lakh, the bike used in the robbery and cell phone. Kumar said the kingpin of this robbery, Ramesh Ram of Palamau’s Panki, is still at large but the other four accused, namely Anil Ram ( ( Garhwa), Monu Soni, Rajinder Soni ( Palamau) and Golu Soni ( Bihar), were arrested on Monday and remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday. He further added that the whole gang consists of 9 members . SP said they are still hunting for the remaining 5 members including the mastermind Ramesh Ram, who is underground at the moment but they hope that with the names being made public, the pressure to come to law will now be more on the criminals at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Agriculture university professor to address NITI Aayog on natural farming||Siddharth Jaiswal, the CEO of the business promotion development society (BPDS) at Birsa Agriculture University (BAU), has been invited for a national consultation meet of NITI Aayog on “Principles and Practices of Bhartiya Prakrishik Krishi Paddhati (Natural farming)” to be held on Wednesday through video conference, BAU announced on Tuesday. According to BAU, Jaiswal would present his views on the impact evaluation of natural farming and its potential at the technical session to be chaired by Prof Ramesh Chand, member (agriculture), NITI Aayog. Kailash Chowdhary, Union minister of state for agriculture & farmers welfare Dr Vallabhbhai Kathiria, chairman of Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog, Dr Rajiv Kumar, vice chairman of NITI Aayog, and Dr Rakesh Sarwal, additional secretary of NITI Aayog will be part of inaugural session of the two-day event. Jaiswal, who holds a master’s degree in science from Delhi University and is an MBA from IIM-Ahmedabad, has been engaged in promoting cow-based organic farming (Amrit Krishi) in Jharkhand, Bihar, MP, Gujarat for over a decade. Through BAU’s BPD Society, hundreds of farmers are practising Amrit Krishi in Ranchi, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, East Singhbhum and Khunti districts. “The society has developed natural farming based organic kitchen gardens in 10 Kasturba Gandhi residential girls schools in Ranchi and 10 government high schools in Dumka. Lohardaga district administration has sanctioned a project to BAU for developing such kitchen gardens in government high schools of the district,” said Jaiswal. With the objective of increasing the availability of organic farm produce to the general public, the society has also promoted several start-ups as marketing channels. Paddy produced using indigenous seed and amrit krishi techniques is being sold at Rs 40-50 per kg under the supervision of the BAU-BPD Society. According to Jaiswal, nutritional content in farm produce is decreasing day by day due to increasing application of chemical fertilisers and pesticides in soils. “Produce of natural farming not only contains higher nutritional content but also fetches higher prices in the market. Water is always a limiting factor for agriculture in the undulating topography of Jharkhand. Chemical based farming requires a higher amount of water while the trend is reversed in natural farming,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1,500 cases a day, state Covid tally crosses 80,000 ||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 80,000 mark on Monday after over 1500 people were found to be infected across the state, figures released by the health department stated. Despite the spike in cases, Ranchi’s recovery rate improved significantly on Monday after at least 696 patients recovered from the infection here against 286 fresh cases of infection. As per government data, Jharkhand reported 1806 recoveries on the day, and Ranchi accounted for nearly 40 per cent of the recoveries. The number of active cases, however, shot up in East Singhbhum, which reported 301 cases of infection on Monday against only 157 recoveries. After Monday’s findings, the number of active cases in Ranchi stood at 3,605. As many as 2,180 patients were battling the infection in East Singhbhum. There were 12,126 active cases of infection in Jharkhand by Monday night. Meanwhile, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum drew close to 300 on Monday after the district reported four of the nine Covid casualties occurring in Jharkhand. This district alone accounts for 295 of the 688 Covid fatalities reported in Jharkhand till now. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate, as per government figures, was 0.84 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent. The government in Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 21.63 lakh people and tested 21.53 lakh of them. On Monday, health workers tested swab samples of 82,743 people and 1508 of them came positive for Covid-19, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday night. As per government data, as many as 68,603 of the 81,417 people infected by Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand have recovered, taking the Covid recovery rate in the state to 84.26 per cent. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate is better than the national average of 82.60 per cent. Special Covid testing drive in Ranchi The Ranchi district administration conducted a special Covid testing drive at 25 locations across the district on Monday and collected swab samples of 3,381 people from the various locations. As many as 3306 of the samples were tested on Monday and 76 of them came positive. A majority of the samples were collected from rural areas such as Angada, Kanke, Bero and Namkum. Rs.550 for Rapid Antigen Test The state health department on Monday put a cap of Rs.550 on Rapid Antigen Tests conducted by private laboratories and diagnostic centres across Jharkhand for detecting Covid-19 infection. A notification from the health department on Monday stated that private labs found guilty of charging exorbitant price for RAT tests will be booked under the provisions of the State Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) regulation, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Inauguration of Dhanbad plasma therapy centre ||The Plasma therapy centre and component separator facility was inaugurated on Monday at Dhanbad’s PMCH by the Deputy Commissioner and Senior Superintendent of Police. Police constable Arun Kumar Sao was the first to donate plasma. DC Uma Shankar Singh said that the centre came up after a month-long hectic preparation, including procurement of necessary instruments, training of technicians and doctors besides obtaining license from  Central Drugs Standards Control Organization and also from  state drugs control directorate of Jharkhand. SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said that it was a matter of pride for the police department as the first person to donate plasma in the district was a Covid recovery police jawan. A delegation of traders led by the president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Monday met Senior Superintendent of Police, Aseem Vikrant Minz  requested him to solve the September 26 jewellery robbery case at the earliest . Jewellery worth over Rs 15 lakh was robbed by armed assailants during broad daylight. Minz said that Dhanbad police have taken the incident as a challenge and all efforts are on to arrest those behind the incident. Chairman of the Dhanbad district board has expressed concern at the functioning of the robbed jewellery store from the premises of a sealed market. Rajkamal Mansion owned by the district board was sealed two years ago according to a Supreme Court order. "Operating shop from a sealed market is illegal and also contempt of court and we have apprised the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh about the illegal operation of shop from the market," said Robin Gorai, chairman of the board. The final semester exams for undergraduate courses at Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University started from Monday at 33 centres across Dhanbad and Bokaro. More than 20,000 students appeared for their exams adhering to all the Covid norms including wearing masks and maintaining a six meter distance while writing. “Though the total duration of examination was of two hours instead of previous examinations of three hours duration but the questions required lengthy answers and thus the allotted time of two hours was not commensurate to answer them in the right perspective and thus we raised the issue with the Centre superintendent and later wrote a complaint to the controller of examination,” said one of the students at SSLNT Women’s College. The post graduate final semester exams are scheduled to begin from October 10 and will conclude along with the undergraduate examination on October 21. The exams for professional courses like B Ed, M Ed, MBBS and LLB commenced from September 25. The driver of a container truck was electrocuted to death by a live overhead wire on Monday. The truck containing almost 50 bikes also caught fire from the wire damaging most of the vehicles. The incident took place on GT road in Kesath. The identity of the driver is yet to be ascertained. The body was sent for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. A cyber criminal running a cyber gang in Ramgarh was arrested by police from Chatti Bazar main market. Ishaan Kumar Giri conned shopkeepers by buying products, conducting faulty app based transactions and making them believe that money was being credited to their bank accounts. Raids are being conducted to arrest other gang members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two robberies at residences of steel city businessmen||Two separate incidents of robbery at the residences of two businessmen at Sitaramdera and Kadma thana area took place on Monday afternoon. The first incident took place at the residence of Ashok Sharma, owner of Packers and Movers, a packaging-cum-transport company, at Line No 5 in Bhalubalsa under Sitaramdera thana at about 12.30 pm. According to members of Sharma’s family, two young men carrying haversacks came and introduced themselves as surveyors.  As his wife let them in, the duo entered and bolted the door.  Subsequently, one of them took out something which looked like a bomb and threatened them not to shout. Sharma's wife and children were forced into a room, while the men started searching for valuables and cash. In the meantime, the Sharmas’ domestic help arrived and pressed the doorbell. She found two strangers inside after the door was answered, and heard cries from inside. She immediately screamed for help. Following this, some neighbours rushed to the fifth floor where the Sharmas live, As they arrived, the men started to flee. One of them managed to escape, but the other was caught. He was handed over to the police and was taken under custody. The police seized a bag from the youth, who revealed his name as Sonu Kumar, a resident of Jehanabad district of Bihar. On searching the bag, the police found 10 bomb-like objects. "We are verifying the name and addresses of the criminals, including the one who is now under our custody.  We are also trying to detect whether the things that we recovered from the bag were bombs," Anjani Kumar, OC, Sitaramdera thana, told The Telegraph Online. In the other incident, four young men arrived at the house of BC Das on Swarna Path at Uliyan, under Kadma thana, at about 2 pm.  As his brother Manik Das runs a ration shop at Kadma market, one of the men said they wanted to buy rice. As Manik opened the door, the four barged into the house and took out a pistol each. They made the entire family go into a room on gunpoint and took the keys to their cupboard .  They gathered cash and gold ornaments worth over Rs five lakh and fled the scene. The family then informed police about the incident. Police have sealed all exit points of the city and are trying to nab the criminals. "Four armed men robbed a house at Uliyan in Kadma.  We are trying to follow through and are hopeful that the criminals will be nabbed soon," city SP Subhash Chandra Jat told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to relax norms for ration cards||The Jharkhand government is likely to modify the online application facility as the rural poor are finding it difficult to apply for new “green” ration cards for availing benefits under the public distribution system (PDS). “We met food secretary Arun Kumar Singh today and he assured to help,” economist Jean Dreze told The Telegraph on Monday afternoon. He said they would again have a detailed discussion with the food secretary on Wednesday. The state government recently announced expansion of PDS coverage by giving green cards to another 15 lakh eligible people from among those who would apply by September 30. But a delegation of the state unit of Right to Food campaign had met food minister Rameshwar Oraon on September 23 and requested him to activate the application link that had not been working till the previous day and also to extend the last date of application. The minister assured the delegation those would be done. “But when we were trying to help rural people in Latehar district fill the application form online, many of them could not provide enough information to ensure that the online facility accepted their applications,” Dreze said. He said they have written another letter to Oraon on behalf of the NREGA Sahayata Kendra, Manika (Latehar), requesting him to make the online application facility user-friendly. The system demands an applicant to furnish his/her Aadhaar, bank account and mobile numbers, Dreze said. Asked to specify the problems, he said they found many poor households did not have at least one of those numbers. “However, the food secretary assured these details would not be made mandatory anymore,” Dreze said. He said they were also given to understand that the last date for filing online applications would be extended. Besides extending the deadline, making the online system user-friendly and making Aadhaar, bank account and mobile numbers optional, they also requested Oraon to consider the cases of newly-married women for enrolling as beneficiaries. It may happen that such women were included as ration card-holders at their parents’ homes, they said. The delegation suggesting that the names of such women should be included at their in-laws’ places and deleted from cards at their paternal places. The delegation also urged to remove the cap of 15 lakh beneficiaries and to include all applicants who met the priority criteria. As Oraon suggested during their meeting on September 23, the proposed meeting with the food secretary on Wednesday is likely to discuss in details how to act upon their suggestions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Congress Ranchi rally against farm laws||Jharkhand Congress ministers and MLAs, along with about 500 members and supporters of the party, marched to Ranchi’s Raj Bhavan on Monday to lodge their protest against the recently passed three farm bills. Later, a delegation met governor Droupadi Murmu at Raj Bhavan and handed her over a letter expressing their grievances that was addressed to the President. They assembled near the Gandhi statue at Bapu Batika at Morabadi grounds where they garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi and held a meeting before beginning their march towards Raj Bhavan, about 2km away. “The Congress will continue to protest till the bills that were passed in the Parliament are withdrawn,” former Union minister and in-charge of the party’s state unit R. P. N. Singh told the gathering, adding those involved about 62 crore farmers of the country and contract farming would affect their interests as well as those of the consumers. “The Congress always supported the cause of the farmers,” said state’s food minister and party’s state unit president Rameshwar Oraon, reminding that Gandhiji had launch Champaran Satyagraha in support of the farmers in 1917. “The Union government ignored constitutional norms while passing the bills,” alleged state’s parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam , adding that was done without allowing discussions and division of votes. “The farmers are the country’s annadata (food providers) but the Union government has surrendered their interests in hands of capitalists,” health minister Banna Gupta told reporters before the march began, adding that it was an attack against the spirit of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||BJP cry against Lalu Prasad’s ‘guest’ status||The BJP has started sharpening its claws against Rashtriya Janata Dal chief and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, a convict in the fodder scam, for getting “state guest” stature in Jharkhand, with political attention riveted on the Assembly polls in the neighbouring state in October. BJP state spokesperson Pratul Shah Deo in a series of tweets on Monday criticised the Jharkhand government for according special privileges to Lalu, who is undergoing treatment under custody. “There is blatant violation of jail manual in the case of Lalu Yadav who is a convict in a case. Unfortunately, jail IG stated that RIMS director’s bungalow is not a part of jail whereas Ranchi High Court had ruled that treatment of Lalu Yadavji should be done in custody. The jail manual clearly states that any meeting with a convict undergoing treatment should be held in the presence of an official not below the rank of an assistant jailer and with the written permission of the jail superintendent. However, we have seen that people are meeting Lalu Yadavji without any permission. The jail manual further states that if there is violation of special privileges given to a convict then the facilities should be withdrawn. But it seems Jharkhand government has accorded him state guest status,” said Shah Deo. Significantly, Lalu was shifted from the paying ward of the Ranchi-based Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) to the institute director’s bungalow in August this year to protect him from exposure to Covid-19 infection after a few security guards posted at the paying wards tested positive for coronavirus. There have been reports of RJD leaders from Bihar trying to meet Lalu even at night to discuss political strategies for the Assembly polls. Jharkhand inspector-general of police (prison) Virendra Bhusan claimed that the jail manual does not apply to the RIMS director’s bungalow. “The RIMS director’s bungalow is not a part of the jail and the manual does not apply there. However, we are looking into the allegation labelled against Lalu Prasad,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand pact to protect migrant workers||The Jharkhand government has inked an agreement with a social enterprise having pan-India presence to ensure the rights of underprivileged workmen migrating to other states for employment are protected and monitored, in arguably the first of its kind step in the eastern region of the country. “We have inked an agreement with LabourNet Services India Private Limited on Thursday to weed out the role of middlemen in taking gullible workmen from remote areas of the state to be exploited at firms in big cities under poor conditions and to facilitate an institutionally effective coordination framework for livelihood and job creation ensuring the welfare of migrant workers as per labour laws,” said Jharkhand labour commissioner R.N. Yadav. Nearly 10 lakh migrants had returned to the state after May amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Yadav added: “It has been made mandatory that more than five workmen leaving the state for jobs in a particular company would have to get registered on the Shramadhan portal (www.shramadhan.jharkhand.gov.in). The workers can leave the state after getting either a green (under a firm or company registered as principal employer) or a red card (on their own) which they should carry with them as then only they would be entitled to get the benefits of state government schemes. The registration would be complete only after LabourNet Services is satisfied with the private company’s assurance of providing all facilities as per the Inter-state Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979, to the workers. The company would also have to register on the same portal as the principal employer.” Sources said that according to the memorandum of agreement, LabourNet Services, a social enterprise headquartered in Bangalore that enables sustainable livelihoods for men, women and youth in urban and rural areas, would look into all aspects of human resources on behalf of the labour department. “They would deal with the private companies both in the organised and unorganised sector to ensure that all facilities in wages, healthcare, accommodation for the workers and all precautions to be adopted in view of the Covid-19 crisis are implemented. It would also ensure that the workmen are provided security, cleanliness and drinking water facilities at the worksite and also provide the facility of Anganwadis for children of women workers during the working period. They would also help the government in arranging jobs for the workmen based on the skill mapping in other parts of the country and Jharkhand,” said Yadav. LabourNet is India’s leading social enterprise committed to enable sustainable livelihood for the disadvantaged population through its workforce transformation model, which uses government funds, CSR funds and corporate business revenues to bring multiple stakeholders together and create interventions related to education, employment and entrepreneurship. “The selection of workers as per skill category will be suitably assisted by the Responsible Migration Centre (RMC) led by Phia Foundation in partnership with Change Alliance Private Limited and Policy and Development Advisory Group for strategic guidance and support,” said Phia Foundation state manager Johnson Topno, who also supervises the state migrant control room set up to facilitate return of workers during the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
