30-09-2020||Jharkhand||High-level security review conducted at Palamau ahead of Bihar polls||The Union home ministry’s special security advisor, K. Vijay Kumar, the director-general of CRPF, A.P. Maheshwari, and other senior officers held a security review at Dagra picket on Wednesday in Palamau with top cops of state police. Commandant of 134 battalion of CRPF, Daltonganj, A.D. Sharma, who was one of the participants of the high-level meeting at Dagra picket, said: “The high-level security review led by Kumar, Maheshwari, special director-general of police, CRPF central zone, Calcutta, Kuldiep Singh and other senior officers was convened at Dagra following the declaration of poll schedules for the Assembly elections in Bihar.” Sharma said the team of senior officials of the CRPF reached Dagra in a helicopter. He added that the team had its first stop at Chakarbandha in Bihar, where the officers audited the security for the elections. Sources said the arrival of Kumar and Maheshwari and their security review at Chakarbandha in Bihar and Dagra in Jharkhand’s Palamau were significant because of the Maoist threat of violence during the elections. The sources said the officers highlighted the need for better coordination among the police forces of the two states and the CRPF battalions posted there, especially in the border areas. A senior police officer from Jharkhand, who declined to be named, said: “The focus is to prevent Maoists from crossing over to Bihar, and vice-versa, during the elections.” Palamau has three highly strategic forward security posts at Dagra, Kooh Kooh Kalan and Chak. Sharma said that apart from attending the security review, the senior officers also met the CRPF personnel posted at Dagra. The picket here is under the 134 battalion of the paramilitary force. Kumar, Maheshwari and the other officers had their meals with the jawans, Sharma said. The kin of martyred jawans were felicitated by Maheshwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Monsoon ends with 14% deficit in Jharkhand||The monsoon in Jharkhand ended in a deficit on Wednesday, but residents are happy that the state fared better than last year. Wednesday’s Met data showed Jharkhand’s rainfall to be 901.9mm against a normal of 1,054.7mm, a deficit of 14 per cent. In 2019, the four-month rainy season had ended with an 18 per cent deficit while in 2018 the figure was 28 per cent. In 2017, the monsoon had ended with a 10 per cent deficit. In 2016, the deficit was 2 per cent while in 2015 the deficit was 17 per cent. In 2014, the rain loss margin was 30 per cent. Meteorologists consider rain deficit up to 19 per cent to be normal. However, the monsoon is yet to bid adieu to Jharkhand. It is expected to exit around October 10, which is normal as well. But the calculation of rainfall during the monsoon is done from June to September. This year, the southwest monsoon had an early arrival. It entered two days in advance on June 13. The monsoon currents were strong, resulting in 2 per cent surplus rain in June. Although July and August ended in a deficit, the margin was within 19 per cent. The deputy director of IMD’s Ranchi meteorological centre, Abhishek Anand, said this year’s monsoon was up to the mark. “Rainfall during the four monsoon months was uniform and widespread. This helped in avoiding  a drought. Rainfall in regular intervals helped in irrigation and farming activities,” the deputy director said. Met statistics showed that Ramgarh topped the gainers’ list with 15 per cent excess rainfall. The district notched rainfall of 1,183.2mm against a normal of 1,027.8mm. The other districts with rain surplus included East Singhbhum, Dumka, Koderma, Latehar, Palamau and Sahibganj. Gumla topped the list of districts with a rain deficit. Against a normal of 1122.1mm, Gumla recorded rainfall of 564mm at the end of the four-month monsoon. The data revealed that capital Ranchi notched a 16 per cent deficit with rainfall of 906.7mm against a normal of 1,074.6mm. Wednesday’s satellite pictures suggested that the withdrawal line of the monsoon was passing through Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and northwest Madhya Pradesh. The Ranchi meteorological centre issued an alert of heavy rainfall at a few isolated pockets, especially in northeastern and central Jharkhand, this weekend due to the formation of a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Cattle shed, portion of a home cave in at Lodna Colliery area||The underground fire-affected Lodna area of BCCL experienced a subsidence early on Wednesday morning when a portion of a milkman’s house and cattle shed caved in. There was no loss of life although the subsidence, a familiar danger of the Jharia coal belt region, created panic among the over 1,000 families of Lodna Bazar and adjoining areas. A team of Bharat Coking Coal officials, led by Lodna Colliery project officer K.K. Singh, reached the site soon enough and collated details of the incident from the milkman and other local residents. They also suggested remedial measures, including soil stowing at the site, to prevent any further damage. Milkman Ramchandra Yadav said, “The incident took place at 4am when all of us woke up to the sound of a big bang. We found that the boundary of my house was damaged and the cowshed, situated about 10 feet away, had caved into the ground. " He said they have been living in the area for the last three decades. “Earlier, our house used to be on the portion that caved in. It was converted to a cow shed and we moved about 10 feet away from there,” he said, adding that fortunately there were no animals in the shed at the time of the accident. “We have lost some furniture and domestic articles. We have demanded compensation from BCCL,” Yadav added. Yadav’s neighbour Naushad Ansari said, “We are scared after the incident. The site is close to a government school. Lodna Bazar, which is a densely populated area, is also not too far from the cave-in site." Ansari said BCCL authorities should immediately initiate fire-fighting measures by dumping soil in the area to prevent any further subsidence. BCCL project officer Singh said they had launched efforts to dump soil in the area to try and prevent further subsidence. “The area has been declared dangerous several years ago and people have been served notices to vacate the area several times. We will also try to shift out residents in association with the authorities,” he said. Md Mukhtar, a resident of Lodna, said Wednesday’s cave-in brought to the fore the sheer helplessness of the local population. “If residents of the area shift out on their own, they will be denied compensation as per the Jharia master plan. Yet, there is no effort to shift us from such a dangerous place," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Virus causing skin disease infecting cattle in Palamau||A mysterious virus, which causes “lumpy skin disease” in bovine animals and can also be transmitted to humans, has been infecting cattle in Jharkhand, officials from the animal husbandry department said on Wednesday, raising concern over the spread of another virus without a vaccine. A few cases of lumpy skin disease were found in Palamau where the virus infected domesticated cows and buffalos, said animal husbandry director Nancy Sahay. The animal husbandry directorate subsequently issued an alert to all districts and asked authorities there to spread awareness about this viral infection. “All district officials have been asked to spread awareness among animal keepers about this disease and also ensure that it doesn’t lead to panic abandoning of animals,” said Sahay. “The only way to prevent the spread of this disease is to keep the infected animals in isolation, and not let other animals or humans come in direct contact with the infected bovine,” she added. Once an animal is infected, it develops lumps on the skin and loses appetite. Most of the infected animals also suffer from high fever and weakness. Although chances of fatality are low, the virus can adversely affect the reproductive system of the infected animal, and lead to health hazards for animal keepers, officials said. While the precautionary measures taken to prevent the spread of the lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) were similar to the ones taken against Covid-19 virus, the former was not as lethal as Covid-19, officials said. This virus primarily infected animals and very few cases of humans getting infected were reported, officials said. The virus is mostly transmitted through insect vector, but transmission through direct contact has also been reported in the past. Before entering Jharkhand, the virus seems to have infected several thousand cattle in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and some other states. The mortality rate, however, was quite low among the animals that were infected, officials said. The Director of Medha Dairy, Sudhir Kumar Singh, said the virus can infect an animal for two to five weeks. However, the virus can affect the milk productivity of an animal for several weeks even after recovery, he added. In Jharkhand, the animal husbandry department has started testing samples of animals suspected to be infected by the virus, officials said. Besides, the department is also running extensive social media campaigns to spread awareness about the disease among the masses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt to waive Rs 2,000 crore farm loans in first phase||Chief minister Hemant Soren has approved a draft proposal for farm loan waivers to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore in Jharkhand with state the agriculture department setting up a high-level committee to fine-tune rules so that implementation can begin at the earliest. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh announced the state government’s decision to the media on Wednesday at his office at Nepal House. “Funds to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore have been approved for the first phase. Between 2014 and 2019, about 8 lakh farmers have taken loans to the tune of around Rs 7,000 crore. Of this total liability, we will waive Rs 2,000 crore in the first phase this fiscal,” Patralekh said. “I have received the CM’s final nod on this a couple of days back after which we are setting up a high-powered committee to roll out the scheme,” the minister, a Congressman, said, reiterating the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government’s commitment towards farmers. About the quantum of waiver per farmer, he said the high-powered committee would finalise it and make an announcement soon. Departmental sources, however, claimed that the waiver could be in the range of Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 for small and medium farmers. Taking on the NDA government, the minister said that while Modi 2.0 was “tilted towards privatising” everything from farms to mines, the Jharkhand government would do all it could to protect the people. Criticising the new farm laws recently passed by Parliament, the agriculture minister said the “black laws” would break the backbone of the nation’s agriculture sector. “For us, farmers are our annadata and we shall do all that is required to save them. This farm loan waiver is one of our commitments towards them. We keep our commitment despite the ongoing pandemic and funds shortage,” the minister said, criticising the Centre for not providing fiscal assistance to Jharkhand despite numerous pleas. “Be it GST, mining dues, among others, we have not been given our share by the Centre despite several requests. The NDA government, however, is pumping money in Bihar only because they are interested in winning polls and not people welfare,” he said. Notably, chief minister Hemant Soren has also criticised the farm laws. A week back, he hinted that the state may not implement after exploring legal options to try and block them in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Entrepreneur builds machine to ‘generate’ water out of thin air||A local entrepreneur, whose water ATMs have been installed in various parts of Dhanbad, says he has developed an “atmospheric water generator” that works on the principle of condensation of humidity in air. Uday Thakur (49), who runs Jai Maa Enterprises, said he got the idea to try and develop such a machine after looking at water coming out of air-conditioners installed at a market. “The idea of developing the machine came in my mind around two years ago when I noticed the air-conditioners at Urmila Market of Dhanbad where my office is situated. I decided to execute the idea on a large scale and started work,” he said. Thakur, who holds a degree in rail transport management, explained that six months of lockdown provided the time he was looking for to execute his project. “The technology I have used is simple. It is about extracting water from humid ambient air by condensing water vapour and cooling it by passing it through a cool metal chamber. I have also used UV radiation-based filters to deactivate disease causing organisms,” he explained. Thakur said the water generated like that was 100 per cent pesticide free. “My machine is one of its kind in India in the way it uses the ozonation technique. Subsequently, I plan to develop a split unit that can be installed in air-conditioned environments or in places where there is a space constraint. “Water from my atmospheric water generator is of better quality. It is healthier than ground water and can prove to be very useful in areas where there is high arsenic or fluoride content,” Thakur explained. Thakur, whose water ATMS have also been installed at various locations of Sahebganj, said he was prompted to pursue his idea of a water generator after understanding the problems faced by residents of Gharbar Panchayat of Baliapur block of Dhanbad. High arsenic content in the water of the area had led to various health problems for residents. The innovator said that to build a 20,000-litre capacity atmospheric water generator, he would require Rs 20 lakh. “We need government support to execute the idea on a commercial scale,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||No mining by Centre or state in eco-sensitive zones, says SC  ||The Supreme Court has observed that if an area falls under an eco-sensitive zone then neither the Centre nor the state government will have the right to mine it. The remark was made on Wednesday by the top court which was hearing Jharkhand government's pleas challenging the Centre's decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining. The court said prima facie, the Union government was entitled to auction coal blocks in the state. However, it said that it may send some experts to find out if the areas in question are eco-sensitive or not. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde asked the Centre to file an affidavit within a week on whether the areas in question were eco-sensitive zones or not. During the hearing, the bench observed, “At the moment we are not dealing with whether the Centre or the Jharkhand government has the right to do mining. If the area is eco-sensitive then no one, either the Centre or the state government, has the right to mine.” It said, “We are not experts to decide whether the areas are eco-sensitive or not. What we will do is send some experts to say on this,” . At the outset, senior advocate F.S. Nariman, appearing for Jharkhand, said  auction of coal blocks can be postponed for a few months and the suit that  had been filed under Article 131 be decided. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, also appearing for the state government, said that the state had a large population of tribal people and 30 per cent of the area were eco-sensitive forests. “I am challenging the coal auction as it is against the public interest and not the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act (MMDR Act),” he said. The bench asked Singhvi how he could say that the MMDR Act would not apply in the state on the ground that it was a scheduled area. “Central government is prima facie entitled to auction the coal blocks,” the bench observed, and asked Singhvi under which law mining leases in eco-sensitive areas were disallowed. Singhvi said mining could be done in small areas far away from eco-sensitive zones. To this, the bench asked him to show evidence that the areas in questions were eco-sensitive zones. Nariman then referred to various areas, including Hazaribagh Wildlife Sanctuary, and termed them eco-sensitive zones. The bench then wanted to know what the state had been doing in these areas. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, said, “Just 14 days before a suit is filed, they had filed a writ petition asking us to roll back auction of coal mines in Jharkhand for six to nine months or unless until the global investment climate improves, so that Jharkhand maximizes returns on natural resources.” The bench said it was focussing on the status of the area. “Our experience shows that people want to exploit eco-sensitive zones and if the areas are eco-sensitive then we will not allow either (state or Centre) to mine,” it said, adding that as the courts may send some experts to ascertain whether they were eco-sensitive areas or not. Venugopal said that they weren’t eco-sensitive areas, and added that they proposed to file an affidavit in this regard. The bench then adjourned the hearing for two weeks and asked the Centre to file an affidavit within a week on the issue and permitted the state government to file a rejoinder thereafter. On July 14, the top court had issued notice to the Centre on Jharkhand government's pleas challenging its decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining. The state government alleged that the announcement was made by the Centre "unilaterally" without consulting it. Jharkhand has claimed that it is "highly inappropriate" for the Centre to conduct an auction at this time of COVID-19 pandemic as all the machinery of the state and the Centre are to be enjoined to "alleviate the problems of citizens" caused due to the deadly virus. "The defendant (Centre) has announced the impugned auction unilaterally without consultation with the plaintiff (Jharkhand). The plaintiff state is the owner of the mines and minerals situated within the territory of the plaintiff," said the suit. Referring to the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution, which deals with administration and control of Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes, it said that six of the nine coal blocks in Jharkhand - Chakla, Chitarpur, North Dhadu, Rajhara North, Seregarha and Urma Paharitola -- which have been put up for auction fall within the Fifth Schedule areas. It said out of the total population of 3,29,88,134 in Jharkhand, 1,60,10,448 reside in Scheduled Areas and the impugned action impinges the rights of the indigenous people of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Youths write to CM asking him to repeal two controversial laws||Tribal youths from the Kolhan region on Tuesday wrote to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren seeking repeal of two controversial laws — the Jharkhand Bovine Animal Prohibition of Slaughter Act, 2005, and the Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017. A delegation under the aegis of Adivasi Youngsters United, Kolhan, submitted a memorandum to Soren through West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Arava Rajkamal, seeking repeal of the two laws to prevent mob lynching and assault of tribal people allegedly by Right-wing groups in the name of cow slaughter and religious conversions. “We have recently seen how seven tribals were beaten and had their heads tonsured partially and forced to chant religious slogans by Right-wing groups in Simdega on the suspicion of cow slaughter. Between 2016 and 2020, at least 18 tribal people have been lynched over cow slaughter allegations in the state. We would like the tribal-friendly government led by Hemant Soren to think of repealing the two laws which have been misused by the Right-wing fanatics to disturb the communal fabric and taking law into their hands,” said Manijit Hasda, a final-year graduation student of Tata College, Chaibasa, who led the delegation. The Jharkhand Bovine Animal Prohibition of Slaughter Act, 2005, was strictly enforced by the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government in the state in 2017 prohibiting slaughter and sale of cows while the Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017, bars religious conversion by force or allurement making it a non-bailable offence with the provision of jail term of three years and Rs 50,000 fine for the guilty. “We would like the chief minister to direct the bureaucrats to take exemplary action against the accused in mob-lynching and assault of tribal people on the pretext of these rules so that such incidents do not recur. A strong law should be passed against lynching in the state,” said Hasda. According to the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a group of social organisations fighting for human rights, at least 29 Muslims and tribal people have been lynched or injured on the suspicion of cow slaughter, consumption of beef, stealing cattle or due to religious hatred between 2016 and 2020. Adequate compensation, judicial and police action are pending in several cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Concern over continuation of lynching ||The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a joint platform of several activists and organisations, is worried that the minorities and the tribals were being subjected to mob lynching and violence by pro-Hindutva groups even after the Hemant Soren government assumed power in the state. “Since 2016, in Jharkhand, at least 29 Muslims and Adivasi lynched/injured on suspicion of cow slaughter, consumption of beef/stealing cattle or due to religious hatred,” the Mahasabha said in the first of a series of tweets on Monday. “Sadly, the violence has continued even after the Hemant Soren government took charge,” it added, attaching a list of those victims. The list began with an incident in Latehar district on March 18, 2016 when two Muslims on way to sell their cattle were beaten and hanged and ended with another in Simdega district on 16th of this month (September 2020) when 7 tribal Christians were beaten, partially tonsured and allegedly forced to chant Jai Shri Ram, on the suspicion of slaughtering a cow. After one such incident in Khunti district in September 2019, there was a lull of about nine months up to July 2 when three tribals were beaten, again on suspicion of consuming or selling beef, in two different incidents in East Singhbhum and Dumka districts, followed by the Simdega incident on September 16. “It is really unfortunate that such pro-Hindutva forces are again raising their heads during the present regime,” Siraj Dutta of the Mahasabha told The Telegraph on Tuesday, adding that the government should take stern action against the offenders. “Adequate compensation, judicial and police action are pending in several cases. In many cases, the police was complicit in the violence or in protecting the perpetrators,” another Mahasabha tweet alleged, adding “growing communalisation and violence by Hindutva groups in the state is deeply worrying”. “(There is) Need for Hemant Soren government to ensure that the police and administration respect constitutional values and ensure strict action is taken against communal violence,” said yet another tweet by the Mahasabha, adding the government also need to check attempts of Hindutva groups to spread religious hatred in the state. They had met state’s director general of police M.V. Rao about a month ago, seeking strict action against such lynching/violence, the Mahasabha informed, expecting the police would act accordingly. Police sources, however, maintained that action was being taken against those who indulged in such violence. In the latest incidence at Bherikudar village in Simdega district, the police arrested 5 of the 9 accused so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Fadnavis visits Rajrappa temple||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who is in charge of the BJP’s Bihar unit, on Tuesday reached the Chhinamastika temple in Ramgarh’s Rajrappa, around 75km from Ranchi. Fadnavis said he was at the temple to pray for his party and ally Janata Dal (United)’s success in Bihar. As the temple has been closed since March, Fadnavis offered his prayers to the goddess outside the locked entrance gate of the sanctum sanctorum. Fadnavis later went to take the blessings of Boriya Baba. He stayed for more than an hour at the baba’s ashram. A BJP leader from Ramgarh, who was with Fadnavis, said this was a crucial time for the Maharashtra leader who is seeking success for his party in Bihar. He said both in Maharashtra and Bihar, Fadnavis’s prestige was at stake. The dead body of a 24-year-old married woman, Pinki Devi, was found lying in a pool of blood at her home at Haldi Patti in the Dhansar police station area of Dhanbad on Tuesday morning. Devi’s husband Devendra Kumar Verma, 30, and their two sons, aged six years and four years, are missing. The incident came to light when the woman’s landlord went to her house as her children had not turned up for tuition classes. Police have sent the dead body for post-mortem at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital and launched a search for the husband and children. The body of a missing youth was found hanging from a tree in Murramkala on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Deepak Kumar, 25, a resident of Kedla. He was staying at his maternal uncle’s home in Patratu Basti, Dipnagar, and had been missing for the past three days. The body has been sent for post-mortem. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Tuesday instructed the mukhias of 28 panchayats to submit the utility certificate with regard to the construction of toilets in all homes in their areas within a week, failing which FIRs would be lodged against them and their financial powers seized. Singh said that during a review on Tuesday by the state drinking water and sanitation department, officials from Ranchi expressed displeasure over the non-completion of toilet construction work. Prohibitory orders were imposed in Bermo in view of the upcoming Assembly bypoll on November 3. “The model code of conduct has become effective in the Bermo subdivision from Tuesday afternoon after the Election Commission of India’s announcement,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner, Bokaro. The code will be effective till the end of the election process. Campaigning within 100m of a polling station will be considered a violation of the code. The use of a sound amplifier will be prohibited from 10pm to 6am. Government-owned guest houses cannot be used for any political activities or meetings. The Bokaro administration is ensuring that Covid-19 norms are respected. Voting will be held in 468 polling booths. Polling agents aged above 55 years will not be deployed at the booths, while voters who have tested positive for the coronavirus can vote through postal ballot. In one polling booth, a maximum of 1,000 residents can vote. The Bermo seat became vacant following the death of MLA Rajender Prasad Singh on May 25. Twenty-four people were discharged from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Zonal Training Institute of the Railways at Bhuli on Tuesday after being tested for the coronavirus. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said those discharged have been provided health kits and instructed to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Excise department to destroy expired beer worth Rs 3 crore||Jharkhand Excise's Jamshedpur office will destroy beer bottles worth about Rs 3 crore in a few days. With liquor shops closed for about 45 days, and bars and clubs still shut, a large stock of beer have gone beyond their expiry date. "Beer has a maximum shelf life of six months. Due to lockdown, and subsequent restrictions on the operation of bars, a huge stock of beer has expired.  Such bottles were lying in licensed liquor shops and at the godown of Jharkhand State Beverage Corporation Ltd (JSBCL), along with bars and clubs.  We have ceased all those bottles by visiting these establishments and are in the process of getting the expiry stock destroyed soon," East Singhbhum district assistant commissioner, excise,  Arun Kumar Mishra told The Telegraph Online. Mishra has written to the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar for deputing a magistrate to monitor the work.  “Once the DC deputes a magistrate, we will identify a spot where all the bottles will be buried after being destroyed. The work of destroying and burying the bottles will be videographed in presence of the magistrate," he said. Mishra further informed that his department has collected over 17,000 cartons of expired beer bottles, costing a whopping Rs 3 crore. He said this exercise will not impact government revenue, but will definitely affect the companies concerned. According to sources in the excise department, there are 134 licensed liquor shops in the East Singhbhum, majority of which are in the steel city,  besides 40 beer bars and six clubs. Most of the stock collected from stores, bars and clubs are being stored at the JSBCL godown. A departmental officer has been deputed at the godown to ensure that expired beer is not supplied to any of the licensed shops. Liquor shops have become operational in the state since June 1, while bars and clubs are yet to reopen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
