04-01-2021||Ambala||Ambala: Six students, two teachers of govt school test positive for coronavirus||Six students and two teachers of a government senior secondary school at Ambala Cantonment tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Monday.They said the Health Department had collected samples of some teachers and 206 students of Classes 10 and 12 a few days ago.Six of the students and two teachers were found infected with the virus, they added. The principal of the school said they had adopted all precautionary measures to check the coronavirus spread. The temperature of the students is being checked through thermal screening and wearing a mask has been made compulsory for every student and teacher attending the school, he said. Government schools in Haryana were re-opened from December 21.Deputy DEO Sudhir Kalra said after getting the report of the Ambala Cantonment school, all schools in the district had been put on alert.He said they had already directed the schools to follow the guidelines issued by the Health Department. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-six-students-two-teachers-of-govt-school-test-positive-for-coronavirus-193647
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government to distribute 8.20 lakh tabs to students: Official||The Haryana government will distribute 8.20 lakh electronic tablets to students of state-run schools studying in class eight to 12 before the start of the next academic session, an official said here on Monday.These tablets would be preloaded with study material and textbooks so as to enhance learning of students and help them to study online, he said.In a meeting of the School Education Department, held to review the preparedness for the distribution of tablets and attended by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, it was decided that these tabs would be issued to the students on the pattern of library books and students would return those after the class 10 and 12 exams.The tablets would have QR coded NCERT content, Edusat videos, DIKSHA online content, YouTube videos prepared by teachers, question banks and preparation material for competitive exams like NEET, JEE, NDA and others, the official said.  All the content would be preloaded on an encrypted data card so that the students can study, give mock exams and solve previous year papers to prepare for the exams. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-to-distribute-8-20-lakh-tabs-to-students-official-193641
04-01-2021||  Chandigarh||CBI files chargesheet against 3 former TCP dept officials in Gurugram land release case||The CBI filed chargesheet against three former Haryana government officials and two firms on Monday before CBI Special Court in Panchkula in a Gurugram land release case The investigating agency has chargesheeted former Chief Town Planner Jagbir Singh Redhu; former Assistant Town Planner Satish Kumar Arora and former Deputy Superintendent Rajbir Singh of Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department and two firms, M/s Commander Realtors and M/s Bharma City Private Limited for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act.The officials have been accused of making back references to colonisers for rectifying deficiencies in their applications for licences without the approval of Director TCP Department.  The CBI FIR though had mentioned former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, ACS Power Trilok Chand Gupta and 13 firms as accused, but so far charges have not been pressed against them. The investigation is still going on in the case and more chargesheets could be filed.  According to the CBI FIR, in the name of creating land bank for Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), many of the pockets sandwitched between land on which licenses were applied, land falling under revenue rasta, nallah were proposed for acquisition in Gurugram.  The notification under section 4 of Land Acquisition Act was issued on June 2, 2009, for acquisition of 1,417.07 acre of land situated at sectors 58 to 63 and 65 to 67 of Gurugram as part of criminal conspiracy. It compelled the landowners to sell their land to colonisers at lower price than the price prevalent before the notification.  The notification under Section 6 of the Act, dated May 31, 2010, comprised only 850.10 acre of land. Finally, the award was issued for only 85.95 acre of land, on the ground that the notified land was not worth acquisition because these areas were scattered in 153 pockets and these were of the sizes of few marlas to few acres and utilisation of such pockets having irregular shape would be difficult.   The FIR adds that the acquisition was not done on one or the other pretext and release of land to the coloniser companies were wholly malafide, taken with a view to benefit private firms.  It has been alleged that there were number of deficiencies in the licence applications related to title of land, defective layout, absence of scrutiny fee, General Power of Attorneys, ante-dated collaboration agreements. Inspite of that, the files were processed expeditiously and licenses were granted. The land was released in Nangli Umarpur, Ghata, Tigra, Ulahwas, Kadarpur, Maidwas, Badshahpur and Bahrampur (Sectors 58 to 63 and 65 to 67) villages of Gurugram.  On November 1, 2017, the Supreme Court had directed the CBI to investigate the case.  The next date in the case is January 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-3-former-tcp-dept-officials-in-gurugram-land-release-case-193618
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Congress offers aid to kin of farmers who died during stir against agri laws||Haryana Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said the Congress Legislature Party would provide a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to families of farmers who have died during the agitation against the Centre's farm laws.Hooda said all Congress MLAs would make efforts to help the families.The former Haryana Chief Minister also demanded from the state government to provide financial help and government job to a member of the each family.He said it was the responsibility of the government to do so as people had lost their lives because of its stubborn attitude and insensitivity.“In such a situation, the government should come forward to help the affected families without delay. If the present government does not do this, then this work will be done whenever the next Congress government is formed,” said the Hooda.During the ongoing agitation at the borders of Delhi, many farmers have lost their lives. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-offers-aid-to-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-stir-against-agri-laws-193601
04-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||BKU trains women in driving tractors to lead January 26 farmers' procession||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 4The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) is imparting driving training to women hailing from villages, who will then lead the procession of tractor-trolleys carrying farmers to participate in the ‘tractor parade’ in Delhi on the Republic Day.The BKU’s local unit has roped in tractor drivers to train women in driving skills so that they can drive on the highways to reach Delhi on January 26.The union has planned to train 500 women as tractor drivers.“While many of these women already have tried their hands on the wheels, they need to sharpen their skills to drive the tractors on the highway and roads in Delhi during their procession,” said one of the trainers.Sankyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting unions, had announced on Sunday to march towards Delhi with a “tractor parade” on the Republic Day if the Centre fails to accept their demands.Ramraji Dhull, BKU leader from Jind district, said they had planned to take nearly 20,000 people from Jind district to Delhi to participate in the procession.“The women-driven tractors will be in the front row of the parade that will carry women activists,” he said.“Some women can drive a tractor in fields to perform farming activities such as ploughing. But they don’t have the exposure of driving on the roads. We have roped in drivers to impart training for these women so that they can drive to Delhi. They are doing a good job and are quick learners,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-trains-women-in-driving-tractors-to-lead-january-26-farmers-procession-193558
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal limits in Haryana, Punjab||Most parts of Haryana and Punjab recorded above-normal minimum temperatures on Monday, an official of the Meteorological Department here said.Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a low of 12.5 degrees Celsius, seven notches above normal, the official said.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2 degrees Celsius, Hisar 9.4 degrees Celsius and Karnal 10.5 degrees Celsius The mercury settled at 9.4 degrees Celsius in Narnaul, 12.6 degrees Celsius in Rohtak, 6.5 degrees Celsius in Bhiwani and 10.9 degrees Celsius in Sirsa.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius, 13.4 degrees Celsius and 12.5 degrees Celsius, respectively, up to eight degrees above normal.Pathankot recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius, Adampur 13.5 degrees Celsius, Halwara 14.2 degrees Celsius, Bathinda 5.6 degrees Celsius, Faridkot 11.5 degrees Celsius and Gurdaspur 6 degrees Celsius.Some places in Punjab received rains the previous day. Among them are Amritsar (2.2 mm), Ludhiana (1.7 mm), Pathankot (16 mm), Adampur (0.8 mm) and Gurdaspur (6.7 mm). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-limits-in-haryana-punjab-193518
04-01-2021||Rewari||Everester gets PhD degree||Popularising cloth bagsRewari: Under the ongoing ‘Selfie with cloth bag’ campaign, Nandini Yadav, a student of Class XII, with her cousin Harsh, organised an awareness programme at Civil Hospital in order to motivate the people for preserving the environment by shunning single-use plastic. Kosli MLA Laxman Singh Yadav called upon people to become part of this campaign for keeping the environment clean. “Under the campaign, we are encouraging people to use cloth bags and send their selfie with cloth bags to us. Top 100 selfie senders will be given a cloth bags as a prize,” said Nandini.Gardening 72-yr-old woman’s passionThe bloom of Vidya Pai’s terrace garden makes for a splendid view, with hundreds of chrysanthemums in sight. The 72-year-old Panchkula resident, who is the sole caretaker of the garden with over 250 plants, nurtures these with homemade compost and pure love. “I would go to the Terrace Garden every year to look at the mountain made of hundreds of chrysanthemum flower pots. I always wanted to have that so I made one on my roof,” she said, talking about her fondness for the flower. “I have several other plants — mili cactus, guava and lots of vegetables too,” she added. Pai holds an MSc degree in mathematics and she began flirting with gardening in 1986. “I started growing just a few plants, chrysanthemum being the first, back in 1986. Now, I have between 200 and 300 plants. I also make the compost myself,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/everester-gets-phd-degree-193454
04-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Eco-track inaugurated at NIT-Kurukshetra||CUH to set up research chairMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) has decided to set up Kamdhenu research chair to make the future generations scientifically aware of the use and importance of cows. “The role of cows has been important in Indian culture. So, there is an urgent need to educate the younger generation about the agricultural, health, social and environmental importance of indigenous cows. The chair will focus on the importance of cows for humanity,” said Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad.TCS picks 20 KU studentsKurukshetra: Twenty students of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Kurukshetra University, have been selected in the online placement drive organised by Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. The selected students have been offered the role of assistant system engineers. Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva and UIET Director Prof CC Tripathi congratulated the students.Y’nagar college gets new PrincipalYamunanagar: Dr Anu Kamra Atreja, head of the economics department of Guru Nanak Girls College, Santpura, took over as the college principal. Management committee president Mahant Karamjeet Singh, general secretary Manoranjan Singh Sawhney and college director Dr Varinder Gandhi honoured the new principal with a “saropa”.Virtual talent show at MLN collegeYamunanagar: The Department of Self Finance of MLN College here organised a virtual talent show. Dr Neeti Daryal, head of the department, said around 100 students from commerce and science participated in the online events such as mimicry, poetry, dancing and singing. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, appreciated the efforts of the staff members. In poetry competition, Mehak of BCom second year bagged the first position and Ayush of BCA third year stood second. In dance competition, Nandini of BCA third year stood first and Muskan of BSc (bio technology) third year bagged second position. In singing competition, Adarsh of BCom second year bagged first place and Usha of BSc (bio technology) third year stood second. In mimicry competition, Anmol of BBA third year got first position and Ishika of BSc (bio technology) third year bagged second place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eco-track-inaugurated-at-nit-kurukshetra-193451
04-01-2021||A decoity incident at the Narwana railway station on December 25 has raised doubts over the security at key places. Thieves entered a reserved bogey of an inter-city train running between Jaipur and Chandigarh at midnight and started snatching purses||Need to up security on trains||Govt’s promises still unfulfilledTHE much-hyped Kalka-Kalesar special tourism road, Panchkula-Jagadhri railway line, four-laning of Patiala-Yamunanagar-Paonta Sahib road via Kurukshetra, Karnal-Yamunanagar railway line and waterways tourism from Karnal to Yamunanagar in and along the Western Yamuna Canal continue to remain on papers. The government has failed to initiate any of these projects. Besides, the Prime Minister had promised to bring Kurukshetra on the world tourism map. But the city couldn’t get even its long-awaited ring road. Hope these projects see the light of day in the new year. Om Parkash Sagwal, KurukshetraMC should resume pending worksAt last, the MC has been constituted after a considerable gap. The new Mayor and councillors should now resume pending development works without wasting much time as the public has already suffered a lot in the absence of the civic body. Urgent works shall be done on priority. Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaThreat to personal data breachTHE Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, Panchkula, has circulated a KYC form, which is to be filled and submitted by clients at the executive/help desk. However, there is no provision to sign the form and authenticate it, especially when all important details, including Aadhaar number, and other relevant personal data is being sought. How come? This could lead to personal data breach. Vinayak G, PanchkulaDamage to infra not acceptableAMID the ongoing farmers’ protest over the farm laws, residents of Punjab have witnessed a new and ugly trend of agitation. Mobile towers and public properties are being damaged. The disruption of telecom services could lead to communication blackout, and students and working professionals will be the worst affected. Recently, a group of farmers reportedly dug up a helipad in Haryana, and many similar incidents have been reported at difference places. If the farmers’ agitation is peaceful, then people have the right to know who these anti-social elements are. Causing harm to infrastructure and public property is not acceptable. We should not forget our duties towards the nation. The Punjab Police should also ensure the safety and security of people and maintain law and order. Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaFarmers must consider govt proposalsWITH the Centre agreeing to two of the four demands raised by farmer unions, we hope that the stalemate over the three farm laws will come to an end soon. The nation has already been facing several challenges such as the Covid outbreak and terrorism, and now the new strain from England is posing threat. As responsible citizens, we shall face the challenges together. There is always a middle path when such issues arise. If the government has agreed to two of the four demands, then farmers should also accept its proposals during the next round of talks on January 4. Let us hope that the remaining points also find common ground amid the stalemate and we shall move ahead and concentrate on other issues. Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-up-security-on-trains-193450
04-01-2021||---||2  die, 218 new Covid cases||Chandigarh, January 3The state on Sunday reported 218 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally of the infected persons to 2,63,068. As many as two more persons succumbed to the infection. The death toll now stands at 2,917.Gurugram reported the highest number of 63 cases, followed by Faridabad (27) Panchkula (19) and Ambala (14). Faridabad and Kurukshetra reported one death each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-218-new-covid-cases-193449
04-01-2021||Karnal||6 hurt as SUV rams into parked truck||Six persons were injured when their SUV rammed into a stationary truck near Nirmal Kutia on Sunday.The injured were identified as Hitesh of Delhi, Shehanshah Aalam and Sameer of Shri Ram Colony, and Anamika, Mahi and Riya of Indira Vihar Colony in Delhi. They were on their way to Delhi from Mussoorie when the accident took place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-hurt-as-suv-rams-into-parked-truck-193448
04-01-2021||Karnal||‘Child marriage’ stopped, girl  being counselled||A team of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on Sunday stopped the marriage between a “minor girl” and a 21-year-old youth at Nadana village here last evening.The team had got information that a girl was “bought” from Punjab for marriage. However, the facts are being investigated.“When we inquired about the girl’s age, those present there could not produce any satisfactory document. Therefore, the marriage was stopped,” said Umesh Chanana, chairman, CWC.He said there were two Aadhaar cards of the girl. In one, her age was mentioned as 18-year-old while the other showed her age as 12-year-old. “Currently, we are counselling the girl, and any decision will be taken thereafter,” the chairman added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/child-marriage-stopped-girl-being-counselled-193447
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||105 most-wanted criminals held in 2020, says DGP||The Special Task Force (STF) of Haryana Police, set up to deal with organised crimes, has performed well by apprehending 105 most-wanted criminals, 22 other offenders involved in heinous crime with rewards on their heads, and seized huge quantity of illicit arms and narcotics during the year 2020. Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava sais this here today. He said the STF had staged a massive crackdown on criminal elements and organised gangs. The 22 arrested offenders carried rewards ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 2.5 lakh on their heads. He congratulated STF chief Amitabh Singh Dhillon, DIG STF Sateesh Balan and their entire team for their performance. Sharing the names of some notorious criminals, the DGP disclosed that this year STF staged a massive crackdown on organised gangs and arrested most-wanted criminals with rewards on their heads such as Raju Basodi, Rajesh Rakbar, Ashok alias Soki and Imran, Sohit Rancho, Manish Baba and Vicky Garg. The Haryana Police had declared a collective reward of more than Rs 10 lakh on their arrest. One of the arrested criminals — Raju Basodi — is an accused in over 30 cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and robbery etc. He was operating his gang from Thailand, the police chief said. Due to continuous fear and pressure of the STF unit, most offenders and dreaded criminals opt to stay out of Haryana, he pointed out. The STF has also achieved big milestones while busting the network of drug peddlers in 2020. It has arrested 162 criminals after seizing a huge cache of narcotics from them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/105-most-wanted-criminals-held-in-2020-says-dgp-193308
04-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Separate observation home for girls on cards||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 3The observation home for girls, where accused juvenile girls are kept, will be run in a separate building soon as the district administration has finalised land for the project and sent a proposal to the Department of Women and Child Development.Currently, the lone observation home for girls in the state is being run from Nari Niketan, which is also the only state-run shelter home in the state.Sharing space with Nari NiketanAt present, six juvenile girls are living in this observation home, while 40 inmates of Nari Niketan are living in the same building. The observation home is run under Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act.The decision of a separate building for juvenile girls has been taken after the visit of Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha to Nari Niketan recently, where he found that juvenile accused were sharing the place with the specially-abled and girls in need of protection, creating safety issues.He also submitted a safety audit report to the Deputy Commissioner. “I visited Nari Niketan and felt the need of a separate observation home for girls, for which I have submitted a safety audit report to the DC,” Sinha said.“A proposal in this regard has been sent to Amit Jha, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Department of Women and Child Development. Land has also been finalised near One Stop Centre. We hope that the proposal will be accepted soon. Thereafter, the tender process will be started,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.After the approval, a team of the department will visit the proposed land to finalise the map and other formalities, he said. “The observation home is a place of reformation for juvenile in conflict with the law. Therefore, steps will be taken to ensure that during their stay here, juveniles will be provided all basic amenities, including education and sports facilities, along with ensuring computer literacy or skill development projects so that they can be brought in the mainstream of society,” he added.Nari Niketan, spread over 25,735 sq ft, remained in news for several years as many inmates had already escaped from it, after which steps were taken by the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/separate-observation-home-for-girls-on-cards-193309
04-01-2021||---||Cold wave, fog good for wheat crop, say experts||Karnal, January 3The cold wave, accompanied by intense fog and drizzling, in the past couple of days across the state has brought cheer to farmers as the present weather conditions — as per the scientists of Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley (IIWBR) — are beneficial for the wheat crop.The scientists opine that it would increase the prospects of bumper wheat output in this rabi season if the conditions persist in the coming days also.Cold wave, fog and drizzling have jointly resulted in a dip in temperature which is favourable for the wheat crop, said Dr GP Singh, Director, IIWBR, adding that the rain has also saved one irrigation of the farmers.“The wheat crop is at tillering to jointing stage and if the same weather conditions prevail in coming days also, it will help in bumper production,” said the director.He said that the country has fixed a target of 107 MT this year, but they expect the country would produce 112 MT. “Last year, the country produced 107.6 MT against the target of 102 MT fixed by the government,” he said.The director further mentioned that the present weather conditions are good for all the wheat varieties particularly DBW-187, DBW-222, DBW-303 which have the quality of profuse tillering.The director also advised the spray of Lihocin .02 per cent and tebuconazole 0.01 per cent at 75-80 days after sowing of DBW 187, DBW-222 and DBW-303. He also told the farmers to monitor the fields regularly to check yellow rust.The wheat growers are also rejoicing in these weather conditions. “It has saved one irrigation,” said Yashbir Singh, a farmer of Uchani village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cold-wave-fog-good-for-wheat-crop-say-experts-193310
04-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Soldier killed in Pak shelling cremated; son to join Army||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 3Amid chants of “Jab tak suraj chand rahega, tab tak tera naam rahega’ and “Bharat Mata ki jai”, the mortal remains of Naib Subedar Ravinder Jakhar (40) were today consigned to flames with full military honours at his native Salhavaas village. He was killed in Pak shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district.People from all walks of life attended the last rites and paid homage to the departed soul. JJP leader Ajay Singh Chautala also attended the funeral. The pyre was lit by the martyr’s elder son Nitin Jakhar.Earlier, Ravinder’s body covered with the Tricolour was brought to the village in a procession of motorbikes and cars.“I am proud of my husband who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. I have two sons and I am ready to send them to the Army to serve the nation,” said Rajwanti.Ravinder was a third generation soldier. His father Meer Singh Jakhar and grandfather Sheo Chand Jakhar also served in the Army. His elder brother Jitendra Jakhar is Subedar and his son Nitin recently cleared the physical test and is looking forward to joining the Army.Ravinder had visited his home three months ago and went back to Rajouri a day before Diwali on November 13 after spending over a month in the village.“Ravinder was so passionate towards joining the Army that he started preparations for it soon after the completion of his Class XII exams. He joined the Army in 1998 and participated in the 1999 Kargil war. Our entire family has served the Army and we want our next generation, too, to follow in the footsteps,” said the martyr’s elder brother Jitender.“We have built a house in Ambala so that our children can get good education and crack the requisite exam for getting into the Army. Nitin was preparing for the medical exam – a prerequisite for joining the Army when the tragic news of his father’s death came on Friday evening,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soldier-killed-in-pak-shelling-cremated-son-to-join-army-193311
04-01-2021||---||Missing teen’s body found||Jhajjar, January 3 The police on Sunday recovered the decomposed body of a 17-year-old college student from Dighal village in the district. The body was kept at the mortuary for postmortem examination. The girl, a BSc first-year student, went missing under mysterious circumstances on December 29. She left for college that day, but did not return. Later, the family lodged a complaint with the police in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/missing-teens-body-found-193312
04-01-2021||Yamunanagar||Two held with stolen bikes||Two persons have been arrested and three motorcycles recovered from their possession here. The accused have been identified as Rohit of Vishwakarma Colony and Akash of Azad Nagar Colony. Chamkaur Singh, a police spokesman, said the accused were produced before a court yesterday and sent to judicial custody. He said CIA-I incharge Rakesh Kumar had received a tip-off that two persons, riding a stolen motorcycle, were on their way to UP from Badhi Majra village. Kumar formed a team who reached the spot and arrested the duo. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-with-stolen-bikes-193313
04-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Nod to Rs 96 lakh for Brahma Sarovar 'aarti sthal’||A budget of Rs 96 lakh will be spent on developing the ‘aarti sthal’ at Brahma Sarovar for which funds will be provided by the Union Ministry of Culture. As per the information available, an audio-video system, a big LED screen and fountains will be installed at Brahma Sarovar. Kurukshetra Development Board Honorary Secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “A daily ‘aarti’ is performed on the banks of Brahma Sarovar in the evening. To create an ambience and develop the ‘aarti sthal’, a project has been sanctioned by the Ministry of Culture. Under this project, a budget of Rs 96 lakh has been sanctioned in which a new sound system, LED screen (20x10 ft) and some musical fountains will be installed. There is also a plan to start morning ‘aarti’.” During the concluding ceremony of International Gita Mahotsav, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also announced an all-weather shed for the ‘aarti sthal’. Chhabra said, “As per the directions given by the CM, a shed will be erected for which a separate proposal will be prepared.” DC Sharandeep Kaur said, “A facility of daily live streaming of the evening ‘aarti’ has also been started for which two cameras have been installed at the ‘aarti sthal’.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-rs-96-lakh-for-brahma-sarovar-aarti-sthal-193314
04-01-2021||Parveen Arora---||4 months on, Karnal-Meerut road widening yet to pick up pace||Tribune News Service Karnal, January 3 Four months after the foundation stone for a project of widening of Karnal-Meerut road (a part of National Highway 709A) the work is going on at a snail’s pace. As per sources, only three to four per cent of work has been completed so far. Works which are supposed to be done by other departments, including laying of storm water lines and sewerage lines along with removing of electric poles, are also some of the reasons behind the slow pace of the project, said an official. The widening project is a long pending demand of the residents. On their demand, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had laid the foundation stone for widening of a 14.5-km long stretch up to Haryana-UP border from Tau Devi Lal Chowk on August 17 and the deadline of the project is February 2022. A six-lane road will be constructed from Tau Devi Lal Chowk to Karnal Sugar Mill, while a four-lane road will be constructed between Sugar Mill and UP border. Under the Rs 105-crore project, the six-lane road would be widened to 27.5 m and four-lane road would be widened to 20.5 m.  Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Wednesday reviewed the progress of the work and expressed anguish over the slow pace of the work. He directed the officials concerned to speed up the work. Besides, he fixed a strict deadline to complete the work on a portion of six-lane road by January 2021 end.  He also pulled up the officials for lack of coordination and hampering the progress of the project. “I visited the site recently and directed the officials to complete the work on both the sides up to Sugar Mill by January-end,” said Yadav, adding that he had also asked the Karnal Municipal Corporation to lay storm water pipelines and sewerage pipe lines at the earliest, so that the work of road would be started. “I have also asked the Power Corporation to remove the electric poles,” he added.  Yadav said under a change in the project, now a flyover at Nagla Chowk had been proposed that would reduce vehicular movement at Nagla Chowk, which is surrounded by around 20 villages. “I have asked the officials to send a proposal to the headquarters, so that the flyover can be made at Nagla Chowk, which will help in smooth traffic flow,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-months-on-karnal-meerut-road-widening-yet-to-pick-up-pace-193293
04-01-2021||---||Hisar, Faridabad, Bhiwani see max migration from private schools||Chandigarh, January 3 In an unusual reversal of the trend, enrolment in government schools, especially in classes VI, IX and XII, has increased amid the Covid outbreak. At least 1.46 lakh students of private schools have already shifted to government institutions across the state as most parents are finding it difficult to afford the fee amid the current crisis. There have been complaints that those who couldn’t pay the fee, private schools barred them from online classes.  “We don’t know the specific reasons for such a large scale of migration, but economic issue may be one of them,” said J Ganesan, Director, Secondary Education, Haryana. Hisar, Faridabad and Bhiwani have seen the maximum migration from private schools, and more boys have shifted than girls. According to the data shared by the Education Department, 35,598 Class XI students, including 23,114 boys,  migrated to government schools. Similarly, in Class IX, 14,658 students, including 9,302 boys, shifted to government institutions while the figure for Class VI stands at 14,248 students, including 8,072 boys. Overall, there is rise of 8 per cent in the enrolment of students in government institutions. The maximum students (13,227) have migrated in Hisar, followed by Faridabad (9,798) Bhiwani (9,589) and Jind (9,245).  The minimum shifting has taken place in Panchkula where only 2,688 students have opted for government schools. A total of 90,254 boys and 55,806 girls have come to government institutions from private ones.  “The department will now provide Wi-Fi-enabled tablets to all students from classes VIII to XII.  Student will have access to selected websites. At least 8 lakh students will be benefitted from it,” said Ganesan.   Earlier, the government had relied on TV channels for imparting education through DTH, but it was a one-sided communication and all students did not have smartphones with them. These tablets will have preloaded digital books, tests and video content.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-faridabad-bhiwani-see-max-migration-from-private-schools-193294
04-01-2021||Parveen Arora||DNA sequence of 50 indigenous cattle breeds decoded||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 3Scientists of the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR) have completed the decoding of DNA (genome) sequence of all 50 registered breeds of indigenous cattle in the country.The scientists took around two years for collection, sequencing and analysing 50TB (terabyte) DNA data of 860 animals of the registered breeds by using bio-informatics tolls. The say each cattle has a genome size of 2.78 GB (gigabyte).During this period, scientists Dr RK Vijh, Director, NBAGR, and nodal officer of the National Bovine Genome Centre (NBGC), a part of the NBAGR, Dr Upasana Sharma, Dr Prerna Kapoor and Dr Meenal Raheja identified as many as 40 million molecular markers that are helpful in the selection of good germplasm for the enhancement of milk yield.The project was launched in 2018 under the Rashtriya Gukul Mission of the Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries.As per the scientists, it is the first time when the indigenous cattle have been sequenced at such a massive scale as all breeds across the country have been included in the study.“We took four categories of the indigenous cattle in this project. Milch breed (Gir, Kankrej, Sahiwal, Hariana, Red Sindhi, Rathi), dual purpose breeds (Amrit Mahal of Karnataka and Ongole of Andhra Pradesh); draft breeds (Nagori of Rajasthan and Kenkatha of Maharashtra); hill cattle breed (Ladakh), smallest size cattle breed (Vechur of Kerala) and meat breeds (Thutho of Nagaland and Motu of Assam) were studied as part of this project,” said Dr Vijh.He said they studied the genome of each animal 20 times to determine its qualities. Dr Vijh said now they had a genome database that could be used for implementing genomic selection in India to enhance the productivity of indigenous cattle breeds. “It will help in determining the demography, past history, variability, and structuring of indigenous cattle,” he added. The scientists aim to design a high-density chip of molecular markers that would also help in the selection of elite germplasm of the indigenous cattle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dna-sequence-of-50-indigenous-cattle-breeds-decoded-193295
04-01-2021||---||Deepender seeks job for kin of farmers who lost lives||Kurukshetra, January 3 Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Sunday met the agitating farmers at Thana toll plaza in Kurukshetra and demanded financial assistance and jobs for the family members of the farmers who have lost their lives during the ongoing farmers’ movement. Hooda said, “The government has been insensitive towards the sacrifices being made by the farmers. It should leave the stubbornness and repeal the three farm laws with immediate effect. The farmers who have lost lives while protesting against the Central government’s laws should be given the status of martyrs, and their family members should be provided government jobs and financial help.” He said the farmers have been running the biggest movement of the country with solidarity. “Instead of accepting the demands of the farmers, the government is trying to suppress their voice. But the more the government suppresses this voice, the louder its echo will be heard,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deepender-seeks-job-for-kin-of-farmers-who-lost-lives-193298
04-01-2021||---||Accept demands, Sampat urges govt||Hisar, January 3 Former minister and BJP leader Sampat Singh has urged the Union Government to repeal the three farm laws and shed its rigid stand on the issue.  In a press note issued here on Sunday, Sampat Singh, who had joined the party before the Assembly elections, said as the government was committed to ensuring minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers, there should be no problem in bringing another legislation to give a guarantee of MSP of their produce.  “The government should take the demands of the farmers seriously as linking them with opposition parties amounts to their humiliation. We should not forget that farmers have worked hard to make the country self-dependent in foodgrain. They are braving the cold weather and staging a peaceful dharna at the Delhi border. No political party can launch such a disciplined and tough agitation,” he added. He said the farmers continued to work hard even during the Covid-induced lockdown and fed every hungry and needy person by holding langars. “Now, they are sacrificing their lives and are not bothered about the vagaries of weather. In such a situation, the government should accept their demands,” said the BJP leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accept-demands-sampat-urges-govt-193299
04-01-2021||Palwal||Farm laws will destroy agrarian economy: Selja||Claiming that the farm laws enacted by the BJP government were set to destroy the agrarian economy, HPCC chief Kumari Selja has demanded immediate withdrawal of the controversial laws. Addressing farmers at Antoha village here today, Selja said while more than 50 farmers had lost their lives in the ongoing agitation, the stubbornness of the Modi government not to resolve the matter was not only proving deadly but also threatening the very existence of the robust agrarian economy of the country on which more than 65 per cent of the population was dependent. “The BJP government has done something that will be written in black letters in the history,” she said, claiming that it had brought the progress of the country to a standstill. Accusing the government of trying to hand over the agriculture sector to capitalists, she said as this conspiracy stood exposed, farmers had been left with no option but to come out on the roads. “This struggle will not go in vain and the government will have to bow before the justified demands of farmers,” she claimed, adding that the Congress would continue to provide support to the agitation as it was non-political and aimed at benefiting the food growers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-laws-will-destroy-agrarian-economy-selja-193300
04-01-2021||---||Many dead, handle farm crisis sensitively: Hooda||Sonepat, January 3 Calling on the government to handle farmers’ issues with sensitivity, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said the situation was serious as three-four farmers had died in the past 24 hours. Addressing mediapersons in Sonepat, he said: “The suffering of farmers is a problem for the entire country as we eat what he grows.” He said the government should repeal the three agricultural laws without any further delay and take any decision in future only with the consent of farmers. “We wanted to discuss the issue of farmers in the Assembly and bring a no-confidence motion against the government, but the Governor is not using his constitutional powers to call a special session of the Assembly and even refused to meet opposition MLAs,” Hooda said. “We will once again appeal to the Governor to meet us and call a special session so that every farmer knows which MLA stands with them and who stands with the anti-farmer government,” he said. Taking a dig at the state government for unemployment, Hooda said the government had done grave injustice to 1,518 Group-D employees by taking away their jobs. “The government’s job is to provide employment, not to snatch it,” he added. The former Chief Minister said every section of society was upset with the present government. Thanking people for electing Congress candidates in the Sonepat Municipal Corporation elections, he said the newly elected Mayor Nikhil Madaan was young, active and would serve the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/many-dead-handle-farm-crisis-sensitively-hooda-193301
04-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||BJP meet in Hisar disrupted||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 3Intensifying their agitation against the three farm laws, residents of Balsamand village today staged a protest outside a local rest house where a meeting of BJP workers was under progress.The police deployed outside the rest house bailed out BJP activists as the protesters continued to raise anti-government slogans.Members of the local BJP unit met at the rest house to organise a “shivir” to hold discussions on the benefits of the farm laws. As the villagers received information about the meeting, they gathered outside the venue and demanded to attend the meeting. The police, however, barred their entry.Sandeep Dhiranwas, a young farm leader, said: “We will not let BJP workers hold any meeting in the region as the kisan organisations and khap panchayats have already made an announcement in this regard.”Meanwhile, in Jind, the dharna at the Khatkar toll plaza drew gathering from adjoining villages and women and retired army personnel also participated in the stir.Col DK Bhardwaj (retired) said farmers and soldiers were two sides of the same coin. “Jawans are the children of farmers. Now, when the government is ill-treating farmers, soldiers stand with them in this struggle,” he said, adding that as the government accepted some flaws in the Acts, it had no option but to withdraw those.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-meet-in-hisar-disrupted-193302
04-01-2021||Rohtak||MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu writes to farmer leaders on Sutlej flow||Balraj Kundu, Independent MLA from Meham, wrote to the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and farmer leaders from Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, suggesting inclusion of the issue of the Sutlej flowing towards Pakistan in the agenda of the meeting to be held with the Centre on Monday.“There is an urgent need to stop the Sutlej waters from flowing to Pakistan and to provide it to Haryana and Rajasthan so that farmers of these states can use the water for agriculture,” said Kundu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mla-from-meham-balraj-kundu-writes-to-farmer-leaders-on-sutlej-flow-193303
04-01-2021||Ambala||Protests in front of Reliance stores in Ambala||A group of farmers under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) held protests in front of Reliance stores at Inco chowk and Prem Nagar in Ambala City on Sunday evening and appealed to people not to purchase goods from Reliance stores. Following the protests, the employees closed their respective stores. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protests-in-front-of-reliance-stores-in-ambala-193304
04-01-2021||Faridabad||Govt job, aid for kin sought||Family members and local residents on Sunday demanded immediate financial help and a government job to the kin of Nikita Tomar, who was murdered on October 26 last year.During a meeting attended by around 200 persons, a resolution was adopted to submit a memorandum to the authorities, including the local MP, seeking swift action.“Though the family had been assured help by the local MP and MLA and Chief Minister soon after the murder, no financial help was given to the kin even after 70 days,” said Nikita’s maternal uncle Hakim Singh.Saying Nikita’s father had lost his job and no one else from the family was employed, he said they were facing a severe financial crisis.Nikita’s father Mool Chand said he had met local MP Krishan Pal Gurjar on Friday, but they were in the dark over progress made by the SIT in the 2018 abduction case, in which the family was allegedly pressurised to compromise.Had the culprits had been punished in that case, the murder could have been averted, he said. The police were yet to arrest the accused involved in that case despite the case having been reopened in November, he pointed out.Nikita (21), a final-year BCom student, had been murdered outside Aggarwal College when she resisted a kidnap attempt, leading to widespread protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-job-aid-for-kin-sought-193305
04-01-2021||Yamunanagar||One arrested for raping Yamunanagar woman||A man from Rajasthan allegedly raped a woman from a village in Yamunanagar district on the pretext of marrying her. The accused, Rakesh, also allegedly extorted Rs 1.35 lakh from the victim by threatening to upload her video on social media. On the complaint of the victim (26), a case was registered against Rakesh of Tara Nagar of Churu district (Rajasthan) under Sections 384 (extortion), 376 (2) (N) (commit rape repeatedly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at women police station, Yamunanagar, on December 29. Somwati, SHO, women police station, said that Rakesh was arrested from Pune on January 1. She said that the accused was produced before a court in Yamunanagar on Saturday which granted four-day police remand for recovery of money and further investigation. The complainant said that she married a man of Yamunanagar district in 2017. She said that she came in contact with Rakesh through Facebook in 2018. “Rakesh came to our house for the first time on November 10, 2019 and told me that he will marry me,” the complainant said. She said that she got divorce in April 2020. “After my divorce, Rakesh kept meeting me and assured me of marriage. He met me on November 14, 2020 and raped me several times,” alleged the victim. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-arrested-for-raping-yamunanagar-woman-193306
04-01-2021||---||2 held in honour killing case||Panipat, January 3 The police on Sunday arrested two accused on the charge of murdering a 25-year-old youth here on Friday night. The accused were identified as Vijay, brother of the deceased’s wife and a resident of Vijay Nagar, and his cousin Pawan of Jawa Colony. Neeraj of New Ramesh Nagar was stabbed to death here on Friday. The police suspected it to be a case of honour killing. The police booked Vijay and Pawan for murder. It was found during primary investigation that Neeraj had eloped with Vijay’s sister three years ago and they married in November.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-in-honour-killing-case-193307
04-01-2021||---||Protesters, police clash on Delhi-Jaipur highway||Rewari, January 3A clash erupted between farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway near Bhudla-Sangwari village and the police on Sunday when they reached Masani Barrage near Dharuhera.The police lobbed tear gas shells to stop the farmers. A tractor also caught fire during the clash. The protesters were adamant on going ahead while the police had blocked the service lane by placing canters. The farmers were trying to remove the blockade till the filing of this report.Sources said many farmers from the Tikri border today joined the camp of farmers at Bhudla-Sangwari village and decided to go ahead. In the evening, they removed the police barricades near their camp and moved ahead. Initially, the police resisted them but later allowed them to go. They were later stopped at Masani Barrage by using tear gas shells, sources said.Happy Singh, a farmer from Rajasthan, said the tractor-trailer caught fire due to tear gas shells. Some blankets and quilts also got burnt in the fire.“We wanted to go to Delhi peacefully but the police lobbed tear gas shells and used force on us,” said a protesting farmer.The sudden clash resulted in the blockade on the highway. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed causing great inconvenience to commuters who had to use alternative routes to reach their destinations.Meanwhile, ‘Chetna Yatra’, being taken out by the farmers belonging to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) reached the Shahjahanpur-Khera border in Rajasthan today evening. They spent Saturday night at Gangaicha Jat Toll Plaza near Rewari city in the open. Locals provided them food and tea. The yatra would return to Tikri on Monday.Kavita Arya, a farmer leader, said they accorded warm welcome to the ‘Chetna Yatra’ at the Shahjahanpur border and made special arrangements for food and stay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-police-clash-on-delhi-jaipur-highway-193297
04-01-2021||---||4 farmers die at Singhu, Tikri||Sonepat, January 3Two protesting farmers died reportedly due to cardiac arrest at Kundli border on Sunday. The condition of another farmer is serious and he has been referred to PGIMS Rohtak.The deceased have been identified as 52-year-old Kulbeer Singh of Gangana village in Gohana of Sonepat district and 45-year-old Shamsher Singh of Lidhra village of Sangrur district in Punjab.Kulbeer Singh was found dead in his tent near Parker Mall on Sunday morning. The farmers informed the Kundli police. They said that he was feeling restless on Saturday night and after taking dinner, they went to sleep. He was at the dharna site for the past five days.As Yudhishter Singh (35) of Gangana village heard about the death of Kulbeer Singh, he also got a heart attack at the dharna site. He has been admitted at the general hospital from where the doctors referred him to PGIMS Rohtak, but his family members admitted him in a private hospital.The police handed over Kulbeer Singh’s body to his kin after the post-mortem examination.Besides, the condition of Shamsher Singh of Lithra village of Sangrur deteriorated today. He was shifted to the general hospital where he died. Farmer Karam Singh said that Shamsher had come to the dharna site five days ago. He was feeling chest pain on Sunday.Enraged over the death of two protesters, farmers raised slogans against the government in the general hospital at Sonepat.Jhajjar: Two protesters, one from Punjab and another from Haryana, died at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border during the past 24 hours. The deceased have been identified as Jashanpreet Singh (18) from Bathinda and Jagveer Singh (66) of Ital Kalan village in Jind district.As per reports, Jashandeep was brought to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh on Saturday from where he was referred to PGIMS Rohtak due to his critical condition. He died during treatment at the PGIMS.Jagveer, who was participating in the ongoing farmers’ protest for the past some days, became unconscious in the morning. He was brought to Bahadurgarh Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead. The exact cause of death would be ascertained after the post-mortem examination, said a doctor.A total of 12 protesters have so far died at Tikri border. Of them, two died in accidents.Nine lives lost at Singhu border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-farmers-die-at-singhu-tikri-193323
04-01-2021||Impasse||Farmers step up pressure, to burn copies of 3 laws on Lohri||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 3Ahead of the seventh round of talks with the Centre on Monday, Punjab’s farm unions announced that they would burn copies of the three contentious farm laws on Lohri (January 13) and celebrate January 23 — Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary — as ‘Azad Kisan Diwas’.Representatives of the unions at a press conference here condemned the lathi-charge on farmers protesting against BJP leaders in Sangrur. Harmeet Singh Kadian said: “We will only focus on the repeal of farm laws and MSP during our meeting with the Centre on Monday.” In a statement, the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said the success of Monday’s talks would depend entirely on the repeal of three farm laws.Sonia Gandhi, CongressShun arrogance: Sonia GandhiOver 50 farmers have lost their lives. This is an arrogant govt. Leave alone people, it cannot even heal the suffering of the ‘annadatas’. Union leader Onkar Singh urged the Centre to discard obduracy and repeal the “black” laws. Jangveer Singh Chauhan observed that the protest had been peaceful for the past 37-38 days but some political leaders were trying to provoke the farmers. He also said they had sent a letter on sugarcane rates to the Punjab Government but had yet to receive a response. “We will decide whether or not to hold a tractor march on Republic Day after tomorrow’s meeting,” Kadian said. Farmers camping at Singhu and Tikri had a tough time owing to overnight rains. Waterproof tents were of little help. Meanwhile, farmers from Maharashtra on Sunday left Nagpur for Delhi to join the protesters.Haryana cops use force to halt marchThe Haryana Police on Sunday fired tear gas shells to thwart a march by a group of farmers proceeding towards Delhi at the Masani barrage in Rewari. The farmers, who broke barricades, had been camping at the service lane of Delhi-Jaipur highway for several days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-step-up-pressure-to-burn-copies-of-3-laws-on-lohri-193216
04-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||33 Judges short, Punjab & Haryana High Court pendency up 1L in a year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court reopens on Monday after a short winter break with pendency of over six lakh cases — up by more than a lakh since January 2020. Facing a shortage of 33 Judges, litigants may have to wait for decades for justice.As of now, the Allahabad High Court has the highest number of pending cases at 7.46 lakh, followed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The virus from Wuhan, that struck the world hard, also left the justice delivery mechanism afflicted. The early signs of slowing down came soon after the High Court went into restrictive functioning mode in March-end. But Covid’s effect on the already ailing system manifested itself with full force in January this year with a pendency of 6,37,188 cases against 5,28,340 last year.The National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency — indicates the pendency of 2,64,191 criminal cases, predominantly involving life and liberty. Otherwise, 96,503 (15.15 pc) of the pending cases are up to a year old; 2,31,637 (36.35 pc) have been pending between one and three years; 92,551 (14.53 pc) between 10 and 20 years and 10,519 (1.65 pc) have been awaiting adjudication for 20-30 years.The data, however, does not reflect the severity of ailment. The High Court is hearing over 1,200 cases daily through video-conferencing — a formidable task. Primarily, matters involving public interest or urgency are being taken up. Approximately, 58,981 cases were filed from March 24 to September 30. But 23,474 cases could be disposed of. The High Court is expected to witness an unmanageable flood of litigation once it reopens for normal “physical” operations.The situation is expected to further worsen because of the impending retirement of Judges. The High Court now has 52 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. No less than eight Judges are retiring this year. The collegium has recommended five advocates for elevation. But the process may take time because of the lengthy procedure.The oldest case, perhaps, is a regular second appeal filed 45 years back by Rachhpal Singh against Sohan Singh in a land matter pertaining to Gurdaspur area. The more than four decades of wait is not exceptional. One regular second appeal filed in 1978, followed by another in 1979 and “thousands” more subsequently are still pending.National Judicial Data Grid15.15% of pending cases up to a year old36.35% pending between one and 3 years14.53% pending between 10 and 20 years1.65% awaiting adjudication for 20-30 years||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/33-judges-short-punjab-haryana-high-court-pendency-up-1l-in-a-year-193263
04-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Police, farmers clash on Delhi-Jaipur highway||Tribune News ServiceRewari, January 3A clash between protesting farmers camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway near Bhudla-Sangwari village for the past three days and police was witnessed on Sunday when the former reached Masani barrage near Dharuhera town after covering 4 km from their previous halt.The police lobbed teargas shells to stop farmers. A tractor caught fire during the clash but the blaze was doused by farmers. The protesters were adamant on going ahead while the police had blocked the service lane. The farmers were trying to remove the blockade till the filing of this report.Read more: Will burn copies of new farm laws on Lohri: Farmer leadersSources said many farmers from the Tikri border today joined the camp of another group of farmers at Bhudla-Sangwari village and decided to go ahead. In the evening, they removed police barricades near their camp and moved ahead. The police resisted them initially, but let them go later. The protesters were, thereafter, stopped at Masani barrage as police used teargas shells, sources added.Happy Singh, a farmer from Rajasthan, told The Tribune that a tractor-trailer caught fire due to teargas shells. Some blankets and quilts also got burnt while some farmers who were sitting inside saved their life by jumping off the trailer. They also managed to take out an LPG cylinder, he claimed.“We wanted to go to Delhi peacefully, but the police lobbed teargas shells and used force on us to stop us from moving ahead,” said a protesting farmer, adding that they are vowed to go to Delhi and would do it come what may.Read also: 4 more protesting farmers die at Tikri border; count rises to over 50Heavy rain adds to woes of farmers protesting at Delhi bordersOn eve of talks with farmers, Tomar meets Rajnath to discuss govt strategy to end deadlockThe sudden clash resulted in the blockade at the highway. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed, causing inconvenience to commuters who had to use alternative routes to reach their respective destinations.Meanwhile, ‘Chetna Yatra’ being taken out by the farmers belonging to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) reached the Shahjahanpur-Khera border in Rajasthan in the evening. They spent Saturday night at Gangaicha Jat toll plaza near Rewari city in the open amid bone-chilling cold. Locals provided them food and tea. The yatra would return to Tikri on Monday.Kavita Arya, a farmer leader, said they welcomed the Chetna Yatra at the Shahjahanpur border and made special arrangements for food and stay for farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-farmers-clash-on-delhi-jaipur-highway-193159
04-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmer agitation to continue till rollback of farm laws: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait who reached the protest site in Gurugram on Sunday to support the ongoing farmers' stir in the national capital, while addressing the people at the protest site, said that the agitation will not end till the government rolls back the new agricultural laws.Tikait alleged that the new farm laws have been made for the benefit of capitalists. He said that till the demands of the farmers are not accepted, the farmers will stay in Delhi and keep protesting against these laws.He said that soon Rajasthan farmers will also reach the Delhi border. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Gurugram should help them in all possible ways, he said.President of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Chaudhary Santokh Singh, assured that all possible help will be given to all the farmers who come from Rajasthan.Bharatiya Kisan Union General Secretary, Yudhveer Singh, who was also present at the protest site, alleged that the government is misleading the farmers. He said that the government should abolish the three farm laws.In a joint statement, Santokh Singh said that despite the bitter cold, hundreds of workers from several workers' organisations have also been sitting on dharna in support of the demands of the farmers.He said their support to the farmers will continue till the rollback of the three farm laws.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-agitation-to-continue-till-rollback-of-farm-laws-tikait-193149
