16-01-2021||---||Covid vaccine inoculation: Delhi reports 52 adverse events, Haryana 13||New Delhi, January 16Although the Centre on Saturday confirmed there were no cases of post-vaccine hospitalisation reported across India on day one, some states reported adverse events which can be mild or serious.Also read:AIIMS security guard reports allergy post COVID vaccination, in hospital care Haryana reported 13 adverse events following immunisation. The state data did not clarify whether these were minor or serious.Delhi reported 52 adverse events following Immunisation of which 51 were minor and one serious.The Centre did not share pan India AEFI data but said there was no hospitalisation after vaccination today although mild side effects such as fever, headache, rash and allergies are normal as in other vaccines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-vaccine-inoculation-delhi-reports-52-adverse-events-haryana-13-199444
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC transfers Rohingya refugee boy from Amritsar to Nuh camp||A mother will be united with her son in a refugee camp at Nuh. Acting on a habeas petition filed by the mother, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the son’s transfer from Amritsar to Chandeni Rohingya Refugee Camp in Nuh tehsil of Mewat district “to enable him to stay with his mother”.The direction by Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill came on a petition against the Union of India and other respondents by the mother through counsel Bhanu Pratap Singh for directions to produce her son and to set him at liberty.During the course of arguments, her counsel, however, confined his submissions to the transfer of petitioner’s son from Amritsar, where he was presently detained in a center. Bhanu Partap Singh told the court that the petitioner’s son had allegedly entered India without proper documents and passport. He was stated to have been later registered as a refugee. His main contention was that both the petitioner and her son be kept at one place till they were deported, if they were to be detained.Appearing before the Bench, Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain said the Union Ministry of Home Affairs or Union of India had no objection in case the petitioner’s son was transferred from Amritsar to Chandeni Rohingya Refugee Camp provided the States of Punjab and Haryana did not have any objections.Responding to a court query, the law officers representing Punjab and Haryana stated both the States possibly could not have any objection to transfer the petitioner’s son to enable him to stay with his mother.“In view of the position, the present petition is accepted. Additional Director-General of Police (Prisons), Punjab, is directed to do the needful for arranging for the conveyance and for ensuring that the petitioner’s son is taken from Amritsar, where he is presently detained in a detention centre and consigned to Chandeni Rohingya Refugee Camp, Nuh tehsil,” Justice Gill concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-hc-transfers-rohingya-refugee-boy-from-amritsar-to-nuh-camp-199437
16-01-2021||Hisar||Paper leak: HSSC cancels Gram Sachiv examination; two more arrested in Hisar||Haryana Staff Selection Commission has announced it was nullifying the Gram Sachiv (panchayat secretary) examination that it had held last week---a development that comes days after authorities said they busted an examination racket.Some eight lakh candidates from the state are believed to have taken the exam on January 9 and 10 in two shifts---morning and evening.  The examination was held for 697 panchayat secretary posts.The commission did not cite any reason for its decision, but it comes days after authorities arrested several people who they claim were trying to digitally distribute answer keys to the exam.The development also comes on a day when a special investigation team attached to the Hisar Police arrested two more people in the case---taking the total number of suspects arrested to 18.Vikas Singh, a police spokesperson, identified the two latest suspects by their first names, Sandeep and Chandan. Singh claimed Sandeep clicked a photo of the question paper when he was deputed as an exam observer at the Saini High School. He sent the photo to Chandan, who enlisted another suspect, Jitender, to write down answers to the test. Singh said this answer key was then sent to another suspect, Rakesh, who allegedly took the examination in place of a candidate, Amit, at the exam centre, Campus School in Hisar’s HAU.   Rakesh, Amit, Jitender, and two other suspects, Naveen and Pravesh, have already been arrested in the case. The total number of people arrested in connection with the scam at the exam centre at HAU stands at seven.Rakesh, Amit, Jitender, Naveen, and Pravesh are currently in judicial custody.Besides, 11 people have been arrested in a similar scam at the exam centre at Sant Kabir School.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paper-leak-hssc-cancels-gram-sachiv-examination-two-more-arrested-in-hisar-199422
16-01-2021||Ravi S Singh||AAP in Haryana constitutes search committees||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 16AAP in Haryana has set in motion the process to identify its prospective candidates for the upcoming elections to Panchayats, Block Samitis and Zila Parishad in the state.“Search Committees have been constituted in each of the districts,” AAP Haryana incharge Sushil Gupta said on Saturday, adding that separate panels of names will be prepared for each districts.“The panels of names for selection of nominees will be submitted to Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal,” he added.The panels will be submitted to the party only after the announcement of election schedule, though. Although the schedule for the election has not been announced, the party expects the elections to be held by March.By being ahead of other political parties to roll the dice for the elections, AAP aims to be the proverbial early bird to garner benefits.Comparatively a fledgling party in Haryana, AAP is mindful that the electoral turf in the state is dotted with established players in the ruling BJP-JJP, Congress and INLD.The party is taking the coming local elections seriously and to test political waters in the state.Its performance would help the party’s central leadership to plan its strategy and prepare for next Assembly and Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-in-haryana-constitutes-search-committees-199375
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||Cold wave conditions prevailed in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, with Bathinda registering a minimum temperature of 4 degrees Celsius, officials said.Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala braved the chill at 6.5, 7.8 and 6.7 degrees Celsius, respectively, up to three degrees above normal.Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara Faridkot and Gurdaspur recorded minimum temperatures of 5, 6.8, 6.1, 6.6 and 9.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 5, 4.2 and 4.9 degrees Celsius, respectively, up two degrees below normal.       Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa registered their minimum temperatures at 5, 6.2, 6.6 and 5.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded its low at 5.8 degrees Celsius.A thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in Punjab and Haryana in the morning, causing inconvenience to commuters. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cold-wave-conditions-persist-in-punjab-haryana-199368
16-01-2021||Nitish Sharma||Overloaded vehicles fined Rs1.36 crore in Kurukshetra dist since November||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 15Tightening noose over the overloaded vehicles plying on the roads in the district, over 490 challans imposing fines of over Rs 1.36 crore have been issued in Kurukshetra since November last year.As per data procured, 165 challans imposing fines of over Rs 34 lakh were issued in November, 224 challans imposing fines of over Rs 65 lakh were issued in December, while 104 challans imposing fines of over Rs 37 lakh have been issued till January 11.A major cause of road accidentsOverloaded vehicles are a major cause of road accidents. Not only do they block the rear view for drivers but they also damage roads. Regular challans are being issued in Kurukshetra. — Sharandeep Kaur, Deputy CommissionerSecretary, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Kurukshetra, Urmil Sheokand said, “As many as 493 challans have been issued to drivers of overloaded vehicles imposing a fine of over Rs 1.36 crore since November last year. Overloaded vehicles also pose a serious threat to the lives of commuters, besides damaging the roads. It becomes a major cause of accidents during the foggy season. Regular inspections are being conducted by our teams and challans are being issued for overloading of vehicles. So far, all drivers are being issued warnings and challaned but if any driver is again caught with an overloaded vehicle, then we will write to the official concerned to suspend his licence and the registration certificate of the vehicle.”“Many a time, tippers and trucks carrying sand without proper documents are also caught and then the Mining Department is also informed to take further action. Overloaded vehicles enter Kurukshetra from the Teokar border in Pehowa, from Ambala side on the National Highway-44 and through Yamunanagar. Drivers even take village routes to avoid getting caught but our teams have kept a close watch on such routes too. Besides issuing challans, we are also installing reflectors on heavy vehicles,” she added.Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said, “Overloaded vehicles are a major cause of road accidents. Not only do they block the rear view for drivers but they also damage roads. Regular challans are being issued in Kurukshetra.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/overloaded-vehicles-fined-rs1-36-crore-in-kurukshetra-dist-since-november-199101
16-01-2021||---||Parents oppose demand of development fee by school in Rohtak||Rohtak, January 15Parents of schoolchildren studying at Model School, Rohtak, have opposed the school for levying development fee and other charges despite the school remained closed due to Covid-imposed lockdown.A number of parents assembled at the school located near Ambedkar Chowk to stage a protest here today. Later, a delegation of parents went to meet the Deputy Commissioner, who is also the ex-officio chairman of the school’s governing body.School had remained closedWe have been asked to pay development charges along with quarterly fee for the month of January. This is unjustified as the school had remained closed. — A parentConducting online classesPrincipal of the school Aruna Taneja said as per the latest orders of the state government issued in November, schools which were holding online classes and paying full salaries to teachers could charge the fees and other charges, except the transport fee.The parents maintained that they had been paying monthly tuition fees of their children in compliance with orders issued by the state government in April 2020, but they had now been asked to pay development charges along with quarterly fees, which was unjustified and beyond their capacity.“We have been told to pay development charges along with quarterly fees in January. This is unjustified as the school had remained closed”, said a parent. “Moreover, these charges will also be demanded along with admission fee and other charges on the commencement of new session in April,” he further said.They said the Deputy Commissioner had assured them that he would look into the matter and take appropriate action after getting it examined.Principal of the school Aruna Taneja asserted that as per the latest orders of the state government issued in November, the schools which were holding online classes and paying full salaries to the teachers could charge the fees and other charges, except the transport fee.“We have been conducting online classes as well as online, offline and on-camera exams, evaluation of notebooks and other academic activities. We have also been paying full salaries to the teachers. The parents should understand this. If some of them are facing any specific financial constraints owing to lockdown, they can approach the school authorities/management to get their concerns addressed,” she stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-oppose-demand-of-development-fee-by-school-in-rohtak-199103
16-01-2021||---||Bhajan aide Ramji Lal dead||Hisar, January 15 Ramji Lal, former Rajya Sabha MP and an aide of former Chief Minister Bhajan Lal, died in Hisar today. He was 90. He was cremated at his native Arya Nagar village.  Deputy Speaker in Haryana Assembly Ranbir Singh Gangwa and Congress MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi were among the prominent people who paid their last respects to the leader.   Ramji Lal was a two-time Rajya Sabha member from the Congress during the tenure of Bhajan Lal as the Chief Minister of the state.  Ramji Lal had been ailing for some time and breathed his last at his residence in the morning today.   He was elected to the Rajya Sabha in 1992. However, he resigned from the Rajya Sabha on the advice of the then Chief Minister Bhajan Lal and was assigned party work. A political observer informed that he was asked to resign to adjust a Union Cabinet minister whose Rajya Sabha term was set to expire soon. The then Prime Minister Narsimha Rao asked Bhajan Lal for a vacancy after which Ramji Lal resigned to create a vacancy in the Rajya Sabha. He was again nominated for the Rajya Sabha seat and was successfully elected two years later in 1994 and completed his term.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhajan-aide-ramji-lal-dead-199104
16-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Teenager held for killing live-in partner in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 15The police have nabbed a teenager hailing from West Bengal on the charge of murdering his live-in partner. He was on Friday produced in a local court, which sent him to judicial custody.The accused was identified as Mirajuddin alias Lalan (19). He had reportedly been in a live-in relationship with a 23-year-old woman for the past two months. Her body was found in her room on January 10. She married around nine years back and had three children. Around five months back, she returned to her paternal home after a fight with her husband.She shifted to Basai Enclave around two months ago and was working at a private hospital. “She was in a live-in relationship and her partner fled after strangulating her to death,” said brother of the deceased. After his arrest, the accused reportedly confessed to the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teenager-held-for-killing-live-in-partner-in-gurugram-199105
16-01-2021||---||Two  peddlers held, 30 kg opium seized||Karnal, January 15With the arrest of two persons, the Karnal police claimed to have busted an inter-state drug peddler gang. They also seized 30 kg opium worth Rs 40 lakh.The initial probe reveals that the accused used to bring drugs from Guwahati in Assam at cheaper rates and supply it in other states at higher prices, said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police (SP).A sum of Rs 8 lakh has also been seized from their truck, the SP added.He said that a team of the special task force, during checking near Andhera village, intercepted a truck. After a thorough search, the police seized 30.340 kg opium which was hidden in the cabin.The accused have been identified as Darshan Singh and Devender Singh alias Vicky, both residents of Patiala district, Punjab. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-peddlers-held-30-kg-opium-seized-199106
16-01-2021||---||Rice mill booked for fraud||Chandigarh, January 15The CBI has booked a private company (borrower company) engaged in rice milling activities on the Karnal-Kaithal road, Nissing, and others, including its directors/guarantor and unknown public servants/persons, for causing a loss of Rs 121.75 crore to Punjab National Bank.According to the complaint, the accused allegedly sold off its stock and machinery, which were hypothecated to the bank. As per a forensic audit, the company had falsified its financial statements to avail loan. The CBI also conducted raids on three locations, including official and residential premises of the accused, at Nissing, which led to the recovery of incriminating documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rice-mill-booked-for-fraud-199107
16-01-2021||---||Jab for over 7,000 health staff today||Chandigarh, January 15Over 7,000 healthcare workers will get their first jab of Covid-19 vaccine tomorrow on the first day, as the nationwide vaccination begins on Saturday.161 fresh casesHaryana has set up 77 session sites across the state where the government plans to provide vaccine to 100 healthcare workers each on the first day of the drive tomorrow.Prabhjot Singh, Mission Director of the National Health Mission, Haryana, said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi would launch the vaccination drive via video-conferencing at 10.30 am tomorrow, 75 of these sites will have one way communication while two — the Civil Dispensary, Sector 4, Panchkula, and Government Primary School, Wazirabad (Gurugram) — would be seen on the screen as they would have two-way communication. However, interaction with the Prime Minister is not in the programme schedule, he said.After the PM’s launching event, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will interact with doctors at the Medanta Medicity, Gurugram, which is one of the 77 session sites in the state.The vaccination process will begin soon after Khattar’s interaction with the doctors. As many as 18 senior doctors, including the Director-General of Health Services, Haryana, Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, have volunteered to be vaccinated first of all, said Prabhjot Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jab-for-over-7-000-health-staff-today-199108
16-01-2021||---||Police halt Cong leaders’ march to Haryana Raj Bhawan||Chandigarh, January 15Congress leaders marching towards Raj Bhawan were taken into preventive custody twice today. Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, state Congress president Kumari Selja, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala and state affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal were part of the march.As soon as leaders came out of the party office in Sector 9 for the ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’ march, the Chandigarh Police put up barricades with barbed wires a few hundred metres away.Slogans were raised against the three farm laws. There were attempts to break through the barricades. As the Congress leaders refused to relent, they were taken into preventive detention and taken to the Sector 3 police station by bus.After they were released, they again started marching towards Raj Bhawan. The police were taken by surprise. The Congress leaders had approached the roundabout near Raj Bhawan when the police intercepted them. They were taken into preventive detention again.This time, Selja, Surjewala and Bansal were taken to the Sector 3 police station. Hooda and most of the MLAs were taken to the Sector 17 police station.“Our plan to gherao Raj Bhawan was successful, but the way the government tried to stop this peaceful demonstration indicated its dictatorial mindset,” said Hooda.Responding to queries, he said they had sought time to meet the Governor on several occasions to request him to call a special session of the Assembly to discuss issues concerning farmers.“We want to bring in a no-confidence motion against the government in the Assembly so that every farmer knows which MLA and party stands with them and who stand with the government,” he remarked.“The situation is such that the Chief Minister is not able to hold a programme in his home district and the Deputy Chief Minister has to cancel his functions,” said Selja.“Not only Independent MLAs, even some from the BJP-JJP combine are upset. The government should resign on moral grounds, but it lacks morality,” she added.Former MLA Karan Dalal said the government would fall if a no-confidence motion was brought in. The march was part of nationwide protests by Congress units across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-halt-cong-leaders-march-to-haryana-raj-bhawan-199109
16-01-2021||Ambala||Now, Abhay sets out on tractor march||To express solidarity with the agitating farmers, INLD leader Abhay Chautala today started on a tractor march from Ambala. He said that the post of MLA doesn’t matter to him and farmers are always his first priority.Abhay sat on dharna with the farmers at the Shambhu border before starting his march and extended his support to the farmers.Ready for show of strength on Jan 26On January 26, maximum people will reach Singhu, show their strength and force Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rectify his mistake and repeal the farm laws. — Abhay Chautala, INLD leaderThe march would pass through Pehowa, Kaithal, Narwana, Jind, Gohana and Sonepat before reaching the Singhu border.During his address, Abhay said, “On January 26, maximum people would reach Singhu border, show their strength and force Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rectify his mistake and repeal the three black laws.“During the Covid pandemic, there was a sense of panic among the people. Every industry and market came to a standstill but the farmers were working in their fields. But on the other hand, Ambani and Adani were chalking out strategies to capture farming,” he alleged.“The INLD has always struggled for the cause of farmers and followed the ideology of Chaudhary Devi Lal. We will continue to protest and stand with farmers till the three laws are not repealed.“There is no difference between the farmers of Haryana, Punjab, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. They all are struggling against the same black laws. I appeal to everyone to reach Delhi in maximum numbers on January 26 and force the Centre to change its decision,” he added.Speaking to mediapersons, Abhay said, “Repeated meetings are just an attempt to prolong the agitation. The black laws must be repealed.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-abhay-sets-out-on-tractor-march-199111
16-01-2021||---||Deepender Hooda inspects arrangements at Tikri||Jhajjar, January 15Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda along with Bahadurgarh MLA Rajender Singh Joon visited the Tikri border on Friday and inspected arrangements of potable water, food, cleanliness and toilets. He interacted with farmers from Punjab and Haryana camping there since November 26 to get their feedback in this regard.Deepender expressed concern over the death of some protesting farmers at the Delhi border and held the BJP government responsible for that.He said following the directives of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Congress legislators would give a relief of Rs 2 lakh to kin of the deceased farmers.Deepender urged the government to accept their demands without further delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deepender-hooda-inspects-arrangements-at-tikri-199112
16-01-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad’s air hazardous again||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 15The air in Faridabad has turned hazardous again. The PM-2.5 level rose to 474 on Friday morning, which was almost eight times the safe level of 60, according to ‘Sameer’, online app of the Central Pollution Control Board.With its air quality the worst in Haryana, Faridabad was the second most polluted town in the country during the past 36 hours, according to data. The PM-2.5 level was above 447 since Thursday morning.Low wind speed, decrease in temp to blameLow wind speed, decrease in temperature with foggy conditions and air and dust pollution by industrial and construction activities can be blamed for the spike. — Samita Kanodia, pollution control department officialBahadurgarh recorded PM-2.5 level of 410 on Friday morning, with other main towns in the state having PM-2.5 level between 250 and 375.Though neighbouring Delhi recorded a severe PM-2.5 level of 461, Noida in Uttar Pradesh had the highest PM- 2.5 level of 477 on Friday morning.The PM-2.5 level turned hazardous for the first time this year on January 2 at 434. It had been hazardous for eight days in December. The last time PM-2.5 level was good (60 or below) was on September 23 last, when it was 57.“Low wind speed, decrease in temperature with foggy conditions and air and dust pollution by industrial and construction activities can be blamed for the spike,” said Samita Kanodia, an official of the Pollution Control Department.“We are ensuring implementation of the graded response action plan to check the menace,” said Yashpal Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, also holding charge of Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabads-air-hazardous-again-199113
16-01-2021||Palwal||Youth’s body found in pond||The police on Friday recovered the body of a 28-year-old youth from a pond in Hodal town of the district. Vikas, a kin of the deceased, alleged that the victim, Vikram of Gadiya Mohalla of Hodal, had been murdered in connection with an old enmity and later his body was dumped in a pond.  “The matter is being probed and the accused will be arrested soon,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youths-body-found-in-pond-199114
16-01-2021||---||Retd Army officer found dead at home in Jagadhri||Yamunanagar, January 15A 60-year-old retired Army officer died under mysterious circumstances at his house in Sector 17 of Jagadhri town.The deceased has been identified as Captain Ram Singh, a retired officer from the Indian Army.According to the information, after noticing a foul smell emanating from his house, his neighbours informed the police, which found the decomposed body of Singh covered with a quilt at his house.The ex-serviceman was living with his 35-year-old son Praveen, who is reported to be mentally-challenged.Jagadhri Sector 17 police station SHO Ajit Singh said, “When we inspected the house, we found the Captain’s decomposed body from his bed covered with a quilt. It appears to be a case of natural death. He may have died some days ago.”He said the Captain’s wife had died long ago and he was living with his son at his house.After post-mortem examination at Civil Hospital, Jagadhri, the body was handed over to his relatives on Friday. The police conducted the proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retd-army-officer-found-dead-at-home-in-jagadhri-199115
16-01-2021||---||Nod for dialysis unit at KCGMC||Karnal, January 15 The government has given its approval for setting up a dialysis unit at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here. The college has been given a nod for the purchase of continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) machine for the purpose.  “Setting up a dialysis unit here has been a long-pending demand but during the Covid pandemic, we witnessed its utmost need to treat Covid-affected patients with kidney failure, following which we had requested the government to start the unit,” said KCGMC director Dr Jagdish Dureja. “The dialysis unit will be on public private partnership (PPP) mode,” he said adding that they had sent the tender documents for approval to the state government, after the approval of which the tender process would begin. The unit will be set up at the ground floor of the hospital adjacent to the blood bank, so that the patients could easily avail the facility, he said. Notably, in absence of a dialysis unit here, the patients with kidney problem were earlier either referred to PGI Rohtak or Chandigarh, which used to cause a delay in the treatment of patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-for-dialysis-unit-at-kcgmc-199116
16-01-2021||---||Haryana Government plans film city to promote folk art||Chandigarh, January 15Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said the state government was formulating plans to set up a film city in the state for which around 50 to 100 acres of land had been finalised.Besides, to encourage Haryanvi artistes, a state-level award will also be given to them every year and all possible help will be rendered for promoting art.On the occasion, Publicity Cell OSD Gajender Phogat along with a delegation of Haryanvi folk artistes met the Chief Minister.During the meeting, the Chief Minister discussed with them the steps that could be taken to improve the Haryanvi folk genre. He said state-level registration of the artistes will also be done.Giving tips to the artistes, the CM said an artiste should work on an ideology with regard to the message and teachings that he wants to share with the society.Reminiscing on the role played by folk artistes in yesteryears, Khattar said earlier, people used to invite folk artistes to give performances in order to raise funds to build schools, temples and dharamshalas etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-plans-film-city-to-promote-folk-art-199117
16-01-2021||Hisar||1971 war: Victory flame reaches Hisar military station||The ‘Dot On Target’ (DOT) division at the Military Station here welcomed the victory flame to commemorate 50 years of the 1971 war and mark 2021 as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh.  The victory flame was handed over to the Indian Army by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on December 16.  Major General Devindar Kumar, General Officer Commanding, ‘Dot On Target’ Division, received the victory flame at the Military Station. The ceremony was attended by military personnel and ex-servicemen along with their families. Kin of two Veer Chakra awardee martyrs of the war — Second Lieutenant Hawa Singh and company havildar Major Krishan Singh — were also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1971-war-victory-flame-reaches-hisar-military-station-199118
16-01-2021||Gurugram||Biker dies in road mishap||A motorcyclist was killed while the pillion rider was critically injured when their vehicle was hit by a speeding private school bus near Jatola village on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Ritesh (22) and the injured as ITI student Nikita. The bus belonged to MD School, Mumtajpur. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/biker-dies-in-road-mishap-199119
16-01-2021||---||Pact signed to generate biofuel from crop residue||Karnal, January 15To address the issue of stubble burning and increase the income of farmers, the Kaithal administration has signed an MoU with Delhi-based Gramin Vikas Trust and Growdiesel Climate Care Council, an NGO, to generate biofuel from crop residue as well as other waste.The project is being undertaken as a part of the Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates (CMGGA) district’s programmes to save the environment and increase the income of farmers.The MoU was signed among Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh and the CEOs of Gramn Vikas Trust and Growdiesel at the Mini-Secretariat today. “It will be the first-of-its-kind project across the state,” the DC claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pact-signed-to-generate-biofuel-from-crop-residue-199120
16-01-2021||---||Woman shot in Tohana||Hisar, January 15 A woman was allegedly shot dead at her house in Tohana town of Fatehabad district on Friday. Kusum, wife of lawyer Chaman Lal, was shot in her house on Railway Road. She was doing daily chores when a youth entered the house and allegedly shot her in the head. Domestic help Rajo Devi, who was present at the house, said she spotted a youth entering the house and opening fire at the woman before fleeing. The police have started investigating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-shot-in-tohana-199132
16-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers from Punjab reach Singhu in groups||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 15The ninth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the government on Friday failed to break the stalemate, and the next meeting will now be held on January 19.Amid the deadlock, the farmers say their “ghar wapsi” can happen only after “law wapsi” and they have enough ration for a year.The protesters from Punjab have decided to stay at Singhu in groups so that their agitation could continue till their demand is accepted. Trolleys covered with tarpaulin sheets have become their abode and even the bone-chilling cold has failed to deter them.“We have been staying here since November 26 and have made all necessary arrangements in our trolleys. We are ready for the long haul,” says Darshan Singh from Sangrur .Harman Singh, Deepa Singh and Daljeet Singh, also from Sangrur, said they had come here in groups. “A bus carrying protesters from three villages in our area reach Singhu every Monday and those who want to go back board the same bus,” they added.On an average, a group of people stays here for nine days and is then replaced by another one.Meanwhile, a group of farmers held a shirtless protest at Tikri in support of its demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-from-punjab-reach-singhu-in-groups-199133
16-01-2021||According to the Haryana Prevention of Beggary Act; 1971 begging is strictly prohibited. In Ambala||Begging still prevalent in Ambala city||Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityIllegal, rampant use of loudspeakersAs a nature lover and enlightened citizen, I request the state government to issue fresh directions to the pollution and transport authorities to deal with illegal usage of loudspeakers on vehicles. Almost every hawker, street vendor is using loudspeaker atop his vehicle as if no authority is checking or regulating them. Even the volume and frequency of such loudspeaker loaded vehicles is abnormally high.Sonu Yadav, MahendragarhEducate youth about traffic rulesJust making people aware of the traffic rules during road safety weeks or celebration of the 32nd national road safety week by the government or social organisations till January 17 is not enough. It is necessary to launch a campaign at the national level. It is worrisome that most of the youth disregard traffic rules. To curb road accidents, it is necessary to bring awareness among them, for which they should be educated at the Class X level. The Central or state governments should arrange to give driving license to every youth as soon as he/she become major by taking examination on traffic rules in schools or colleges.Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/begging-still-prevalent-in-ambala-city-199135
16-01-2021||Karnal||Army Day celebrated||Refresher course beginsHisar: A two-week refresher course in mathematics and statistics began at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUS&T(Hisar). Prof Sushil Kumar Tomar, director, Human Resource Development Centre, Panjab University, was the chief guest while Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, GJUS&T, was the guest of honour. The VC said mathematics was the language of all sciences and it was not just analytic, but predictive supported by modeling and simulations. Professor Tomar said without mathematics, research in any field was not possible.Lecture series on 'Kanthapura'Karnal: A week-long national-level online workshop-cum-lecture series on novel 'Kanthapura' by Raja Rao was inaugurated by the English Literary Society of RKSD College, Kaithal. Dr Pankaj Sharma from Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, was the key speaker. Prof Vikas Bhardwaj, programme convener, discussed the theme of the workshop. Prof Suruchi Sharma, president of the society and event coordinator, handled the stage. Principal Sanjay Goyal threw light on the activities conducted online by the English department during the lockdown.Talent hunt at govt schoolKarnal: A talent hunt programme was organised at Government Girls College, Jundla. Programme convener Jagmohan Sigh exhorted students to participate in co-curricular activities to hone their skills. Vice-Principal Chander Mohan Sharma said such events provided a platform to students to showcase their hidden talents. Students presented dance items and participated in various competitions, including singing and paniting. Vidhi bagged the first position in dance competition while Anchal and Maya secured the second and third positions, respectively. In singing, Salvi was adjudged first while Shivani came second and Shakshi third.War heroes museum inauguratedKarnal: Director, War Heroes Memorial School, Bastara village, Lt Col Sunehra Singh (retd) inaugurated a museum on the school premises. He said the history of nearly 500 bravehearts had been displayed at the museum. “Our aim is to educate the students on the contribution of our brave solders,” he said. Principal Neetu Mokal briefed the students about the importance of a museum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/army-day-celebrated-199136
