17-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Haryana records 2 more deaths, 178 new cases||Haryana recorded two more COVID-19 fatalities on Sunday, taking the death toll to 2,985, while 178 new cases pushed the infection tally to 2,66,309, a state health department bulletin issued here said.A fatality each was reported from Faridabad and Kaithal district, it said.Among other districts to report new cases include Gurgaon (45), Faridabad (24) and Panchkula (23).The number of active cases in the state stands at 2,094, it said.A total of 2,61,230 people have so far been discharged after recovery, while the recovery rate is 98.09 per cent. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-2-more-deaths-178-new-cases-199819
17-01-2021||New Delhi||Culling of poultry birds underway in Maharashtra, Haryana: Centre||The Centre on Sunday said culling of poultry birds is underway in Maharashtra and Haryana, while fresh cases of bird flu have been confirmed in poultry in Mumbai as well as in the Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh.So far, bird flu has been confirmed in 11 states---Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.However, the Centre has requested states to "rethink their decisions to impose ban on sale of poultry and poultry products and allow such selling sourced from the non-infected areas/states".In India, bird flu or avian influenza is spread mainly by migratory birds coming into India during winter months between September and March. The disease is zoonotic.In a statement, the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said bird flu cases have been confirmed in poultry at the Central Poultry Development Organisation (CPDO), Mumbai, and Kheda Road in the Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh.Not only poultry, the disease has also been confirmed in crows at Panna, Sanchi, Raisen and Balaghat; in crow and owl at Sheopur; while in swan and pigeon, in the Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh, it said.The viral disease has also been confirmed in crow and pigeon in Bastar, while crow in the Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh. Similarly, the disease has also been confirmed in crow samples from Haridwar and Lansdowne in Uttarakhand.Additionally, in Delhi, Heron samples in Rohini have been tested positive for bird flu, it added.On the culling operation, the ministry said it is underway in all the affected epicentres, including CPDO in Maharashtra. The culling operation of poultry is continuing in the epicenters of Haryana.The Maharashtra Animal Husbandry Department have started a toll-free helpline for farmers to report any unusual mortality of birds.The state government has put requisite information about the disease in line with the revised Avian Influenza Action Plan 2021, it added.Further, the ministry said rapid response teams (RRPs) have been deployed in Madhya Pradesh."Today, samples tested from Rajasthan and Gujarat have been found negative for avian influenza," the ministry noted.According to the statement, the central team formed for monitoring the situation in the affected areas of the country are visiting the affected sites and conducting epidemiological studies.The ministry said consumers should not pay heed to baseless rumours that are unscientific and often lead to confusion. These adversely affect not only poultry and egg markets but also poultry and maize farmers, who are already affected by the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/culling-of-poultry-birds-underway-in-maharashtra-haryana-centre-199808
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police arrest 89, recover Rs 112 crore in GST fraud||In a well-coordinated operation against Goods and Services Tax (GST) scamsters, Haryana Police on Sunday said it busted four major gangs related to issuing or registration of bogus firms involved in fake invoice bills scam which defrauded the government exchequer to the tune of over Rs 464.12 crore.The nexus of the fraudsters was active not only in Haryana but across the country.The crackdown on GST fake invoice scam has also led to the recovery of over Rs 112 crore and unearthing of fake GST identification numbers (GSTIN).A total of 72 police cases have been filed so far in which 89 accused have been arrested by the Crime Branch. Among the total arrest, 40 cases have been registered against on Govind Sharma, Gaurav, Anupam Singla and Rakesh Arora.Director General of Police Manoj Yadava said these persons issued fraudulent invoices to numerous firms and companies without actual supply of goods through fraudulent e-way bills (GST related challans for transporting consignments) and facilitated fake income tax credit entitlement on GST portal through GSTR-3B form.It has also been revealed that fraudulent income tax credit worth crores of rupees has been passed by these gangs using fake GST invoices, e-way bills and with the help of forged bank transactions.During the course of investigations, it has also come to light that out of the arrested persons, some are white-collar economic repeated offenders.Police has also blocked inadmissible income tax credit worth of Rs 97.22 crore in the Excise and Taxation Department.Yadava congratulated DGP, Crime, Mohd Akil and his entire team for their performance in busting the racket involved in GST scam.A total of 21 FIRs against fake firms belonging to the Govind gang active in Panipat and adjoining areas were lodged in 2019 while other three gangs involved in major GST evasion were booked between 2018 and 2019.Police has so far blocked income tax credit of these gangs to the tune of over Rs 80 crore.The DGP said the major goods involved in these GST invoice scams were scrap, iron and steel articles, cotton yarn, paper, etc. The drive against the GST evaders and income tax credit fraudsters is expected to intensify and more arrests are likely in the future.Maximum fraudsters in these gangs used to first register fake firms on the GST portal in the name of gullible people and then generate fake invoices, bills of these firms by using software apps like BusyApp, TallyApp, Shkun Software, etc, and then uploading these bills to generate e-way bills on the GST portal."We have conducted a statewide drive against GST fake invoice fraud and requested the department concerned seeking all the records. As the beneficiaries (income tax credit claimants) are from various parts of Haryana and other states too, we are coordinating with our counterparts to track the culprits involved in the fraud," Akil said.---IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-arrest-89-recover-rs-112-crore-in-gst-fraud-199796
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions prevail at many places in Haryana, Punjab||Cold weather conditions continued to persist at many places in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with temperatures hovering below the normal limits.According to Meteorological Department officials, Narnaul in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a low of 2.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal limits.Hisar, too, experienced a cold night at 3.4 degrees Celsius, down four notches, while Sirsa, Bhiwani and Rohtak registered below normal minimums at 4 degrees Celsius, 4.7 degrees, and 5.6 degrees respectively.In Punjab, Bathinda recorded below normal minimum at 3.4 degrees, while Faridkot and Gurdaspur, too, recorded below normal lows at 5.5 degrees and 7 degrees Celsius respectively.Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot and Adampur recorded respective minimum temperatures of 7.3 degrees, 7.6 degrees, 7.4 degrees, 8.6 degrees and 7.5 degrees.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.3 degrees Celsius.During the past few days, maximum temperatures, too, have been hovering 6-10 notches below normal at most places in the two states and Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the Met officials said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at most places in the two states.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-at-many-places-in-haryana-punjab-199740
17-01-2021||New Delhi||‘Sun Dilliye Ni Sun Dilliye’, sung by Mohali sisters on farmers’ agitation, gets thousands hits online||Even as "Sun Dilliye Ni Sun Dilliye", a song written, composed and sung by the two young sisters on the ongoing farmers' agitation continues to grab thousands of hits on social media from people across the world, the duo maintains that while all the praise has been extremely encouraging, what matters most is that people across barriers have been able to relate to it."We never thought that the song (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0kEkwK5zS5A) would become so popular. The feedback from everyone has been very kind. However, what is most heartening is the fact that even those involved in the agitation—from leaders to protesters have liked it immensely," says Simrita.While both Simrita and Ramneek have post-graduate degrees in Hindustani classical music, the duo admits that they are not essentially lyricists. "But these circumstances were different. We were deeply troubled by the fact that thousands of farmers were out in the open at a time when we were sitting comfortably in our quilts," says Ramneek.The duo, residents of Mohali, whose parents come from an agricultural background insist that they (parents) have been very quite encouraging. "They have been extremely supportive and happy that we have been singing in support of the protests. In fact, ever since childhood, they have pushed us to find our place in our chosen field," Simrita adds.They feel that the most striking aspect of the movement for them has been the fact that Punjabi mothers have been encouraging their children to go out in this cold and join the protests. "And that says so much -- about their spirit and heart," feels Ramneek. Feeling that social media has been instrumental in making youngsters' join the agitation, Simrita adds that considering its deep penetration among youngsters, it has been successful in presenting multiple facets of the agitation. "It has given so many new perspectives unlike the mainstream media which is struck on a single narrative. Most people of our generation are heavy social media users. It has definitely succeeded in bringing about a very different level of awareness and engagement," stresses Simrita For them, the agitation has 'grown' in different ways in a short while."While during the initial days, we mostly saw the elderly protesting, very soon, a large number of youngsters joined the protests. Interestingly, one sees a sizable number of women protesters," says Ramneek.Talking about the perfect coordination between them, Simrita smiles that it is not limited only to music. She loves to cook, and "I am a foodie," she says. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sun-dilliye-ni-sun-dilliye-sung-by-mohali-sisters-on-farmers-agitation-gets-thousands-hits-online-199734
17-01-2021||---||HSSC cancels gram sachiv exam after paper ‘leak’||Hisar, January 16A week after the conduct of examination for the post of gram sachiv, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) today announced to cancel the examination after reports of paper leak at various centres.Around eight lakh candidates had appeared in the examination for 697 posts which was organised across the state on January 9 and 10.The commission though has not cited any reason behind the cancellation of the exam, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala stated that the HSSC took the step following recovery of question paper and answer key from some mobile phones as an unfair means.Meanwhile, a special investigation team (SIT) of the Hisar police today arrested two more accused involved in the alleged paper leak case taking the total number of arrests to 18. The police have registered two cases after complaints from two exam centres in Hisar.Police spokesperson Vikas Singh said two accused identified as Sandeep and Chandan were arrested by the police today. He said Sandeep was deployed as an observer at Saini High School in Hisar who clicked the photo of the question paper and handed over the phone to Chandan who took the phone to another accused Jitender. Jitender after solving the paper prepared an answer key and forwarded the same to Rakesh. Rakesh appeared in the exam in place of Amit at the centre in Campus School in HAU Hisar.The police spokesperson said the SIT had arrested seven persons in the HAU centre case. Besides, other nabbed accused are Rakesh, Amit, Naveen, Jitender and Pravesh who have been sent to the judicial custody.Another incident of paper leak occurred at the Sant Kabir School and the police have arrested all the 11 accused in the case, the spokesperson said adding that the arrested accused were identified as Praveen, who was original examinee, Yashpal, Pradeep, Jagbir Ravinder, Ankit, Ashish, Rupesh, Deepak, Vishnu and Deepak. The police had also seized electronic devices from them.“The HSSC has become a centre of loot,” said Congress General Secretary Randeep Surjewala. “The incident has exposed the false claims of transparent recruitment by the government,” said Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja. Meanwhile, Karan Dalal, a former MLA from Palwal and senior Congress leader, has demanded compensation to all those who appeared in the examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hssc-cancels-gram-sachiv-exam-after-paper-leak-199529
17-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Daily Sarasvati ‘aarti’ at Pipli on cards||The Haryana Sarasvati Heritage Development Board (HSHDB) has come out with a plan to start daily Saraswati ‘aarti’ at Pipli — on the pattern of Brahma Sarovar ‘aarti’ at Kurukshetra — for which ghats and ‘aarti sthal’ will be developed near the Delhi-Amritsar national highway. Dhuman Singh Kirmach, Deputy Chairman of the board, told The Tribune, “The Haryana Government and HSHDB have been making efforts to develop Pipli in Kurukshetra as a tourist hub. It has been decided to start daily Saraswati ‘aarti’ at Pipli near the national highway. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given approval to the project and a budget of Rs 2.5 crore has been sanctioned. Besides the ‘aarti’ and beautification, there is also a plan to start boating and restaurant for tourists. “On Basant Panchami (February 14), daily ‘aarti’ will start from Aadi Badri. Within three months, ‘aarti’ will be started at Pipli as well. Pipli will be developed as a major tourist destination on the national highway. A Saraswati museum will also be set up for which we are in talks with the Forest Department as the land which has been selected for the museum belongs to it. The project will not only ensure the development of Pipli but will also increase the beauty of and tourism in Kurukshetra,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/daily-sarasvati-aarti-at-pipli-on-cards-199530
17-01-2021||---||Yamunanagar firm cheated of Rs1 cr; London bank booked||Yamunanagar, January 16The police have booked a London-based bank and unidentified fraudsters for cheating an engineering company of Yamunanagar of Rs 1 crore (Rs 1,05,19,756).On the complaint of Anil Sunder, vice-president (material department) of ISGEC Heavy Engineering Limited, Yamunanagar, two separate cases were registered against the bank and unidentified fraudsters under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC and 66-D of IT Act at City police station, Yamunanagar, on January 14.The complainant said that ISGEC Heavy Engineering Limited, Yamunanagar, deals in manufacturing of heavy engineering goods. The company placed an order to purchase naval brass plates with a company of Germany on November 3, 2020.During this communication process, the fraudsters monitored their emails and hacked their email accounts.“The fraudsters sent emails to our purchase officer who treated them as genuine emails of the company with which a purchase order was placed. Our company, through an Indian bank, transferred euro 34,431 (Rs 30,08,236) in the bank account of the fraudsters on November 20, 2020,” the complainant said.He said that their company also placed an order to import engineering goods from a company of France in October 2020.He said that in this case also, the fraudsters monitored the communication process and hacked their email accounts.“The fraudsters sent fake bank details to our manager and our company transferred euro 86,503.37 (Rs 75,11,520) in their bank account on October 10, 2020,” the complainant said.Demanding action, the complainant said that the London-based bank had allegedly opened a fake account at the behest of the fraudsters without verifying the facts and received payment from them in the fake account.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-firm-cheated-of-rs1-cr-london-bank-booked-199531
17-01-2021||---||Excise Dept launches app||Chandigarh, January 16Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today launched a prototype of GST-PV app for the Excise and Taxation Department. With this app, all tax inspectors will be able to inspect the premises of taxpayers from a distance.Dushyant, who also holds the portfolio of the department, said the mobile app would help quickly detect fake firms involved in passing inaccurate input tax credits. Besides, it will be helpful in registration of tax, which will save time and resources of the department.At present, tax inspectors have to visit the firms and manually record the entries after taking the documents, which often leads to complaints of incorrect and inconsistent data entry. With the app, the entire process will be automated and tax inspectors can feed the data directly.The Deputy Chief Minister added, “Tax inspectors will have the option to save cases in the app for verification before visiting the premises.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/excise-dept-launches-app-199532
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Four deaths, 167 new cases in Haryana||With four deaths and 167 fresh cases, the Covid tally reached 2.66 lakh in the state today.One death each was reported from Ambala, Bhiwani, Jind and Sirsa.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram at 35, followed by 21 from Faridabad, 22 from Panchkula, 18 from Panipat, 13 from Karnal and 12 from Rohtak. No case was detected from Fatehabad, Jind, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri.A total of 218 people got cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered persons to 2.61 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-deaths-167-new-cases-in-haryana-199533
17-01-2021||Jhajjar||Two more die at Tikri border||Two more farmers from Punjab died reportedly due to cardiac arrest at Tikri border in the past 24 hours.  The deceased have been identified as Jangir Singh (83) of Chhajali village in Sangrur and Bohar Singh (35) of Bhittiwalan village in Muktsar district.  The farmers claimed the duo had been actively participating in the ongoing agitation for the past several days. Jaswant Singh, a farmer leader, said that Bohar Singh was the member of a team which organised ‘thikri pehra’ at night. He retired to bed in the wee hours on Saturday but was found dead in the morning. Similarly, Jangir Singh woke up in the night to answer nature’s call and went to sleep again. He too was found dead by fellow farmers when they brought tea for him, he added. Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, confirmed that bodies of the farmers were brought to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh town. As many as 16 protesters have lost their lives in the protest at Tikri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-more-die-at-tikri-border-199534
17-01-2021||Hisar||Protesters to oppose BJP leaders on R-Day||In a show of strength, farmers gathered at the Mini-secretariat in Fatehabad today and announced that they would oppose BJP leaders on the Republic Day.Sedition charges against Khap leaderWoman and Child Development Minister Kamlesh Dhanda, BJP MLA from Kalayat, will unfurl the national flag at Fatehabad on January 26.All-India Kisan Mahasabha president Raldu Singh said the agitation would continue until the Centre repealed the three farm laws. “The today’s gathering is a show of strength and a rehearsal for the January 26 programme. We will protest when BJP leaders will reach the city to participate in the Republic Day function,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-to-oppose-bjp-leaders-on-r-day-199535
17-01-2021||Karnal||Scrap laws, says Kiran||Congress leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry demanded the government to repeal the three farm laws.  “Farmers don’t want these laws as these are against them and the government should repeal them with immediate effect,” said Choudhry while interacting with the media at PWD Rest House here today. She accused the BJP government for forcing the farmers to protest amid the harsh climate and said more than 60 farmers had lost their lives in the ongoing protest, but the government did not give a heed to the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scrap-laws-says-kiran-199536
17-01-2021||---||Hooda demands aid, jobs for families of deceased farmers||Karnal, January 16Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda today reached Bastara toll plaza where the farmers are staging dharna to make the toll plaza free for commuters.He extended support to the farmers and demanded withdrawal of the cases filed against the farmers. He also demanded financial help and a job to the families of farmers who died during the ongoing protest.“I am regularly meeting the farmers who are protesting across the state. It is clear that the farmers do not want any conflict with the government. But without waiting for the outcome of the ongoing talks between the Centre and farmers, the CM is ‘provoking’ the farmers by holding a mahapanchayat.“Cases have been registered against the farmers. I demand the withdrawal of cases and job along with financial help to the families of the farmers who have died during the protest,” said Leader of Opposition Hooda.The former CM said, “Farmers are running the biggest movement of the country in harsh weather conditions but the government has remained indifferent to their plight.”He also accused the government for what happened in Kaimla village last Sunday and said that in democracy, public sentiment and non-violent movements cannot be suppressed with attempts of confrontation, provocative action, water cannons, tear gas shells and police lathi charge. The more the government tries to suppress the voice of the public, the louder it gets and the echo will be heard across the state.He demanded repealing of the laws and said that if the Union Government does not do it, the Congress would repeal those after coming to power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-demands-aid-jobs-for-families-of-deceased-farmers-199537
17-01-2021||---||Farmers angry over NIA notices||Sonepat, January 16Amid chilling conditions, the farmers’ protest continued on the 52nd day on Saturday. Singhu border witnessed a higher number of protesters in comparison to other days.No idea about caseI received a notice on Friday evening and a call from Inspector Khan who asked me to appear at the NIA headquarters on January 18. I don’t know about the case. - Jasbir Rode, Ex-jathedar, Akal TakhtFarmer leaders expressed anger through the central stage over the notices issued by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to some people who were associated with their protest.The NIA has served notices to about 12 people in connection with a case registered on December 15 last year under Sections 120B, 124 (A), 153 (A), 153 (B) of the IPC and Sections 13, 17, 18, 18B, 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, and summoned them to appear on January 18 at NIA headquarters in Delhi.After receiving the notice, Jasbir Singh Rode, former Jathedar, Akal Takht, while interacting with mediapersons at Singhu border on Saturday said that we have established a medical camp, langar and tent in support of farmers’ protest since December 2 last year.“I received a notice yesterday evening and also received a call from Inspector Khan who asked me to appear at the NIA headquarters on January 18,” he added.He sent the notice to his advocate who told him about the seriousness of it. Rode said he would go to the NIA headquarters on January 18.“I don’t know about the case and don’t know about the people against whom the case was registered,” Jasbir Singh said.We have been serving society but in the notice, it is said that there was a threat to the country from me, he said. The government wants to defame the peaceful agitation of the farmers, he alleged.Besides, Surjeet Singh, former chief, BKU Krantikari, said that there was no change in the programme made by the farmers’ union. He was addressing farmers from the stage at Kundli on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-angry-over-nia-notices-199538
17-01-2021||Ambala||An auspicious day: Vij||Health Minister Anil Vij today reached the Civil Hospital here to inspect the Covid vaccination drive.“It is an auspicious day for India. I salute scientists who have prepared the vaccines. People shouldn’t feel protected after getting the first dose of the vaccine as two doses are necessary. The second dose will be administered 28 days after administering the first one. One still need to follow the Covid guidelines,” he said.Still need to follow normsI salute scientists who have prepared the vaccines. People shouldn’t feel protected after getting the first dose of the vaccine as two doses are necessary. One still needs to follow Covid norms. - Anil Vij, Health MinisterThe vaccine was administered at four centres — the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantt, Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Panjokhra, Community Health Centre (CHC) in Shahzadpur, and a medical college in Mullana.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The target was to administer 400 doses today. We fell short by 28 doses. The Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantt, the CHC in Shahazadpur and the Mullana medical college achieved their target of 100 each. The PHC Panjokhra administered 72 doses.”Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini visited Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital to inspect the drive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/an-auspicious-day-vij-199539
17-01-2021||---||Covid vaccine administered at 77 sites||Chandigarh, January 16The Covid vaccination started in the state today with woman sanitation workers of the Health Department among the first ones to get the dose.Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterEffective stepThe vaccination programme will prove to be an effective step in overcoming the pandemic. The population has been prioritised in view of the high demand of vaccine initially. To ensure smooth, effective and target-based implementation of the programme, beneficiaries have been enrolled with CoWIN. In Panchkula’s Government Dispensary, sanitation worker Saroj Bala was the first one to get vaccinated.Director General (Health Services) Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Additional Director General (Health Services) Dr Veena Singh, National Health Mission Director (NHM) Dr VK Bansal, Panchkula Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur and State Immunisation Officer Dr Virender Ahlawat were among the few who got vaccinated to infuse confidence among people about the vaccine.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said his government had made arrangements for the implementation of the vaccination programme that commenced today at 77 sites across the state. “Two vaccines — Covishield of the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin of India Biotech — have been authorised for emergency use in the state,” he said.Dr Naresh Trehan of Medanta-The Medicity, Gurugram, also got vaccinated. He told Khattar that mild fever and body pain after getting the jab was normal and that people should not worry about these symptoms.Prabhjot Singh, Mission Director, NHM, said: “In all, 5,589 persons across the state were administered the vaccine today. This is around 74 per cent of the target. The percentage could reach 80 per cent as the data is being updated.”Sonepat/Panipat: In all, 165 health workers got vaccinated in Sonepat district, while 140 health staffers received the jab in Panipat.Dr JS Poonia, Civil Surgeon, Sonepat, said the first dose was administered to Seeta, a Class IV employee in the General Hospital.“We have fixed five sites — BPS Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan, General Hospital in Sonepat, Community Health Centre (CHC) in Gannaur, Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Murthal and Nidan Hospital — for the drive,” he said.Panipat Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma said the first shot was administered to Poonam, a sanitation worker, in the General Hospital. After her, he got himself vaccinated.“No staffer has reported any side effect so far,” Dr Verma said.Karnal: Ram Kumar, a 48-year-old sanitation worker of the Health Department, got the first shot at the Civil Hospital here. He was among the 375 health workers to get vaccinated against the target of 456.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma, who inaugurated the drive here, and Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College Director Dr Jagdish Dureja also received the jab.Kaithal Civil Surgeon Dr Om Parkash said that of the 200 identified health workers, around 140 were vaccinated.Faridabad: Around 500 healthcare workers each in Faridabad and Palwal districts the first jab. A department official claimed the recipients were not given a choice between the two vaccines.Hisar: The district health authorities started the vaccination programme at the Jindal Institute of Medical Sciences (JIMS), where sanitation worker Sunita was the first one to receive the jab.After taking the shot, Sunita (45), spent half an hour under observation. Emerging out of the observation room, she said she had no side effects. By 3.30 pm, 184 persons were vaccinated out of the target of 400.Rewari: Mahendragarh Civil Surgeon Dr Ashok Kumar said 55 persons in Kanina, 72 in Narnaul and 84 in Mahendragarh were administered doses till 4 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-vaccine-administered-at-77-sites-199540
17-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Three gangsters nabbed in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 16 The police have nabbed three most-wanted criminals who are members of slain gangster Ashok Rathi’s gang. All three were involved in the murder of Alipur village sarpanch Manoj in July last year.  Two of them were carrying a bounty of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads. Five pistols, four country made pistols, two mobile phones and a wi-fi dongle has been seized from them. The accused were identified as Bharat (20), a native of Kosi Kalan in Mathura district (UP), Mohit (27) and Punit (24), residents of Ballabgarh in Faridabad district.  In a joint operation, crime units from Sector 17, Sector 39 and Sector 40 nabbed the trio from different areas in the city. They confessed that they are members of Ashok Rathi gang.  After Rathi’s murder, they got to know that Manoj was involved in the murder of Rathi and decided to eliminate him. “This is a big catch for us as they were trying to murder seven persons. The accused revealed that they were planning to kill one person in Dighal, one in Faridabad, one in Sondhi village, one in Alipur and three persons in Patli village. Bharat and Mohit were carrying bounty of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP crime. After the arrest of the trio, the number of persons arrested for Manoj’s murder has risen to seven. Four persons were nabbed last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-gangsters-nabbed-in-gurugram-199541
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Prison Radio launched in Panipat jail||New Year brought joy to the inmates of Haryana prisons as Prison Radio was launched in District Jail, Panipat, today.  In December 2020, six inmates of Central Jail, Ambala, five inmates of District Jail Panipat and 10 inmates, including five woman inmates of District Jail Faridabad, were provided radio jockey training by Dr Vartika Nanda, founder of Tinka Tinka Foundation.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prison-radio-launched-in-panipat-jail-199542
17-01-2021||---||33.3% drop in GST collection in Faridabad||Faridabad, January 16Faridabad, one of the leading contributors of revenue (GST) in the state, has registered a sharp drop of 33.3 per cent till December 2020 in comparison to the corresponding period of 2019.It is being attributed mainly to the Covid crisis and the lockdown, which led to disruption in the manufacturing and sale of industrial and commercial products.The district sales tax department has collected a total of Rs 1,738 crore in the nine-month period between April and December 2020, which is Rs 867.85 crore lower than Rs 2,605.85 crore collected in the same period of 2019, according to details available from the Department of Excise and Taxation here.However, according to officials, the revenue collection in December 2020 surpassed the revenue collected in the corresponding period of 2019 by a margin of Rs 5.1 crore. The monthly collection in December 2020 has been Rs 288.49 crore against 283.39 crore in 2019.The collection in November 2020 remained Rs 21.35 crore less than the collection of Rs 298.10 crore of November 2019, according to official figures.Ascribing the downfall to lockdown conditions and lower manufacturing and sales activities since April last, Ravinder Singh, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, said that though the collection is expected to rise, the overall figures are likely to remain lower this financial year (2020-21).The GST collection had declined by 60.94 per cent in the first quarter (April to June) of the current financial year (2020-21). It was only Rs 277.96 crore in comparison to Rs 899.01 crore of 2019-20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/33-3-drop-in-gst-collection-in-faridabad-199543
