18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 4 COVID-19 deaths, 119 fresh cases||Haryana on Monday reported four coronavirus deaths, taking the fatality toll to 2,989 even as 119 fresh cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,66,428, official data showed.According to the state health department's daily bulletin, a fatality each was reported from Hisar, Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts.Among other districts to report new cases included Gurugram (32) and Faridabad (21).The number of active cases in the state was 1,929, as many as 2,61,510 have so far been discharged after being cured, while the recovery rate was 98.15 percent. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-4-covid-19-deaths-119-fresh-cases-200234
18-01-2021||Rohtak||Non-teaching employees of all Haryana varsities resist management system||Hundreds of non-teaching employees of all government universities across the state on Monday assembled at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here under the aegis of All Haryana Universities Employees Federation (AHUEF) in order to air their grievances and to resist the government directives about the uploading of information about all universities’ employees at Human Resource Management System (HRMS) portal.They also threatened to launch state-wide agitation if the directives about uploading the employees’ information on the HRMS portal were not withdrawn soon.The state-level protest programme was presided over by the AHUEF Chairman Dayanand Soni while MDU Non-Teachers ‘Association president Randhir Kataria was the coordinator.“We will not upload our information on the HRMS portal as it’s an effort to attack the autonomous power of the universities. The government will misuse the information by transferring the employees from one to other universities and to creating monetary issues as well hence the federation is resisting it,” said Kataria, adding that the government had directed all universities to upload information of their employees on the HRMS portal by January 31.He maintained that if the government’s intention was good and it wants to develop online system then it can establish a separate portal for every university to upload the information about non-teaching employees but the university employees would not share their information on the HRMS portal that meant for employees of government departments.Soni raised the issue of a large number of posts of non-teaching employees lying vacant in all universities.He demanded the universities to pay full salary to contractual employees on the pattern of equal pay for equal work till regular appointments were not made on the posts.“Old pension scheme should be restored to secure the future of employees as the new pension scheme is not favourable to them,” Soni added.   The employees also raised other demands which include regular membership of president and secretary of non-teaching employees association in executive council and finance council, cashless medical facility on the pattern of state government’s employees and regularisation of services of all those working on contractual basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/non-teaching-employees-of-all-haryana-varsities-resist-management-system-200214
18-01-2021||Jhajjar||Women Farmer day celebrated with enthusiasm at Tikri||Women Farmer Day was celebrated with great enthusiasm at Tikri border on Monday. Women protesters held a day-long fast, burnt the effigy of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for backing the three controversial farm laws and sung songs against the central government. Social activist Medha Patekar also joined the dharna at Tikri.A group of more than 100 women from Punjab reached Rohad Toll Plaza to join Haryana women staging dharna there against three farm laws. Woman activist Jagmati Sangwan sang a song in Haryanvi about the plight of farmers while Raj Kumari Dahiya, Meenakshi Chaudhary, Veena Malik, Inderjit Singh, and Capt Shamsher Singh addressed the women.  “Women are the main participants in the agriculture work hence they are participating in a large number to strengthen the ongoing agitation. Women power will also be seen during the proposed Delhi march on January 26,” Patekar said.Inderjit Singh, vice-president of the All India Kisan Sabha, exhorted the women farmers to establish their farmer identity more assertively as they were carrying out more than 70 per cent of farming and cattle keeping.“Not merely one day but everyday should be Women Farmers’ Day,” he said.  “Celebrating the republic Day is our bonafide right and we will do it peacefully at all levels including in Delhi.”Later, women protesters burnt effigies of IMF and World Bank at Tikri border accusing both of being not only anti-farmers but also “anti-common men”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-farmer-day-celebrated-with-enthusiasm-at-tikri-200207
18-01-2021||New Delhi||Khattar urges Centre for special financial assistance of Rs 5,000 crore in upcoming Union Budget||Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar on Monday urged the Centre to make provision for “special” financial assistance of Rs 5,000 crore to Haryana for its development in the upcoming Union Budget 2021-22.He sought the special financial assistance during the pre-budget consultation meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.The amount asked for is in addition to regular financial allocations to the state.In a separate meeting with Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industry and Consumer Affairs, Piyush Goyal, Khattar pitched for several projects for the state. In the meeting with Union finance minister, Khattar said the special financial assistance to the state was crucial in order to give push to its growth and development trajectory.The finance minister had convened the pre-budget consultation meeting which was held through video-conference.The special financial assistance amount sought for by Khattar comprise of Rs 3,000 crore for COVID-19 management, creation of health and medical infrastructure and for rural development (“Gramin Vikas”).It also includes Rs 1,000 crore for NCR development and Rs 1,000 crore for creation of capital infrastructure under micro irrigation and pond rejuvenation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-urges-centre-for-special-financial-assistance-of-rs-5-000-crore-in-upcoming-union-budget-200204
18-01-2021||---||Minimum temperatures in Northwest plains to fall by 2 to 4°C in next 3 days||New Delhi, January 18Minimum temperatures are very likely to fall by 2-4°C during next three days (till January 21) and then rise by 2-4°C in subsequent three days over plains of Northwest India.Cold day conditions are expected in pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during the next two days, the IMD today said.Currently, easterly winds are prevailing at lower levels over plains of North India. The reversal of winds from easterly to westerly/ northwesterly is expected from tonight. Under the influence of lower level wind reversal of winds, cold wave conditions are expected in isolated pockets over East Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi till January 20 and West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan till January 21.A fresh Western Disturbance is expected to affect Western Himalayan Region from January 22. Under the influence of its interaction with low level easterlies from January 23 scattered to widespread rain/snow likely over WHR between January 22 and 24 along with isolated rain/thundershower over adjoining plains of Northwest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperatures-in-northwest-plains-to-fall-by-2-to-4%C2%B0c-in-next-3-days-200203
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||NSUI activists stage protest outside Haryana Staff Selection Commission office over cancelled sachiv exams||Activists of the National Students’ Union of India on Monday held protest outside the office of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission in Panchkula alleging that multiple paper leaks have taken place during the past over five years, but the state government had failed to take concrete action.The HSSC had on Saturday announced cancellation of written exams held on January 9 and 10 for around 700 posts of gram sachiv, following claims that question papers were leaked.Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala had said it has come to the government’s knowledge that question papers and answer keys have been found on mobile devices in certain private colleges and other institutions.The Haryana Staff Selection Commission decided to cancel the written exams, he said earlier.The activists of NSUI, the student wing of the Congress, alleged that this was not the first incident of paper leak but there were many examples in the past over five years.“The latest paper leak incident is not an isolated one. During the past over five years, multiple paper leaks for various recruitments have taken place jeopardising the future of youngsters in the state. But the state government has failed to take any concrete action and paper leaks keep happening,” NSUI’s Haryana unit president Divyanshu Budhiraja said.NSUI activists, who raised slogans against the Khattar government, tried to enter HSSC premises and gherao the office of its chairman, but they were stopped by the police.Earlier, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala had alleged that by cancelling the written exams for the posts of gram sachivs, the state government has accepted “foul play”. Besides demanding registration of an FIR, Surjewala also sought an independent probe into the matter.Surjewala had said around 10 lakh people had taken this exam and demanded that the state government should also pay Rs 5,000 each to the candidate who appeared in the exam as compensation. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nsui-activists-stage-protest-outside-haryana-staff-selection-commission-office-over-cancelled-sachiv-exams-200165
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||4 of family killed in road accident in Haryana’s Mahendergarh||Four members of a family were killed when their car collided with a private bus on the Mahendergarh-Kanina road in Haryana, police said on Monday.The accident took place on Sunday near Jhagroli village in Mahendergarh, they said.The deceased hailed from Faridabad, a police official said.Most of the deceased were aged above 50, he said, adding that they were returning to Faridabad from Mahendergarh.“Those who died in the accident were three brothers and their sister,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-of-family-killed-in-road-accident-in-haryanas-mahendergarh-200139
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperature rises at many places in Punjab, Haryana||The minimum temperature rose slightly at many places in Punjab and Haryana on Monday, providing respite to the people from biting cold weather conditions.According to the Meteorological Department officials here, Chandigarh recorded a minimum of 7.2 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal limits.Patiala in Punjab recorded a low of 10.1 degrees Celsius, up four notches, while Halwara, Bathinda and Gurdaspur, too, recorded above-normal minimums at 9.6 degrees Celsius, 7.8 degrees Celsius and 8.3 degrees Celsius, respectively.Amritsar's minimum settled at 5.2 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal while Ludhiana recorded a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius.Karnal in Haryana recorded a low of 10.4 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal.Ambala (7.5 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (9 degrees Celsius), Bhiwani (8.1 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (9.4 degrees Celsius) also recorded above-normal minimum temperatures.However, Hisar's minimum settled at 5 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal.The MeT officials said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at a few places, including Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Bhiwani, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperature-rises-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-200115
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||2 die, 178 new Covid cases in Haryana||Two more deaths were reported.Gurugram reported a maximum of 45 cases, followed by Faridabad (24) and Panchkula. Faridabad and Kaithal reported one death each. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-178-new-covid-cases-in-haryana-200046
18-01-2021||Jhajjar||Drive against modified silencers||Step towards a relaxed mindPalwal: The administration has announced to hold meditation programmes in all government high and senior secondary schools in the district. Inaugurating one such programme at Government Senior Secondary School, Hassanpur, on Saturday, Archit Vats, CMGGA (CM’s Good Government Associate) said, “As per the latest studies, students who meditate tend to perform better and handle academic stress more efficiently. The research has linked meditation to a rise in IQ levels, improved mental function, and higher grades.” A total of 60,000 students of classes VI to XII will be benefitted. Ashok Baghel, District Education Officer, said a 10-minute meditation had been started during the morning assembly every day.Clean air tower in FaridabadFaridabad: Elofic Industries Limited recently inaugurated the prototype of a clean air tower on its premises. Amid increasing air pollution levels, the company has constructed this stainless steel in consultation and collaboration with Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU), Palwal, and Director, IIT-Jammu, Prof MS Gaur. ‘’The tripartite research collaboration will result in an efficient and cost-effective product,” says vice-chairman, Elofic, KD Sahni. The tower is designed to cover up to 300 metre radial distance and delivers 10,000 cubic feet per minute of clean air.Meniscus repair surgeryAmbala: A first-of-its-kind meniscus repair surgical procedure was performed at the Ambala Civil Hospital A 30-year-old man, whose meniscus was torn while running, was operated upon by Dr Nishant Setia, a consultant orthopaedic at the hospital. Dr Setia said, “The surgery was performed with the help of an arthroscopy. In this, the recovery is fast and the patient starts walking within a day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drive-against-modified-silencers-200030
18-01-2021||Karnal||Talent search event at college||Remote access to e-resources at KUKurukshetra: Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University (KU), Prof Som Nath Sachdeva has launched remote access to e-resources for teachers and researchers at Jawaharlal Nehru Library situated on the campus. Professor Sachdeva said teachers and researchers would have access to more than 10,000 e-journals. Librarian Ashu Shokeen said the remote access service was being provided through the UGC's INFLIB centre online platform, INFED.Special lecture by former VCRohtak: Former Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, Dr Bhim Singh Dahiya delivered a special lecture during a programme organised by the department of English and foreign languages and Ch Ranbir Singh Institute of Social & Economic Change (CRISEC). Dr Dahiya, during his address on "History of English Literature: An overview", exhorted the students to develop the habit of doing the background studies of literary works. He gave detailed inputs on the literary movements of English literature, and its impact on society. He also answered the queries of the students.NCC units celebrate Army DayYamunanagar: The NCC units of Mukand Lal National College, Radaur, and Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, celebrated Army Day. Addressing the cadets virtually, Maj Deepak Kaushik, Principal and NCC officer of Mukand Lal College, exhorted the cadets to work hard. Dr Harinder Singh Kang, Principal, Guru Nanak Khalsa College, said the NCC cadets also organised a spectacular parade on the occasion.Quiz, dance & singing eventsYamunanagar: A two-day online and offline talent show was organised at DAV College for Girls, Yamunanagar. More than 100 students participated in various competitions such as singing, declamation, poetry, instrumental, painting, quiz and dance. Principal Abha Khetarpal exhorted the students to participate in co-curricular activities on a regular basis to hone their skills. Dr Nita Dwivedi, head of the music department, and Dr Gursharan Kaur, head of the Punjabi department, said they organised such events every year.150 attend national conferenceFaridabad: A two-day national conference on 'Advances in Civil Engineering and Environmental Sciences' (ACEES - 2021) concluded at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad. It was jointly organised by the department of civil engineering and the department of environmental sciences. As many as 150 researchers, faculty members, industry experts and students from across the nation attended the event and 70 research papers were presented on the occasion. Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva was the chief guest at the inaugural session. He said civil engineering, being the oldest branch, played a significant role in the physical development of the country and contributed towards the economic growth in a big way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/talent-search-event-at-college-200029
18-01-2021||THE main road of Kambasi village is always submerged in overflowing sewer water. The drain water flows all over the street and emanates foul smell. Though lakhs of expenditure is shown to be spent on maintenance of drains||Drain water overflowing on streets irks village residents||Two-pronged response to tackle illegal street vendorsTHIS is in response to a news item in Chandigarh Tribune of January 14, regarding illegal street vendors. There are two ways to resolve the problem - one is to be strict from the beginning and not allow encroachment on roads even if there is a single violator, following whom more people come and settle there and second is that public on their part should not buy anything from them as they are causing inconvenience to many people like them by encroaching upon roads and footpaths. If they get no business, they themselves will go away. The administration and public, have to play their part together to check the problem. Arun Kumar, PanchkulaRoad sweeping machine a burden on Kaithal Municipal CouncilTHE road sweeping machine deployed in Kaithal town by the Urban Local Bodies Department following NGT directives, has 'failed' to deliver the desired results, despite the fact that the local municipal council had to pay Rs 4.70 lakh per month to the contractor for keeping the machine functional. Deployed to sweep town roads, the machine moves along the central verge (dividers) only and does not touch the both sides of roads. Thus, the garbage, polythene and other waste material keeps lying on the roadsides. After contacting municipal council staff, when I contacted the Panchkula-based contractor and brought to his knowledge that except dividers, the roadsides were not swept by the machine, he said the machine had strong suction power and could suck even heavy materials lying on road. Following this disclosure, it is clear that neither the municipal council nor the contractor is bothered to ensure cleanliness of roads thus leaving the town residents to live in poor sanitary conditions. If those at the helm of affairs awaken from slumber, the Kaithal roads may look neat and clean. Satish Seth, KaithalDiscrepancy in notification for property taxI want to draw the attention of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to the piquant situation that has arisen where the benefits and other concessions announced by the state government are being denied to a lot of property taxpayers who have not paid arrears of tax in a lump sum on the ground that the benefits announced cannot be availed by them since the payments made by them are not made before the target date. The notifications issued by the government in this regard do not speak about the same, yet this condition is wrongly added to it by the local authorities. As a matter of fact, the notifications allow one-time concession only if arrears are paid or cleared by the target dates fixed by the government. It does not talk about one-time payment nor debars multiple payments at different times, i.e., even in instalments before the due date. The government scheme and policies are to facilitate recovery of arrears of property tax, which remains unrecovered in huge amounts and is not meant to curb or obstruct its recovery or deny benefits if payment is not made in a lump sum or at one time. The only condition laid down is that the benefits can be enjoyed only once during this period if full arrears are paid before the target date. ADV Vinod Kumar, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drain-water-overflowing-on-streets-irks-village-residents-200028
18-01-2021||Faridabad||70 cartons of liquor seized||4 of family killed in accidentMahendragarh: Four members of a family were killed when their car collided with a private bus on the Kanina road here on Sunday. Three others travelling on the bus also suffered injuries in the mishap. The deceased have been identified as Yogesh Chhabra, his brothers Surender, Jitender and sister Santosh of Faridabad. The accident occurred when the family was on its way back home from Mahendragarh. “The private bus owner has been arrested and booked under various sections of the IPC,” said the police. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/70-cartons-of-liquor-seized-200027
18-01-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||20 lakh birds likely to be culled in Panchkula’s Barwala belt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 17Close on the heels of the decision to cull 1.66 lakh birds in the poultry belt of Panchkula’s Barwala after two epicentres for bird flu were identified, the owners have begun vaccination of the birds in their respective farms with, so far, unapproved vaccines. Four more samples are suspected to be positive and their report is expected shortly. Their confirmation is likely to sound the death knell for 20 lakh birds in Asia’s largest poultry belt.The poultry farm owners are procuring the “smuggled” vaccine from their own sources or buying local versions of the vaccine though the government has not approved this vaccine used elsewhere in Asia.55 more samples taken from 15 locations“We need to save our birds and this vaccine has successfully contained the outbreak since there are fewer dead birds in our flock. We are buying the smuggled vaccine for Rs 5 per dose and the local one for Rs 2.50. Each bird requires two doses in a gap of 21 days. Though this is additional expenditure, we are going ahead because losing a bird costs a lot more,” explains Darshan Singla, president of the Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association.He maintains that they have, in representations to the government, sought a formal approval for manufacturing the vaccine locally and adds that they have been informally conveyed that four more samples have been found to carry the bird flu (H5N8) virus strain. “The confirmation will come from Bhopal now,” Singla added.Sources in the Animal Husbandry Department said that they too were aware that four more samples tested by the Jalandhar lab carry the strain and that these have been forwarded to the Bhopal lab for confirmation.With their hands still full with the culling of 1.66 lakh birds, the sheer magnitude of the number of birds, which will require culling once this confirmation comes in, is overwhelming. “It takes five days and 30 teams of five members each to complete the entire process of culling under 10,000 birds, disinfecting the place, clearing the bird droppings and burning the entire stock of feed. If we follow the government guidelines which state that all birds in farms falling in the radius of 1km of the epicentre have to be culled, the entire Barwala belt will turn into a graveyard once the confirmation on the four samples comes in. Also, there is no space to bury 20 lakh birds,” a senior officer explained.Sources said that ACS (Animal Husbandry) Raja Shekhar Vundru has forwarded the representations received from the Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association on the revision of this containment strategy to the Centre.“Culling should not be undertaken merely on the basis of four or five birds testing positive but should be on the confirmed infected flock. Also, culling of birds in the 1km radius is unjustified. The officials of the Jalandhar lab landed and picked up samples, chose not to coordinate with the farmers or the district authorities, picked up dead birds and went away. The next we know is that two poultry farms were identified as epicentres. When a dead bird is taken, the official puts it in a box, seals it, gets a signature of the owner and gives a receipt. None of this was followed,” says Singla.Fifty-five more samples from 15 locations have been collected of which four are suspected to be positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-lakh-birds-likely-to-be-culled-in-panchkulas-barwala-belt-199952
18-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Gene to fight leaf rust in wheat identified||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 17In a major breakthrough in the field of wheat research, scientists of Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR), Karnal, and its regional station in Shimla in collaboration with Sydney University have identified a new gene Lr80 to impart resistance against leaf rust in wheat varieties.As per the scientists, it is environment friendly as there is no need to spray fungicide in the varieties developed with it. Besides, they claimed that it would help in enhancing yield and productivity.“It is a major international breakthrough in wheat research as we have identified new gene Lr80 which will impart resistance to leaf rust, which is a big challenge for us. This is only the fifth case from India where new gene has been identified. It has been detected from a local land race named Hingo-2 and it will help in increasing the productivity and yield of wheat,” said Dr GP Singh, Director, IIWBR, Karnal. “With the help of this gene, we will develop rust-resistant genetic stocks and wheat varieties,” he added.About the advantages, he maintains the major advantage of this gene is that it has not been used so far and therefore, it would impart a durable kind of resistance and would be effective for a longer time.“Rusts are the most devastating disease of wheat and leaf rust disease is more dangerous as it damages the crop by 50-70 per cent. It is caused by Puccinia triticina fungus which is present wherever wheat is grown throughout the world. It causes more loss than any other rust,” he said, adding that resistance is the most economic, cost effective and ecologically friendly way to manage wheat rust.He maintained that the most of the rust-resistant genes identified during the past many years are genes with minor effects, but this one exhibited good response.The Director said that this year, wheat has been cultivated on around 32.5 million hectares so far which is 1.5 million hectares higher than last year cultivation. “This year, a target of 107MT has been fixed, but we are expecting 112MT. Last year, as per the fourth estimate, the country produced 107.6MT,” the Director said.Eco-friendly||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gene-to-fight-leaf-rust-in-wheat-identified-199930
18-01-2021||r Correspondent---||Cancel forest land allotment for fuel station, Haryana CM urged||Gurugram, January 17 Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla has written to the Chief Minister, seeking immediate cancellation of the alleged illegal allotment of 15,000 square metres of forest land in Chakkarpur village to Indian Oil Corporation to set up a fuel station. In his letter, Singla highlighted protests and angst among residents and environmentalists over the 2019 order of the Principal Secretary, Urban Local Bodies, for allotment of the land. “The land is ‘gair mumkin pahar’, a part of the natural conservation zone and protected forest land where no commercial activity is allowed,” read the letter. Local councillor RS Rathee too moved complaint to the Chief Minister, highlighting the fact that the land was protected under several notifications and regulations and the revenue record mentioned that it was covered with trees. “The area is a low-lying forested area near a water channel in a flood-prone zone, which plays an important role in reducing flooding and increasing groundwater recharge,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cancel-forest-land-allotment-for-fuel-station-haryana-cm-urged-199931
18-01-2021||---||Enforce policy to reduce ‘undesirable litigation’, says CS||Chandigarh, January 17The Haryana Government has asked its departments to enforce the Haryana State Litigation Policy in letter and spirit to avoid “undesirable litigation”.The state chief secretary, in a communication to various departments, asked them to expeditiously dispose of representations and legal notices under relevant rules by passing a detailed speaking order under the policy.“In has been observed that in most cases the court gives directions to the pass speaking orders on representations/legal notices in a time-bound manner but the same are decided by the competent authorities by passing cursory orders of two or three lines. Due to the same, the affected persons again approach the courts by filing a contempt petition and consequently another round of litigation starts,” the communications said.Now, for prompt disposal of the representations/legal notices, it has been decided that such notices shall be marked to the district attorney or the legal officer of the department concerned. “The legal officer will be personally responsible to ensure that the same is promptly attended to and appropriate reply is given to the complainant as per rules within a maximum period of one month or the time prescribed by the court,” it said.The chief secretary asked the heads of the departments to ensure the implementation of the policy and compliance of the court orders within stipulated time by passing a detailed speaking order. “It must be ensured that the cost imposed by the courts on account of the failure of prompt disposal of the representations/ court orders are mandatorily recovered from the erring officers so that the state does not suffer,” the communication added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/enforce-policy-to-reduce-undesirable-litigation-says-cs-199932
18-01-2021||Hisar||Man arrested for raping  daughters||A man employed as a cook in the district has been arrested on charges of sexually exploiting his minor daughters. The police have registered a case of rape and under the POCSO Act and arrested the accused.  The police spokesperson said the victim, a 17-year-old daughter of the accused, said that her father had been raping her for the past seven years. She said she could not disclose the matter to anybody as her father used to threaten her.  The victim said she got pregnant about three months back after which her father gave her some medicines for abortion. Later, she went to live with her elder sister and on return she found that her father had started harassing her younger sister thus she disclosed the matter to her mother and lodged a complaint with the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-arrested-for-raping-daughters-199933
18-01-2021||Yamunanagar||Body found in car near canal||The body of a 37-year-old man of Kaithal district was found lying in his car on the bank of the Augmentation Canal near Todarpur village on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Jaipal Nain of Model Town, Kaithal. He was a partner in a school of Kaithal district. Jaipal Nain had gone missing last evening and on the complaint of his school partner, Balvinder Singh of Sector 19, Kaithal, a case was registered. Manoj Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, Yamunanagar,  said they got information that a car was standing on the bank of Augmentation Canal near Todarpur village and a body was lying inside the car. He said that the miscreants might have absconded after abandoning the car. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/body-found-in-car-near-canal-199934
18-01-2021||Ambala||Zila Parishad vice-chief quits||Rajnish Sharma, vice-chairman, Zila Parishad, Ambala, on Sunday resigned from his post and the BJP to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. He reached the Naraingarh Sugarmills where farmers had gathered and made the announcement.  Rajnish said, “I have resigned from the post of vice-chairman and also resigned from the BJP. I have taken this step in support of farmers who have been protesting against the farm laws. A large number of farmers have lost their lives and I am very much hurt by this situation.” Rajnish had joined the BJP in 2019 after parting ways with the JJP during the Assembly elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/zila-parishad-vice-chief-quits-199935
18-01-2021||Nitish Sharma||Gurnam Singh Charuni’s fake FB account seeks money for R-Day rally||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, January 17Tricksters created a fake account of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and sought donations for the farmers’ tractor march on January 26.They shared an account number and an IFS Code in a Facebook post, using Charuni’s picture.The Facebook post read: “I appeal to everyone to donate as much as they can to support the farmers who have been sitting on roads. Donations are being collected for January 26. Share the message and extend support.”When Charuni learnt about his fake account, he released a video message, in which he said, “Someone has created a fake account. The union hasn’t sought donations. We have no idea who has created this (Facebook) account. I request everyone not to deposit money in the bank account. If people are sending donations, they should give it to reliable persons.”He later told The Tribune: “The matter came to my knowledge today. The account was created a month ago. I want to make it clear that the BKU has not been seeking donations. I have asked my advocate to get a case registered. The police must track the fraudster and take action against him.”After the BKU learnt about the fake account, it was inaccessible.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said: “Charuni has only one account and one page on Facebook. The Bharatiya Kisan Union will try to get his official account verified so that such an incident does not take place in future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurnam-singh-charunis-fake-fb-account-seeks-money-for-r-day-rally-199936
18-01-2021||---||Be sensitive, repeal farm laws, Deepender urges Centre||Yamunanagar, January 17 Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda urged the Centre to show sensitivity and accept the protesting farmers’ demands. Speaking at a ‘Kisan Sanwad’ programme, he said the government should not forget the time when the population of the country was 30 crore and it had to import foodgrain to feed the people of the county. “Now, that the population of the country is 135 crore, it is because of the hard work of farmers only that we have our godowns full of foodgrain. Therefore, the government should abandon its rigid attitude and accept their demands,” said Deepender.  The programme was held by Radaur Congress MLA BL Saini, Congress leaders Satish Sangwan and Kulwinder Khera in Dhaulra village of Yamunanagar district on Sunday. He also addressed a ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Sammelan’ in Bhagu Majra village. Besides, he participated in several other programmes held by Congress leaders in Bubka village, Pansara village, Rajdhani Colony and Raghunath Puri Colony. Former Haryana Assembly Speaker Kuldeep Sharma, Radaur MLA BL Saini, Congress leaders Barkha Ram Pansara, Ashok Arora, Subhash Chaudhry, Rakesh Kamboj, Narinder Sangwan and Bhimsen Mehta also attended the programmes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/be-sensitive-repeal-farm-laws-deepender-urges-centre-199937
18-01-2021||---||Rehearsal for Jan 26 event tomorrow||Jhajjar, January 17 Protesting farmers and retired Army personnel will hold a rehearsal for the proposed the Republic Day tractor march at the Tikri border on January 19. ‘Women’s Farmer Day’ will also be observed that day.  Representatives of Farmers’ Coordination Committee, Haryana, today told the media that their protest would continue till the Central Government repealed the three farm laws.  “It will be for the first time that Women’s Farmer Day will be observed across the nation on January 19. On the occasion, women farmers will lead the dharna at all protest sites in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Those who are unable to join us will assemble in their areas to mark the occasion,” said Navdeep Singh, a farmer leader.   Prahlad Singh Bharukhera said farmers and ex-servicemen would carry out a rehearsal for the proposed Delhi march at the Tikri border on January 19. “The road map for the march will soon be decided by the Kisan Sanyukt Morcha,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rehearsal-for-jan-26-event-tomorrow-199938
18-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Jind villagers raise funds to support farmers' stir; target Rs 20 lakh||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 17Residents of various villages in the area have started raising funds to support the farmers’ agitation at the Delhi borders.Residents of Chhatar village in the Uchana block of Jind district held a meeting today and decided to collect funds from the village to raise about Rs 20 lakh.The panchayat chalked a plan to collect Rs 200 per acre from landowners and Rs 100 from others of their free will.“We have been contributing to the agitation and taking milk and other items to the stir site. We have now decided to raise funds,” said Joginder Singh, a local resident.He said since there had been allegations of foreign funding, the village had decided to collect money for funding the agitation.“There is no dearth of funds when it comes to the collective cause of the village or society. Every family comes forward to donate money as per their will and financial capacity. The village is running langar at the dharna site and near the village,” he said.Karampal Fauji, an ex-serviceman, said they would proceed to Delhi on January 23 in 400 tractors and 15 JCB machines.“We will reach Tikri on January 24 and join the cavalcade at the dharna site to march forward in Delhi on Republic Day,” he said.Ghogria, Karsandhu and Karsola villages have also started raising funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-villagers-raise-funds-to-support-farmers-stir-target-rs-20-lakh-199939
18-01-2021||---||Ex-servicemen:  Don’t disrupt proceedings||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-servicemen-dont-disrupt-proceedings-199940
18-01-2021||Karnal||Tractor march to be peaceful: BKU||Vikram Kasana, president of the BKU’s youth wing, also reiterated that there was no plan to gherao the Parliament and reach Red Fort. “We will hold the tractor march peacefully as decided by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha,” he said.Both leaders accused the Union and the state governments of defaming the protest. Kasana said farmers would not appear before the committee constituted by the Supreme Court. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tractor-march-to-be-peaceful-bku-199941
18-01-2021||---||Jhajjar falls 5 places in gender ratio at birth||Jhajjar, January 17Despite conducting 11 raids under the PC-PNDT Act and the MTP Act to check female foeticide, Jhajjar district registered the second-worst sex ratio at birth (SRB) across the state in 2020.It recorded the birth of 892 girls against 1,000 boys in 2020 while the figure was 914 in 2019. The dismal SRB has also left the district health officers shocked as they were expecting an improvement in the gender ratio. The officers have now started finding out the reasons behind this dismal performance.Dismal scenarioAs per the latest data of the Health Department, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri are the only districts in the state where gender ratio is less than 900 against the state average of 922.Charkhi Dadri is at the bottom with the SRB of 891 followed by Jhajjar.In 2019, Jhajjar was at 16th position and having much better SRB than Sonepat, Rohtak, Gurugram, Karnal and Bhiwani districts but it slipped to 21st position in 2020.“A total of 11,958 children were born in Jhajjar district in 2020 and 6,321 are boys and 5,637 are girls,” said sources.Dr Achal Tripathi, Deputy Civil Surgeon (PNDT), said having conducted the highest number (11) of raids in the state and nabbing several persons involved in the racket, they were quite confident about improvement in the SRB in 2020 but it did not happen.“We are now exploring the reasons for the drop in SRB. Out of 11 raids, seven were carried out in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh indicating that inter-state gender determination rackets are one of major reasons behind dismal SRB. Locals are going to other states for pre-natal sex determination,” said Tripathi.He added villages having lowest sex ratio were being identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-falls-5-places-in-gender-ratio-at-birth-199942
18-01-2021||Sonepat||Kisan morcha distances itself from Charuni programme||Ahead of the tractor parade in Delhi, members of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha distanced themselves from the programme organised by Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni in Delhi on Sunday, in which leaders of opposition parties participated.Morcha leaders stated during a press conference that they had no relation with Charuni’s programme. Charuni held a programme, in which leaders of various opposition parties participated. The programme was held to finalise the agenda for the ‘kisan sansad’, scheduled for January 22 and 23.“We will take up this issue at the next meeting of the morcha and ask Charuni about it. We will decide after the meeting,” said Shiv Kumar Kakka, morcha leader. He said they had been getting information for the past two or three days about Charuni’s programme, he said.Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of the BKU (Charuni), said it was Charuni’s programme and had no connection with the morcha.“Political parties need votes at the time of elections. Charuni called them so that they could clarify their stand on the three farm laws,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-morcha-distances-itself-from-charuni-programme-199943
18-01-2021||---||Sugarcane growers threaten agitation||Ambala, January 17 Sugarcane growers who have sold their produce to Naraingarh sugar mills have been awaiting their dues amounting to nearly Rs 70 crore, including dues of the previous season.  As per the information available, the mill is yet to clear the dues of around Rs 1.44 crore of local farmers for the cane-crushing season that ended in April last year and start the payment for the ongoing season that started in November last year which is around Rs 68 crore.  As per norms, payments are to be cleared within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane. Seeking the pending payments, a group of farmers today held a meeting in front of Naraingarh sugar mills. BKU (Charuni) district chief Malkit Singh said, “The farmers are forced to request the officials and hold agitations to get the money released which is not acceptable. Besides the local farmers, Rs 4.5 crore dues of farmers from other districts are also pending. Now, we have been assured that the previous payment will be cleared in a couple of days and the new payment will be started by Friday. The mill should start clearing over Rs 1 crore daily and clear the dues at the earliest. If the administration fails to start making payments from Friday, another meeting will be held on next Monday and we will launch an agitation.” A mill official said the price of sugar in the market is low due to which the mill has been facing issues in sales and releasing money regularly. SDM Naraingarh Vaishali Sharma, who managed to pacify the farmers, said, “We have assured them that dues of the last season of around Rs 1.44 crore will be cleared on Monday and payment of the ongoing season will start from next week. Daily, we receive almost Rs 1.2-1.5 crore from sugar sale. Out of it, Rs 30-40 lakh will be allocated for mill operational expenses while the rest will go in the accounts of farmers.” To a query, she said, “The mill was not operating at full capacity initially. Now, both the boilers are functional. As we have switched to online system for sugar sale, there were certain impediments in the beginning.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sugarcane-growers-threaten-agitation-199944
18-01-2021||Parveen Arora||800 Karnal farmers await Rs 1.7 cr dues||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 17Around 800 district farmers, who had opted for crop diversification, are waiting for the second instalment under the state government’s flagship scheme ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’. The dues, pending since September last year, have amounted to about Rs 1.70 crore.In view of the depletion of groundwater in the state, the BJP-JJP government had, in May 2020, launched the scheme. It had promised to pay Rs 7,000 per acre to those farmers who would give up the cultivation of wheat and paddy, and instead grow maize, bajra and pulses.THE RULE SAYSUnder the scheme, the first instalment of Rs 2,000 per acre is to be paid after verifying that farmers have opted for crop diversification. The second instalment of Rs 5,000 is given at the time of maturity of crop. This is what the rule says. Ask farmers and they tell a different story.Rampal from Assandh block had sown maize over six acres. He did receive the first instalment, but the wait for the second one seems long.“I enquired from the department several times, but did not receive a concrete response,” he said. There are some who have not even received the first instalment. For example, Parveen from Unispar village.Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture, said: “The department have transferred the first intsalment to around 800 registered farmers. As for the second instalment, we have made the budget and sent it to the Finance Department. The money will be transferred to the accounts of farmers soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/800-karnal-farmers-await-rs-1-7-cr-dues-199945
18-01-2021||---||12 structures razed||Yamunanagar, January 17A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) carried out a demolition drive against unauthorised construction and structures falling under the restricted belts of Jagadhri-Bilaspur scheduled road and Panchkula-Yamunanagar national highway.During the drive, the team sealed a hotel constructed inside the restricted belt on Jagadhri-Bilaspur scheduled road in Harnauli village and demolished 12 structures at Karera Chowk, Panjupur, Karera Khurd and Todarpur villages.Yamunanagar DTP Amit Madholia said the team on Saturday carried out a demolition drive on Jagadhri-Bilaspur scheduled road and sealed a hotel in the revenue estate of Harnauli village.He further said a demolition drive had been carried out on Friday too against unauthorised constructions or structures falling under the restricted belt of Panchkula-Yamunanagar national highway at Karera Chowk, Panjupur, Karera Khurd and Todarpur villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-structures-razed-199946
18-01-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Woman, son to be united at refugee camp in Nuh||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 17 A mother will be united with her son at a refugee camp in Nuh. Acting on a habeas petition filed by the mother, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the son’s transfer from Amritsar to Chandeni Rohingya refugee camp in Nuh tehsil of Mewat district “to enable him to stay with his mother”. The direction by Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill came on a petition against the Union of India and other respondents by the mother through counsel Bhanu Pratap Singh for directions to  produce her son and to set him at liberty. During the course of arguments, her counsel confined his submissions to the transfer of the petitioner’s son from Amritsar, where he was presently detained at a centre. Bhanu Partap Singh told the court that the petitioner’s son had allegedly entered India without proper documents and passport. He was stated to have been later registered as a refugee.  His main contention was that both the petitioner and her son be kept at one place till they were deported, if they were to be detained. Appearing before the Bench, Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain said the Union Ministry of Home Affairs or Union of India had no objection in case the petitioner’s  son was transferred from Amritsar to Chandeni Rohingya refugee camp provided Punjab and Haryana did not have any objection. Responding to a court query, law officers representing Punjab and Haryana stated that both states could not possibly have any objection for transfer of the petitioner’s son to enable him to stay with his mother. “In view of the position, the present petition is accepted. The Additional Director General of Police (Prisons), Punjab, is directed to do the needful for arranging for the conveyance and for ensuring that the petitioner’s son is taken from Amritsar, where he is currently detained at a detention centre, and consigned to Chandeni Rohingya refugee camp, Nuh tehsil,” Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-son-to-be-united-at-refugee-camp-in-nuh-199947
18-01-2021||New Delhi||SC to hear pleas on farm laws after recusal of member from panel set up to resolve impasse||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday the pleas relating to controversial farm laws and the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi borders.The apex court may take into account the matter of recusal of a member of the committee set up by it to resolve the impasse. The top court would also hear the plea of the central government, filed though the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of Republic Day on January 26.In an “extraordinary” interim order on January 12, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde had stayed the implementation of the new farm laws till further orders and had constituted a four-member panel to listen to the grievances and make recommendations to resolve the impasse.The committee comprised Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president of Bhartiya Kisan Union; Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president of Shetkari Sanghatana.The court had said it would hear the pleas against the farm laws after eight weeks when the committee would give its suggestions to resolve the impasse after talking to the protesters and the government. The court’s efforts seem to have hit a hurdle as Mann recused himself from the committee on January 14. A bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran, may take into account the issue of recusal of Mann from the committee and take remedial actions like appointing a person to replace him in the panel. On Saturday, farmer union, Bhartiya Kisan Union Lokshakti, filed an affidavit requesting the top court to remove the remaining three members of the committee and select people who can do the job “on the basis of mutual harmony”.The farmers’ body said the principle of natural justice is going to be violated as those appointed to the four-member committee “have already supported these laws”.It has also sought dismissal of a plea of the central government, filed though the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march on January 26.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws—the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers’ income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and “mandi” (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations.The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-farm-laws-after-recusal-of-member-from-panel-set-up-to-resolve-impasse-199757
