19-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Health workers express reservation about Covid vaccine in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 19Health workers’ unions in Haryana have expressed reservations about Covid vaccine safety.The coverage rate had dipped to about 61 per cent in the state on the second day, i.e. Monday, with 11,457 doses being administered. Today, the state didn’t inform about the target set, but claimed that 11,129 people were vaccinated.However, the vaccination coverage was 80 per cent on the first day.Some health workers even feared that they are being used as Phase-3 trial subjects for Covaxin. Asha workers who remained at the forefront in tacking Covid are opposing inoculation.“We worked at high risk. We went for door-to-door survey of suspected cases. But we had to struggle even for masks and sanitisers. Surprisingly, when the vaccine has arrived, we are told that we would be the first ones to be inoculated. So, there is apprehension about being used as trial subjects for Covaxin,” said Sunita Rani, acting president of Asha Workers Union of Haryana.She added, “I have declined for vaccination.”Surekha, general secretary of Asha Workers’ Union, also echoed the same sentiment. She said, “We have told Asha workers that we are not against vaccination but if they are not willing then they may avoid it.”Rihan Raza, president, National Health Mission (NHM) Karamchari Sangh, said, “Our colleagues are apprehensive as there is no policy of cashless treatment for us in case of adverse event. It could be responsible for low turnout. There is a fear.”Some doctors have expressed reservations about Covaxin. President of Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA) Dr Jasbir Parmar said, “There is no apprehension regarding Covishield. I too have got it. However, there is an apprehension among doctors that Covaxin could have more side effects.”However, Vinod Dalal, president of pharmacist association of Haryana, said that his colleagues were going for vaccination and there were no apprehensions or fear.The task is cut out for Haryana health authorities to calm fears of healthcare and frontline workers. Haryana is providing both Covishield and Covaxin for inoculation.The vaccine is first to be provided to about 1.90 lakh healthcare workers, followed by 4.5 lakh frontline workers, 58 lakh residents above 50 years and the population below the age of 50 having co-morbidities.Panchkula had reported just 10.7 percent coverage on the second day of vaccination but today it jumped to 58.2 per cent. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “There is low response from Asha and Anganwadi workers. We are motivating them. I will personally talk to them.”Clearing the air regarding safety and efficacy concerns of the vaccines, Director General of Health Services (DGHS) Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj said, “We have asked all civil surgeons and deputy civil surgeons to ensure full coverage while motivating health workers. The vaccines are safe. There are no apprehensions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-workers-express-reservation-about-covid-vaccine-in-haryana-200724
19-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Occupants have miraculous escape as car catches fire in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 19Four people had a miraculous escape as the car they were travelling in burst into flames near Rajiv Chowk here on Tuesday.The incident happened under the Rajiv Chowk flyover as a white Creta car coming from Sohna road suddenly caught fire. The occupants though jumped out of the car in the nick of time and called the police for help.   Police reached the spot and cordoned off the area and called the fire services. Two fire engines were pressed into service to douse the fire.Reason behind the incident is being probed.A senior officer from the fire services department said the blaze might have been caused by a short circuit but they were investigating the matter.  No one was hurt in the incident, but the car was completely gutted, the officer informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/occupants-have-miraculous-escape-as-car-catches-fire-in-gurugram-200723
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||HC issues notice to Haryana on a petition challenging 50% reservation for women in Panchayati Raj institution polls||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday issued notice of motion to the State of Haryana on a petition challenging 50 per cent reservation for women in elections to the Panchayati Raj institutions as provided by Haryana Panchayati Raj (Second Amendment) Act, 2020.Petitioners Kailash Bai and Sneh Lata, through counsel Deepkaran Dalal, contended that the women candidates had been restricted from contesting elections to the institutions from wards other than those reserved for them. This, Dalal submitted, was patently illegal, discriminatory, and unconstitutional, violating Articles 14, 15, and 243-D of the Constitution.In the petition placed before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, Dalal added all even-numbered wards were to be reserved for women and odd-numbered for “persons other than women”. No wards were left in the general category open for those eligible to contest.Consequently, woman candidates such as the petitioners wishing to contest elections would not be able to file nomination papers from odd-numbered wards, which should have been general and open to all.He added reservation could, otherwise also, not exceed 50 per cent. “It, therefore, goes without saying that certain number of seats are to be kept in the general or open category for everyone to contest, where several categories of people may be eligible,” he argued.The Bench was also told that the impugned amendment also created reservations for “persons other than women” by restricting women candidates from contesting from those wards. Reservation for males was impermissible under the Constitution and legal system, he added.The object of giving reservations to women was to empower them and increasing their political participation at the grass-root level. “This expectation would be better met if they are allowed to contest from odd-numbered wards also. In the present scenario, their representation would be limited to the reserved seats only, which would not serve the purpose effectively,” it was added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-issues-notice-to-haryana-on-a-petition-challenging-50-reservation-for-women-in-panchayati-raj-institution-polls-200702
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal in Punjab, Haryana||Minimum temperatures hovered a few notches above normal limits at many places in Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday, Meteorological department officials said here.Common capital Chandigarh recorded a low of 7.1 degrees Celsius, up two notches against the normal, they said.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a low of 8.4 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal, while Pathankot, Bathinda and Gurdaspur, too, witnessed above-normal minimum temperatures at 7 degrees Celsius, 7.4 degrees Celsius and 9 degrees Celsius, respectively.Amritsar's minimum settled at 5 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal, while Ludhiana recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a minimum temperature of 8.1 degrees Celsius, Rohtak 7.1 degrees Celsius, Karnal 8.1 degrees Celsius, Bhiwani 7.7 degrees Celsius and Sirsa 8.2 degrees Celsius, the officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-in-punjab-haryana-200633
19-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rewari administration looks at more sites for AIIMS project||Tribune News ServiceRewari, January 19The district administration has started exploring alternative sites for the ambitious AIIMS project in Bishanpur, Alawalpur and Paavti villages under Bawal sub-division.This follows the ongoing deadlock between residents of Majra-Bhalkhi villages and the government over land compensation.The villagers are demanding Rs 50 lakh per acre in lieu of selling their land for the project while the government is not ready to pay them more than Rs 30 lakh per acre.Sources said a committee of the district administration recently visited the three villages after the gram panchayat of Bishanpur village offered to provide land for the project. The team inspected proposed sites from various view points and is likely to submit its report to the Deputy Commissioner soon.“The proposed sites in Bishanpur, Alawalpur and Paavti villages for the AIIMS project were inspected following the proposal of a higher officer in this respect. A meeting of the committee will be held at the DC office on Tuesday to discuss findings of the inspection,” said an officer on condition of anonymity.Sources said the demand of Rs 50 lakh as land compensation by residents of Majra-Bhalkhi villages forced the administration to search for alternative sites for the project. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the project during his visit to Kurukshetra in February 2019.Initially, the project was to be executed at Manethi village but the non-availability of adequate land forced the authorities to shift it to adjoining Majra and Bhalkhi villages, which offered over 300 acres for the project.Significantly, a committee of the Centre also found the proposed site suitable but the villagers refused to sell their land for less than Rs 50 lakh per acre.Meanwhile, Sheotaz Singh, chief, AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti, has raised a serious question mark over the government’s intention stating that the government didn’t seem to be ready to execute the Prime Minister’s announcement so the district administration was spending time in inspecting sites in various villages.“A delegation of the Sangharsh Samiti will meet Union Minister Rao Inderjit on Tuesday to mount pressure on him to get the announcement executed at the earliest. We will launch an agitation if the implementation process is not initiated soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-administration-looks-at-more-sites-for-aiims-project-200596
19-01-2021||The Tribune news dated January 14||Anti-encroachment drive in Panchkula a welcome step||Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaPost lockdown, Yamuna being polluted againDuring the Covid-19 induced lockdown, Yamuna River, which passes through various cities, including Yamunanagar, became much cleaner than before. Once again after the lockdown, Yamuna is being polluted. The government should take action action.Abhishree, YamunanagarNowadays, Songs glorify violenceNow a days, a number of songs glorify violence, crime and immorality. They do not seem to be giving good message to society. Guns, bullets and crime have become their only subjects. Crime is idealised and is connected to high social status. Such songs have adverse effects on young minds and there is change in youngsters’attitude and behaviour. Parents and teachers in schools have to be more vigilant. The authority concerned must take note of it.Jai Bhagwan Galav, KurukshetraCondemned vehicles encroach upon roadIt is a very familiar sight at police stations, where stock of confiscated vehicles keeps on increasing day by day and ultimately these begin encroaching the roads where there is heavy traffic. In public interest, such confiscated vehicles should be disposed of at regular intervals so that people don't have any difficulty commuting on the road.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anti-encroachment-drive-in-panchkula-a-welcome-step-200482
19-01-2021||Rohtak||Societal relevance of research||Talent hunt show at Khalsa collegeYamunanagar: A two-day online talent hunt show concluded at Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar. The function began with the college anthem. Principal Harinder Singh Kang addressed the faculty members. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar from the managing committee and Randeep Singh Jauhar, president of the governing body, congratulated the winners.'Need to strengthen public schools'Yamunanagar: Vijay Kapur, an educationist and social activist, has accused the state government of not giving due importance to public schools. “Rather than compensating public schools for teaching 10 per cent needy students under the Right to Education Act, the government has imposed a heavy property tax on them. Public schools are facing an acute financial crunch and are unable to hire good faculty, which will affect quality education. Even some of these schools are not paying full salaries to teachers,” said Kapur. He urged the government to waive property tax and compensate these schools for teaching needy students under the Right to Education Act.Students showcase talentKurukshetra: Markanda National College, Shahabad Markanda, organised a one-day talent hunt event under the aegis of Kurukshetra University. More than 100 students showcased their talent in dance, singing, instrumental music, poetry, speech, painting and quiz. Principal Ashok Kumar presided over the programme. Nikhil secured the first position in singing competition, followed by Pappu Yadav and Deepa. Garima won the first prize in dance, followed by Sonia and Komal. Ankush and Lovepreet stood first in painting and speech competitions, respectively.Guest lecture on English literatureFaridabad: The English department of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, organised a guest lecture by Dr Neer Kanwal, Associate Professor, Pt JLN Government College Faridabad, on the topic, "Literature, Language and Society". All students and the faculty attended the programme. Deliberating on the interdependence of literature, language and society, Dr Neer Kanwal said literature was a code that helped them understand life, and interpret experiences. Kamal Tandon, head of the department, was also present.52 girls tested for HB levelYamunanagar: A week-long 'National girl health service week' is under way at Guru Nanak Khalsa College. It is being organised by the Bharat Vikas Parishad, Yamunanagar, in collaboration with the women's cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. Principal Harinder Singh Kang said a charitable hospital team of the Bharat Vikas Parishad took the blood samples of 52 girls to check their hemoglobin level. Sushma Jain, women head of the Bharat Vikas Parishad, north Haryana, Vinod Bhatia, president of the Bharat Vikas Parishad, Yamunanagar, Secretary Ravindra Gupta and Vice-Principal of the college Ravi Kapoor were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/societal-relevance-of-research-200481
19-01-2021||Rohtak||Non-teaching varsity employees oppose management system||Hundreds of non-teaching employees of government universities assembled at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here today to resist the government directive about uploading of information about all university employees on the  Human Resource Management System  (HRMS) portal by January 31. They threatened to launch a statewide agitation if the directive about uploading the information was not withdrawn. “We will not upload our information on the HRMS portal as it is an effort to attack the autonomy of universities. The government will misuse the information by transferring employees and creating monetary issues,” said Randhir Kataria, MDU Non-Teachers’ Association president. He said the government could establish a separate portal for every university to upload information about non-teaching employees. The employees also raised other demands like regular membership of president and secretary of non-teaching employees’ association in executive council and finance council, cashless medical facility on the pattern of state government employees and regularisation of service of those working on contract. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/non-teaching-varsity-employees-oppose-management-system-200343
19-01-2021||Sushil Manav||Weekly Covid cases lowest since May||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 18With weekly new infections lowest since May last year, nearly 98 per cent of oxygen support beds and 97 per cent of ventilator beds dedicated for Covid patients across the state are lying vacant today.4 die, 119 new casesAs per the list of the dedicated Covid hospitals in Haryana uploaded on the Health Department’s official website, the state has 3,397 isolation beds (excluding ICU beds), 2,164 oxygen support beds, 602 ICU beds and 263 ventilator beds.On Sunday, out of the 2,094 active cases across the state, barely 51 were under critical care in hospitals, 44 on oxygen support and seven on ventilator.Of these, the maximum 13 were at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and seven each at Metro Hospital, Faridabad, and Government Hospital, Panchkula.The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (PGIMSR) has only two patients on oxygen support, Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan (Sonepat), has two each on oxygen and ventilator, ESIC Medical College, Faridabad, has two on ventilator and Maharaja Agarsen Medical College, Agroha (Hisar), has only one patient on oxygen support.Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Rajeev Arora said the overall Covid situation had improved in the state, but people should not lower the guard and continue to follow all precautions.The recovery rate in the state had also improved to 98.1 per cent. “It is good that healthcare workers are now concentrating on vaccination without the pressure of high number of cases,” said Arora.Meanwhile, the state witnessed 1,354 new Covid cases in the week from January 11 to 17, which is the lowest in the past over seven months.The last week of May 2000 saw 907 cases and after that 2,367, 2,760, 3,427 and 3,194 fresh cases were reported in the four weeks of June 2020.The infection rate peaked from September 14 to 20, when 17,616 tested positive. A plateau in the infections came after this and fresh cases dipped to 12,525 and 10,096 in the subsequent two weeks.After dipping to 7,878 fresh cases in the week from October 12 to 18, the number started surging again till another peak of 17,426 cases was witnessed in the week from November 16 to 22.The cases have been falling since then with the last four weeks witnessing just 3,263, 2,161, 1,887 and 1,354 cases only.Even the number of deaths, which were 213 in the week from November 23 to 29, declined to 53, 45, 33 and 35, respectively, in the past four weeks.From over 20,000 active cases in November last year, the state is left with 2,094 active cases now, which comes out to be just eight active cases per lakh of population. Nuh district has only one active case, Mahendragarh 11 and Jhajjar, once a Covid hotbed, has only 14 cases. Fatehabad, Kaithal and Palwal have two cases each per lakh population. In the positivity rate, only Faridabad, Panchkula, Panipat, Rewari and Gurugram have critical rate of above six while Charkhi Dadri and Nuh have the desirable positivity rate of less than 2 per cent in the overall case positivity rate of 5.4 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-covid-cases-lowest-since-may-200344
19-01-2021||---||Give jab to all for free: Kumari Selja||Chandigarh, January 18  Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) Kumari Selja today demanded that the state government should provide Covid vaccine free to all.  She said that the entire expenditure on the vaccine should be borne by the Centre.  “The Haryana Government should ensure that every resident of the state gets the safest Covid vaccine at the earliest. The Haryana Government should pressurise the central government for this,” she added. In a statement issued here today, Selja said that in the recent Bihar Assembly elections, the BJP had promised in its election manifesto to give free Covid vaccine to the people of Bihar. Other state governments have also announced to provide free vaccine to their residents. “If free vaccine can be given in other states, it can also be possible in Haryana,” said Kumari Selja. She said that due to the pandemic and its severe economic effects, economic activity have come to a standstill. “The industries in the state are suffering. Haryana has the highest unemployment rate in the country. Today, the economic condition of people of the state is very bad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-jab-to-all-for-free-kumari-selja-200345
19-01-2021||---||Now, get power bill on cellphones||Chandigarh, January 18 Now, Haryana consumers can get power bill on their mobile phones through a missed call.  Under the ‘Missed Call Alert Service’, the consumers will get a link through a message on making a missed call from their registered mobile numbers. By clicking the link, consumer can download and pay his/ her electricity bill. While sharing more information, spokesperson of Haryana Discoms said the consumers of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam can now give a missed call on 70870-19636 and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam consumers can call on 70821-02200, for availing the bill information through an SMS. The consumer can also pay electricity bills from the same SMS. To avail the facility of a missed call, the mobile numbers of the consumers should be linked with their electricity account. Apart from this, the consumers can also update their mobile numbers and Aadhaar numbers.  The spokesperson further informed that to avail the benefit of subsidy being given by the government, the consumers need to update their Aadhaar number. He also informed that from November 26, 2020, Haryana Discoms have started pre-paid billing facility for smart meter consumers of cities such as Karnal, Gurugram, Panchkula, Panipat and Faridabad. He said the consumers opting for pre-paid bills would get a discount of 5 per cent on their electricity bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-get-power-bill-on-cellphones-200347
19-01-2021||Faridabad||House tax defaulters to be penalised||The Municipal Corporation (MC) has announced to snap water and sewerage connections of 9,343 major defaulters in the city, who owe Rs 218 crore as property tax .  Of 1.80 lakh units, 82,000 had cleared their dues by December-end, said sources. A total of 2.62 lakh units are registered at present. Rattan Lal Rohilla, a senior taxation official with the civic body, said they had identified 9,343 defaulters.  DC and MC Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said they would begin a drive in the month-end to snap water and sewage connections to these units in order to recover the pending tax. Prior to this, notices will be issued to the defaulters.   The DC said they were hopeful of recovering around Rs 120 crore, which included rebate and waivers on the interest as announced by the state government, by March 31. The last date for the submission of tax every year is July 31, the government has extended the rebate  benefit up to March 31.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/house-tax-defaulters-to-be-penalised-200348
19-01-2021||---||Student leader tries to barge into HSSC chief’s room, held||Chandigarh, January 18 The Haryana Police today arrested National Students Union of India (NSUI) state president Divyanshu Budhiraja along with his supporters. They were sitting on dharna at Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) office in Sector 2, Panchkula, over cancellation of panchayat secretary entrance exam. The exam was held on January 9 and 10 for 697 posts. It was cancelled after it allegedly got leaked.  Budhiraja along with his supporters entered the HSSC office and started sloganeering. As he tried to reach the room of HSSC Chairman Bharat Bhushan Bharti, the police personnel present there prevented them from doing so.  There was a scuffle between the protesters and the policemen. As Budhiraja and his supporters were pushed back, they sat on the stairs of the office.  After that, a large police contingent reached the spot and arrested Budhiraja along with his supporters. On the occasion, Budhiraja demanded Bharti’s resignation. He said that in the past six years, a number of entrance exams had suffered leaks. “After every such rigging of the exam, a SIT is formed and the matter is pushed to backburner. About seven lakh candidates had appeared in the panchayat secretary exam but the paper was finally cancelled,” he added.  The SHO of Sector 5 police station, Inspector Lalit Kumar, said that Budhiraja along with his supporters were taken into preventive custody under Section 107/151 of CrPC and would be released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-leader-tries-to-barge-into-hssc-chiefs-room-held-200350
19-01-2021||Gurugram||Indigo pilot killed in road accident||A pilot of Indigo Airlines was killed when his car collided head-on with a tractor-trailer in Sector 114 last evening. The deceased has been identified as Anmol Verma (39), a resident of Ambala. The victim along with his family had been residing at ATS Kocoon Society in Sector 109.  The tractor-trailer has been impounded and an FIR has been registered against its driver, who is absconding, at the Bajghera police station. “We are trying to identify the owner through the registration number. The accused will soon be arrested,” said SHO Sandeep Kumar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indigo-pilot-killed-in-road-accident-200351
19-01-2021||---||Women farmers in command, observe fast, burn IMF effigy||Jhajjar/Karnal, January 18Women protesters observed a day-long fast, burnt the effigy of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which has backed the three farm laws, and sung songs against the Centre on “Women Farmer Day” at the Tikri border today.Youth decorate tractors ‘Mashal’ procession in RohtakRohtak: Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Sehyog Manch activists took out a ‘mashal’ (torchlight) procession on ‘Women Farmer Day’ here on Monday. They raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre and in the state, and sang songs and recited poems to spread the message against the farm laws.Backbone of protestWomen play an important role in farming. Hence, they are participating in a large number to strengthen the agitation. Women power will also be seen during the proposed Delhi march. - Medha Patkar, Social activistSocial activist Medha Patkar also joined the dharna and boosted the morale of farmers.A group of more than 100 women from Punjab reached the Rohad toll plaza to join Haryana women staging dharna against the three laws.Woman activist Jagmati Sangwan sung a Haryanvi song describing the plight of farmers.“Women play an important role in farming. Hence, they are participating in a large number to strengthen the agitation. Women power will also be seen during the proposed Delhi march on January 26,” said Patkar.Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha, exhorted women to establish their identity as a farmer more assertively as they were carrying out more than 70 per cent of farming activities and cattle-keeping. “Not merely one day, but every day should be celebrated as ‘Women Farmer Day’.”On the proposed tractor rally on the Republic Day, Singh said: “Celebrating the Republic Day is our right and we will do it peacefully at several place, including Delhi.”In Karnal, women in large numbers participated in dharnas at the Bastara toll on the NH-44 and the Peont toll plaza on the Karnal-Jind NH-709-A.They raised slogans against the state and the Union governments, demanding repealing of the three laws.Meanwhile, Gagsina village residents Anju, Sheela, Kamlesh, Krishna and Kamla observed fast at the Bastara toll plaza in continuation of the relay fast being observed by farmers.Rajni, one of the protesters, said: “Women came here today to show the Centre that they are also farmers. Our contribution to farm-related work is not hidden to anyone.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-farmers-in-command-observe-fast-burn-imf-effigy-200352
19-01-2021||Pradeep Sharma---||Abhay Chautala’s offer to quit puts Dushyant on back foot||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 18 The decision of INLD MLA Abhay Chautala to resign from the Assembly if the farm laws are not repealed by January 26 has put his nephew and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on the back foot. Abhay’s decision has apparently put additional pressure on Dushyant, who will be forced to adopt a more aggressive attitude towards the BJP. Dushyant is already under pressure from a majority of the JJP MLAs to adopt a proactive role regarding the farmers’ agitation. With farmers’ organisations and the Opposition asking the JJP to part ways with the BJP over the three farm laws, Dushyant had been doing a tight rope walk since the farmers’ stir began on November 26. While he is hard-pressed to keep the BJP in good humour, he is equally worried to keep at least seven of the 10 MLAs with the coalition government. Abhay’s conditional offer to resign is seen by experts as a clever move to put the JJP in a spot and reclaim the legacy of Devi Lal. Abhay and his brother Ajay Chautala have been claiming to be true successors to Devi Lal’s legacy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abhay-chautalas-offer-to-quit-puts-dushyant-on-back-foot-200353
19-01-2021||---||Women farmers to lead R-Day parade||Sonepat, January 18Women at the Singhu border today announced that they would lead the tractor march scheduled for the Republic Day in Delhi. The announcement was made on the “Women Farmer Day” from the main stage.On fast since Jan 3To mark the occasion, 11 elderly women sat on fast for 24 hours. One of them, Sarvjeet Kaur, said she had no problem in fasting for a day.Meanwhile, thousands of women from Punjab and Haryana reached the Singhu border to celebrate the “Women Farmer Day”.Several women, who addressed the protesters, had one message for the Centre: “Our role is not limited to kitchen. We also know how to fight for our rights.”They said they would not step back till members of their families were protesting in the bone-chilling cold and the Centre repealed the three new farm laws.Events as part of ‘Women Farmer Day’ were held at various places, including Hisar, Jind and Bhiwani districts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-farmers-to-lead-r-day-parade-200354
19-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Gurnam Singh Charuni issue settled, says farmer morcha||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 18Ending the controversy around hosting opposition parties, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni today admitted that the political meeting had been held in his personal capacity. He announced that he would not share the platform with any political party till the farmers’ agitation was on.He said this while appearing before the six-member inquiry committee constituted by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). After Charuni made the admission in writing, the coordination committee decided to close the matter.Earlier, the SKM constituted the committee comprising Darshan Pal Singh, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Yogendra Yadav, Hanan Mollah, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjeet Singh Dallewal to conduct the inquiry.Charuni clarified his stand before the committee. He gave in writing that the meeting on Sunday was organised in his personal capacity and the SKM was not associated with it in any manner.Charuni assured the committee he would not attend any political meeting till the farmers’ agitation continued. He assured the committee that he would continue to be associated with the SKM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurnam-singh-charuni-issue-settled-says-farmer-morcha-200355
19-01-2021||Karnal||Easy loan for dairy owners willing to shift||The local administration has announced to provide easy loan to dairy owners who shift their units to the Pingli road outside the city within a month. “I and officials of the Municipal Corporation (MC) held a meeting with dairy owners and decided to offer them easy loan for shifting their establishments within a month. We have tied up with a bank manager to assist the diary owners,” said Gagandeep Singh, Joint Commissioner, MC. The shifting of dairies has been pending for 18 years. It was first announced by the INLD government in 2002. Later, it was announced by the Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/easy-loan-for-dairy-owners-willing-to-shift-200356
19-01-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat---||Police fail to give info on usage of Rs 1.12 cr road safety fund||Tribune News Service Faridabad, January 18 With around Rs 1.12 crore allocated to road safety fund in the state last year, the authorities concerned have failed to give the details of how the sanctioned amount was used for enhancing the security of commuters. This was revealed in a response to an RTI application filed by ‘Ek Sangharsh’, a local NGO.  While the office of Traffic AIG in Karnal topped the state with an allocation of Rs 10.97 lakh, no funds were provided to Panipat under this head. In their reply to the applicant, Ajay Bahl of the NGO, the police said the details of the usage of the funds allocated to each district was not available with them but these could be furnished by the respective district officials. The application filed in the RTI cell of the office of the DGP, Haryana, on October 17, 2020, had sought information on five points — the budget allocated to road safety fund, penalty recovered from challans, the account where challan penalty was deposited and how this money was used in the past five years.  According to Bahl, though the department has collected Rs 298.77 crore from challans between 2015 and 2019 and sanctioned Rs 1.12 crore under the head of the road safety work, but has failed to give the information about how the money was used. While the road safety fund needs be used in activities promoting safety of commuters, the officials have only been seen pasting reflectors on the vehicles during fog as part of the drive, the amount for which was also charged from the owners, alleges Bahl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-fail-to-give-info-on-usage-of-rs-1-12-cr-road-safety-fund-200357
19-01-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Mask etiquette must, says HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 18 The Punjab and Haryana High Court wants mask etiquette to be injected to the public, along with the vaccine, to beat Covid. “If a mass drive is launched, along with the vaccine process already under way, it can be of great help to rein in the disease completely,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh ruled today. As a petition filed by a Covid-infected jail inmate came up for resumed hearing, the Bench asserted that it was of the feeling that a general drive was required to be launched to make the public aware of the mask etiquette. The Bench noted that the responsibility of generating awareness by launching the drive was not required to be limited to the domain of law-enforcement agencies and organisations equipped to educate the public in such exigencies could also be entrusted with the responsibility. Taking cognisance of the fact that the public was not properly masked up to fight Covid, the Bench had all along been asserting that the purpose of issuing instructions and imposing penalty for not putting on a mask stood defeated due to improper wearing. “Though the state has provided for penalty for not wearing masks in public, it has not taken into consideration the fact that mere wearing of masks will not suffice if the nasal area is exposed,” the Bench observed during the course of hearing. Agreeing with the Bench suggestions, Haryana undertook to rope in anganwadi workers, Gram Sachiv employees and similarly placed organisations. The state counsel also undertook to supply a list of other government and non-governmental organisations on the next date of hearing. He placed before the Bench an affidavit filed by Home and Administration of Justice Department Secretary TL Satyaprakash stating, among other things, that instructions dated January 14 had been issued to make the public aware about Covid appropriate behaviour through advertisement in the electronic and print media. “The state government has issued instructions dated January 14 for following basic preventive measures, which include not only mandatory use of face covers and masks, but also use of face covers and masks in a proper manner by not exposing the nasal area and also levying of fine and penalty on defaulters for not wearing mask or face cover or not wearing mask or face cover properly by exposing the nasal area or for not following physical distancing norms,” the affidavit stated. The case would now come up for hearing in the last week of January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mask-etiquette-must-says-hc-200358
19-01-2021||---||Climate change in arid areas increases kharif yield: Study||Chandigarh, January 18Changing meteorological trends and climatic variables in arid areas of Haryana over the past 45 years have shown an increase in the yield of kharif crops, which may indicate further increasing trends if other factors are not limiting, a new study claims.Analysis of yield data from 1972 to 2016 revealed that cotton lint yield increased at a maximum rate of 17.5 per cent, followed by pearl millet at 7.8 per cent, rice at 3.1 per cent and barley at 2.7 per cent. No significant trend was observed in wheat, gram and pigeon pea yield during the period. The increasing trend in yield was found to be more in kharif crops compared to rabi crops.The study was undertaken by five experts from Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, and Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal, and published recently by the India Meteorological Department. The purpose was to determine long-term trends in evapo-transpiration (ET), its explanatory weather variables and ultimate effect on the yield of major crops of the arid ecosystem in south-western Haryana.During the past 45 years, wind speed declined at 5 per cent while sunshine hours and reference evaporation declined at 3.3 per cent and 2 per cent, respectively, the study found. The minimum temperature increased at 1.8 per cent and an average rainfall deficit of 1,122 mm over ET was observed although it registered a declining trend owing to reduction in ET.The Hisar area was chosen for the study because it is typically arid, but still one of the most agriculturally active regions of Haryana. It represents the western agro-climatic region of Haryana with hot summers and chilling winters, with 80 per cent of its annual precipitation being received from July to September during the south-western monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/climate-change-in-arid-areas-increases-kharif-yield-study-200359
19-01-2021||---||Trial adjourned to May 3||Chandigarh, January 18The CBI Special Court, Panchkula, today adjourned the trial in Manesar land release case to May 3 after directions from the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Former IAS officer SS Dhillon had moved the High Court against the order dated December 1 of the CBI court, where it was ruled that “prima-facie case for framing charges against” him was made out for criminal conspiracy read with cheating and the Prevention of Corruption Act.While issuing the notice of motion to the investigating agency and listing it for February 24, Justice AS Sangwan, vide order dated January 15, directed the CBI court “to adjourn the case beyond the date fixed by this court”.The case pertains to the alleged purchase of land from farmers at meagre rates and then earning huge profits by getting it released in connivance with bureaucracy and some politicians.Former Chief Minister BS Hooda and three former Principal Secretary to CM, SS Dhillon, ML Tayal and Chattar Singh, are accused in the case besides private builders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trial-adjourned-to-may-3-200360
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana assures help in Ambience Mall case||The state government on Monday assured the Punjab and Haryana High Court of providing necessary assistance to the Central Bureau of Investigation in its probe in the Ambience Mall case.  The assurance came less than six months after Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Second Amendment and Validation Act, 2020 came into being. Already, a petition is pending in the High Court alleging that the Act was enacted with the sole purpose of nullifying judgment in the mall case.  As the issue came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, CBI counsel Sumeet Goel pointed out that difficulties were being faced by the CBI in tracing some witnesses and documents as the matter pertained to 1992. Goel added this had also been stated by the CBI in the status report submitted during the proceedings before the Bench in a sealed cover. He added the investigation, being carried out in a right earnest, was under the supervision of superior officers of the premier investigating agency and the court would be apprised of further progress in the matter on the next date of hearing. He also prayed for two months’ time for the purpose. Taking a note of the submissions, the Bench asked Haryana Additional Advocate-General Ankur Mittal whether necessary assistance could be rendered to the CBI. Before parting with the case, the Bench granted the CBI time till March last week for submission of fresh status report. Ordering a CBI probe, the Bench had earlier quashed an order paving way for construction of Ambience Mall in Gurugram on area initially earmarked as residential. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-assures-help-in-ambience-mall-case-200361
19-01-2021||---||Rs 5,000 cr sought for key projects||Chandigarh, January 18Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today urged the Centre to allocate Rs 5,000 crore in Union Budget 2021-22 for execution of various important projects in the state.The Chief Minister made this request while participating in the pre-Budget meeting held under the chairpersonship of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman through video conferencing. During the meeting, he apprised the Finance Minister about the financial requirements for various important projects of Haryana.The CM, while interacting with mediapersons after the meeting, informed that for the restoration of short-term irrigation projects and ponds, Haryana demanded a grant of Rs 1,000 crore in the Budget.Rs 1,000 crore was being demanded for the development of the National Capital Region. The state had also demanded Rs 3,000 crore for rural development, Covid management, health and basic medical facilities, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-5-000-cr-sought-for-key-projects-200366
19-01-2021||---||Illegal structures razed||Faridabad, January  18A  DTP team pulled down 25 illegal structures at two unauthorised residential colonies spread over eight acres in Bhatola and Faridpur villages of the district on Monday.According to officials, the structures included five houses under construction, damp proof courses and boundary walls.  Legal action was initiated against property dealers who had carved out and sold plots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-razed-200368
19-01-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Culling of birds not feasible, Haryana tells Centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 18To save around 20 lakh poultry birds at Barwala farms in Panchkula district where four more suspected bird flu cases surfaced earlier this month, the Haryana Government has decided to form a committee to suggest alternatives to culling. It has also sought clarification from the Centre on the guidelines in this regard.Sources in the Animal Husbandry Department say the committee will suggest alternatives so that the virus can be contained and the poultry farmers will not have to face loss if their stock is not infected.“The toll is way below the average deaths due to bird flu. We need more clarity on the guidelines that say all birds within 1 km radius need to be culled,” Animal Husbandry Minister JP Dalal said.“While culling will begin at farms where even a bird tests positive, our teams will take samples from other farms. We will wait for the Centre’s response and proceed accordingly,” Dalal said.He said in the absence of any alternative, the department’s entire staff would have to be put on duty for months to cull 20 lakh birds after confirmation of positive test from the Bhopal lab.Maintaining that culling is “impractical” given the number of birds involved, Additional Chief Secretary (Animal Husbandry) Raja Shekhar Vundru said: “We will consider re-sampling at farms where birds have tested positive. We have received representations from the poultry association which suggested creation of containment zones. The suggestion has been forwarded to the Centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/culling-of-birds-not-feasible-haryana-tells-centre-200404
