20-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Schools to reopen for Classes 6 to 8 from February first week||Schools in Haryana will reopen for Classes 6 to 8 from the first week of February, state Education Minister Kanwar Pal said on Wednesday.“The COVID cases are gradually coming down and the situation has improved. Moreover, the COVID-19 vaccination drive has also begun. So, we have decided to reopen schools for Classes 6 to 8 from February first week,” the minister told reporters here.He said a decision on starting Classes 1 to 5 will be taken later.The schools will have to follow all guidelines related to face masks, sanitisers and social distancing, he said.After remaining shut for six months due to the COVID-19 outbreak, schools in Haryana had partially reopened in mid-September for students of Classes 9 to 12.However, amid a rise in COVID-19 cases, the Haryana government had ordered the closure of all schools in November.Over 150 students from three Haryana districts—Rewari, Jind and Jhajjar—had tested positive for coronavirus in November after which all the schools were shut till further orders. In mid-December, the schools had again reopened for the higher classes. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-6-to-8-from-february-first-week-201196
20-01-2021||Jhajjar||Two protesting farmers die at Tikri border in past 24 hours||Two farmers participating in the ongoing agitation at Tikri border lost their lives in the past 24 hours.A Punjab farmer, identified as Dhanna Singh (65) of Tunda village in Patiala, died reportedly of cardiac arrest at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border in the wee hours of Wednesday while a Rohtak farmer, Jai Bhagwan (42), of Pakasma village who consumed some poisonous substance at Tikri yesterday, succumbed during the treatment at a hospital in Delhi today.Sources said Dhanna had been camping near Balour chowk in Bahadurgarh town for the past several days. He as usual retired to bed on Tuesday night but did not wake up this morning. He was rushed to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh where he was declared brought dead.Jai Bhagwan had consumed poison near the main dharna spot at Tikri border and was taken to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital in Delhi. A suicide note was also recovered from him.In the note, Jai Bhagwan said he was a small farmer and many peasants have taken to the streets to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. “The government says it is a matter of only two to three states, but farmers from all over the country are protesting against the laws. Sadly, it is not a movement now, but a fight of issues. The talks between the farmers and the Centre also remain deadlocked,” he wrote in the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-protesting-farmers-die-at-tikri-border-in-past-24-hours-201177
20-01-2021||Karnal||Karnal residents protest against arrest of councillor who opposed demolition drive||City residents and family members of Karnal’s ward-2 Councillor Balwinder Singh, who was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly disrupting a demolition drive, assembled outside the Mini Secretariat to protest against his imprisonment on Wednesday.A large number of police personnel were deployed outside the Secretariat.Singh was arrested late Tuesday night for opposing the demolition drive of the KMC and District Town Planning Department.Members of his family met the Superintendent of Police at midnight.Singh was produced before a court, which sent him to judicial custody.Former Congress MLA Sumita Singh and Virender Rathore also reached the dharna site and extended their support.Balwinder Singh was booked under section 114, 186,332, 353, 427 and 506 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-residents-protest-against-arrest-of-councillor-who-opposed-demolition-drive-201168
20-01-2021||Banihal/Jammu||Haryana trucker's body found in J-K stream two days after accident on national highway||The body of a 22-year-old truck driver from Haryana was found in a stream in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban district on Wednesday, two days after his vehicle skidded off the road and plunged into a 150-foot-deep gorge along the Jammu-Srinagar national highway, officials said.The Jammu-bound truck rolled down into a stream at Sherbibi on Monday, following which one person was rescued in an injured condition, while the driver remained untraced and was believed to have been swept away by the fast current, the officials said.The body of the missing driver, identified as Monu of Hisar in Haryana, was recovered from the Bishlari Nullah on Wednesday morning, they said.The officials said the body was handed over to his family members after legal formalities. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-truckers-body-found-in-j-k-stream-two-days-after-accident-on-national-highway-201166
20-01-2021||Rohtak||5 years on, Haryana’s Hindi teachers await promotion, approach Chief Minister||Trained graduate Hindi teachers, who were left out of promotions in 2016, are dejected as they have not been promoted in the past five years despite fulfilling all mandatory conditions.They have now written to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Education Minister, Kanwar Pal Gurjar, demanding their antedated promotion.“Department of Education had sought promotion cases of TGTs (Hindi) from the school heads across the state in 2014, and a list of promoted teachers was released in 2016 but many teachers were not promoted following the pendency of Annual Confidential Report (ACR). We all submitted complete ACR to the head office within a week but have been awaiting promotion since 2016. The number of such teachers is more than 125 in the state,” said Bajrang, a TGT (Trained Graduate Teacher).He maintained acute desperation prevailed among left out teachers as they failed to understand why they were not being promoted.Ram Niwas, a teacher, said that after 2016, many teachers junior to them were also promoted but they were still deprived of a promotion.Niwas said that the teachers approached the head office and filed written representations to get justice many times but to no avail. The office every time claimed that the promotion was under-process and the list would be released soon, he added.Sarita, another teacher, said the department had sought left out cases of the TGT (Hindi) for the promotion by issuing letters in July, September and October 2020 but the promotion was still awaited. “Those TGTs joined in 2012 have got the promotion while those working from 2000 are still waiting for a promotion,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-years-on-haryanas-hindi-teachers-await-promotion-approach-chief-minister-201144
20-01-2021||New Delhi||Howrah-Kalka Mail renamed Netaji Express||Ahead of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary celebrations, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said the Howrah-Kalka Mail had been renamed 'Netaji Express'.Goyal tweeted: "Netaji's 'prakram' (valour) put India on the express route of freedom and development. I am thrilled to celebrate his birth anniversary with the introduction of 'Netaji Express'."The order to rename the train was issued on January 19, when the central government had also decided to celebrate Netaji's birth anniversary on January 23 as 'Parakram Diwas' every year.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit West Bengal on January 23 on the occasion. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/howrah-kalka-mail-renamed-netaji-express-201143
20-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Use Covaxin with caution, say experts||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 19Members of the medical fraternity have expressed concern over the use of Covaxin at a time when the sampling of volunteers involved in human trials of the vaccine is still under way.Dr RS Dahiya, a former professor of surgery at Rohtak’s PGIMS and core committee member of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA), Haryana, said: “The government and the health authorities should exercise caution in administering Covaxin as the sampling of volunteers who had participated in the third phase of trials is still on.”Meanwhile, the All-India People’s Science Network (AISPN), a network of 40 people’s science movements functioning in 25 states across the country, has expressed shock over the distribution of 56 lakh doses of Covaxin and 110 lakh doses of Covishield for health workers.“Has the government communicated any special protocols for Covaxin inoculation? There is no information available in the public domain. Most importantly, clinical trials should require informed consent or refusal by Covaxin recipients, after being made aware of the conditions imposed by the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO). The Phase 3 efficacy data is still not out,” the AISPN said in a statement.It has urged the Centre to issue special protocols for Covaxin administration in “clinical trial mode”, including obtaining informed consent or refusal of recipients and ensuring compliance with all conditions mentioned in the conditional approval granted by the CDSCO or a subject expert committee.On the other hand, Dr Ramesh Verma, a co-investigator in the Covaxin human trial project at the PGIMS, asserted that the first two phases of the human trials of Covaxin, aimed at ascertaining the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine, had been successfully completed and the requisite number of doses for the third phase were administered by the first week of January.“The Phase 3 trials ascertain the efficacy of the vaccine. The sampling of the volunteers involved in it will continue for a year,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/use-covaxin-with-caution-say-experts-200836
20-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||After 80 pc on Day 1, coverage rate drops in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 19Health workers’ unions have expressed reservations about Covid vaccine safety. The coverage rate dipped to about 61 per cent on Monday, with 11,457 doses being administered. The state did not give figures on the target, but claimed that 11,129 persons were vaccinated today.4 more die of Covid, 153 new casesVaccines safe, motivation neededWe have asked all Civil Surgeons and Deputy Civil Surgeons to ensure full coverage by motivating health workers. The vaccines are safe and there should be no apprehension.- Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General of Health servicesCoverage was 80 per cent on the first day. Some health workers feared that they were being used for Phase 3 trials for Covaxin. Asha workers, who remained at the forefront in tacking Covid, were now opposing inoculation.“We worked at a high risk. We went for a door-to-door survey of suspected cases. We had to struggle for masks and sanitisers. When the vaccine arrived, we were told that we would be the first to be inoculated. There is apprehension of being used as trial subjects for Covaxin. I have refused vaccination,” said Sunita Rani, acting president of Asha Workers Union of Haryana.Surekha, union general secretary, echoed her sentiment. “We have told Asha workers that we are not against vaccination, but they can avoid it if they are not willing,” she said.“Our colleagues are apprehensive as there is no policy of cashless treatment for us in case of an adverse reaction,” said Rihan Raza, president of the National Health Mission Karamchari Sangh.Some doctors expressed reservations about Covaxin. “There is no apprehension regarding Covishield. I have got it. There is an apprehension among doctors that Covaxin may have more side-effects,” said Dr Jasbir Parmar, Haryana Civil Medical Services Association chief.Vinod Dalal, Pharmacist Association of Haryana chief, said his colleagues were going in for vaccination and there were no apprehension or fear.Panchkula reported 10.7 per cent coverage on the second day, which jumped to 58.2 per cent today. “The response from Asha and anganwadi workers is poor. We are motivating them. I will talk to them,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-80-pc-on-day-1-coverage-rate-drops-in-haryana-200837
20-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP leader Vinod Tawde on three-day Haryana visit||BJP state in-charge Vinod Tawde today began his three-day visit to Haryana. He will interact with ministers, legislators and leaders of the party during the visit.Sources said time-slots had been allocated to the MLAs for individual meetings with Tawde. This one-on-one meeting with the elected representatives comes after Tawde had already held one round of talks with the legislators, collectively. While he met the MLAs in Chandigarh and visited various districts of the state, he also convened a meeting of the MPs from the state in New Delhi.The meetings with the legislators began soon after Tawde arrived in the city, during which he is said to have taken a feedback on various issues concerning the state, including the on-going farmers’ stir. The meets will be on for the next two days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-vinod-tawde-on-three-day-haryana-visit-200838
20-01-2021||Yamunanagar||1 booked for rape||A man has been booked for raping his daughter-in-law at a Jagadhri village. On the victim’s complaint, a case was registered at the local woman police station on Monday. The victim said: “My father-in-law came to my room on the first floor of the house on January 11 and raped me.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-booked-for-rape-200839
20-01-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Child’s custody presumed to be with mother, irrespective of residence: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 19 In a significant judgment liable to end legal controversy over territorial jurisdiction of courts hearing pleas of estranged couples, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a minor under five years of age may not be residing with mother, but custody will be deemed to be at the place where she is putting up and the matter will be heard there. “I have no hesitancy to interpret Section 6(a) of the Hindu Minorities and Guardians Act, 1956, to mean and intend that though a minor below five years of age may not be in physical custody of or residing with the mother, custody will be deemed to be at the place where the mother is residing. It is so held accordingly,” Justice Arun Monga asserted. The controversy was whether the family court at Panipat had territorial jurisdiction to entertain a petition instituted by a mother to seek her daughter’s custody. The father’s claim was that the minor’s custody was with him and the family court where the minor child “ordinarily” resided would have territorial jurisdiction. In this case, the child was in her father’s physical custody at Jagadhri. Referring to Section 6, Justice Monga asserted that there was a legal presumption with regard to natural guardianship vis-a-vis a “minor’s person” and “minor’s property” in case of a child less than five years of age and both were in favour of the mother. Justice Monga noted that the court was persuaded with the view taken by another Bench headed by Justice Amol Rattan Singh, holding that “the custody of a child below five, especially a female child, will naturally lie with the mother and therefore, the deemed custody will be with the mother even if actual custody is with the father”. Justice Monga observed that the respondent-mother, at the time of instituting proceedings in the family court, was the deemed natural guardian of the minor and therefore, natural custody would be presumed to be with the mother, regardless of the place where the child was actually residing physically at that time. He said the mother was well within her right to invoke territorial jurisdiction of the family court at Panipat. Justice Monga asserted that the welfare and convenience of the child was also to be seen and as such, all possible endeavour would be made  to avoid travel by the minor from Jagadhri to Panipat by  not insisting on her physical presence unless essential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/childs-custody-presumed-to-be-with-mother-irrespective-of-residence-hc-200840
20-01-2021||---||Sale of chicken, eggs banned within 1 km of Karnal village||Karnal/K’shetra, January 19The district authorities have banned the sale of chicken and eggs within 1 km of Kohand village after the death of over 50,000 chickens at three poultry farms.Report awaitedA preliminary report from a Jalandhar lab has indicated the outbreak of bird flu, but we are awaiting the confirmatory report from Bhopal. -  Karnal DCVigil increasedSDMs have been told to hold meetings with poultry farm owners and create a WhatsApp group to share information regarding the situation. - Kurukshetra DCThe area is being barricaded to halt the supply of chicks to poultry farms and chicken and eggs from farms to other areas.“A preliminary report from a Jalandhar lab has indicated the outbreak of bird flu, but we are awaiting the confirmatory report from Bhopal,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar. At least 35 rapid response teams had been formed to monitor the poultry farms, he added.The DC said they had done all preparations for the culling of chickens, if the report from Bhopal confirmed bird flu.In Kurukshetra, the administration has formed 36 rapid action teams to keep a close watch on all 249 poultry farms in the district, though no bird flu case has been reported here so far.Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur on Tuesday directed subdivisional magistrates (SDMs) to hold meetings with poultry farm owners and create a WhatsApp group to share information and pay attention to the immunity of birds.A control room has been set up at the Mini-Secretariat to monitor the situation. As per reports, there are 38.68 lakh birds in 249 poultry farms in the district. The farm owners have been issued guidelines to prevent the bird flu outbreak.Dr Jasvir, an official from the Animal Husbandry Department, said there were 114 layer farms having 27.66 lakh birds, 133 broiler farms (10.54 lakh birds) and two hatcheries (48,000 birds).Following the guidelines issued by the government, a ban has been imposed on feeding chicken to zoo animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sale-of-chicken-eggs-banned-within-1-km-of-karnal-village-200841
20-01-2021||Sushil Manav||Distillery sealed, licence suspended over fake holograms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 19The Excise and Taxation Department has sealed a distillery in Jhajjar district and suspended its licence after its liquor was found carrying fake holograms last year.Excise duty not paidSome distilleries use fake holograms to evade excise duty. In his order issued on Monday, Shekhar Vidyarthi, Excise and Taxation Commissioner, issued a notice to ADS Spirits Private Limited, which is situated in Jhajjar’s Bhutiya village, asking its management to explain why its D-2 licence (license for a distillery unit) should not be cancelled.Acting upon the orders, Jhajjar Deputy Commissioner Jitender Kumar today sealed the distillery and appointed Beri naib tehsildar Ramesh Kumar as duty magistrate to ensure peace in the vicinity of the unit.ADS Spirits Private Limited manufactured 11 brands of IMFL — whiskey, gin and vodka. It claims on its website that it has more than 600 customers in over 60 countries across five continents.Sources in the department said liquor purportedly manufactured at the Jhajjar distillery was recovered from Rewari, Kharkhoda (Sonepat) and Rohtak in August last year. Three cases were registered then.The department had constituted a committee to inquire into the cases and ascertain the authenticity of the seized alcohol. In its reports, the committee had said that in all three cases, there was a complaint concerning the use of fake Excise Adhesive Labels (EALs), commonly called holograms, on the seized liquor.The EAL samples were sent to Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL), Hyderabad, to ascertain their authenticity.All holograms sent for examination were reported to be “not genuine” in case of ADS Spirits Private Limited, stated the Vidyarthi’s order.“The reports were sent to the District Excise and Taxation Commissioners (DETCs) in Rewari, Sonepat and Rohtak for their comments. They recommended strict action against the distillery,” the order further state.The distillery management could not be contacted on the mentioned landline numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/distillery-sealed-licence-suspended-over-fake-holograms-200842
20-01-2021||---||Nikita murder: Govt fails to keep word on relief, kin threaten agitation||Faridabad, January 19The family of Nikita Tomar, a 21-year-old girl who was shot outsider her college in Bahadurgarh in October last year allegedly by her former classmate, has threatened to protest if the state government fails to fulfil its promises, including financial help.Hollow promisesMembers of my family and I had met CM Manohar Lal Khattar and local MP Krishan Pal Gurjar. They had promised us help, but it turns out that they made hollow promises. - Mool Chand Tomar, Nikita’s fatherNikita’s father Mool Chand Tomar said: “Members of my family and I had met Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and local MP Krishan Pal Gurjar. They had promised us help, but it turns out that they made hollow promises. We have been left with no option, but to launch an agitation. It could be in the form a sit-in.”The state had promised a government job to one member of the family, name the government college for women in Sector 2 after Nikita and financial help.“The government’s seriousness in honouring its word can be gauged from the fact that the government college has been named after a BJP leader. The attitude of the authorities has left us shattered,” he said.The situation is precarious for the family as Tomar lost his job three months ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-govt-fails-to-keep-word-on-relief-kin-threaten-agitation-200843
20-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Assembly to go paperless||The Assembly will get completely digitised in the next eight months. This will include proceedings in the House, office work and library.ON ABHAY RESIGNATIONOn the question of Abhay Chautala’s resignation, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said, “It is a conditional resignation. We are studying previous resignations. Only after that can a decision be taken in this regard.”Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today told the media, “We will work in paperless mode. In the next 15 days, a memorandum of understanding will be signed between the Parliamentary Affairs Ministry and the Haryana Government in this regard.”“It is part of a Central project. An amount of Rs 19 crore will be spent to carry out the plan,” he added.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-assembly-to-go-paperless-200844
20-01-2021||Gurugram||Car bursts into flames in Gurugram||Four persons escaped unhurt as they jumped out of their car in the nick of time after it caught fire. The incident took place under the flyover of Rajiv Chowk here today. Two fire engines were pressed into service to douse the flames.  In the morning, the four persons travelling by Creta noticed smoke emitting from the bonnet. They immediately got out and called the police for help. On reaching the spot, the police cordoned off the area and called up the Fire Department. A senior fire officer said the car burst into flames because of short-circuit, but the matter was under investigation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/car-bursts-into-flames-in-gurugram-200845
20-01-2021||---||MC seals 19 shops for not paying rent||Yamunanagar, January 19The Improvement Trust wing of the Municipal Corporation sealed 19 shops over non-payment of rent amounting to Rs 48.53 lakh on Monday.A team comprising Superintendent of the Improvement Trust wing of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, Tajinder Kaur, Nahid Khan and Mohit Kumar sealed 13 shops in Jawahar Market situated on the Old Radaur road in Yamunanagar. The team also sealed six shops in Sarojini Colony-I here.According to information, the tenants had not paid rent for years as some of the shops, against which action of sealing was taken, were reportedly lying closed due to low business in the market for long.“A number of tenants have not paid rent for years. We have served them notices several times. Now, we have sealed the shops of those shopkeepers, who did not respond to our final notices issued in December 2020,” said Tajinder Kaur,Nahid Khan said the properties were being identified in Jagadhri also where tenants had not paid the rent. “Soon, final notices will be given to defaulter tenants in Jagadhri town for the collection of rent,” said Nahid Khan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-seals-19-shops-for-not-paying-rent-200846
20-01-2021||---||Dushyant Bhatt is Panipat Senior Dy Mayor||Panipat, January 19Dushyant Bhatt, councillor of ward number 25, was elected as the Senior Deputy Mayor and Ravinder Kumar of ward number 6 as the Deputy Mayor of the Panipat Municipal Corporation on Tuesday.Transport Minister and election observer Mool Chand Sharma, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, MLAs Mahipal Dhanda and Pramod Vij, Mayor Avneet Kaur along with all 26 councillors were present during the election for the two key posts of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-bhatt-is-panipat-senior-dy-mayor-200847
20-01-2021||---||Man hacks wife to death in Bhiwani||Hisar, January 19A man allegedly hacked his wife to death in Kitlana village of Bhiwani district on Monday night. Ritu was attacked with an axe by her husband, identified as Mukesh, at their residence.Gulab Singh, father of the victim, told the police that Mukesh and his family had been demanding dowry and he killed his daughter for not meeting their demand.The complainant said three other family members were involved in the murder.The victim was the mother of two daughters, one aged three years and the other four months. Investigation is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-hacks-wife-to-death-in-bhiwani-200848
20-01-2021||Gurugram||SHO suspended in Gurugram||Amid complaints of inaction at police stations, Gurugram Commissioner of Police KK Rao today suspended an SHO, transferred another SHO and pulled up five officials for dereliction of duty. Rao held a meeting with all DCPs, ACPs, SHOs, police chowkis in-charge and crime units in-charge. Bilaspur SHO Neeraj was suspended and DLF Phase 1 SHO Ajay Malik transferred, with departmental inquiry marked against them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sho-suspended-in-gurugram-200849
20-01-2021||---||Facing wrath in ‘illegal’ Karnal colony, demolition team leaves||Karnal, January 19A joint demolition team of the Municipal Corporation and the District Town Planner (DTP) had to return after the stiff opposition by residents in an ‘illegal’ colony, spread on around 6.5 acres, near Budhakhera village here.Officials alleged that the residents pelted stones on them that forced them to stop. However, the residents said the officials targeted the poor people by demolishing their houses repeatedly.As per the information, the team led by DTP Vikram Kumar reached at the colony with JCB machines along with the police in the afternoon. When they started demolishing the colony, the residents started opposing the drive. There was a face-off situation between the team members and residents.Meanwhile, councillor from ward number 1 Balwinder Singh also reached the spot and opposed the drive. “I have told the team members to demolish the road network in the colony first but instead they started razing the houses of the poor, which resulted in resentment among the residents,” he added.The DTP, however, filed a police complaint against Balwinder Singh and other residents, blaming them for causing disruption in the process. He also accused the residents for pelting stones on the team that resulted in the breakage of glass of a JCB machine. “I have filed a complaint against the councillor and others for disrupting the process,” he added.“Due to opposition by the residents, we had to stop the demolition work,” said Vikram Singh, Municipal Commissioner. He denied any kind of discrimination with anyone in the demolition drive.Ganga Ram Punia, SP, said, “We have received a complaint from the DTP and appropriate action is being taken in the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/facing-wrath-in-illegal-karnal-colony-demolition-team-leaves-200851
20-01-2021||---||Yellow rust reported in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, January 19Yellow rust has been reported on around one acre wheat crop in Mangoli Jattan village of the Babain block in Kurukshetra district.Yellow rust is a fungal disease which manifests as powdery yellow stripes on leaves. These stripes hinder photosynthesis, shrivelling the grain and stopping plant growth.“Yellow rust has been detected in Mangoli Jattan village and farmers have been advised to keep a close watch on the crop. The weather is favourable for the disease and farmers should approach the department in case of any doubt,” said Anil Kumar, Assistant Plant Protection Officer.He said certain varieties were susceptible to yellow rust and should be monitored properly. He said regular monitoring and timely prevention could curb the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yellow-rust-reported-in-kurukshetra-200860
20-01-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to Haryana over 50% woman quota in PRI polls||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to Haryana on a petition challenging 50 per cent reservation for women in elections to panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) as provided by the Haryana Panchayati Raj (Second Amendment) Act, 2020.Petitioners Kailash Bai and Sneh Lata, through counsel Deepkaran Dalal, contended that women candidates had been restricted from contesting elections from wards other than those reserved for them. Dalal submitted that it was illegal, discriminatory and unconstitutional, being violative of Articles 14, 15 and 243-D of the Constitution.In the petition placed before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, Dalal submitted that all even-numbered wards were to be reserved for women and odd-numbered wards for “persons other than women”, with no ward left in the general category open for those eligible to contest.Dalal pointed out that reservation could not exceed 50 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-notice-to-haryana-over-50-woman-quota-in-pri-polls-200861
20-01-2021||---||Farmer tries to end life at Tikri, critical||Jhajjar, January 19A farmer from Rohtak district, identified as Jai Bhagwan (42), allegedly tried to kill himself by consuming some poisonous substance near the main dharna venue at the Tikri border on Tuesday. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Delhi, where his condition is stated to be critical. A suicide note has been recovered from him.“Farmers from various states have been camping at the Delhi border for nearly two months now, but the Central Government is not paying any heed to our plight. Hence, I am killing myself," Jai Bhawan had reportedly told the media immediately after consuming poison.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-tries-to-end-life-at-tikri-critical-200867
20-01-2021||Bathinda||Activists Medha Patkar, Dr Navsharan inspire protesters at Tikri border||The Supreme Court is well aware that women are an integral part of the Kisan Morcha, but the remarks to send them home clearly shows that the Modi government is afraid of the massive participation of women in the agitiation.These views were expressed by eminent social activist Dr Navsharan while addressing a gathering of thousands of women from Punjab and Haryana at the Tikri border on Mahila Kisan Diwas.She said the BJP government wanted to deny women the right to participate in the mass struggle through the courts but they would not allow this franchise to be lost under any circumstances.Social activist Medha Patkar, who was at Tikri on the invitation of all farm organisations, said apart from the agriculture sector, the country’s natural resources, including water, forests, education, electricity and railways, were being expeditiously handed over to corporate houses by the Modi government in the name of globalisation, liberalisation and privatisation.Expressing satisfaction over the huge participation of women, she said the farm struggle had now turned into a mass movement.Harinder Kaur Bindu, leader of the women’s wing of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said the raging power of women against the Modi government would not let the domestic and foreign corporate and the imperialist alliance to succeed in their nefarious designs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/activists-medha-patkar-dr-navsharan-inspire-protesters-at-tikri-border-200785
20-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Won’t alter R-Day rally route, unions tell cops||Tribune News ServiceSinghu, January 19Ahead of their tenth round of negotiations with the government over the contentious farm laws tomorrow, the protesting farmers’ unions today turned down a Delhi Police proposal to alter their tractor rally route on Republic Day.Citing traffic constraints and law and order issues, the Delhi Police, which had met the farmers yesterday too, asked the unions to shift the route from Outer Ring Road to an alternative road in the Capital. They also sought details on how many protesters and tractors would be part of the January 26 march.A joint team of the Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh Police met the leaders of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 unions, at a private resort in Singhu.The development came a day after the Supreme Court refused to halt the tractor rally saying it was up to the Delhi Police to decide who would enter the Capital. BKU (Dakaunda) leader Jagmohan Singh Patiala said they would not compromise on the route.“We assured the police team of cooperation in organising a peaceful ‘tractor parade’,” he maintained.The Delhi Police, meanwhile, moved to fortify the Capital by deploying over 65,000 of its personnel and seeking additional reinforcements of the Central Armed Police Forces. Union Home Minister Amit Shah took stock of the situation at a meeting with the Delhi Police brass.As the Delhi Police comes under the MHA, Shah visited the police headquarters here and held a high-level review meeting with Minister of State (Home) G Kishan Reddy, Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, IB Director Arvind Kumar, Commissioner of Police SN Srivastava and other senior officials.Heavy barricading at several intersections and checkpoints on arterial roads were part of the plan, said a senior police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-alter-r-day-rally-route-unions-tell-cops-200773
20-01-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||3 Punjab farmers who came from Singhu detained in Shimla; watch video||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 19Three Punjab farmers who had come to Shimla from the Singhu border near Delhi to explain to the locals the motive of their agitation and the ramifications of the central farm laws were detained by the police from the historic Ridge here.Their detention led to commotion as the farmers, hailing from Mohali, were agitated over the police action and sought to know under which law they had been rounded up.“We are only three persons and talking about the black farm laws. We didn't even raise any slogans. This is violation of our right to freedom of expression. Is this democracy? Are we living in a free country?" they shouted while being dragged away by the police.Shimla SP Mohit Chawla said the Ridge and Mall Road were core areas where any kind of procession or meeting was prohibited as per the High Court orders. The detained farmers had not sought any permission from the administration or the police, he maintained.“We had inputs about the arrival of some farmers but their credentials could not be verified. They have been detained as a preventive measure," he added.The three were taken to Sadar police station.The farmers holding banners were detained under the Sections 107 and 150 of the Indian Penal Code.“We are going to all the state capitals to make the farmers aware about the farm Bills, but this is the only place where we are being dragged and not allowed to speak,” said Harpreet Singh, a farmer.Meanwhile, the Congress leaders termed the action as “illegal” and have gathered outside the Sadar police station where the farmers were detained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-punjab-farmers-who-came-from-singhu-detained-in-shimla-watch-video-200637
