21-01-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Advocates among 3 nabbed for selling land acquired by HSVP||Gurugram, January 21State crime branch, Gurugram, has arrested three persons, including two advocates, who sold 2 acres of land ‘acquired’ by fraudulent means to a private company causing loss worth crores of rupees to state exchequer.The said land of village Islampur which was acquired by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in 1993 was sold to a private company at Rs 2 crore on the basis of fake and forged documents and witnesses.To make a quick buck, Rohit Thakran of Jharsa village and Ajay Choudhry, a resident of Islampur village, hatched a plan and got the land transferred in the name of the latter by showing fake witnesses and impersonating Murti Devi, Lakshmi Devi and Bala Devi, who were original owner of 2 acres of ancestral property.The witnesses, Chaman Lal Arora and Subhash Chand Arora both advocates, who identified three original owners have also been arrested.While the two advocates were sent into judicial custody, the main accused Rohit Thakran is in police remand. He will be produced in a city court by Saturday.The fraud came to light when one of the victims, Murti Devi, a resident of Gupta Colony, Gurugram, filed a complaint in this regard. Following the complaint an FIR was registered at Sadar police station under Sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Sadar police station against Ajay Chaudhary and others on 17-09-2020. The case was transferred to state crime branch on November 11 last year.State Crime Branch arrested three accused identified as Rohit Thakran on Tuesday, while advocates Chaman Lal Arora and Subhash Chand Arora, witnesses to the sale deed registration were nabbed today. Dharmbeer, DSP of state crime branch, Gurugram, said they are trying to nab Ajay Chaudhary who is still on run and are questioning the main accused.The probe also reveals that mastermind Rohit Thakran had learnt privately the work of Patwari and was fully aware of the acquired land. Ajay Chaudhary has been found to have transferred Rs 29 lakh out of Rs 2 crore to the account of Rohit Thakran, the mastermind of the case. Among the accounts in which Ajay Chaudhary has received money, he has been found to use different PAN numbers while opening a bank account.“Investigation also reveals Rohit Thakaran has been involved in other cases, including liquor smuggling. Ajay Chaudhary has been involved in shooting and killing a Rajasthan Police constable in the year 2006. Further probe into the case is underway. Others involved will be arrested soon,” said Mohammad Akil, DGP, Crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/advocates-among-3-nabbed-for-selling-land-acquired-by-hsvp-201705
21-01-2021||---||2 die, 4 injured in car-tanker collision on Nalagarh-Ropar highway||Solan, January 21Two Haryana residents were killed and four others injured after a car collided with a tanker near Bela temple on the Nalagarh-Ropar national highway on Wednesday night.The accident took place at around 11.45 pm.Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said the deceased had been identified as 25-year old Shakti and 36-year old Virender, both of whom hailed from Rohtak.As per the police probe, the accident occurred due to rash and negligent driving by the car driver.The car was completely damaged in the accident, the Baddi SP said.The car driver was among those who were killed, he added.The tanker driver, Gurpyar Singh, who hails from Bhatinda in Punjab, told the police that the mishap occured when he was returning to Nalagarh from Bhatinda. He said the car driver was driving at a high speed in the wrong direction near Bela temple.The occupants of the car were rushed to the community health centre at Nalagarh, where the two were declared dead.The injured had been identified as Sunil Kumar (38), a Gurgaon resident; Sagar (26), Azad (30) and Mukesh (26), all of whom hail from Rohtak, the Baddi SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-4-injured-in-car-tanker-collision-on-nalagarh-ropar-highway-201659
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures fall at many places in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions returned to Punjab and Haryana on Thursday as the minimum temperatures dropped slightly at many places in the two states after hovering above normal for the past few days, Meteorological Department officials here said.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 3.4 degrees Celsius, they said.Adampur and Pathankot, too, experienced a cold night at 3.5 degrees Celsius and 4.6 degrees Celsius.Faridkot, Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Halwara also braved the chill with a minimum temperature of 5.5, 5.8, 5.5 and 6.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Narnaul recorded a low of 4.6 degrees Celsius.Hisar registered a low of 6.7 degrees Celsius while Bhiwani recorded a minimum temperature of 6.2 degrees Celsius.Rohtak, Ambala and Karnal recorded a minimum temperature of 7.6, 7.9 and 8 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperatures-fall-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-201635
21-01-2021||Jhajjar||Punjab residents prepare to join tractor rally from Tikri to Delhi||Haakam Singh Walia, a man employed at a private insurance company in Sangrur, has applied for a three-day leave, from January 24 to 27,  to participate in the proposed tractor march from Tikri border to Delhi on January 26.Walia joins many others in Punjab who are making arrangements to join the farmers in the march against the contentious farm laws. They are disposing of their work in advance to ensure their participation in the tractor parade. Significantly, women, along with their children, too are readying to become a part of the event.Also read: Govt gives Rs 5 lakh each to families of 4 Ludhiana farmers who died during protestJashandeep Singh, a farmer from Mansa, returned to Punjab from Tikri on Tuesday so that he could fertilise his wheat crop a few days in advance to join the tractor parade on Republic Day. Jaspal Singh from Fazilka (Punjab) said he decided not to attend the wedding of his cousin brother in Muktsar on January 27 given the tractor parade. The success of march has now become a prestige issue not only for the farmers but also for may others in Punjab.“I will go to Muktsar on January 22 to meet the cousin and other family members before the wedding to express my inability to attend the marriage. Not only me but those supporting the farmers have made up their mind to be part of the tractor parade to show their strength as the parade will decide the direction of the agitation,” said he.   Great enthusiasm among Punjab residents was sufficient enough to predict the success of the tractor parade, he added. Amit, another farmer from Sangrur, said since the parade is likely to be historical so everyone wants to become its witness.“A large number of women along with children too will leave for Tikri from Sangrur and other districts. Special buses have been arranged for them,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-residents-prepare-to-join-tractor-rally-from-tikri-to-delhi-201627
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Work on logistics hub in Mahendragarh to begin soon||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today issued directions to begin the construction of North India’s largest Integrated Multimodal Logistics Hub in Nangal Chaudhary region of Mahendragarh district.The Deputy Chief Minister, who holds the portfolio of Industries and Commerce Department, held a review meeting with senior officials of the Power, Public Health Engineering, Irrigation and Water Resources and Public Works (Building and Roads) Departments and the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation regarding the construction of the hub.He took stock of the work to be undertaken by the departments concerned as per the map. The Deputy CM also set timeline for various works and directed officials to complete the process in time.After the meeting, Dushyant Chautala said the logistics hub would prove to be a milestone in the all-round development of the region as several multinational companies would come up in South Haryana. Besides, it would also increase revenue share of Mahendragarh district.The Deputy CM said the logistics hub would also get the benefit of the Delhi-Mumbai dedicated rail freight corridor. Goods to be brought or carried via containers between Delhi and Mumbai could be loaded or unloaded here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-logistics-hub-in-mahendragarh-to-begin-soon-201349
21-01-2021||---||Rs 5,000 fine, FIR against RWA chiefs for illegal felling of trees||Yamunanagar, January 20 Now, illegal felling or trimming of trees in public parks will invite stringent action against Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs). Presidents of RWAs may face the action of an FIR and a penalty of up to Rs 5,000 for violation of the directions issued by the Municipal Corporation in this connection. In a letter written to all RWAs of twin towns Yamunanagar-Jagadhri on January 18, Mrinal Jaiswal, Municipal Engineer (ME), said that in case of any such activity, presidents of RWAs would be responsible. “This is for information of all that no illegal felling/cutting or trimming of trees in public parks or along the park is legal and acceptable. In case of any such activity, the president of Residents Welfare Associations shall be responsible and it may lead to lodging of FIR, attract a penalty of up to Rs 5,000 and legal proceedings also,” reads the letter written by ME Mrinal Jaiswal. He said that any kind of trimming might be made through Municipal Corporation or under the supervision of Municipal Corporation. Jaiswal told The Tribune that there are 41 RWAs in twin towns Yamunanagar and Jagadhri. “We have started taking action against RWAs. We have issued a notice to the president of a RWA after we came to know that the RWA had got the trimming of green trees planted in a park done to a great extent without any approval of Municipal Corporation,” said Mrinal Jaiswal. He said that the notice was issued on January 18 and the president of the RWA had been directed to explain his position within the next three working days, failing which action would be initiated against him as per rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-5-000-fine-fir-against-rwa-chiefs-for-illegal-felling-of-trees-201350
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Four deaths, 105 new cases||With four deaths and 105 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state has jumped to 2.67 lakh today. Two deaths were reported from Yamunanagar while one death each was recorded from Panipat and Gurugram. A total of 2,997 deaths have been recorded in the state due to Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-deaths-105-new-cases-201351
21-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Tractor rally rehearsal in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 20Around 50 farmers and their supporters blocked the MG Road here on Wednesday, throwing traffic across the city out of gear and leaving commuters harried.Claiming to be rehearsing for the proposed tractor parade on January 26, the group despite being allocated a route tried to march towards the highway and was stopped by the police. The face-off continued for two hours before they gave in and finally, left when the police did not allow them to move towards the highway.An indefinite strike in the support of farmers is under way near Rajiv Chowk since the last 24 days under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, Gurugram.Meanwhile, protesters led by morcha president Chaudhary Santokh Singh, local councillor RS Rathee started a ‘tiranga yatra’ from Bajghera flyover on Wednesday around 12 noon. More than two dozen tractors and other vehicles participated in the rehearsal.After completing the 12-km yatra, they reached at Maharana Pratap Chowk and diverted towards the expressway. The police tried to stop them and within minutes heavy force equipped with water cannons and tear-gas shells reached at the spot. The police in a bid to stop protesters parked two heavy vehicles on the road.Tension escalated as farmers staged a dharna, blocking the traffic on the MG Road. Soon there was traffic chaos at Atul Kataria Chowk, bus stand road, Sukhrali and on the highway.The local councillor said they had already informed the district administration about the route of the ‘tiranga yatra’. “It’s a black day in the history of India,” Rathee added.Meanwhile, ACP, City, Rajiv Yadav said they had already informed the farmers that holding a march on the highway was not possible due to heavy vehicles.After waiting for two hours, the protesters lifted the blockade.Stopping yatra an insult"Stopping the ‘tiranga yatra’ is an insult to the national flag and the country. We have passed a condemnation proposal against the police and criticise their action." —Santokh Singh, head, Sanyukt Kisan MorchaPrestige issue"I will not be attending my cousin brother’s wedding in Muktsar on January 27. Instead, I will participate in the tractor parade. Its success has become a prestige issue not only for farmers, but also for the entire Punjab."—Jaspal Singh, Fazilka residentIt’ll be historic"The tractor parade will be historic. So everyone wants to be part of it. A large number of women and children will leave for Tikri from Sangrur and other districts. Special buses have been arranged for them."—Amit, farmer from SangrurOn 3-day leave"I work in a private insurance company. I have applied for a three-day leave starting on January 24 to participate in the tractor parade from Tikri to Delhi."—Haakam Singh, Sangrur resident||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tractor-rally-rehearsal-in-gurugram-201352
21-01-2021||---||Selja: Not political stir, it’s mass movement||Hisar, January 20Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja said farmers and labourers are the backbone of the country and if these two communities suffer, the country cannot progress.Addressing a gathering of farmers who are sitting on dharna against the three agricultural laws at the Badopatti toll plaza in Hisar today, Selja stated that people have been forced to sit on the streets in this bitter cold due to the black laws of this government.“This is not a political agitation as is being by politicised by the BJP. It is the people's mass movement and being a political party, the Congress is performing its duty and fighting a political battle,” she said.The HPCC chief said that yesterday, party leader Rahul Gandhi had said that these laws would destroy not only the farmers and labourers but the entire economy of the country. Only a few selected friends of the Prime Minister would benefit. The farmers and labourers would not be able to stand in front of big companies. After this, the poor would not get ration in ration shops.The HPCC president was accompanied by state Congress general secretary Dr Ajay Chaudhary and state Congress chief spokesperson Bajrang Das Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-not-political-stir-its-mass-movement-201353
21-01-2021||Sonepat||It’ll be peaceful tractor rally, reiterate farmers||After the Supreme Court refused to entertain the Delhi Police plea seeking directions to stop the tractor rally by farmers on the Republic Day, the protesters at the Singhu border today reiterated that the tractor parade would be peaceful and that thousands of tractors from Punjab would start for the Delhi borders on January 23 and 24.Yogendra Yadav, convener, Jai Kisan Andolan, said: “The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’s main objective is to hold the tractor parade peacefully.”Meanwhile, farmers have started decorating their tractors, while some have pasted posters which describe the contribution of farmers to the nation’s development.Moga farmers Simarjeet Singh and Gurpeet Singh, who reached the Sonepat railway station on Tuesday night, said they were returning home and would come back on January 24 along with the tractor rally.Simarjeet said, “People in Punjab are busy preparing for the parade. About 25 tractors from each village will reach Delhi borders.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/itll-be-peaceful-tractor-rally-reiterate-farmers-201354
21-01-2021||---||Farmers on 20,000 tractors to leave from Karnal district||Karnal, January 20More than 20,000 tractors from the district are likely to be pressed into service for the farmers’ parade in Delhi on the Republic Day. To mobilise support, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) members have been visiting villages and urging farmers to participate in the tractor parade.Dilbag Singh, district rural president, BKU (Charuni), said: “The BKU requests farmers to participate in the January 26 event in large numbers. We are expecting a participation of more than 20,000 tractors from Karnal district.”He further said the tractor parade would be peaceful. “Farmers will leave for Delhi on January 24. People are donating money for fuel and other requirements.”To prepare for the event, farmers are getting their tractors repaired and erecting BKU flags on them.Framer Amritpal Singh said the three new farm laws were against the farmers and must be repealed.Mechanics are repairing tractors free of cost. “I service four to five tractors every day without charging a rupee because I am a farmer first,” said Aman Singh, a mechanic in Darad village.In Kaithal as well, farmers are preparing for the tractor parade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-on-20-000-tractors-to-leave-from-karnal-district-201355
21-01-2021||Jhajjar||Three more protesting farmers die||Two farmers participating in the ongoing agitation at Tikri border lost their lives in the past 24 hours. A Punjab farmer, identified as Dhanna Singh (65) of Tunda village in Patiala, died reportedly of cardiac arrest at Tikri border in the wee hours of Wednesday. A Rohtak farmer — Jai Bhagwan (42) of Pakasma village — who had consumed poison at Tikri yesterday succumbed during treatment at a hospital in Delhi today.Sources said Dhanna had been camping in Bahadurgarh for the past several days. He went to bed on Tuesday as usual but did not wake up this morning. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh where he was declared brought dead.Jai Bhagwan had consumed poison near the main dharna spot at Tikri. In the suicide note, he said he was a small farmer and many peasants had taken to the streets to protest against the farm laws.Sonepat: A 34-year-old farmer died reportedly due to cardiac arrest at Kundli on Wednesday. He has been identified as Jagjeet Singh of Ludhiana’s Dhatt village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-more-protesting-farmers-die-201356
21-01-2021||---||Govt employees protest at Singhu||Sonepat, January 20  Coming out in support of farmers, members of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh on Wednesday staged a protest at Singhu against the three agriculture laws.  A number of government employees from Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat and Sonepat, led by general secretary Satish Sethi, vice-president Shilak Ram Malik and joint secretary Ramesh Atri, gathered near the KFC building on NH-44 and held a protest march raising slogans against the Central Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-employees-protest-at-singhu-201357
21-01-2021||Palwal||Intimidation of protesting farmers won’t work: Deepender Hooda||Congress MP Deepender Hooda today accused the BJP government of adopting “devious” tactics to intimidate protesting farmers.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has sent notices to people associated with the farmers’ protests in connection with a case related to an organisation called Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).“The Congress will continue to support the agitation till the anti-farmer laws are repealed. Farmers and soldiers of the country have never bowed to rulers, who have introduced the new laws forcibly,” he said in the district’s Antoha village.The Rajya Sabha member claimed farmers had the right to celebrate the Republic Day and the Independence Day. He justified the decision of farmers’ union to take out a tractor march in the Capital on the Republic Day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/intimidation-of-protesting-farmers-wont-work-deepender-hooda-201358
21-01-2021||Bhiwani||Ex-MLA starts campaign for SYL||Former MLA from Ateli Naresh Yadav today started a public awareness campaign from Loharu town of Bhiwani district on the demand of construction of SYL canal. People of various organisations in Loharu supported him under the banner of Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangharsh Samiti.Addressing the workers’ meeting at the PWD rest house, he alleged that politics has always been involved in the construction of the SYL canal. It has not been constructed due to the stubborn attitude of the Punjab Government despite the Supreme Court ruling in favour of Haryana four years ago.Yadav said that he has been struggling for three decades for the construction of SYL canal, which is considered to be the lifeline of the farmers of south Haryana.Yadav said that he started a ‘padyatra’ from Nangal Chaudhary to Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2000; from Godbalwa to Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2008 and also in December 2020.A committee led by him submitted a memorandum to the Union Agriculture Minister on January 7.Yadav told mediapersons said that when the Centre has resolved issues like Article 370 and construction of temple in Ayodhya, the issue of SYL construction should also be resolved for the welfare of farmers of southern Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-mla-starts-campaign-for-syl-201359
21-01-2021||---||State to revise schedule rates||Chandigarh, January 20Taking a historic decision to eradicate corruption, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced the revision of the schedule rates, which remained unchanged since 1987. As per the announcement, the new schedule rates will come into force from March 1. The revised rates will act as the base for inviting new tenders and evaluating work performance. It would be revised after every five years, announced the Chief Minister.He was presiding over the first-of-its-kind meeting with administrative secretaries and civil engineer contractors here. Khattar said from now onwards, state-level IT solution would be introduced for works pertaining to civil engineering. This system would be implemented from April 1 and contractors would now have to get themselves registered. The Chief Minister said e-tendering of all civil works would be done from now onwards. Along with this, IT-based technical evaluation and allotment of work would also be done online by the departments concerned. Besides this, the manual filling of measurement books (MB) by contractors would be replaced by ‘e-medium’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-to-revise-schedule-rates-201360
21-01-2021||---||High Court notice to Haryana over NRI quota withdrawal||Chandigarh, January 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to Haryana and another respondent on a petition for quashing the decision to withdraw a special reservation for NRIs in the allotment of industrial plots.The Division Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri fixed March 31 as the next date of hearing. The matter was brought to the court’s notice by Saranbeer Kaur and other petitioners through counsel Himanshu Arora and SP Arora.The Bench was told that the Haryana State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSlIDC), in furtherance of the enterprises promotion policy-2015, had published an advertisement inviting applications for the allotment of plots in industrial estates across the state. A number of plots were earmarked for NRIs.The estate management procedure was also provided for the reservation of plots for NRIs. The list of the plot earmarked/ reserved was uploaded on the corporation website. But the HSIIDC, on June 13, 2020, unilaterally decided to withdraw the reservation extended to the NRIs at the stroke of a pen.Himanshu Arora contended the action was completely contradictory to the spirit of the policy, which was to boost investment. It was also inconsistent with the provisions of the estate management procedure and against the terms and conditions of the advertisement.The policy and the procedure were oriented to make Haryana a preeminent investment destination in the backdrop of ease of doing business and to bring foreign currency and technical knowhow. The decision was totally against the intent of the policy and interest of the state, besides depriving the NRIs of an opportunity to set up industries in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-notice-to-haryana-over-nri-quota-withdrawal-201361
21-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Coop society official was murdered: Cops||Gurugram, January 20A murder case has been registered in death of cooperative housing society official. He was found dead near a car two days ago and the police had initially suspected it to be a case of suicide.The victim has been identified as Satyavir Malik (57), a retired Army officer who was working as sub-inspector in cooperative housing society. He lived in Ramdeep Society, sector 1, Manesar.On January 13, he left for office but did not return till late night. Finally, his body was found lying near his car on the service road near polytechnic college, Manesar. Passers-by informed the police and they initially suspected suicide or accidental death due to the numerous injuries on his body.Today, the police got his post-mortem report which established cause of death as head injury with a sharp object. On the complaint of Malik's son Amit, an FIR has been registered under Section 302 (murder), 201 (hide evidence) of the IPC at Manesar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coop-society-official-was-murdered-cops-201363
21-01-2021||---||Eviction notice to pvt township on NH-44||Karnal, January 20Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gagandeep Singh on Monday passed an eviction order directing Alpha International City, a private township by Alpha Corp on National Highway-44, to vacate 55 kanal of government land within seven days, failing which the authorities will be forced to act.The township has been directed to restore the original status of the land.The land, which belongs to the civic body, was earmarked for a drain (khal) and revenue ‘rasta’ (lane). As per the Urban Local Bodies policy, the company was supposed to exchange land belonging to revenue ''rasta'' with its own land, but the township failed to do so in the last 10 years.The civic body had issued several notices to the township management asking it to either vacate the land or transfer the same to the MC.The Joint Commissioner said, “After going through the facts and records, I have passed an order under Section 408 of the MC to get the government land vacated from Alpha International City in seven days.” He said the land was earmarked for ‘khal’ and as per the orders of the Supreme Court, the nature of water bodies could not be disrupted.However, Poulomi Ray, Deputy General Manager, Alphacorp, claimed that, “We are a law-abiding firm and have not done any encroachment on government land. All our developments are in compliance with the government rules. However, there are some revenue roads for which we have written to officials. Moreover, most revenue ''rastas'' have been subsumed in broader metalled roads.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eviction-notice-to-pvt-township-on-nh-44-201364
21-01-2021||---||19-yr-old boy shot dead in Ambala||Ambala, January 20A 19-year-old boy was shot dead by unidentified person(s) in Ambala City on Tuesday evening. The deceased has been identified as Ayan, a resident of Ranjit Nagar.He was pursuing Bcom at Dyal Singh College in Delhi, but due to the pandemic, Ayan had been living with his family in Ambala City since March last year.Ayan was rushed to the Civil Hospital by a passerby, where he was declared as brought dead. He had suffered bullet injuries in his forehead and near the right ear.In his statement to the police, the victim's elder brother Apoorva said around 5:30 pm, his brother received a call from one of his friends and he went out to meet him. Around 8 pm, the family came to know that someone had shot him dead.A case has been registered under Section 302 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act at the Ambala City police station. The body was handed over to his family after a post-mortem examination.SHO Ram Kumar said the family had not raised suspicion on anyone yet. The matter was being further investigated by the CIA-1 unit.DSP, Headquarters, Sultan Singh said their teams had got some leads and questioning was being done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/19-yr-old-boy-shot-dead-in-ambala-201367
21-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||In Hisar, 90% women anaemic||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 20Nearly 90 per cent of women in Hisar town are suffering from anaemia while only 10 per cent have normal haemoglobin (Hb) level. This has been revealed in the tests being conducted under the pilot project ‘Know Your Hb’ launched by the district administration in urban areas.The official figures of the tests conducted by the team comprising the District Red Cross Society and the Health Department revealed that so far, 4,489 women had been tested, of which 148 were found suffering from severe anaemia while 3,252 were mild anaemic and 628 in the moderate category. Only 416 women were found having normal Hb level.The campaign was started on December 20 last year. The team of the officials took a test van known as ‘Haem Van’ to visit different localities of the town every day, where women and girls were tested for anaemia.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni said in a review meeting, the Health Department had come to a conclusion that around 80 per cent pregnant women visiting hospitals were found anaemic during the tests. Being anaemic poses a threat to their lives during the pregnancy and at the time of delivery. “So, we decided to launch this pilot project in Hisar to check anaemia and the health status of women and girl child. Those found having below normal Hb are given a month’s medicines such as iron and folic acid. We are also issuing diet chart to them besides the recommendation of improving their eating habits and lifestyle,” the DC added.Meanwhile, Civil Surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti said the ‘know your Hb’ campaign would give the exact haemoglobin status of the women in Hisar. “After a month, the health team will review the status of anaemia in these women. We are hopeful that women with low Hb level will improve their condition after a month. While those found in low Hb category even after a month will be kept under observation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-hisar-90-women-anaemic-201370
21-01-2021||---||Locals, kin protest Karnal councillor’s arrest||Karnal, January 20Residents and family members of ward 2 councillor Balwinder Singh, who was arrested late last evening on the charges of obstructing officials from discharging duties, staged a protest in front of the Mini-Secretariat here on Wednesday.Balwinder had opposed a demolition drive jointly carried out by the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the District Town Planning Department on Tuesday afternoon.Members of the councillor's family accused the police of misbehaving with them at the time of the arrest. “We were sleeping when the police entered our house. They dragged my father and beat him up. He was arrested for helping the poor people of his ward,” alleged Yadvinder Kaur, daughter of the councillor.Senior Congress leader Virender Rathore said Balwinder had been arrested at the behest of the ruling party as he was raising the issues pertaining to the common people.Former Congress MLA Sumita Singh, former Haryana Minority Commission chairman Trilochan Singh and other party leaders also reached the protest site and extended support to the family.Raj Bala, a resident of ward 2, said," Our councillor is not criminal. He is always ready to help the needy, which has made him pay the price this time."Balwinder was produced in the court today, which sent him to judicial custody. He is an independent councillor. His wife had unsuccessfully contested the mayoral elections two years ago.Superintendent of Police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said Balwinder Singh had been arrested on the basis of a complaint given by DTP Vikram Kumar. He said no police personnel manhandled his family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/locals-kin-protest-karnal-councillors-arrest-201373
21-01-2021||The Kaithal Municipal Council building constructed with expenses worth crores about 10-years back has started deteriorating. Due to indifferent attitude of officials responsible for maintenance of this building||Civic body building in bad shape||Need to focus on infrastructureThe accompanying photograph captured on the main dividing road between Sector 7 and 18, near the entry gate to Panchkula, speaks volumes about the inside story. Mind you, this ‘welcoming’ entry gate to the city, installed recently close to the Chandigarh Housing Board Chowk, had cost several lakhs to the city administration. One really wonders whether the erection of such an ‘ornamental’ gate alone would justify the same amidst such ill-maintained/potholed stretches on both sides of the widely traversed road? SK Gupta, PanckulaTrees branches tangle with wiresThis is a picture of an HSVP park in Housing Board Colony of Sector 13, Kurukshetra. Overgrown trees leaning over the road and tangling with electricity wires are a common scene here. These could damage the wires and can also cause some mishaps. To mitigate this safety risk, the authorities must get these trees trimmed. We hope that the civic body will take a note of the situation and get the needful done immediately before it results into an accident or damage. Anupama Saini, KurukshetraSlip road constructed at ITI chowkMy letter in this column with a heading of “Slip road at ITI Chowk needed” was published on February12, 2020. Following this, the NHAI has got a slip road constructed there which became operative now, thus giving a relief to thousands of commuters who use this road daily. Anyone coming from Kunjpura Road and approaching to NH-44 for going to Delhi usually used to get stuck in heavy traffic from Convent School to ITI Chowk. The situation used to worsen during school hours. It is due to The Tribune only that my voice was raised which otherwise was of thousands of residents of Sector 9, Karnal and adjoining area. Hats off to The Tribune. Rajiv Anand, XEN, UHBVN, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civic-body-building-in-bad-shape-201377
21-01-2021||---||Coal heater kills 3 of family||FaridabadA couple, Aman and Priya, and their two-year-old son Manav suffocated to death while sleeping with a lit coal heater in their one-room accommodation at Rajiv Colony, Ballabgarh. There was no window in the room for ventilation. The family hailed from Bihar. TNSAmbala6 mobiles seized from jailSix cellphones and a sim card were recovered from the Central Jail on Tuesday. DSP (Jail) Vivek Sangwan said a packet containing six cellphones and a sim card was recovered during an inspection. It was thrown from outside the jail. A case has been registered under Section 42A of the Prisons Act. TNS780-kg paneer destroyedTeams of the CM flying and Food and Drug Administration seized and destroyed nearly 780-kg paneer worth Rs1.4 lakh from two vehicles in Ambala City on Wednesday. DFSO Gaurav Sharma said, “The samples will be sent to food testing lab and further action will be taken on the basis of the report. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coal-heater-kills-3-of-family-201378
21-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Seminar on Atmanirbhar Bharat||Hisar varsity PRO promotedHisar: Bijender Dahiya, public relations officer (PRO) of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar, has been promoted as Deputy Director, Public Relations. Dahiya thanked VC Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Avnesh Verma for the promotion. Dahiya joined the GJUST on July 18, 2011, as the PRO. He is currently pursuing PhD on Haryana Sufimat from the university itself, which is in the final stage. Dahiya has also served as the cultural coordinator of the GJUST.Online talent hunt contestYamunanagar: An online talent hunt competition was held in GNG College here. Programme convener Ambika Kashyap said there were singing, dancing, poetical symposium and speech contests. Winners of dance talent hunt were Gagandeep, Geeta, Vasudha, Aanchal and Gurmeen that of speech competition were Harjeet, Subhangi and Mehakdeep. Tamanna was the winner of Sanskrit poetical symposium whereas Prachi and Khushi won the Hindi contest. Kawaljeet Kaur, Palak and Gurdeep Kaur were the winners of Swaranjali singing contest.CDLU gets new Dean of CollegesSirsa: Prof Jagbir Singh Jakhar has been assigned the charge of Dean of Colleges, Chaudhary Devi Lal University (CDLU), Sirsa. At present, he is holding the fourth term of Dean, Law Faculty, and has remained the chairperson of the Law Department for 11 years. He has regularly conducted legal awareness camps in Sirsa district. He always encourages students for participation in academic and co-curricular activities.NCC cadet attends IMA trainingYamunanagar: Tushar Tadiyal, NCC cadet and BSc final-year student of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, underwent 20-day training at the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun. Now, he is engaged to train NCC cadets of the college. College principal and NCC officer Maj Harinder Singh Kang said Tushar was the only cadet from Yamunanagar got trained under the supervision of higher military officers. Tushar gave credit of this achievement to Commanding Officer Col Ajay Pal Kaushish, Brig AS Barar and Maj Harinder Singh Kang.4 engg students get placedHisar: Four students of the computer science and engineering department have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Mohali-based APPWRK IT Solutions Private Limited, conducted by the training and placement cell at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said Akriti Mahajan, HR manager from the company conducted the whole drive online in which 30 students of the CSE department participated. The selected students are Chandani Garg, Pushpender Yadav and Jyoti Khatkar from BTech-CSE 2021-batch and Keshav Sharma from BTech-IT 2021-batch.Faridabad varsity to students’ aidFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has offered an interest-free soft loan facility to the deserving students by providing them the tuition fee amount. The university has invited applications from students for interest-free soft loan by January 25. VC Prof Dinesh Kumar said the policy intends to give relief to the students in the wake of Covid. After the completion of the course, as and when, the student will get the job then he or she would have to repay the loan amount. The university would also assist them in getting a job, he added. Initially, the fund for this initiative is being borne jointly by the university and MOB - the alumni association of the university, he added. Under the policy, up to 100 per cent of financial aid will be provided to students on a case-to-case basis, to the satisfaction of authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seminar-on-atmanirbhar-bharat-201379
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Charkhi Dadri stone crushers fined Rs 36 crore, green panel told||As many as 277 stone crushers in Charkhi Dadri had been fined Rs 31.45 crore for illegal groundwater extraction while a Rs 4.89 crore penalty had been slapped on 33 for violating other norms, a panel constituted to look into the irregularities has told the National Green Tribunal. Formed following directions from the NGT on August 19, 2020, the seven-member committee submitted the details before the tribunal on January 13.The panel comprised Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) Member Secretary S Narayanan, State Environment Impact Assessment Authority Member Secretary Shekhar Vidyarthi, Charkhi Dadri ADC Rahul Narwal and Divisional Forest Officer Bhupender Raghav and three scientists from the Central Pollution Control Board.There were 330 crushers in Charkhi Dadri, but 53 had stopped functioning before April 15, 2015 — the date of notification of the Central Ground Water Authority for obtaining permission for withdrawal of groundwater.The Charkhi Dadri DC has issued orders for recovering the penalty from the violators. The state pollution board authorities told the committee that 35 units had been sealed for violating air quality norms. The HSPCB told the committee of the 33 units fined Rs 4.89 crore, 19 had deposited Rs 1.62 crore.The committee found concentration of PM10 varying between 26 to 466 micrograms per cubic metre in Charkhi Dadri while the national ambient air quality standard is 100 micrograms per cubic metre.“The committee has said no new stone crusher of any capacity should be allowed to operate in the region,” said Narayanan. It has also recommended installation of three ambient air quality monitoring stations. The next hearing is scheduled for February 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/charkhi-dadri-stone-crushers-fined-rs-36-crore-green-panel-told-201342
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Faith, food, farmers at Nada Sahib during Gurpurb celebrations||The pandemic failed to dampen Gurpurab celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh master, as crowd thronged city gurdwaras and makeshift community kitchens on Wednesday.Jagwinder Singh, DevoteeWe host a langar every year on Guru Gobind Singh’s Parkash Utsav. This is the fourth year and I’ve put up flags in support of farmers this time. No farmers, no food.Harbhajan Singh, Akhand paathi, at Nada Sahib said, “The Prakash Utsav is being celebrated with prayers and hymns. We had eight ceremonies of Akahand Path bhog here.”A devotee at gurdwara, Angad Singh, a farmer by profession, said, “I visit this gurdwara almost every Gurpurab. I am praying for the ‘sarbat da bhala’ and for my brother farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders.”A splash of fireworks painted the dull grey winter sky and flags of farmer protests in green, white, saffron, yellow and red dotted roadside shops near gurdwara during gurpurab.A kilometre away from the gurdwara, Jagwinder Singh, along with four of his friends organised a bread-pakora and tea langar in a tent. Flags dotted his makeshift tent too. “We host a langar every year on Guru Gobind Singh ji’s parkash utsav. This is the fourth year and I’ve put up flags in support of farmers this time. No farmers, no food,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faith-food-farmers-at-nada-sahib-during-gurpurb-celebrations-201253
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||In pictures: Thousands throng gurdwaras on Guru Gobind's 'Prakash Purb'||Thousands of devotees paid obeisance at gurdwaras across Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and Chandigarh on Wednesday to commemorate the 354th birth anniversary of the 10th Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh.Guru Gobind Singh (1666-1708) founded the 'Khalsa Panth' or the community of the pure at Anandpur Sahib in 1699.Religious fervour was quite evident at 'Harmandar Sahib', the holiest of Sikh shrines also known as Golden Temple, in Amritsar in Punjab and other historic gurdwaras across the region as devotees began to assemble since early morning hours to offer prayers and listen to the 'kirtan' or hymns set to music.The Golden Temple complex was adorned with lights to mark the occasion.A heavy rush of devotees was also seen at Takht Kesgarh Sahib gurdwara in Anandpur Sahib town, around 85 km from here, since early morning. It was at this place that Guru Gobind Singh founded the 'Khalsa Panth'.Hundreds of people also offered prayers at Gurdwara Nada Sahib in Panchkula, adjoining Chandigarh, which is associated with the visit of the 10th Sikh Guru.Religious processions were taken out at various places in the region on the eve of the Guru's birth anniversary. 'Langars' or community kitchens have been set up at gurdwaras to feed the devotees.Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted people on the occasion and urged them to follow the Guru's teachings and to maintain peace and harmony. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-pictures-thousands-throng-gurdwaras-on-guru-gobinds-prakash-purb-201199
