22-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Haryana ministers may face resistance on Republic Day||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 22Haryana ministers and other leaders of the BJP-JJP regime slated to attend Republic-Day functions in the state are likely to face stiff resistance from certain organisations of farmers as well as local residents in view of the ongoing agitation by farmers against the recently enacted agriculture laws.Having got intelligence inputs in this regard, the administrative and police authorities are making preparations to ensure the maintenance of peace, law and order.As per an official statement issued here today, police personnel have been undergoing a special anti-riot training drive at Police Lines in Rohtak since January 12.“The police force is fully competent and prepared to tackle any situation and nobody will be allowed to take the law into their own hands at any cost. The police personnel are being given specialized riot-control training and handling of modern weapons and equipment,” said Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma.Farmers’ organisations have maintained that the political leaders should stay away from the Republic-Day functions to be organised across Haryana as they may have to face the wrath of the people of the state.Representatives of farmers’ organisations, who were invited for a meeting with the district administrative and police authorities at Rohtak yesterday, suggested that government officials or some other non-political persons should head these functions this year.Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar exhorted the representatives of the farmers’ organizations not to oppose the political leaders or disrupt the Republic-Day functions in national interest.“Republic Day is a national festival and it should be kept away from politics,” he said, adding that the concerns put forward by the farmers’ organizations would be conveyed to the state authorities.The Deputy Commissioner asserted that the farmers’ organizations had assured that no violent protest would be staged against the government functionaries/ministers visiting the district for the Republic-Day function on January 26.However, sources maintained that the arrival of certain leaders at Republic Day functions could be opposed.“Our organisation has no plan to oppose the entry of any minister or leader of the ruling coalition on Republic Day. However, we cannot take the responsibility of other organizations or people in general,” said Preet Singh, the district president of the All-India Kisan Sabha, who was present at the meeting.He pointed out that the people were anguished at the stance adopted by the government regarding the farmers’ demands, adding that certain faction(s) of the BKU had recently announced that they would oppose the entry of political leaders at Republic-Day functions.On being questioned about the matter, the Deputy Commissioner stated that no possibility could be ruled out, though he asserted that the district administration and police force were prepared to tackle any situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ministers-may-face-resistance-on-republic-day-202177
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||Light rains predicted over parts of Punjab, Haryana; no cold wave in north India for next 4-5 days||The weather department has predicted light rain over parts of Punjab and Haryana on Friday. Despite this, it has also forecasted no cold wave conditions over north India during the next 4-5 days.Very light or thundershowers will be experienced at isolated places in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on January 23, the bulletin read.These states would also experience dense fog on January 24 to January 26.Further, some parts of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are likely to receive fairly widespread rain, snow or hail. These weather conditions have been attributed to a fresh western disturbance.The weather department has also forecasted a rise in minimum temperature by 2-4 degree Celsius over plains of northwest India on January 23 and 24, and thereafter a fall by 2-4 degree Celsius during the subsequent 48 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/light-rains-predicted-over-parts-of-punjab-haryana-no-cold-wave-in-north-india-for-next-4-5-days-202159
22-01-2021||Mumbai||Sunil Grover unveils a song that reminds of 'what Haryana lost in 2016'||Actor-comedian Sunil Grover has unveiled a new song titled Matti ke maa matti mil gayi, which he says is a reminder of what people of Haryana lost in 2016, during the violent Jat reservation protests."Matti Ke Maa Matti Mil Gayi. A song that reminds what Haryana lost in 2016 and what we lose in every riot," Sunil wrote on Instagram, sharing the number. The song features in the upcoming documentary, Cheer Haran, which is about the reservation protests of 2016.Sunil said in a statement that the song brought out "so many emotions in me, and it's a reminder that life is so fickle and human conflicts can leave a family bereaved to the point of no return"."I'm honoured to have launched this beautiful song that echoes with the sentiments of the documentary 'Cheer Haran'. I wish love, strength and peace to all those who have suffered in this tragedy," her added.Sung and composed by Sadhu S. Tiwari, and penned by Rohit Sharma, the song expresses the emptiness created in the lives of those who survive after the loss of their loved ones. "This song holds a special place in my heart. Its first few lines are inspired by a popular Haryana folk song, 'Maati ki maa maati mil gayi'. While filming the documentary when we interviewed the families of the deceased, their words, 'Matti mai mila diya beta iss arakshan ne hume', haunted me for a long time. So when I sat with my music team, somehow the song came back to me. Our lyricist Rohit Sharma re-wrote the whole song in such a way that it expresses the feelings of every person from those families. It brings tears to my eyes and incites goosebumps every time I hear it. It is a song that depicts the void caused by loss of lives," said the film's director Kuldeep Ruhil. Cheer Haran will hit the cinemas of North India on January 29.  — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sunil-grover-unveils-a-song-that-reminds-of-what-haryana-lost-in-2016-202156
22-01-2021||Gurugram||56-year-old health worker dies week after immunisation||Sending the front line warriors of the district undergoing Covid immunisation into panic, a 56-year-old health worker immunised on January 16 died suddenly on Friday.Rajwanti, a health worker in Bhangrola PHC, died today morning without any evident reason. The family has held immunisation as the reason behind the same and the authorities have ordered post-mortem while Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) committee has started investigation.“We have reported the death to the concerned authorities. So far no sign or symptom has been reported to ascertain cause of the death. We are waiting for a post-mortem report,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.Speaking to The Tribune, the deceased’s husband Lal Singh said that when she slept at night she was fine but never woke up.“We are shocked. She got the injection on 16th and was fine and attending duty. She has no co-morbidity like cardiac or diabetes. We had dinner yesterday and she slept. She did not wake up at her usual time today and when we checked we found her dead,” Singh said.The family has alleged that she was reluctant to get vaccinated and wanted to get the same only in second or third round but was asked to get it as she was already registered.“She was reluctant to go for the same in first round but they told her that now after being registered there is no turning back. She was a Covid warrior who did not take even a single leave in entire crisis and died owing to vaccination. We have got no call from any official since morning,” added Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/56-year-old-health-worker-dies-week-after-immunisation-202131
22-01-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||CIA staff unearth fake RC scam in Jagadhri||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, January 21A vehicle registration scam has come to the fore in Jagadhri city.According to information, four data entry operators at the SDM office allegedly tampered with vehicle chassis and engine numbers to make fake registration documents of cars. It came to the fore during a preliminary verification of the record of registration certificates (RCS) on the directions of SDM Darshan Kumar. He had received a letter from the CIA staff of the Sirsa police on January 16 seeking the registration details of some vehicles.The Sirsa police had booked a resident of Rohtak under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC in connection with a fake RC scam.SDM Darshan Kumar today lodged a complaint in this regard with Superintendent of Police (SP) Kamaldeep Gupta.He urged the SP to register an FIR against the four staff members for allegedly preparing fake RCs.The SDM said as per the preliminary verification, 15 RCs were prepared changing original engine and chaises numbers of vehicles/cars.“The Sirsa police had sought the registration details of three cars. However, during verification, my staff members failed to trace the files of these vehicles, but they found that 15 RCs were fraudulently prepared by changing original engine and chaises numbers,” alleged Darshan Kumar.Sources say such incidents are reported mostly in case of loan default — when firms take away vehicles financed by them, or when a buyer fails to get the vehicle registered within the stipulated time period. Firm agents get fake RCs of such vehicles prepared to sell them further on cheaper rates, they added.Darshan Kumar said, “I have lodged a complaint against the four data entry operators at my office. We are awaiting police action.”How it unfolded||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cia-staff-unearth-fake-rc-scam-in-jagadhri-201812
22-01-2021||Gurugram||2 lawyers among 3 held for land fraud||The state crime branch has arrested three persons, including two advocates, on the charge of selling off fraudulently two acres of land in the district’s Islampur village to a private company. The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (formerly Haryana Urban Development Authority) had, in 1993, acquired the land from three sisters. They had received compensation for their ancestral property. One of them, Murti Devi, had, in September last year, filed a complaint against Ajay Chaudhary of Islampur village and his accomplices, accusing them of registering a sale deed of the land on the basis of forged documents and witnesses. The complainant alleged the sale deed was registered in the name of Rohit Thakran of Jharsa village and the land was sold off for Rs 2 crore. Advocates Chaman Lal Arora and Subhash Chand Arora stood witness to the fraudulent land registration process, the complainant alleged.  On the basis of Murti Devi’s complaint, a case was registered under Sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at the Sadar police station here on September 17, 2020.  The case was transferred to state crime branch on November 11 last year. The main accused, Rohit, arrested on Tuesday is on police remand. He will be produced in the city court on Saturday. The advocates nabbed today have been sent to judicial custody. Dharmbeer, DSP, state crime branch, said the police were on the lookout for Ajay. Mohammad Akil, DGP, Crime, said: “Rohit is an accused in liquor smuggling cases, while his accomplice Ajay is accused of killing a Rajasthan Police constable in 2006.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-lawyers-among-3-held-for-land-fraud-201813
22-01-2021||Yamunanagar||Man killed by roommate||A man was allegedly murdered in Jagadhri town of Yamunanagar district on Wednesday night. He has been identified as Shatrughan. On the complaint of Rajesh, a case was registered against Bindeshwar. The complainant said that he, his brother-in-law Shatrughan and Bindeshwar (all belong to Bihar) worked as labourers in a godown of FCI in Jagadhri and stayed in a rented room near Buria Chungi in Jagadhri. “An argument took place between Shatrughan and Bindeshwar over cooking yesterday. After that, Bindeshwar attacked Shatrughan with a brick and he was taken to Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-killed-by-roommate-201814
22-01-2021||andigarh||Five FIRs ordered on plaints at CM Window||Taking cognisance of the complaints at CM Window, Project Director of the Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate Programme, Dr Rakesh Gupta, on Thursday directed the officers concerned to get five FIRs registered.Gupta held a review meeting of complaints received on CM window and Social Media Grievances Tracker on Thursday.In a complaint pertaining to Bahadurgarh district, instructions were given to register an FIR against an officer of the Urban Local Bodies Department for withdrawing Rs 88 lakh from a bank account.In a complaint of Haryana Agro Industries Corporation (HAIC), directions were given to register a FIR against four persons regarding disappearance of 50,000 jute bags. Furthermore, instructions were given to fix the accountability of the officer regarding delay in action in this case of 2012.Besides this, Gupta directed the registration of FIR in a case regarding irregularities in the disbursement of loan amounting to the tune of Rs 74 crore by HARCO Bank, Fatehabad.In another case regarding irregularities in the sale and purchase of agricultural equipment in Sirsa, the officers of the Agriculture Department, while directing them to register an FIR, were asked to submit details of the case at the next meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-firs-ordered-on-plaints-at-cm-window-201815
22-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Six wanted criminals with bounty of Rs 5,000 arrested in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 21 The crime branch unit of the local police arrested six wanted criminals carrying a reward of Rs 5,000 each from Dwarka Expressway last evening.  The accused have been identified as Hitesh alias Sonu, Rahul alias Lambu, Lalit alias Kalu, Rohit, Neeraj alias Katiya and Neeraj Singh. They belong to a local ‘Tota’ gang, led by Sunil alias Tota, and were involved in attacks on more than 12 of their business rivals. The gang leader is on the run. The police said the accused were involved in more than 60 cases of murder, attempt to murder, robbery, dacoity, snatching, kidnapping, carrying illegal weapons and drug smuggling registered in Gurugram, Jhajjar and Delhi. A Scorpio, two revolvers, one country-made pistol and 28 cartridges were recovered from their possession.  The in-charge of Palam Vihar crime unit, Jogender Singh, said, Sunil alias Tota wanted to establish his water tanker mafia racket in the city. The gang allegedly attacked five persons in different areas in the last one week to create terror. They had also thrashed water tank supplier Pankaj, who filed a complaint with the police.  He said the accused had confessed to the crime.  ACP (crime) Preet Pal Singh Sangwan said the gang leader would soon be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-wanted-criminals-with-bounty-of-rs-5-000-arrested-in-gurugram-201816
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minister suspends three officials during surprise visit||Co-operation Minister Banwari Lal conducted a surprise visit at the office of the Registrar Co-operative Societies (RCS) in Panchkula at 4.15 pm today and ordered the suspension of three employees for not maintaining the record.  The three employees suspended are Gamandeep, branch assistant, sugar mill; Kulwinder Singh, peon, auditor branch; and Sumit Dalal, peon, budget branch.  Besides, the minister ordered disciplinary action against Suman Rani, private secretary, RCS. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-suspends-three-officials-during-surprise-visit-201817
22-01-2021||---||Only 4% clear postgraduate teachers’ test||Chandigarh, January 21The Board of School Education Haryana today declared the result of Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test-2020 (HTET) Level 1, 2 and 3 examinations at the board’s website.A total of 7.04 per cent of Level 1 primary teachers (PRT), 5.15 per cent of Level 2 trained graduate teachers (TGT) and 4.07 per cent of Level 3 postgraduate teachers (PGT) candidates have passed the examination.Board president Dr Jagbir Singh said 2,37,806 candidates took the examination, which included 70,112 men and 1,67,694 women.He said 66,883 candidates appeared in the Level 1 examination. Out of 20,553 males 1,863 passed the examination while out of 46,330 females only 2,843 passed the examination.He said the pass percentage of male candidates was 9.06 and that of women candidates was 6.14 percent.He further said 95,820 candidates entered the Level 2 examination, of which 1,612 out of 26,413 males and 3,322 out of 69,407 females passed. He said the pass percentage of male candidates was 6.10 per cent and that of women candidates was 4.79 per cent.Apart from this, 75,103 candidates entered the Level 3 examination, of which 1,274 out of 23,146 males and 1,782 out of 51,957 females passed. He said the pass percentage of male candidates was 5.50 per cent and that of women candidates was 3.43 per cent.Singh said in case of technical error faced while uploading the result or any other type of error, the board had a right to withdraw the result.Pass percentage||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-4-clear-postgraduate-teachers-test-201818
22-01-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Pollution control board can impose eco relief, rules HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 21 The High Court has ruled that the Haryana State Pollution Control Board has the jurisdiction to impose environmental compensation on “polluter”, keeping in view the principles of “sustainable development” and its two important constituents “precautionary principle” and “polluter pays principle”. But assessment cannot be done in a vacuum without hearing the alleged polluter in accordance with the principles of natural justice.  The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash made it clear that the committee entrusted with the task of determining compensation was required to work on the basis of codified standard operating procedures. These, if not in place, could be issued by the state under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.  The Bench added it would be impossible for such committees to work within a definitive parameter, in the absence of codified instruction. “If timelines are fixed and the manner of working and assessment are codified even by issuing instruction, such issues repeatedly engaging the courts’ attention could be substantially reduced..,” the Bench added. The assertion came during the hearing of a petition by M/s Knorr Bremse India Pvt Ltd against the state and the Pollution Control Board. The Bench asserted it deemed it appropriate to direct the respondent authorities to address no less than eight issues in their reply to the contentions raised in the petition, including the manner of constituting committees and compensation assessment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-control-board-can-impose-eco-relief-rules-hc-201819
22-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Germany-based club organises kabaddi meet to raise funds for farmers’ kin||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 21Members of a Germany-based club organised a kabaddi tournament at Kundli near Singhu border today. Hundreds of agitating farmers, especially youth and elderly enjoyed the tourney.Besides, the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws continued on the 56th day on Thursday. The tournament was organised by Sher-e-Punjab Maharaja Ranjeet Singh Club of Germany, said Mandeep Singh, a member of the organising committee, adding that president of the club Kuldeep Singh and Inderjeet Singh Josan from Germany had arrived at Singhu border for the tournament.The motive behind organising the tournament was to collect funds to provide financial help to the families of the farmers who died during the ongoing protest here, he said.Eight teams, including six from Punjab and two from Haryana, comprising of various national and international players of kabaddi participated in the tournament, said Mandeep Singh.“It has been around two months that we are protesting against the three farm laws but the government is paying no heed to our demands,” said Sanjampreet Singh, a farmer from Moga.Deep Singh, an elderly person from Samrala, said kabaddi tournaments were famous in Punjab and most players belonged to farmers’ families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/germany-based-club-organises-kabaddi-meet-to-raise-funds-for-farmers-kin-201821
22-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Potato seeds made without soil with little help from Peru||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 21Potato Technology Centre, (PTC) Shamgarh, in the district in collaboration with Central Potato Research Institute (CPRI) in Shimla and International Potato Centre (CIP), Peru, has started producing potato seeds in the air with the help of aeroponic technique.In this technique, there is no need for soil and other growing media like coco-peat for production. The scientists say that in aeroponics technique, potato seeds are grown in mist environment. They claim potato seeds grown through this technology are free from soil-borne diseases.“We have started the process of growing minituber (potato seed) plants with the help of aeroponic technique. It is a latest technique for growing plants and potato seed production in air or mist environment. There is no need for soil and this technology is free from soil-borne diseases,” said Dr Prem Chand Sindhu, Deputy Director, PTC, Shamgarh.He maintained that they have established three units which have the capacity to grow 10 lakh minitubers in one crop cycle which is of three months. The scientists claimed that production of seeds through this technique is much higher than conventional methods.Dr Manish Sainger, senior consultant at PTC, said that on an average, 30 minitubers and maximum 50-60 minitubers can be obtained from each plant. He said that through this technique, 7-10 times more minitubers can be obtained in comparison to conventional methods like net-house or open field.About the technology, Dr Sainger said they planted tissue culture plants in the grow chambers which have pipes and nozzles for mist spray on the roots of the plant. “The roots of the plant hang in the air in the chamber and all the nutrients are provided through mist, which consists of all the required elements for plant growth and tuberisation, periodically. The upper part of plant remains at the top of the chamber,” he added. He said that the size of minitubers is uniform at 3-4 gm.Dr Sainger said it is easy to transport minitubers at minimal cost. “These seeds will be given to growers at subsidised rates by the Department of Horticulture. Later, seed growers will cultivate these seeds in the soil for the multiplication of seeds.”Mist environment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potato-seeds-made-without-soil-with-little-help-from-peru-201822
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||Prepare ‘Housing for All’ scheme, CM tells officials||To ensure housing for all by 2022, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today held a meeting regarding the ‘Housing for All’ scheme and directed the authorities to prepare a comprehensive scheme for the rehabilitation of urban slums in the state by providing residential flats to the slum dwellers at affordable prices.To begin with, Faridabad and Gurugram are proposed to be taken up under the scheme. The CM said the scheme would subsequently be rolled out in other big cities of the state too. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prepare-housing-for-all-scheme-cm-tells-officials-201823
22-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Stream of tractor-trailers on Karnal highway||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 21The stark difference is hard to miss. Before the farmers’ protest, SUVs, cars, buses and trucks plied on the National Highway-44, one of the busiest roads in the country. Now, a tractor-trolley can be seen crossing the highway after every three to four minutes — farmers either on their way to Delhi border to join their brethren or returning home in Punjab.The increased movement of tractor-trailers comes ahead of farmers’ parade in Delhi on the Republic Day.This reporter spent an hour on the NH-44 and found that around 100 tractors crossed Karnal today afternoon.Meanwhile, scores of farmers from Punjab reached Karnal on tractors bearing the national flag and the flag of farmer unions. After a short stay near Karan Lake, they left for the Singhu border.They said all farmers owning tractors in their villages would participate in the January 26 parade.“We are going to participate in the Republic Day parade on tractors to oppose the Centre’s new farm laws. Almost all tractors of our areas will take part,” said 35-year-old Navdeep Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana district.Another farmer Gurbachan Singh from Amritsar said, “Hundreds of tractor-trailers leave for the Delhi border daily. The tractor parade will be peaceful. It will give the message to the Centre that farmers are united on their demand of getting the laws repealed.”Amrik Singh, another farmer from Moga district, said they were demanding nothing, but revocation of the laws. “We did not ask the Centre to frame these laws. The Centre has imposed them on us, forcing us to protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stream-of-tractor-trailers-on-karnal-highway-201824
22-01-2021||---||Farmers protest outside minister Anup Dhanak’s house||Hisar, January 21Farmers staged a demonstration outside the residence of Minister of State Anup Dhanak and demanded his resignation in Hisar town today.The group of protesters under the banner of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Samiti marched to his residence in the town raising anti-government slogans.Satbir Punia, a farmer leader leading the procession, said that Anoop Dhanak represents Uklana segment in Haryana Assembly which has overwhelming number of farmers and working class. “These communities gave support and respect to Dhanak and he rose to become a minister. But it is unfortunate that after becoming minister, he is not ready to listen to farmers,” he said.Centre must accept demands: Hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-outside-minister-anup-dhanaks-house-201825
22-01-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Potholed streets bane of Faridabad sectors||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 21Broken and potholed roads in local industrial sectors and areas housing 25,000 manufacturing units have hit the industry hard. Some have suffered losses because goods get damaged due during transportation.Rajiv Chawla, president, Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises of India (IAMSME), claimed roads in industrial sectors 4, 6, 24, 25, 27, 33, 58, 59, 68 and 69, and DLF and NIT industrial areas have been lying damaged for 10 years.10 yrs and counting“The matter has been taken up with the authorities several times, but they seem not bothered. Nothing has been done to address the problem,” he said.Ramneek Prabhakar, general secretary, Manufacturers’ Association, Faridabad (MAF), said: “The transportation of finished goods and raw material has become difficult. Sometimes, the goods get damaged, resulting in losses. Besides, trucks plying on potholed roads require regular repair.”“The Rs 1,600 crore industry in Faridabad is a victim of poor infrastructure. All reminders for repairing the roads have gone unheard,” he added. In 2017, a Rs 180 crore project was announced for rejuvenating the industrial area. But it could not be launched because of legal tangle over its costing.Rajeev Sharma, Executive Engineer, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), said: “The HSVP had submitted a proposal of Rs 130 crore for augmenting the infrastructure in the industrial sector. However, it could not be implemented because of court stay since January 2019.”Chawla, IAMSME chief, hoped Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav, who took charge as the MC Commissioner recently, would redress the problem soon.When contacted, the Commissioner claimed roads would be repaired soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholed-streets-bane-of-faridabad-sectors-201826
22-01-2021||---||Australia to share expertise in sports, farming||Chandigarh, January 21The Australian High Commissioner to India, Barry O’Farrell AO, met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today and expressed interest in strengthening collaboration with the state in the agriculture, animal husbandry and dairying, sports, skill development and hospitality sector. Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister Jai Parkash Dalal was also present during the meeting.During the meeting, Barry O’Farrell AO discussed about the possibilities for sharing Australia’s expertise with Haryana in the field of food processing and sports particularly in hockey and sports research for performance enhancement.While inviting Australia to invest in Haryana, the Chief Minister said a dedicated new department namely the Department of ‘Foreign Cooperation’ has been setup by the state government to act as nodal department for all foreign engagements related to the promotion of trade, investment, education, skill development, tourism and further strengthening the diaspora engagement.“In the past six years, Haryana has been put on the digitisation track. From ramping up the state government’s exercise for the ease of doing business (EoDB), having single-window clearance system for setting up new industries several efforts have been made to put Haryana on the world map. All these steps are going to act as big game-changer for wooing investors in Haryana,” said the Chief Minister.He also urged the Australian High Commissioner to explore possibilities of organising youth exchange programme between Haryana and Australia for better cross-cultural understanding and in further strengthening bilateral relations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/australia-to-share-expertise-in-sports-farming-201827
22-01-2021||Chandigarh||Admission date extended||The Higher Education Department has extended the last date for admission to vacant seats of postgraduate classes in colleges and universities in the state till January 25.   An official spokesperson said the Director General, Higher Education Department, had directed all state and private universities and government, aided and self-financed colleges to keep ‘PG admission’ portal open till January 25.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admission-date-extended-201828
22-01-2021||---||Demolition drive at four Yamunanagar colonies||Yamunanagar, January 21A demolition drive was carried out in four unauthorised colonies in the revenue estate of Mandebar and Joriyan villages falling under Jagadhri tehsil of Yamunanagar district, yesterday.The demolition drive was carried out by a team comprising Amit Madholia, District Town Planner (DTP); Dinesh Singh, Assistant District Town Planner and Mohit, Junior Engineer.Dinesh Kumar, Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Jagadhri, was appointed as the duty magistrate.Amit Madholia said the total area of the four colonies was about 14 acres. He said the team demolished 47 damp proof courses (DPCs), one office of a property dealer and two shops in these four colonies.“Notice boards have been erected by us in all unauthorised colonies for the awareness of the general public. Therefore, people should contact our office before buying any lad land,” said Amit Madholia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demolition-drive-at-four-yamunanagar-colonies-201829
22-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Permanent licence to be terminated  for driving on wrong side in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 21The Gurugram police have decided to take stern action against anyone who drives on the wrong side of a road, leading to permanent termination of licence if the mistake is repeated.“We have zero tolerance towards the violation of traffic rules. Traffic personnel have been told to challan such drivers along with suspending their licence. If the mistake is repeated, it will invite the permanent termination of the licence,” said Commissioner of Police KK Rao.The police have decided that if any accident happens due to wrong side driving, then the accused will be charged under Section 304 (2) of the IPC and will be given a minimum of 10-year punishment.The police had challaned 49,671 persons in 2019 for driving on the wrong side while the number stood at 39,765 in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/permanent-licence-to-be-terminated-for-driving-on-wrong-side-in-gurugram-201830
22-01-2021||---||27 Bangladesh nationals held in Mahendragarh village||Mahendragarh, January 21The Narnaul police have arrested 27 Bangladesh nationals from a brick-kiln at Salooni village for working there without any valid documents.Seven of them are children aged below six years and four are juvenile. They were produced in a court, which sent the adults to judicial custody while the juveniles were sent to Borstal Jail in Karnal.“Acting on a tip-off, we conducted a raid at Pahalwan brick-kiln in Salooni village and found 27 natives of Bangladesh working there. They could not produce any valid documents on being asked for the same. They had been working at various brick-kilns in the area for the past two years,” said investigation officer Sat Narayan.A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Foreigners Act, 1946.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/27-bangladesh-nationals-held-in-mahendragarh-village-201831
22-01-2021||Karnal||Cong to form block-level panels, says Bansal||Congress state affair in-charge Vivek Bansal on Wednesday interacted with party workers and sought their suggestions to strengthen the party.  Bansal said the party would form district and block-level panels in the next couple of months. He said, “I took over as the party’’s state affairs in-charge four months back. I am personally interacting with workers and taking their feedback.”  On any plans to contest the panchayat poll on the party symbol, Bansal said the issue was under discussion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-to-form-block-level-panels-says-bansal-201832
22-01-2021||---||Three more Covid deaths||Chandigarh, January 21The death toll due to Covid touched 3,000-mark with three more persons succumbing to the virus on Thursday.One death each was reported from Gurugram, Faridabad and Kurukshetra. Currently, the fatality rate in the state is 1.12 per cent. Of 133 positive cases reported today, 39 were from Gurugram, Panchkula (20) and Faridabad (15).A total of 15,491 persons were vaccinated today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-more-covid-deaths-201833
22-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Skill development programme||State-level rangoli competitionKarnal: A state-level online Rangoli competition was organised by the Department of Chemistry of RKSD College here. Students of various colleges across the state participated in the competition. Saloni and Aastha, students of RKSD College, bagged first position, Gorisha and Samruddhi of DAV College, Ambala, stood second and Mandeep and Nishant of Jagadhari College secured the third position. Principal Sanjay Goyal provided cash prizes to the winning teams. Prof Ashok Sharma and Prof Shweta co-convened the programme and Prof Renu Garg served as the organising secretary.Book on boxing releasedAmbala: Sanatan Dharama College (Lahore) Ambala Cantt Principal Dr Rajinder Singh released a book “Boxing: The Complete Reference”. The book is written by Dr Rajesh Kumar Phor who is an Assistant Professor of the Department of Physical Education in the college. Dr Phor said the book was necessitated keeping in mind the requirements of students of BPEd, MPEd, coaching classes and other individuals who are seeking a future in boxing. Dr Naveen Gulati, spokesman of the college, said the staff and management of the college congratulated Dr Phor for the achievement and requested others to follow the path shown by him.Jhajjar girl is MDU BCom topperJhajjar: Prakriti Goel, a student of Maharaja Agrasen College for Women, has brought laurels to the college by bagging the gold medal in BCom (final year) exams conducted by Maharashi Dayanand University, Rohtak, for 2019-2020. Prakriti is the daughter of Prof Sonia Goel, who is a Hindi professor at the college. Principal Anita Goel said she had got the first position consecutively in three semesters along with her active participation in co-curricular activities201 vaccinated at dental collegeYamunanagar: As many as 201 persons were vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus at DAV JN Kapur Dental College and Hospital, Yamunanagar, on Thursday. The schedule started in the morning and continued till 5 pm.It has been planned for four to five days.The first ones to get vaccinated were the principal of the college, Dr IK Pandit, HoD of the periodontology department, Dr Nymphea Pandit, staff members and students of the college. Dr IK Pandit said the centre would have the facility to vaccinate 200 persons each day. “This is the first dental college to get its students also vaccinated along with the college staff,” said Dr Pandit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skill-development-programme-201837
22-01-2021||A monument in Korwa Khurd village in Naraingarh tehsil of Ambala district is in a state of neglect. The monument made of bricks and lime is said to be about 500 years old. It is disheartening to note that this monument is in dilapidated condition and decimated due to negligence. People dumping garbage and wild growth are a cause of concern. I hope the authorities concerned would take cognisance of the issue and set the things in order.||500-year-old Monument in Ambala faces neglect||Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityFew takers for vaccineThis refers to 'Panchkula sees only 10 per cent vaccination on Day 2" (The Tribune, January 19). It was intriguing to learn that only 16 health workers were inoculated against the target of 150 here on Monday. Notably, on the first day, 266 health workers got vaccinated. For sure, such a 'bleak' scenario does not augur well for the future of Modi government's 'anti-Covid' vaccination programme even as the Panchkula Heath Department has already identified around 9,000 healthcare and frontline workers, including Army personnel from Chandimandir Cantonment, for inoculation during the first phase. Anyways, let us hope that the things improve soon. Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaGarbage woes near Narwana bus stand The annual budget of the Nagar Parishad, Narwana, has been increased considerably, yet the organisation that has taken the responsibility of garbage collection, is not taking it seriously and the waste is not collected on a daily basis. The area near the bus stand looks ugly. The administration must take action against those not doing their duties properly.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/500-year-old-monument-in-ambala-faces-neglect-201840
22-01-2021||Solan||Two Rohtak residents killed in road mishap in Himachal||Two Haryana residents were killed and four others injured when the SUV they were travelling in rammed into a tanker coming from the opposite side near Bela temple on the Nalagarh-Ropar national highway last night.Rohit Malpani, SP, Baddi, said the deceased had been identified as Shakti (25) and Virender (36), both natives of Rohtak in Haryana. They were on way to Manali when the mishap occurred. Shakti was driving the SUV.According to the police, the accident occurred due to rash driving by the Innova driver. Tanker driver Gurpyar Singh, who hails from Bathinda in Punjab, told the police that the mishap occurred when he was returning to Nalagarh from Bathinda and the Innova, which was overspeeding and being driven in the wrong direction, hit the tanker near Bela temple on the highway. The occupants of the SUV were rushed to the community health centre at Nalagarh where two were declared dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-rohtak-residents-killed-in-road-mishap-in-himachal-201787
22-01-2021||---||Punjab, Haryana among 10 most innovative states||New Delhi, January 21Haryana (sixth) and Punjab (10th) find place among the top 10 most innovative states as Karnataka ranks first, the Centre’s policy think tank, NITI Aayog, has said in its report — India Innovation Index 2020.Released by NITI Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar in the presence of members VK Paul (Health), Ramesh Chand (Agriculture) and CEO Amitabh Kant, the index places Himachal Pradesh at the top among the hill and north-eastern states. Chandigarh has made a leap forward to rank second among the UTs after Delhi.The index, launched last year, ranks states based on whether they provide a conducive environment for registering new businesses, applying for patents, human capital and investments, among other measures.Bihar at the bottomIn the second edition, Maharashtra has overtaken Tamil Nadu for the second spot. Telangana has claimed the fourth place, with Kerala moving one notch up to fifth slot, pushing Haryana to sixth place on the list of 17 major states. Bihar has featured at the bottom.“There is a very strong correlation between innovation and development. As states become more innovative, their per-capita GDP (gross domestic product) rises,” said Amit Kapoor, chairman of the Institute for Competitiveness, a Gurugram-based organisation that worked with NITI Aayog to develop the index.The index is modelled along the lines of the global innovation index, which is brought out by the World Intellectual Property Organisation, but tracks fewer parameters. It aims to add more parameters in the next report and sync it with the global index.“The Prime Minister is very clear that it is innovation and technology that will solve the immense challenges that India faces. Trying to spur innovation at the state level is important,” Kumar said.Kant said, “By providing a thrust to innovation, India can augment its manufacturing and export competitiveness.”“We will continue to work in very close collaboration with science and technology teams across all the states as well as the industrial and manufacturing teams across India. We will complement them as the knowledge partner to make India an innovative nation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-among-10-most-innovative-states-201643
22-01-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||College student murdered by girl classmate in Gurugram||In a shocking incident, a 20-year-old girl, student of BSC final year and resident of Teekri Brahman village in Palwal district, was allegedly murdered by her classmate owing to a mutual dislike and classroom enmity.The family of the deceased alleged that the accused killed her with help of her boyfriend. An FIR of murder has been registered at Chandhut police station.The deceased student was identified as Ritu who was student of BSC final year at MKM College, Hodal.According to the complaint filed by Ramesh Chand, father of the deceased, his daughter left home for college with her classmate Jyoti around 9 am today morning.“It was around 5 pm when we got to know that Jyoti along with her boyfriend Pawan Prajapat has strangled her to death. They also dumped her body in the bushes near Kajoorka village,” father of the victim told police.After getting information, police team reached the spot and took the body in custody. On the complaint of the victim’s father an FIR has been registered against Jyoti and Pawan Prajapat under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (hide evidence) of the IPC at Chandhut police station.“We sent the body for postmortem. FIR has been registered and family claims that it was matter of personal enmity but the exact reason behind the murder is not clear yet. Probe is on,” said Inspector Ram Chander Jakhar, SHO of Chandhut police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/college-student-murdered-by-girl-classmate-in-gurugram-201710
