23-01-2021||---||Decision on allowing tractor rally only after completing modalities: Delhi Police||New Delhi, Jan 23The Delhi Police have said that the talks with the protesting farmers over granting them permission to hold their proposed tractor rally inside the territory of the national capital on January 26 are “at the final stages”, as several of the modalities need to be fixed in “black & white”.A senior police official said, a final decision on granting permission could be taken only after everything including the route, number of vehicles, their owners’ identification, and vehicles’ registration numbers are shared with the authorities, as the issue is “quite sensitive”.READ: Farmers agree to hold Republic Day rally on Delhi’s inner roads“All these information have been sought from the farmers and once they are shared, the same will be analysed and accordingly a final decision will be arrived at,” said the official.Meanwhile, the police have issued an advisory saying that people would be allowed to watch the Republic Day parade at Rajpath “strictly on the production of an invitation card or a ticket”. They also said that those below 15 years of age will not be allowed at the event.“This year, Entry to RDC-2021 will be strictly through Invitation Card/Ticket only! All those, who don’t have a valid Invitation Card/Ticket are advised to watch the live program at home. Children below 15 years of age are not allowed to RDC-2021 at Rajpath,” the Delhi Police said in a tweet, adding that there would be “no free entry to the programme this year”.The national capital has been brought under an unprecedented ground-to-air security cover, with thousands of armed personnel keeping a tight vigil in view of the Republic day celebrations. Patrolling has been intensified in the busy market areas of the city.Security arrangements have also been tightened at the border areas in view of a proposed tractor parade by the farmers agitating against the Centre’s new farm laws on January 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decision-on-allowing-tractor-rally-only-after-completing-modalities-delhi-police-202658
23-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||No steps being taken for decontamination of ground water at Bandhwari dumping site: CPCB||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 23The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has taken on local bodies of Gurugram and Faridabad over the Bandhwari dumpsite while pointing out that “steps for decontamination of ground water have not been taken”. The CPCB said that the dumpsite was still active due to “dumping of fresh waste at 2,000 TPD (ton per day) generating leachate” and “dumping of 33 lakh ton non-bio remediated waste”.In its report dated January 13, submitted before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the CPCB says that “as informed, treatment and disposal of fresh MSW (Municipal Solid Waste) by Municipal Corporations of Gurugram and Faridabad at new identified sites at Farukkhnagar and Sihi could not be undertaken due to public protest” at these places. In the last hearing at the NGT on September 30, 2020, the CPCB was asked to present an independent report as on December 31, 2020 on the dumpsite, particularly with regard to ground water contamination and proper manifest system for the treatment of leachate.The dumpsite is located near Gurugram but the waste from both Gurugram and Faridabad is dumped at the site.  The CPCB had earlier inspected the dumpsite on September 18, 2020 and at that time, the height of the dumpsite was informed to be 36 metre and total dumped waste was 31 lakh ton.“Presently, as informed, the highest point of dumpsite is 40 m and quantity of total waste dumped has increased to approximately 33 lakh ton as fresh waste at the rate of 2,000 TPD is still being dumped at the site and in its comparison less quantity of waste is being bio-mined,” the CPCB added.Just 1.17 lakh ton (3.6 per cent) of legacy waste has been bio remediated till December 31, 2020 out of the total 33 lakh ton dumped, and approximately 66,982 ton bio remediated legacy waste has been processed through trommels in the last more than one year. Both the local bodies had claimed in their action plan that 17.5 lakh ton legacy waste would be bio remediated by September, 2020.   “In December 2020, average quantity of bio mined waste per day was approximately 900 ton whereas installed capacity for bio mining is 2,700 TPD through nine trommels. The MCG (Municipal Corporation of Gurugram) is not able to utilise full installed capacity of trommels as disposal of screened fractions is a major issue being faced creating space constraint at site,” said the CPCB. The CPCB has informed the NGT that 350 KLD (Kilo Litres per Day) leachate was generated from dumped waste and was collected in seven ponds having total capacity of 36,000 KL and presently 20,800 KL leachate was filled in these ponds. The treatment of leachate is being carried out at the rate of 550 KLD with treatment plants.Earlier, the action plan submitted by both the local bodies had listed new sites for dumping of fresh waste.The NGT will next hear the matter on March 9. Meanwhile, Aravalli Bachao – a citizens’ group – will on Sunday protest against the proposed waste to energy plant coming up at the site. They are also demanding removal of the dumping site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-steps-being-taken-for-decontamination-of-ground-water-at-bandhwari-dumping-site-cpcb-202639
23-01-2021||New Delhi||ED files chargesheet against Haryana firm, directors who duped 31 lakh investors||The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday said a money laundering chargesheet has been filed against a Haryana-based company and its directors accused of cheating about 31 lakh investors by way of a Ponzi or fraud multi-level marketing scheme.It said a prosecution complaint or chargesheet has been filed against Hisar-based Future Maker Lifecare Pvt Ltd and its two directors Radhe Shyam and Bansi Lal under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The chargesheet has been filed before a special PMLA court in Panchkula “with a prayer for awarding punishment to the accused persons and confiscation of attached assets to the tune of Rs 261.35 crore”.According to an ED statement Radhe Shyam and Bansi Lal, both residents of Haryana, floated companies in the name of Future Maker Life Care Pvt Ltd and FMLC Global marketing Pvt Ltd. “Through these companies they have duped innocent persons in guise of a multi-level marketing (MLM) scheme that promoted various Ponzi schemes in many parts of the country,” the Enforcement Directorate alleged in the statement issued here.An MLM scheme works in a pyramidal structure where the persons at the top gain at the behest of the loss borne by the persons at the base of the pyramid.The ED's money laundering case against the accused was filed after taking congnisance of multiple Haryana and Telangana police FIRs registered against the accused for “cheating lakhs of investors”.The Haryana Police had slapped charges of cheating and conspiracy under various sections of the IPC and those under the prize chit and money circulation banning Act of 1978 read with Haryana protection of interest of deposits in Financial Establishment Act of 2013 against the accused, the central probe agency said.The ED said its probe found that “around 31 lakh investors lost their money by making investments in the schemes floated by the accused”. “In this scheme, the initial investors were paid high returns to attract more investors and entice current ones to invest more money. When other investors begin to participate, a cascading effect begins,” it said.The schemer pays a “return” to initial investors from the investments of new participants rather than from genuine profits, it said, describing the modus operandi allegedly deployed by the accused to perpetrate the fraud. “Radhey Shyam used to lure innocent persons through speeches in fancy seminars conducted across India promising high returns of up to 5-8 times of the investment in two years.”         “Bansi Lal was the financial mastermind whose role was layering and laundering of the tainted money collected from the investors in various paper concerns,” the ED claimed.The funds so collected, it said, were “diverted” into the bank accounts of their family members and then properties were acquired using the ill-gotten money.The agency had attached assets worth Rs 261.35 crore of the accused in the past and they consisted of a flat in Chandigarh, two in Delhi, some agricultural land parcels, balance in bank accounts and some cash. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ed-files-chargesheet-against-haryana-firm-directors-who-duped-31-lakh-investors-202587
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Don't oppose ministers at Republic Day events: Haryana BKU leader Chaduni appeals to farmers||Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Saturday appealed to farmers and their supporters protesting the Centre's contentious farm laws not to oppose ministers or political leaders at Republic Day events in the state.He, however, said farmers will continue opposing state ministers at rallies and events on other days."I would like to request that in Haryana if any minister or political leader comes to an event to unfurl the national flag on the occasion (of Republic Day), we don't have to oppose them," Chaduni said in a video message.Disruption of any kind of Republic Day function "will send out a wrong message", he said.Farmers will continue to oppose Haryana ministers if they hold rallies and functions on other days in the state, he added.Earlier this month, protesting farmers had vandalised the venue of a "Kisan Mahapanchayat" in Karnal where Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to address people to highlight the benefits of the Centre's three farm laws.Last month, a group of protesting farmers had shown black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala city.In another incident last month, a group of farmers had shown black flags to Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria in Jandli village adjoining Ambala city.Notably, Khattar and state ministers will be unfurling the national flag at various events across the state on January 26.According to an official release, Khattar will unfurl the national flag in Panipat.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala will unfurl the tricolour at a function in Ambala. Education Minister Kanwar Pal will hoist the flag in Gurgaon and Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma in Rewari.Haryana police sources said tight security arrangements are being put in place in and around venues of all Republic Day functions which will be attended by the chief minister, ministers and other dignitaries.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on MSP for their crops.Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-oppose-ministers-at-republic-day-events-haryana-bku-leader-chaduni-appeals-to-farmers-202575
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal in Punjab, Haryana||The minimum temperatures rose by a few notches and hovered above the normal limits in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials here, Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 12.6 degrees Celsius.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a low of 9.6 degrees Celsius, while Ludhiana and Patiala too recorded above normal minimum temperatures at 10.3 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius respectively.Pathankot (9.3 degrees Celsius), Adampur (10.4 degrees Celsius), Halwara (10.4 degrees Celsius), Bathinda (10.1 degrees Celsius) and Faridkot (10.9 degrees Celsius) also recorded above-normal minimum temperatures in Punjab.In Haryana, Ambala (10.1 degrees Celsius), Hisar (nine degrees Celsius), Karnal (nine degrees Celsius), Narnaul (7.5 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (8.2 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (10.2 degrees Celsius) recorded above-normal minimum temperatures. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-in-punjab-haryana-202539
23-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers nab miscreant at Kundli border, say he was sent to disturb peaceful protest||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 23Protesting farmers on Kundli border nabbed a miscreat in police uniform late Friday evening, whom they alleged was sent by someone to create disturbance in their peaceful agitation.Members of farmers’ union — Rakesh Tikait, Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, Manjeet Singh Rai, Harender Singh Lakhowal and others — in a press conference held late night, alleged that the government wanted to create disturbance in their peaceful agitation.The youth was presented at the press conference by farmer leaders.The suspected youth confessed about the conspiracy that they had been ordered to disturb the parade which is scheduled to be held on Republic Day, the farmer leaders claimed.#WATCH | Delhi: Farmers at Singhu border present a person who alleges a plot to shoot four farmer leaders and cause disruption; says there were plans to cause disruption during farmers' tractor march on Jan 26. pic.twitter.com/FJzikKw2Va  The youth is being quizzed by Haryana police in Sonepat, officials said on Saturday.A police official from Sonepat said the man, stated to be around 21 years of age, was being quizzed by the Crime Branch of the state police.He said the man was residing in Sonipat and had no previous criminal record.“He was not carrying any arms or ammunition. We are questioning him, but nothing has so far been found that points to any kind of conspiracy, as is being alleged,” the official said, adding that further investigations were under way.The farmer leaders said the youth had confessed that there were 10 people in the team and they were getting instruction from a cop with the motive to create disturbances during their tractor parade scheduled on January 26.The youth also confessed that their team had also created disturbance in the Jat stir in 2016 and in the Karnal village during the Chief Minister’s programme recently.The farmer leaders said the youth had confessed that there was a plan to eliminate four prominent leaders of farmer unions.Farmer leaders did not reveal the name of the suspect and had covered his face during the press conference.Rakesh Tikait said farmers had revealed that they were going to hand the miscreant over to the police.“Farmers can’t guarantee whether this youth is speaking the truth,” Tikait said.The youth was later handed over to the Kundli police.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the story seemed to be unrealistic but the police would give its final comment only after thorough investigation. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-nab-miscreant-at-kundli-border-say-he-was-sent-to-disturb-peaceful-protest-202511
23-01-2021||The sight is of Nehru Park||Branches of trees need pruning in Ambala cantt colony||Vijay Mahajan, Ambala canttRedesigning of 4 Gurugram Chowks a welcome stepIt is a matter of great satisfaction that as a part of the going road safety month, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to redesign four key intersection, including Bristol Chowk the Ambedkar Chowk Kanahi Chowk etc as these are congested area. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramOffensive words written on notebooksThis is regarding notebooks printed by companies which print strange and offensive words on the paperbacks of the notebooks. We educate students to be considerate, polite, respectful and responsible citizens. Such irresponsible and unscrupulous businessmen to increase their sale print such paperback without thinking how it will affect the young minds and their language. The government should take action against such businessmen.Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaBudget must focus on solving problemsThe state government must come out with adequate measures in the ensuing budget 2021-2022 to tackle the problems of unemployment/job loss, inadequate hospitals/medical infrastructure/doctors/nurses, stray animals, uncleanliness, pollution, farmer needs, crop MSP etc more so in the light of the pandemic which has induced economic and mental hardships and depression among a majority of the state’s population.Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/branches-of-trees-need-pruning-in-ambala-cantt-colony-202503
23-01-2021||Karnal||Online workshop by KVA DAV||NDA guidance programmeKurukshetra: A ten-day National Defence Academy (NDA) guidance programme in collaboration with the Institute of Defence Orientation (IFDO), Hyderabad, commenced at Gurukul here. Kurukshetra Gurukul Director Col Arun Datta in his opening address complimented the NDA wing students for making a career in the defence sector as their first choice and reiterated his commitment to provide best training facilities and guidance to the students. Col BG Ray and Col KM Naidu of IFDO, Hyderabad, are conducting the NDA guidance programme for 60 students enabling them to improve their communication skills and interview techniques apart from enhancing their physical fitness and problem solving abilities so as to do well in their SSB interview.Webinar on PCODRohtak: A national webinar on ‘Poly-cystic ovarian disease (PCOD) and human health during Covid’ was organised under the aegis of the Science Council of Government College for Women here recently. College Principal Poonam Bhanwala chaired the event, which was coordinated by Science Council convener Veena Sachdeva and Vice-Principal Savita Paruthi. Gynaecologist Dr Anju Ahuja explained various aspects of PCOD, including its causes, symptoms and treatment. She also told the participants about cervical cancer and emphasised the significance of personal hygiene, regular check-up and loyalty towards one’s partner to stay away from it. Dr Sonika, Pooja and Dr Anju Sharma, Principal, Government College, Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh) were also present.Online caption contestYamunanagar: Around 50 students participated in an online caption contest organised by the Department of English of Mukand Lal National College here. The participants had to write a caption on a picture based on farmer protest and send it on given Google Form. Anamika (BA English Hons III) got first position; Surbhi (BA English Hons III) and Jayati (MA English II) got second position; Bhavya (MA English I) got third position and Abhishek of BA I got the consolation prize. The winners were honoured by officiating principal Dr Rahul Khanna by giving them certificates. He congratulated Dr Ritu Kumar, head of the department of English for the success of the event.Workshop on research articlesFaridabad: The Department of Computer Engineering and Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Central Library of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA here organised a workshop on writing quality research articles in scholarly publications. The core objective of the workshop was to equip the research scholars with a set of skills and potentiality to undertake the research and publish it effectively. The workshop was attended by over 150 participants consisting of faculty members, Ph D scholars and M Tech students of the university. Detailing about the workshop, Prof Komal Kumar Bhatia of the department said the university was promoting research, innovation and entrepreneurship so that the outcomes of the same benefit the society. He stressed upon the need of exploring technological development opportunities in new application areas. He also added that scholars should strive for publications in SCI and Scopus indexed or other reputed indexed journals. Dr PN Bajpai explained the e-resources provided by the library. He updated the students about how to access e-library portal and other information resources. He told the scholars that they could contact the library for any kind of research support they need.Special lecture on RTI organisedKurukshetra: The Chief Information Commissioner, Haryana, Yashpal Singhal, has said it was the duty of every officer to give authentic information in public interest. He was delivering a special lecture on ‘Right to Information Act, 2005’ in a programme held at Senate Hall of the KU on Friday. This programme was organised by the KU legal cell. He further said the Indian Constitution gave the Right to Freedom of Expression to the citizens of the country, but in the absence of information and transparency, freedom of expression is of no importance. The right to information plays an important role in strengthening large democracies like India and their citizen-centric development, added Singhal. The right to information is an important tool to ensure citizens' participation in democracy.Singhal further added that in spite of some challenges like lack of awareness, weak system of records preservation in offices, etc., this Act made the government and government departments more accountable and braught transparency. The Chief Information Commissioner also responded to the queries of the Public Information Officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-workshop-by-kva-dav-202502
23-01-2021||Parveen Arora---||Illegal access points to NH-44 pose threat to commuters||Tribune News Service Karnal, January 22 With no check on ‘illegal access points’ to National Highway-44 (NH-44), around 70-km stretch from the Karnal-Panipat border to Karnal-Kurukshetra border is posing threat to commuters. Most of the people running dhabas, restaurants and fuel stations on this stretch have taken illegal access to the NH-44, making mockery of the system. As per the data collected by The Tribune, there are around 30 legal entry and exit points on this stretch, but there are scores of illegal such points which are accident prone. Residents alleged that there was no surveillance to check such illegal points. Several two-wheelers, cars, trucks, and buses take access to NH-44 from these points, risking their own lives and others. It has been going on without any check. “Scores of dhaba, restaurant and fuel station owners have got illegal access, which is dangerous for the commuters who are travelling on this busy stretch. People come on to the busy NH through such illegal points, which often lead to accidents,” said Malak Singh, a resident. As per guidelines of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, every business establishment has to apply for an access permission and the highway authorities conduct safety audit for it. One of the officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said they got these illegal access points on NH-44 closed, but in a couple of days, some of the dhaba and petrol pump owners got these removed with the help of trucks or any other vehicle. “Most of the establishment owners have made access directly to the NH-44 which is a violation. We take action and fencing is done there, but it is removed by them,” he added. Omvir Singh, Superintendent of Police (SP), Traffic and Highways, Haryana, said after getting reports from the district headquarters regarding illegal access points, they always wrote to the NHAI to get them closed. “We write to the NHAI to close the illegal access points whenever it comes to our notice,” said the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-access-points-to-nh-44-pose-threat-to-commuters-202452
23-01-2021||---||State-level voters’ day to be observed virtually||Chandigarh, January 22  This time, the 11th state-level Voters’ Day will be observed virtually at the Haryana Civil Secretariat, Chandigarh, on January 25.  Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan will be the chief guest on this occasion, while the programme will be chaired by Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, Rajeev Arora.  All Deputy Commissioners and other officers of the state will also attend the programme virtually from their respective districts. Giving information about this, Chief Electoral Officer Anurag Agarwal said Voters’ Day would be observed from the district level to the polling station level in which voters would be made aware of their constitutional rights. He said in compliance with the guidelines by the Election Commission of India during Covid-19, special brief revision of photo-electoral rolls was conducted twice in the state. Agarwal said 5,02,030 new voters were added in the state during the revision of the voter’s list on the basis of eligibility on January 1, 2021, which now has a total of 1,88,08,322 voters.  Of these, 1,00,44,531 are men and 87,63,791 are women voters. He also said to make voters aware, the Election Commission will conduct seminars on the topic ‘Sabhi Matdatta Banne Sashakt, Satark, Surakshit Aur Jagruk’ (Let all voters be strong, alert, safe and aware).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-level-voters-day-to-be-observed-virtually-202453
23-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram man kills daughter, hangs self||Gurugram, January 22A Sector-37 resident committed suicide after strangulating his 10-year-old daughter to death. He was separated from his wife and his two children lived with him. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 37 police station.The incident took place on Tuesday morning when the man allegedly drunk strangulated his daughter and hung himself in the same room.His 12-year-old son who was sleeping woke up in the morning and informed his mother and the police was called.The postmortem report of the girl revealed that she was strangulated to death, an FIR has been registered.According to the police, the deceased is identified as Moti Lal (42) and his daughter Khushi (10), natives of Nepal. The deceased was living in a rented room near Sector 37 along with his son Sachin and the daughter.Amrita, wife of deceased Moti Lal, said in her complaint that she had got married to Moti Lal in 2007. Her husband was alcoholic and thrashed her repeatedly. It was around 3 years ago when she left the home of her husband and started living separately in Sirhaul village.“Both the children were living with him. It was on Tuesday morning when my son Sachin called me and told about the incident. I reached the spot and informed the police ”, the wife of the deceased told the police.An FIR of murder has been registered against the deceased at the Sector 37 police station.“The postmortem report of girl revealed that she was killed after being strangulated by her father. We are investigating all angles and bodies were handed over to the family after the postmortem”, said inspector Shailender Singh, SHO of the Sector 37 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-man-kills-daughter-hangs-self-202454
23-01-2021||---||11 illegal constructions razed in Faridabad village||Faridabad, January 22 A team of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTP), enforcement and vigilance, pulled down 11 illegal constructions, which had come up in an unauthorised residential colony spread on 3.5 acres in the revenue area of Baselwa village of the district today. According to the DTP , Rajender Sharma, who led the demolition drive said the constructions razed  included two under-construction commercial buildings, a building material store, two boundary walls and five DPC (damp proof course) and a road network built illegally.  Legal action had been taken against two property dealers, who he said had carved out plots or sold the property to buyers in contravention to the rules and regulations. The DTP office has also put up notices in various parts of the district asking the residents not to buy plot or land without seeking NOC from the department concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-illegal-constructions-razed-in-faridabad-village-202455
23-01-2021||---||Colleges, varsities to be tobacco-free from January  26||Chandigarh, January 22  Haryana’s colleges and universities will be made tobacco-free from January 26. The Director General of Higher Education Department has directed all state universities and private universities in the state, besides all government, aided and self-finance colleges to ensure that their educational institutions are made tobacco-free by January 26 and necessary steps be taken to ascertain that it is maintained in future as well, said an official spokesperson. To spread awareness among students in this regard, various steps such as slogan-writing competitions at the institutes and appointment of nodal officers to caution the students about the harmful effects of tobacco consumption will be taken. In the said awareness campaign, the state’s education and health departments will work in coordination and play a pivotal role.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/colleges-varsities-to-be-tobacco-free-from-january-26-202456
23-01-2021||---||Public inputs helped cops seize 765 kg drugs||Chandigarh, January 22In Haryana, a large number of secret inputs were received from public about drug trafficking by the Inter-state Drug Secretariat during 2020, resulting in the seizure of 765 kg of narcotic substances and 36,761 tablets/capsules falling under the category of prohibited drugs.The Director-General of Police (DGP), Haryana, Manoj Yadava, said 286 public persons ‘fearlessly’ came forward and shared the information about illegal peddling and possession of drugs through toll-free number, mobile number and Whatsapp account of the secretariat. Using this information, the police has filed 35 cases between January-December, last year under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and seized a sizeable supply of drugs.Sharing the figure of recovery, the DGP said the police had seized 764 kg ganja, 208 gram heroin, 53 gram smack, 870 gram charas, 131 gram opium and 36761 prohibited tablets from the possession of the arrested accused.In an attempt to jointly tackle the drug menace in the northern region, six states namely Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Union Territory of Chandigarh had set up a centralised drug secretariat in Panchkula.Any person who has any information regarding the drug supply network or others can share it with the police at the toll-free number, 1800-180-1314, mobile number 7087089947 and landline number 01733-253023. The informer’s identity is kept ‘confidential’, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/public-inputs-helped-cops-seize-765-kg-drugs-202457
23-01-2021||---||Hooda: Centre has no concern for farmers||Hisar, January 22 Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said the Centre seems to have snapped ties with peasantry and humanity. “Several farmers have lost their lives during the struggle, but the Centre is unmoved. The country is hurt by the indifference shown by the Centre,” he told the media in the district’s Ramayan village today. “The martyrdom of farmers will not go in vain.” The former Chief Minister further said, “The Centre is unable to understand the circumstances of farmers and their role in the country’s development. Their input cost is constantly rising under the BJP rule, but their income is decreasing. Introducing new laws forcibly smacks of injustice.”  To a query, the Congress leader reiterated the need for bringing a no-confidence motion against the Khattar government in the Assembly. “The no-confidence motion will make it clear which party and MLAs stand with farmers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-centre-has-no-concern-for-farmers-202458
23-01-2021||Hisar||1,000 tractors from Kandela khap villages||About 1,000 tractors from villages under the Kandela khap will be pressed into service for the farmers’ march on the Republic Day. Khap pradhan Tekram Kandela made this announcement after a meeting among khap representatives in Jind district today. The Kandela khap, which had spearheaded farmers’ agitation against the Om Prakash Chautala government two decades ago, has been supporting peasants in their fight against the Centre’s three new farm laws. Kandela said, “Farmers will gather at the Khatkar toll plaza, which is the nerve centre of farmers’ protest in Jind, on Sunday. From there, they will set out for Delhi on on their tractors.” He further said farmers would carry eatables and other essential items with them in tractor-trailers. The Kandela khap has adopted three resolutions — repeal of the three laws, implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations and waiver of farm loans. Azad Singh Palwa, Jind BKU president, claimed about 5,000 tractors from Jind would leave for Delhi on Sunday. “Women will lead the cavalcade,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-000-tractors-from-kandela-khap-villages-202459
23-01-2021||---||In Kurukshetra, R-Day venue changed||Kurukshetra, January 22 In view of the farmers’ agitation, the district administration has changed the venue of the Republic Day function from the Thanesar grain market to the sports ground of Kurukshetra University. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta is scheduled to unfurl the national flag at the district-level event here on January 26. The venue change comes against the backdrop of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) leaders’ call of opposing the Republic Day function to be attended by BJP and JJP leaders. In the past couple of months, farmers have protested at events attended by ministers and ruling party MLAs. Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur and Superintendent of Police Himanshu Garg held a meeting with BKU leaders today to persuade them to not interrupt the event. BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains, who attended the meeting, said: “The BKU has no intention of interrupting the function.”  Thanesar SDM Akhil Pilani said, “The venue has been shifted to Kurukshetra University due to administrative reasons. The Covid guidelines are still in place. The event will be organised with a thin gathering.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-kurukshetra-r-day-venue-changed-202460
23-01-2021||---||Leaders may face wrath on Jan 26; cops on their toes||Rohtak, January 22 In view of the ongoing farmers’ protest, state leaders of the BJP-JJP government slated to attend various functions to mark the Republic Day are likely to face stiff resistance from farm organisations as well as local residents. The administrative and police authorities had received intelligence inputs in this regard and were making preparations to ensure law and order. As per an official statement issued here today, police personnel have been undergoing a special anti-riot training drive at the Police Lines here since January 12. “The police force is prepared to tackle any situation and nobody will be allowed to disturb law and order at any cost. The police personnel are also being given specialised anti-riot training,” said Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma. Farmers’ organisations have maintained that the political leaders should stay away from the Republic Day functions as they might face people’s wrath. Representatives of farmers’ organisations, who were invited for a meeting with the district administration and police authorities here on Thursday, suggested that government officials or some other non-political persons should head these functions this year. Rohtak DC Capt Manoj Kumar exhorted representatives of farmers’ organisations not to oppose leaders or disrupt R-Day functions in national interest. “Republic Day is a national festival and it should be kept away from politics,” he said, adding that the concerns put forward by the farm organisations would be conveyed to the state authorities. The DC asserted the organisations assured that no violent protest would be staged against the government functionaries/ministers visiting the district for R-Day. However, sources maintained that arrival of certain leaders at R-Day functions could be opposed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leaders-may-face-wrath-on-jan-26-cops-on-their-toes-202461
23-01-2021||Sonepat||62-year-old dies at Tikri||A 62-year-old farmer died at Tikri border on Thursday. In all, 19 farmers have lost their lives at the border during the protest. It is suspected that the farmer died of cardiac arrest.The deceased has been identified as Baldev Singh of Kaithal. He was staying at a camp near Pakoda Chowk. He felt restless on Thursday night and was taken to General Hospital, where doctors declared him dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/62-year-old-dies-at-tikri-202462
23-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||BJP-majority Hisar ZP seeks repeal of laws||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 22Hisar Zila Parishad adopted a resolution against the three agricultural laws enacted by the Centre in a meeting held today.Some call for amendmentThe meeting was chaired by Brahmdev while JJP MLA from Barwala Assembly segment Jogiram Sihag was the special invitee at the meeting.Besides 30 members, Chief Executive Officer of Zila Parishad Shalini Chetal was present at the meeting. The ZP has eight members of the BJP and around 10 other members have also extended support to the BJP.The meeting started by discussing the already decided agenda. However, at the outset, Congress-supported member Krishan Satrod proposed a discussion on the three farm laws. Chetal objected to the proposal saying it was not on the agenda and added that as per rules, this proposal should not be taken up.Satrod said that he did not get information about the meeting in advance. “I would have given this proposal had I got the intimation in advance,” he said. BJP-supported member Arun Sharma advocated amendment to the laws and on ensuring minimum support price of the produce to the farmers.As the members supported the proposal seeking a discussion, chairman Brahmdev allowed it. After the discussion, the zila parishad members adopted a resolution by voice vote demanding repeal of the laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-majority-hisar-zp-seeks-repeal-of-laws-202463
23-01-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad man shot||The police have registered a case in connection with the murder that took place here on Thursday. No arrest has been made so far.  The incident took place around 7.45 pm when the victim, Aizaz Khan (40), a tailor, was fired upon in Palla here.  The unidentified accused who came on a two-wheeler halted outside his shop and opened fire.  The reason for the murder is yet to be ascertained. His family claimed he had no enmity with anyone. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-man-shot-202465
23-01-2021||Sumedha Sharma||56-year-old health worker dies week after inoculation||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, January 22A 56-year-old health worker vaccinated on January 16 died here suddenly on Friday. The incident has created panic among the frontline warriors of the district undergoing Covid immunisation.Rajwanti, a health worker in Bhangrola primary health centre (PHC), died on Friday morning without any evident reason. The family has blamed the Covid immunisation for the death and the authorities concerned ordered the post-mortem examination of the deceased. The report has, according to sources, not confirmed the cause of death so far and the viscera has been sent for investigation.Meanwhile, the Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee has started an investigation into the death.Autopsy rules out accusationsWe don’t suspect vaccination to be the cause of the death as the deceased had no adverse signs or symptoms for six days. Even the autopsy report doesn't corroborate the family's accusations. The viscera report is awaited and further probe is on.- Dr Virender Yadav, CMO Gurugram“We have reported the death to the authorities concerned. We don’t suspect vaccination to be the reason behind the death as the deceased had no adverse signs or symptoms for six days...further probe is on,” said Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav.Speaking to The Tribune, deceased’s husband Lal Singh said she slept fine at night but didn’t wake up. “We are in shock. She got the injection on January 16 and was completely fine. She had no co-morbidity. We had dinner last night after which she slept. She did not wake up at her usual time today and when we checked, we found her dead,” Lal Singh said.The family has alleged that she was reluctant to get vaccinated and wanted to get it in the second or third round but was asked to go for it as she was already registered.“She was a Covid warrior who didn’t take even a single leave during the crisis and died due to vaccination. We have got no call from any official since morning,” he added.Meanwhile, the family have lodged a police complaint in this regard on Friday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/56-year-old-health-worker-dies-week-after-inoculation-202466
23-01-2021||---||5 succumb, 120 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh/karnal, Jan 22With five deaths and 120 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state jumped to 2.67 lakh on Friday.Two deaths were reported from Kaithal while one each from Panipat, Yamunanagar and Jhajjar.Among the fresh cases recorded, the maximum cases came from Faridabad at 25, followed by 24 from Gurugram and 15 each from Ambala and Panchkula.A total of 209 people recovered from Covid in the last 24 hours. At present, there are 1,585 active cases in the state.As many as 15,961 persons got inoculated on Friday.Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary (Home-cum-Health) Rajeev Arora on Friday came to the city to review the Covid vaccination drive.He held a meeting with officials and directedthem to motivate health workers for the vaccination. Arora asked them to get all the health workers vaccinated in a week.Friday was the fifth day of the vaccination and so far, around 3,000 health workers, out of the total 10,700 identified health workers, got their first dose.Arora checked the vaccination programme at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and the Karnal Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-succumb-120-cases-in-haryana-202467
23-01-2021||Ambala||J&K martyr cremated with military honours||Amid chants of ‘Nirmal Singh Amar Rahe’ and ‘Hindustan Zindabad’, the mortal remains of Nirmal Singh were consigned to flames with full military honours at his native Jansui village here on Friday. The pyre was lit by his four-year-old son Vanshdeep. Havaldar Nirmal Singh (37) of the 10 JAK Rifles unit was martyred in unprovoked firing along the Line of Control in Krishna Ghati sector of Poonch on Thursday.  Nirmal is survived by his wife Gurvinder Kaur, two children (daughter Harmandeep (9) and son Vanshdeep), mother Bhajan Kaur and a younger brother. He was the only breadwinner of the family. Nirmal’s grandfather and uncle were also in the Army. Nirmal’s mortal remains reached the Air Force Station in Ambala from where his body was brought to the village in a procession.  Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel, DC Ashok Sharma, SP Hamid Akhtar, SDM Sachin Gupta, Mayor Shaktirani Sharma and district officials paid tributes to the martyr. CM Manohar Lal paid tributes through a tweet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jk-martyr-cremated-with-military-honours-202468
23-01-2021||---||Child’s death triggers stir outside hospital||Hisar, January 22Enraged over the death of a seven-year-old boy undergoing surgery for squint on Friday afternoon, family members along with locals gheraoed a private hospital here, demanding the registration of a criminal case and the arrest of the doctor concerned.Around 200 people accompanying the family members are sitting on the Kaimri road outside the hospital and the police have also been deployed to control the gathering. The police had to intervene when the protesters tried to barge in the hospital and use mild force to keep them away.Mohit Wadhwa, a resident of Barah Quarters locality in the town, said he took his seven-year-old son Parth to the hospital for a squint surgery. He alleged that there was no anaesthesia specialist in the hospital and another doctor gave the child the injection but the overdose of the medicine led to his death.He alleged that the hospital authorities referred the child to another hospital and called the police in an attempt to do away with their responsibility for the incident. The family members returned to the hospital and alleged that the negligence caused by the doctors during operation has led to the child’s death. The police also reached the spot.Meanwhile, a police official said they would take action as per the law against the doctors on the complaint of the family members.The family members, however, said they would not remove the body of the child from the spot until the police registered a case and arrest the erring doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/childs-death-triggers-stir-outside-hospital-202469
23-01-2021||---||Another plea filed against amended Panchayati Raj Act||Chandigarh, January 22 The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday fixed April 20 as the date of hearing a petition challenging Haryana Panchayati Raj (Second Amendment) Act 2020. The petitioners contended that the representation of the Scheduled Caste (SC) provided in the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, has been taken away through the new amendment. In the petition placed before the Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, Bhim Rao Ambedkar Dalit Samaj Vikas Samiti submitted if the amended Act wasn’t quashed and declared illegal and ultra vires, a position would emerge that the representatives of the SCs would be elected where their population was more than 10 per cent as the seats would be reserved for them. But in areas where the SC population was less than 10 per cent, there would be no reservation for their candidates. “The doing away with the provision of rotation will result in no SC ever being appointed where their population is less than 10 per cent. The spirit of reservation was to uplift the SC, which is being taken away by the amended Act,” the petitioner submitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-plea-filed-against-amended-panchayati-raj-act-202470
23-01-2021||---||High Court reserves verdict||Chandigarh, January 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday reserved verdict on a petition filed by the accused in Nikita Tomar murder case seeking re-investigationof the matter.Appearing before Justice Sudip Ahluwalia’s Bench, counsel for the complainant presented a compilation of four Supreme Court judgments. The state counsel placed before the Bench a summary of the factual background and a synopsis of “certain material evidences collected during investigation”.He also presented a pen-drive containing a CCTV footage, which accordingto him showed the occurrence as it took place in explicit detail.The victim, on October 26, 2020, was allegedly shot outside her college in Faridabad, by her former classmate Tohsif.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-reserves-verdict-202471
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana farmers to set out for tractor parade in Delhi on Saturday||After holding rehearsals and preparations for the past few days, several batches of farmers from Punjab and Haryana will set out on Saturday to participate in proposed tractor parade on January 26 in Delhi.Farmers unions protesting the Centre’s three farm laws had said they would go ahead with their tractor parade in Delhi on the Republic Day. They had announced to take out the tractor parade on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi.“We all are geared up for participation in a tractor parade. Our first batch will move from Khanauri (in Sangrur) and another from from Dabwali (in Sirsa district),” Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said on Friday.Also read: Tractor parade to go ahead as planned on Republic Day: Farmer leadersConsidering the kind of enthusiasm among people, over 30,000 tractors owing allegiance to our union will be part of the parade, he said.Tractors would carry flags of the union and posters with slogans of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad”, “No Farmer No Food” and “Kaale Kannon Radd Karo”, said Kokrikalan.Kokrikalan said they would also take some trolleys to accommodate women during the tractor parade.Several women will drive tractors as part of the parade.Many batches of farmers owing allegiance to different farm bodies would also leave for Delhi on January 24, farmer leaders said on Friday.Farmer unions have held several tractor rallies across the state to mobilise people and prepare for the proposed parade in the past few days.Farmers had also announced to display tableaus during the parade to showcase the plight of the farming community, they said.One such example was seen during a tractor march in Moga on Thursday, where a tableau was mounted on a trolley, showing a farmer ploughing a field with a pair of bullocks.“Along with bullocks, a model of farm expert MS Swaminathan was also created to seek the implementation of the Swaminathan commission report. We will take this tableau to the tractor parade,” said Moga-based artist Manjit Singh, who made the tableau.As farmer bodies have given a call for a peaceful tractor parade, farmer unions have issued directions to their village and block-level leadership to ensure discipline during the march.“Our union’s block-level and village-level leaders will lead the tractor march and rest will follow them,” said Kokrikalan, adding that volunteers would be deployed to keep a check on the situation.In Haryana, farmers from Karnal, Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra would leave for Delhi, said farmer leaders.Meanwhile, ahead of the proposed tractor parade, the demand for flags of different farm bodies has also gone up.Several vehicles sporting the flags could be seen in Punjab and Haryana. In the wake of the farmers’ agitation and their plan to hold a tractor parade on the Republic Day, the Haryana Police on Thursday decided to cancel the leave of its personnel till further orders.Senior Haryana Police officers were keeping a close eye on the developments related to the farmers’ stir, police sources said.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at Delhi’s borders for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops.They claim that the new laws will weaken the MSP system. But the Centre says the MSP system will remain and the new laws only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-farmers-to-set-out-for-tractor-parade-in-delhi-on-saturday-202168
