25-01-2021||---||14 Haryana cops to be felicitated with Police Medal on Republic Day||Chandigarh, January 25On the occasion of Republic Day, two police officers of Haryana Police have been selected for the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service. As many as 12 others will be felicitated with the Police Medal for meritorious service.A Haryana Police spokesperson informed on Monday that Haryana Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk and Rohtak range ADGP Sandeep Khirwar have been selected to be awarded the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service.Those who have been selected to be decorated with the Police Medal for Meritorious Service include Angrej Singh, DSP Headquarter, Narnaul; Arun Deswal, Sub-Inspector, 5th Battalion HAP Madhuban; Suresh Kumar, Sub-Inspector, Rohtak; Kulwinder Kaur, Lady Sub-Inspector, state crime branch; Hardev Singh, ESI, Police Headquarter; Joginder Singh, ASI Haryana Power Utility; Amit Kumar, ASI, State Vigilance Bureau; Parveen Kumar, Charkhi Dadri ASI; Deepak Kumar, Karnal ASI; Didar Singh, ASI, Panchkula; Harish Kumar, Sub-Inspector, Panchkula; and Joginder Singh, ESI, Ambala.Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava also congratulated the police officers and said it was a great honour for the entire police force. The recognition of outstanding services at the national level would further boost their morale as well as of others in the state police force, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-haryana-cops-to-be-felicitated-with-police-medal-on-republic-day-203467
25-01-2021|| Chandigarh||Huge traffic snarls on Karnal–Delhi and Rohtak–Delhi roads day ahead of farmers’ tractor march||A day ahead of their tractor march, farmers from Punjab and Haryana have reached Singhu and Tikri borders in large numbers leading to huge traffic snarls on Karnal–Delhi and Rohtak–Delhi stretches of two national highways.Many more are still on the way leading to the slow movement of traffic on roads leading to the national capital.Over 12-kilometre of NH-44, from Bahalgarh village to Singhu border in Sonipat district, is witnessing a massive traffic jam as farmers have parked their tractors on both sides of the highway.In Jhajjar district, a 15-km long Bahadurgarh bypass is jam-packed with tractor-trailers forcing Punjab farmers to take Bahadurgarh city route to reach Tikri leading to traffic chaos.Also read: Farmers’ rally in Mumbai: No police nod for march to Raj BhavanConsider bigger picture of parade, says Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaderSanyukt Kisan Morcha issues advisory for farmers’ Republic Day paradePolice say forces inimical to India intend to hijack, disrupt farmers’ tractor rallyTractors, bearing tricolour have created a patriotic atmosphere at Tikri.In Karnal, enthusiastic farmers continue to march towards Delhi on tractors, leading to complete traffic chaos on the national highway-44. Several farmers are marching on foot showing their resentment against the three farm laws passed by the Union government.On the other hand, at Bastara toll plaza, in absence of male farmers who have left for Delhi, women have taken over the charge of the protest at the toll plaza, where the farmers have been sitting on dharna since December 25 to make the toll plaza free for commuters.In Ambala, enthusiastic farmers continue to move on the Amritsar-Delhi National Highway.However, the frequency of tractors passing on the NH seem to have decreased on Monday morning compared with the numbers of tractors seen over the last three days.A majority of farmers from Ambala and Kurukshetra had left for Delhi on Friday or Saturday.Gurugram police are not allowing entry of tractors on Delhi-Jaipur expressway and are asking the farmers to stick to the designated route.Meanwhile, Haryana police have issued a traffic advisory for people travelling to or from Delhi on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.A spokesperson of the Haryana Police said that in view of the security and traffic arrangements for Republic Day and the proposed Tractor Rally, commuters will face traffic disruptions on NH between Karnal to Delhi and Rohtak to Delhi from 25-27 Jan 2021. Traffic on KMP-KGP Expressway will also be impacted and Interchanges at Kundli, Assaudha and Badli will not be accessible to traffic movement on these dates.“Therefore, all commuters are being advised not to use these routes on these dates, to avoid any inconvenience,” said the advisory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/huge-traffic-snarls-on-karnal%E2%80%93delhi-and-rohtak%E2%80%93delhi-roads-day-ahead-of-farmers-tractor-march-203466
25-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers’ protest: Three more die at Tikri, toll goes up to 24||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 25Three farmers — two from Haryana and one from Punjab, died reportedly of cardiac arrest at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border on Monday taking the toll in the ongoing farmers’ protest to 24.Among the deceased, 19 were from Punjab while five belonged to Haryana.Those who died today have been identified as Gurmeet Singh (51) of Dhingarh in Mansa district (Punjab), Jasbir (47) of Bagla village and Joginder Singh (41) of Mirchpur village in Hisar district.Also read: Another Punjab farmer dies at Tikri borderGurmeet had come to Tikri from Punjab some days ago and had been camping near new bus stand in Bahadurgarh city. He retired to bed after having dinner but was found unconscious in the wee hours. Gurmeet was rushed to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh where he was declared brought dead.The two other farmers from Hisar were camping near PDM flyover on the Bahadurgarh bypass.Vinod Kumar, incharge, Police Post Sector-9 here, said exact cause of death would be ascertained after the post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-three-more-die-at-tikri-toll-goes-up-to-24-203462
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda reels at 0.7 deg C as minimum temp drop at many places in Punjab, Haryana; fog reduces visibility||Bathinda reeled under a piercing cold at 0.7 degrees Celsius as minimum temperatures on Monday dropped below normal at many places in Punjab and Haryana.A thick blanket of fog again engulfed most places in the state in the morning, reducing visibility levels, Meteorological Department officials here said.After hovering above normal limits for a few days, the night temperatures dropped again.Bathinda was the coldest place in Punjab while Faridkot, too, shivered at a low of 2 degrees Celsius.Amritsar also braved the chill recording a low of 4.4 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperatures at Pathankot, Adampur and Halwara settled at 6.2 degrees, 6.5 degrees and 6.3 degrees, respectively. Ludhiana recorded a low of 7.7 degrees. However, Patiala and Gurdaspur recorded above normal minimums at 10.6 degrees and 10.9 degrees, respectively.Hisar was the coldest place in Haryana recording a low of 4.2 degrees, while Narnaul, too, experienced the chill at 4.3 degrees.Sirsa (5.1 degrees C), Rohtak (7.6 degrees) and Bhiwani (7.8 degrees) also experienced a cold night.However, minimum temperatures at Ambala (9.6 degrees) and Karnal (9 degrees above normal limits.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also recorded an above normal minimum temperature.         Meanwhile, a MeT official said that cold weather conditions also prevailed at most places in the two states including Chandigarh during the day. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bathinda-reels-at-0-7-deg-c-as-minimum-temp-drop-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-fog-reduces-visibility-203453
25-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||24,348 new properties come up in Rohtak in a decade||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 25As many as 24,348 new properties have come up in the jurisdiction of Rohtak Municipal Corporation (RMC) in the past decade.The properties include residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and vacant plots.It has come to the fore during a survey conducted by a private agency which has recently submitted its report to the RMC authorities. The survey aimed at registering new properties, verifying their categories and measurement besides collecting the data in software.Sources said as per the previous survey conducted in 2011, a total of 1,73,290 properties were registered with the municipal authorities while the figure now has gone up to 1,97,638 — registering an increase of 24,348 properties of various sorts.The survey was carried out door-to-door but owners of 34,315 properties refused to provide necessary information to the surveyors. The RMC authorities are now planning to put such properties on notice as no one can deny providing the sought information.As per the survey reports, there are 1,01,329 residential properties, 11,708 commercial, 1,633 industrial, 714 institutional and 44,033 vacant plots in the municipal limit. Besides them, 18,587 properties come under the agriculture category.The RMC charges tax from all properties except agriculture ones.“Around 14 per cent increase in the number of properties has been recorded in the verification survey that started last year. Initially, the survey was, for the first time, conducted through drones across the state while it was earlier done manually. Later, a private agency was hired for re-verification of properties details. The agency has recently submitted its report,” said Jagdish Chander, Zonal Taxation Officer (ZTO), at the RMC.He maintained that 24,962 properties during the survey were found locked, hence the surveyors could not contact their owners. At present, 3,515 properties were under-construction. The ZTO has appealed all residents to get their property verification done at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-348-new-properties-come-up-in-rohtak-in-a-decade-203419
25-01-2021||---||Karnal kos minars, Cantt Church Tower to get facelift, ASI approves||Karnal, January 24The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has given its nod to Karnal Smart City Ltd to take up beautification work of Cantonment Church Tower, the area around it and two kos minars. These are part of the proposed heritage corridor under the Smart City project.3- Km heritage corridor proposedKarnal Smart City has proposed a 3-km heritage corridor starting from Geeta Dwar to Karan Gate. This corridor is essential for the development of cultural tourism of the city. It will increase awareness about the city heritage among the residents of the district.“We had an online meeting with the officials of the ASI on Thursday in which we had presented the drawing of the heritage corridor. The ASI has given approval in principle for the beautification of Cantonment Church Tower and kos minars under the heritage corridor project. We are yet to get the written NOC,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is also the CEO of Karnal Smart City Ltd.Karnal Smart City has proposed a 3 km heritage corridor starting from Geeta Dwar to Karan Gate. This corridor is essential for the development of cultural tourism of the city. It will increase awareness about the city heritage among the residents of the district, Yadav added.Cantonment Church Tower is a 35m tall tower which was constructed in 1806 AD. A graveyard of European soldiers is on the left side of the church tower. The design strategy is to minimally interfere with the building structure and enhance the surrounding areas through the provision of architectural lighting, articulated streetlights, repair of broken pathways, proposing new connecting pathways and landscaping on the existing greens, Yadav maintained.“The proposal also includes creating an arrival experience by proposing an entry from the graveyard side which in turn creates curiosity for the visitors before arriving the actual monument,” he said.The design also includes way finding and information signages along with temporary parking for the visitors. This will further increase the visibility of the Church Tower from the main road and increase the footfall of the site, he maintained.Two out of three kos minars have been identified by Smart City — one at Minar Road and the other at Transport Nagar, Sector 4. The design strategy is to create a plaza around the kos minars by providing seating spaces, adding way finding signage and information boards leading to the minars, proposing articulated light poles and provision of dustbins, the CEO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-kos-minars-cantt-church-tower-to-get-facelift-asi-approves-203200
25-01-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||42 years on, Faridabad village yet to get sewerage||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 24Even after 42 years of being included in the MC limits, Ankhir village in ward 18 is yet to have the sewerage system.Area transferred to civic bodyAll sectors falling in this area had been transferred to the MC, which was now responsible for civic development. - Rajiv Sharma, Executive Engineer, HSVPTilak Bidhuri, a local resident, said, “The village was included in the MC limits in 1978. Though a sewerage project for the area was launched by the then MLA Krishan Pal Gurjar in June 1999, work was left midway in 2005 and has been hanging fire since then.”He said some villagers were forced to defecate in the open. Bidhuri said some households had constructed small toilets, but the disposal network was yet to be linked with the main line.“The matter has been taken up with the authorities concerned several times, but no action has been taken so far. We will be forced to move court if the authorities failed to take cognizance of the matter,’’ says Ajay Pal Bidhuri, a teacher.He said villagers had given their land for HUDA(HSVP) residential sectors — 21- A, 21- B, 21-C and 21- D in 1978, 1983 and 1984. However, as part of the land compensation, even basic infrastructure had not been developed in the village, which had a population of over 9,500.Rajiv Sharma, Executive Engineer, HSVP, said all sectors falling in this area had been transferred to the MC, which was now responsible for civic development.OP Kardam, Executive Engineer, Municipal Corporation, feigned ignorance over the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/42-years-on-faridabad-village-yet-to-get-sewerage-203201
25-01-2021||---||Haryana Governor to hoist Tricolour at Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh on R-Day||Chandigarh, January 24On the occasion of Republic Day, Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya will now hoist the national flag at Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh instead of Panchkula.According to a circular issued by the Political and Parliamentary Affairs Department of the Chief Secretary Office, this decision has been taken due to the ongoing Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-to-hoist-tricolour-at-raj-bhavan-in-chandigarh-on-r-day-203202
25-01-2021||---||128 Covid cases, 1 death in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 24The Covid tally was pegged at 2,67,203 in Haryana on Sunday with 128 fresh cases. Meanwhile, with one more death in Karnal, the death toll reached 3,010.Gurugram reported a maximum of 39 cases followed by Faridabad (22), Karnal (11) and Kurukshetra (10).Till now, Faridabad has reported a maximum of 412 deaths with Gurugram reporting 352 deaths followed by Hisar 323.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/128-covid-cases-1-death-in-haryana-203203
25-01-2021||---||Woman’s body found in gutter in Faridabad||Faridabad, January 24  The police have recovered the body of a 32-year-old woman from a gutter in Sector 62 here. The deceased is yet to be identified.  A case has been registered against unidentified accused. This is the second such case that has been reported in the city in the past 48 hours. The incident came to light after a local resident noticed the body lying at the spot located adjacent to an open ground. The police on reaching the spot got the body extracted and sent the body to Civil Hospital for post-mortem examination.  “It appears that the body of the victim was dumped after her death about 36 hours ago,” said Ballabgarh ACP Jaiveer Singh adding that a probe had been launched. Earlier, a 45-year-old tailor identified as Aizaz Khan of Vinay Nagar here was shot dead by unidentified gunman on the night of January 21 in Palla area of the city. He was sitting in his shop when an assailant opened fire on him from close range, resulting in his death. The police are yet to identify or arrest the culprit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/womans-body-found-in-gutter-in-faridabad-203204
25-01-2021||---||35K tractors reach Singhu, more on way||Sonepat, January 24Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana villages on Sunday reached at the Singhu Border to participate in the scheduled ‘kisan tractor parade’ on Republic Day in Delhi.Sources said as many as 30,000-35,000 tractor-trailers arrived at the border till Sunday evening.Long queues of tractor-trailers with Tricolour and farmers’ union flags were seen on the NH-44. The farmers have parked their tractor-trailers on both sides of the NH-44 and even at some construction sites.Commuters had to face a hard time due to the long traffic jam and they had to cover 6-8 km on foot. The traffic on the NH was moving at a slow pace and commuters were stranded for hours on Sunday. The police were tryingto manage the traffic chaos but to no avail. Volunteersof the farmers’ unions were also seen controlling thetraffic at many places.Tractors from every village of Kaithal will arrive at the Singhu border till Monday afternoon not only to participate in the Republic Day parade but to show the solidarity with the farmers, said Gurdeep Singh of Kalayat.Navdeep Singh of Moga in Punjab said hundreds of tractors had already arrived at the border and scores were on the way. As many as 20 to 25 tractors will arrive from each village of Punjab till Monday morning as maximum farmers have left for the Singhu border on Sunday, he added.Meanwhile, Harender Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU, said over 1 lakh tractors would enter Delhi on Republic Day and the farmers themselves had made up their mind to participate in the national event called by the unions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/35k-tractors-reach-singhu-more-on-way-203205
25-01-2021||Jhajjar||Delhi Police remove boulders from Tikri||Ahead of the tractor march, the Delhi Police today started removing boulders from the Delhi-Rohtak highway at the Tikri border.The boulders were placed to stop the protesters from entering Delhi. Sand dumped on the highway has also been lifted, but two-layer barricading is yet to be removed.Purushottam Singh Gill, a leader of the BKU (Lakhowal), said the Delhi Police had promised to clear the highway before the parade. The rally route had been finalised. He reiterated that the tractor march would be peaceful.Meanwhile, several people from Punjab reached the border in buses, cars and tractor-trailers to join the parade.Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal said besides the local police, 25 companies of paramilitary forces and the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) had been deployed at Tikri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-police-remove-boulders-from-tikri-203206
25-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Ensure traffic discipline: BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni to farmers||As thousands of farmers continue to head towards the Singhu border amid cold and fog, BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has asked them, especially the youth, to maintain discipline while driving.Word of cautionThere have been reports that some mischievous people may try to create disturbance during the march, but we don't have to hit anyone. The only thing we have to do is nab and hand them over to the police. - Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU ChiefIn a message, he said: “A large number of farmers have been arriving on their tractor-trailers. I want to request them, especially the youth, not to drive rashly, overtake or quarrel with other commuters on the NH-44. There have been several complaints and incidents. I request them not to take selfies while sitting on the bonnets of tractors and maintain discipline.”Meanwhile, thousands of farmers on tractor-trailers, with Tricolour and BKU flags installed, carrying banners with the slogans of ‘Modi Gallan Don Yes aur No’, Kisan Ekta Zidabad, and Kale Kanoon Wapis Lo’, left for Delhi from Kurukshetra on Sunday. The farmers gathered near Pipli on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway.A huge number of tractors continued to enter Haryana from Punjab on Sunday. To reduce the diesel expenses, many farmers were transporting one or two tractors on big trailers. Also, many farmers were using one tractor to pull three to six tractors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-traffic-discipline-bku-chief-gurnam-singh-charuni-to-farmers-203207
25-01-2021||Karnal||Cops on toes, yet chaos reigns||The movement of farmers from Karnal, Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Kaithal districts besides Punjab led to a massive traffic chaos on the NH-44 here on Sunday.The vehicles were seen moving at a snail’s pace. “I left from Ambala for Delhi at 10 am but even after three hours I have reached Karnal, which usually takes around one and a half hours. The movement of tractors has slowed down the speed of the vehicles, leading to a delay in journey,” said Amar, a commuter.Another commuter Rajiv Sharma said he had witnessed a massive traffic jam on the NH-44 due to the farmers’ movement towards Delhi. “It took over two hours to reach Karnal from Shahabad,” he added.On the call of the Sanyukat Kisan Morcha, farmers of the district had earlier declared to leave for Delhi on January 24. As per the schedule, farmers of the district on Sunday marched towards Delhi.“We won’t return without getting the laws repealed,” said Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member, core committee, BKU (Charuni). He claimed that thousands of tractors from the district would participate in the parade.A large number of police personnel have also been deployed for the smooth traffic flow on the NH-44. SP Ganga Ram Punia said there was traffic chaos at two points i.e. near Oasis Tourist Complex and Bastara Toll Plaza, but they had deployed police personnel for the smooth movement of vehicles. Meanwhile, a gatka contest was the centre of attraction today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-on-toes-yet-chaos-reigns-203208
25-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Two persons claiming right over temple land not real owners: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 24More than seven years after 64 acre of temple property in the Mewat area was sold, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has upheld the State Financial Commissioner’s orders dismissing a petition filed by two persons claiming right over the land as “dholidars” — a person using land for charitable purpose without paying rent.About the caseThe Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash ruled the two respondents were not owners by any stretch of imagination. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after a petition was filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by Fazri, who was a subsequent purchaser. He had challenged the order dated July 23, 2019, passed by the Financial Commissioner, vide which orders passed by Mewat Collector in February 2013 and Gurugram Commissioner in March 2014 were set aside.The Bench observed an application for land’s ownership rights was filed at the instance of the temple manager. The collector conferred ownership rights and appeal filed by the gram panchayat concerned before Gurugram Commissioner against the order was dismissed. But during the pendency of the appeal before the Commissioner, the alleged dholidars sold 32 kanal vide sale deed dated April 11, 2013, to a builder and 32 kanal and 15 marla to the petitioner and two others on May 27, 2013.The Bench asserted that the plea raised by the petitioner’s counsel regarding his client being a bonafide purchaser was without merit. The petitioner and others bought the property during the pendency of the proceedings before the authorities below. As such, lis pendens would apply. The term indicates official notice that a lawsuit concerning real estate been filed.The Bench asserted admitted position was that the petitioner and others had bought the land in question after Mewat Collector had conferred rights of ownership upon the two respondents and appeal was pending against the order before Gurugram Commissioner. It could not be said they were not aware of the litigation.It was argued by the petitioner’s counsel that the temple was not an entity as it was a premise. But the Bench disagreed with the argument in view of the revenue record placed before it.The Bench further added: “When the Financial Commissioner held that the authorities below had wrongly conferred ownership upon the two respondents, they could not have transferred a better title than what they had. As such, there arises no question of transferring perfect title upon subsequent purchasers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-persons-claiming-right-over-temple-land-not-real-owners-hc-203209
25-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CPCB pulls up Faridabad, Gurugram MCs for contaminated Bandhwari groundwater||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 24The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has pulled up the local bodies of Gurugram and Faridabad over the Bandhwari dumping site while pointing out that the “steps for the decontamination of groundwater have not been taken”. It says that the dumping site was still active due to the “dumping of fresh waste at 2,000 TPD (tonne per day) generating leachate” and “33 lakh tonne of non-bioremediated waste”.In its fresh report, dated January 13, submitted before the NGT, the CPCB says that “as informed, the treatment and disposal of fresh solid waste by the MCs of Gurugram and Faridabad at the new identified sites in Farukkhnagar and Sihi could not be undertaken due to public protest at these places.In the last NGT hearing on September 30, the CPCB was asked to give an independent report as on December 31 on the dumping site, particularly with regard to groundwater contamination and proper manifest system for the treatment of leachate.The dumping site is located near Gurugram while the waste is dumped from both Gurugram and Faridabad.“The height of the dump has increased to 40 m and the quantity of waste to approximately 33 lakh tonne as fresh trash at the rate of 2,000 TPD is still being dumped at the site,” the CPCB says.Both local bodies had claimed in their action plan that 17.5 lakh tonne of legacy waste would be bioremediated by September, 2020. However, just 1.17 lakh tonne (3.6 per cent) of legacy waste has been bioremediated till December 31 of the total 33 lakh tonne dumped.The NGT has set the next date of hearing on March 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cpcb-pulls-up-faridabad-gurugram-mcs-for-contaminated-bandhwari-groundwater-203210
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||State cadre for IAS topper||Pradeep Singh, a Sonepat resident who brought glory to the state by topping the 2020 IAS examination, will serve his home state with the Centre allocating him Haryana cadre along with four other IAS officers.While Pankaj, an OBC candidate who was ranked 56th in the merit list, will be the other “insider” candidate to be allocated the Haryana cadre, three “outsider” IAS officers have also been allocated the state cadre.Among the new IAS officers allocated to the state are Deepak Babulal Karva (Maharashtra), C Jayasargha (Karnataka) and Harshit Kumar (Delhi).The allocation of home cadre to Pradeep Singh, who belongs to the general category, apparently runs counter to IAS Cadre Allocation letter to the state Chief Secretary on September 16, 2020, which states that two “insider” IAS officers belonging to the reserved categories would be allocated the Haryana state cadre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-cadre-for-ias-topper-203211
25-01-2021||---||Fake currency seized in Sirsa||Hisar, January 24 The Sirsa police have seized counterfeit currency worth Rs 71,000 from a youth and arrested him from Auto Market area in Sirsa town today.  The police spokesperson said that the youth, Ravi alias Vicky, resident of a village in Sirsa district, was found possessing counterfeit currency of Rs 500 denomination. Police personnel Deepak Kumar became suspicious on seeing his movements. So, he detained Ravi and inquired about his activities. During search, he was found carrying the currency notes which turned out to be counterfeit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-currency-seized-in-sirsa-203213
25-01-2021||Karnal||Seed production tech||Knee replacementKarnal: Doctors at Virk Hospital conducted a fast-track knee replacement surgery after which the patient was made to walk after four hours of the procedure. Orthopaedic surgeons Dr Balbir Singh Virk and Dr Daksh Sharma, who conducted the procedure, said Banarsi Lal (55) had been bedridden for the last five years.Blood donationKurukshetra: Indira Gandhi National College, Ladwa, organised the 23rd blood donation camp on the occasion of its 47th foundation day. As many as 70 volunteers donated blood. Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, paid floral tributes to Om Parkash Garg, founder of the college. Pawan Garg, president of the governing body, thanked the donors for their selfless service to humanity. Poster-making and slogan-writing competitions were organised.Frequent transfersFaridabad: With the recent transfer of Commissioner, Faridabad Municipal Corporation, Yash Garg, the civic body has seen as many as 13 officials on this position since February 9, 2015. Although DC Yashpal Yadav has been given additional charge, his appointment is seen as only a makeshift arrangement. Garg held this post for one year. Sources said the DC had been given this additional charge four times in the past six years. While the maximum tenure of a Commissioner has been one year and eight days, the minimum has been just 15 days. Satinder Duggal, a retired defence official, said frequent transfers had left residents at the receiving end as several projects had been lying pending. “The MC has become only a transit station as officers are shifted even before they understand its functioning,”he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seed-production-tech-203230
25-01-2021||Rohtak||Tributes paid to Netaji||SC Bose rememberedYamunanagar: The 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose was observed at Guru Nanak Khalsa College here. On the occasion, details of the life of Subhash Chandra Bose and important aspects of his life were presented. The program was organised by the NCC and NSS units of the college. While addressing the programme, Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang discussed in detail about Subhash Chandra Bose’s Azad Hind Fauj and motivated the youth to adopt his ideals and values. NSS programme officer Dr Vinay Chandela presented the entire lifecycle of SC Bose to the students. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and Randeep Singh Jauhar, president of Guru Nanak Khalsa College educational institutions, sent greetings on the occasion. NSS programme officers Dr Gian Bhushan, Dr Neena Puri, Dr Vinay Chandela and NCC officer Dr Ramneek were also present on the occasion.CUH holds lecture on BoseRohtak: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised an online lecture over Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary. Pratap Singh Malik, an RSS leader, was the key speaker while Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad presided over the event. Malik said the contribution of Netaji and his Azad Hind Fauj could never be forgotten when it comes to India’s struggle for independence. Through his might, he created such conditions that the British had to leave India, he said.Session on cement chemistryFaridabad: An interactive session for students of MSc Chemistry and MSc Physics was organised at Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, on the topic “Cement Chemistry and its applications”. The session was conducted by a team of the Centre for Continuing Education Services (CCE), National Council for Cement and Building Materials (NCB). Dr Pinki Pandey of NCB, who was the guest speaker, not only explained the uses of cement in everyday life but also detailed about how this industry had affected the economy of our country. She said India was the second largest producer of cement after China and elaborated various methodologies of cement manufacturing and how waste materials such as fly ash could be used in the production of cement. She also explained different types of cements available for various purposes and the basic standards on which the quality of cement is measured. The team also highlighted career opportunities available for post-graduate students at their campus. Dr Poonam Anand, HOD, Department of Chemistry, and Dr Panda of NCB, were among those who spoke at the occasion.CUH Prof is fellow of NASIMahendragarh: Prof Neelam Sangwan, Head of the Department of Biochemistry, Central University of Haryana (CUH), has been elected as a fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India, (NASI) for the year 2021. She is recognised for her outstanding contributions in the area of medicinal and aromatic plants. Her research is focused upon on the traditional ayurvedic plants such as ashwagnadha, brahmi, and tulsi to know about its natural drug products and how these are synthesised by plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tributes-paid-to-netaji-203231
25-01-2021||Most of the roads in Narwana are in bad shape and cause a lot of inconvenience to the commuters. The pothole-ridden roads also pose a threat to lives of commuters and are accident prone. Also||Narwana roads in bad shape||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaHeaps of garbage common sight in stateHEAPS of garbage has become a common site in the state. It also poses a threat of spread of several diseases due to the prevailing unhygienic conditions. Heaps of garbage emit foul smell. Most the people have got in the habit of throwing garbage alongside the roads even though dustbins are installed nearby. At many places, vacant plots have become a common dumping site which causes a lot of inconvenience to the people living nearby. It is a very disappointing for the state that only 17.5 per cent of the solid waste generated in Haryana is treated and recycled. There is a need for awareness among the people and garbage should be disposed of in a planned and eco-friendly manner. The government should also take strict action against those who are found using banned plastic items.Prasna Batra, KurukshetraDamaged streetlight polesA number of streetlight poles on Kallarheri-Panjokhra Sahib village road are lying broken and damaged. Adding to the woes, there are also a number of garbage dump sites along the road. The concerned authorities must tale a note of the situation and get the needful immediately for the convenience of the commuters.Retd Colonel RD Singh, Ambala CanttWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/narwana-roads-in-bad-shape-203253
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana authorities issue travel advisory in view of farmer’s tractor parade||Authorities in some of Haryana districts close to the national capital have issued advisories against unnecessary travel towards Delhi over the next couple of days in view of a January 26 tractor parade by protesting farmer unions.On Sunday, thousands of tractors were seen on the highways in Haryana heading towards Delhi, resulting in traffic congestion at several points on the GT Road, a police officer in Karnal said.The authorities in Sonepat also advised people on Sunday to avoid unnecessary travel towards Delhi over the next few days.Sonepat Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia said commuters were advised to use routes suggested by the local police in case travel towards Delhi was unavoidable.In an advisory, Panipat police too appealed to commuters to avoid travel to Delhi on January 25-26 or use routes suggested by local authorities if travel was unavoidable.With thousands of tractors expected to cross through Sonepat, Poonia held a meeting with officials in the district to ensure law and order is maintained.Sonepat’s civil surgeon was directed to ensure adequate availability of “bike ambulances” over the next few days so that these could reach those in need faster.He was also directed to set up temporary medical camps, an official said.Poonia asked the police department to strengthen security measures in the district.Apart from Punjab, thousands of farmers from Haryana on Sunday set out in their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles to take part in the proposed tractor parade.Earlier, at many places in the two states, tractor marches were taken out to mobilise more people for the tractor parade.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for several weeks, demanding a repeal of the farm laws enacted in September last year and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for crops.They claim that the new laws will weaken the MSP system. But the Centre says the MSP system will remain, and the new laws only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-authorities-issue-travel-advisory-in-view-of-farmers-tractor-parade-203138
25-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers' protest: Delhi police remove boulders from Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, January 24Two days ahead of Republic Day, the Delhi police on Sunday initiated work to clear the Delhi-Rohtak highway at Tikri border with removing boulders from cranes there. The boulders were placed to prevent entry of protesting farmers who have been camping there for the past around two months. The police also lifted the sand dumped on the highway. However, two-layer simple barricading on the border is yet to be removed.Purushottam Singh Gill, a leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), said the Delhi police had assured to lift the barricading completely before the Republic Day in view of tractor parade to be taken out by protesting farmers on January 26 following the call given by the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha. The route for the tractor parade had been finalised and the parade would be peaceful, he added.Vikas Sisar, another farmer leader from Haryana, said farmers were enthused over the tractor parade and were gearing up to participate in it. “Volunteers have been roped in to manage the parade. They will be issued identity cards and given special jackets for their recognition,” he added.Meanwhile, a large number of people from Punjab in buses, cars and tractor-trailers reached Tikri border to join the Tractor parade on Tuesday. Those who have been working in the private sector or doing business have also come here to express solidarity with the farmers.Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal said 25 companies of Paramilitary and Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) along with local police had been deployed at Tikri-Bahadurgarh border and proposed route of the tractor parade to facilitate the farmers and to remove traffic congestion during the tractor parade.“We have talked to farmers’ leaders who have assured us to take out the tractor parade peacefully,” Duggal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-delhi-police-remove-boulders-from-tikri-border-203113
