26-01-2021||Parvesh Sharma||BKU Ugrahan to continue ‘peaceful’ protest against farm laws||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, January 26The members and leaders of BKU Ugrahan were counting their men and machinery on Tuesday evening at the Tikri border and remained hopeful that all their men would return safely to the camp as they neither gave a call to move towards the Red Fort nor they supported any violence.“From the start of protest, I and other leaders of our organisation have been trying our level best to maintain peace because we know that political parties are hatching conspiracies to derail our protest,” BKU Ugrahan chief Joginder Ugrahan told The Tribune.  Also read: How extremist elements hijacked farmers' rally and Deep Sidhu’s role in chaos“It’s a big fight against the Central government and could only be won with peace not by violence. None from our organisation went to the Red Fort today nor did we create any other law and order problem,” said Joginder Ugrahan.Also read: Tractor parade becomes violent; farmers enter Red Fort, hoist flagHe though condemned the police action against protesters in Delhi. “We strongly condemned police action against protesters in New Delhi. If anyone from our organisation has inadvertently entered Delhi, I have asked them to come back to our camp at Tikri because our peaceful protest will continue here. We will announce our next action in coming days” said Ugrahan.Also read: MHA orders additional forces in Delhi as farmers lay siege to the Red Fort, break Tikri Border barricadesBKU Ugrahan working president Jaswinder Soma Longowal said that as per their route they started their protest towards Najafgarh from Bahadurgarh but cops created problems for them. “Despite facing problems from policemen, we completed our march and a majority of our men have reached back to our camp at the Tikri border while others are on their way back. Not a single member of our organisation went to the Red Fort as we had not given any call and undertook the march as per the pre-decided route,” said Longowal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-ugrahan-to-continue-peaceful-protest-against-farm-laws-204020
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||High alert in Haryana after violence in Delhi||Terming the violence during Tuesday’s tractor rally in the national capital as unacceptable, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar ordered high alert in the state.He directed Director General of Police Manoj Yadav to ensure that law and order in the state is not disturbed at any cost.Khattar took this decision after reviewing the situation at a high-level meeting with state’s top functionaries here.Official sources told IANS that prohibitory orders have been imposed in Faridabad district, adjoining the national capital, as a precautionary measure.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-alert-in-haryana-after-violence-in-delhi-204010
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover below normal in Haryana and Punjab||The minimum temperatures continued to hover below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Tuesday, with Narnaul reeling at 1.8 degrees Celsius.Narnaul in Haryana recorded four degrees below normal minimum temperature. Hisar, too, experienced a cold night recording a low of 3 degrees Celsius, down five notches below normal, the meteorological department here said.Bhiwani (4.9 degrees Celsius) and Ambala (5.4 degrees Celsius) also recorded below normal minimums.In Punjab, Ludhiana reeled under a biting chill recording a low of 3.2 degrees Celsius, down three notches against normal.Amritsar recorded a low of 3.8 degrees Celsius, down one notch while Patiala's minimum settled at 4.7 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal range.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 5.7 degrees Celsius, one below normal.Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures also hovered well below normal limits in the two states, including Chandigarh. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperatures-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-and-punjab-204001
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||One has freedom to agitate, not to spread anarchy: Khattar in R-Day address||In an apparent reference to the farmers stir against the Centre’s new farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said while one has the freedom to agitate, but not to spread anarchy.In his Republic Day address after hoisting the tricolour during a function in Panchkula, Khattar said the Constitution talks about rights, but these rights do not give us the “freedom to do anything”.All citizens have to abide by the Constitution, he said.Without directly mentioning about the farmers protest, the chief minister said, “We are a democracy… On Republic Day, we got our Constitution. The Constitution makers talked about various rights with which we can make our lives happier. But I want to remind one thing that under the Constitution, both our rights and duties have been mentioned. “... Our rights do not mean that we can do anything, there are some limits. And through these limits, we should remember that the Constitution which we have accepted, it becomes our responsibility to abide by it,” he said.Khattar also cautioned against exercising the fundamental rights without taking into account the duties that come with them.“We have right to freedom of speech and expression and we must use it, but that does not mean we will use it to abuse anyone. We should not hurt anyone’s sentiments or insult anyone. We have the freedom to live our lives, but this does not mean we will do any such act which causes harm to anyone else’s life.“Therefore, while we have the freedom to do agitation, it does not mean we have freedom to take this agitation to anarchy,” he asserted.Notably, the Haryana CM has been targeted by farmer unions for supporting the new farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.Earlier this month, protesters had vandalised the venue of the kisan mahapanchayat the chief minister had planned to address in support of the laws in Karnal.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.During his Republic Day address, Khattar touched upon several “pro-farmer” initiatives taken by the BJP-led state government over the past six years.“As far as procurement is concerned, Haryana is one such state which is procuring nine crops on its own at MSP. No other state has done so. In addition to wheat and paddy, be it cotton, bajra, maize, groundnut or moong, we are procuring these crops at MSP,” he said.Under the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ crop diversification scheme, the CM, said 80,000 acres of land under paddy cultivation have been given up and farmers were now sowing other crops.He said the state has taken several steps to ensure that farmers get payment of their crops directly into their bank accounts, adding that 50 per cent of peasants were availing this benefit. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-has-freedom-to-agitate-not-to-spread-anarchy-khattar-in-r-day-address-203990
26-01-2021||Palwal||Police lathicharge farmers heading towards Delhi in Palwal village||Police used batons to stop farmers and tractors near Palwal’s Gadpuri village on the National Highway 19 on Tuesday afternoon.Sources said the farmers were going from Amroha village to Delhi, where an ongoing tractor parade by farmers turned violent on Tuesday.  Traffic remains disrupted, sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-lathicharge-farmers-heading-towards-delhi-in-palwal-village-203982
26-01-2021||New Delhi||Police use baton charge, tear gas on farmers at Nangloi Chowk||The Delhi Police resorted to baton charge and firing of tear gas shells on farmers at Nangloi Chowk in West Delhi as they tried to deviate from the pre-agreed route to enter the national capital during their protest.The agitating farmers broke cement barricades at Nangloi Chowk and Mukarba Chowk following which the police used heavy tear gas shells to disperse the unruly crowd, an official said.He said police personnel used tear gas to disperse groups of farmers coming from the Singhu border point as they tried to take out a march on the Outer Ring Road much ahead of the allotted time.A different group of farmers also entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of the city. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-use-baton-charge-tear-gas-on-farmers-at-nangloi-chowk-203978
26-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Women in Haryanvi attire dancing to folk songs add colour to tractor parade||Tribune News ServiceTikri, January 26Women from Haryana on Tuesday dressed in traditional attire and danced on folk songs while the youth sat atop tractors, jeeps and cars decorated with tricolour, balloons and flowers to support farmers taking out tractor parade to protest against the three farm laws.During the parade, farmers raised slogans of ‘Kisan Ekta Jindabad’ while people from all walk of life greeted them from both sides of the highway leading to Delhi.The Republic Day tractor parade taken out by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha today witnessed myriad colours at Tikri border, where thousands of farmers have been camping for the past two months in protest against the three farm laws.Also read: Tractor parade: 32 ambulances to extend medical aid at Tikri borderSignificantly, farmers, along with the residents of Jakhoda village located on the outskirt of Bahadurgarh town in Haryana’s Jhajjar, hoisted the tricolour to mark Republic Day.“Hoisting the national flag at the protest site is the symbol of unity of the Punjab and Haryana farmers, who have efficiently been carrying out the agitation. We have not only celebrated Republic Day by unfurling the flag but also registered our protest against three farms laws,” said Gursharan Singh, a farmer from Punjab.Women from Haryana were also seen singing tradition songs and dancing on them during the parade.“Tractor parade is no less than a festival for us as it is another step to achieve our goal — to get the farm laws repealed,” said Krishna, a woman protester from Rohtak, who reached Tikri in a group of elderly women in a tractor-trailer.The tractor parade being taken out from Tikri is likely to continue till late in the evening, with a huge number of tractors lining up at 10-km long stretch of the highway leading to Delhi via Tikri border.Several thousand farmers in tractor-trailers and cars had entered Delhi from Tikri border by 2 pm while more than that number was awaiting their turn at the protesting site.Significantly, the Delhi police took a back seat during the parade while volunteers of the Sanyukat Kisan Morcha were holding the rein of managing traffic and letting the vehicles go ahead one by one.As per the farmer leaders, a total 2,000 volunteers were trained to control the situation a day ahead of the parade. They were also issued special passes for their recognition.“Our duty is not only to control the situation but also to prevent any untoward incident. Hence, we are allowing the tractors and other vehicles go ahead in row,” said Jaspreet Singh, a volunteer from Punjab.Earlier, farmers from various districts of Haryana staged a dharna at Dhansa border, near Badli village in Jhajjar district, and later entered Delhi from different routes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-in-haryanvi-attire-dancing-to-folk-songs-add-colour-to-tractor-parade-203974
26-01-2021||Ravinder Saini||Tractor parade: 32 ambulances to extend medical aid at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceTikri, January 26As many as 32 ambulances have been arranged by social outfit Five Rivers Heart Association to extend first aid to the protesting farmers during the Republic Day tractor parade being taken out in Delhi following the call of the Sankyukat Kisan Morcha against the three farm laws.“The ambulances provided at the border are equipped with doctors and all sorts of medicines needed in a medical emergency or mishap. These ambulances will be the part of the tractor cavalcade so that farmers in need don’t have to face any issue in getting medical aid,” said an office-bearer of the association.He said the association had been providing medical aid to the protesting farmers from the beginning of the agitation.Ramesh, an ambulance driver, said they would also rush farmers to the hospital if they feel any uneasiness during the tractor parade.The tractor parade is being taken out from Tikri. Volunteers have been deployed at the border to let tractors enter in a row from Tikri to Delhi. They are also managing traffic congestion. Significantly, people are standing at both sides of the highway to greet the farmers entering Delhi from Tikri.Meanwhile, 50-year-old Deepak Rathi, a social activist from Rohtak, said it was a historical tractor parade and he had seen tractors in such huge numbers for the first time.“Today’s tractor parade will strengthen the agitation further as a huge number of tractors has joined the parade and are sufficient to showcase farmers’ power,” Rathi added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tractor-parade-32-ambulances-to-extend-medical-aid-at-tikri-border-203963
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana join nation in celebrating Republic Day||Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday joined the nation in celebrating the 72nd Republic Day amid tight security arrangements.Also read: In pictures, ITBP jawans march with Tricolour at a height of 17,000 feetPolice and home guard contingents took part in parades held in district headquarters in the two states and their joint capital Chandigarh.Also read: Nation celebrates 72nd Republic DayOfficials said all coronavirus-related safety guidelines were followed during the functions.Also read: My heart is with farmers on Republic Day: AmarinderPunjab Governor VP Singh Badnore unfurled the national flag at a state-level function in Mohali.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hoisted the Tricolour in Patiala, while his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar unfurled the national flag in Panchkula, the officials said.Also read: India's colourful heritage comes alive in Republic Day Google doodleBoth Singh and Khattar conveyed their greetings to people on the occasion."Let us celebrate the diversity of our Republic by remembering the immense sacrifices & contributions of our farmers, soldiers, scientists and many others. #RepublicDay is a solemn occasion to reaffirm the pledge for preserving our democratic rights guaranteed by our Constitution," Singh said in a tweet.Also read: Not having made it as chief guest, Boris Johnson greets India on Republic DayHaryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala unfurled the national flag in Ambala. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-join-nation-in-celebrating-republic-day-203959
26-01-2021||Jhajjar||3 more protesters die at Tikri||Two farmers from Haryana and one from Punjab reportedly died of cardiac arrest at the Tikri border on Monday taking the toll to 24. In all, 19 were from Punjab and five belonged to Haryana. Those who lost their lives today have been identified as Gurmeet Singh (51) of Dhingarh in Mansa district (Punjab), Jasbir (47) of Bagla village and Joginder Singh (41) of Mirchpur village in Hisar district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-more-protesters-die-at-tikri-203659
26-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Riding high on wheels & emotions, 47-yr-old Punjab biker stuns commuters with stunts||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 25The daredevil bike stunts by a Punjab farmer, Balwinder Singh, have turned out to be a major attraction for commuters on the way to the Tikri border. The 47-year-old biker has now expressed his wish to perform at the farmers’ tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day on Tuesday.Balwinder, hailing from Samana town of Patiala district, started his journey on his Royal Enfield motorcycle on Monday and is expected to arrive at the Tikri border tonight. Crossing through Jind via the Rohtak highway, he has already stunned commuters along the route.He said he had been performing bike stunts for the last 15 years on certain occasions. Carrying the flag of a farmers’ organisation in his hand, Balwinder drove the bike in the standing or sleeping positions while maintaining balance. He said he would like to perform these stunts at the tractor parade on Tuesday, if he was given an opportunity to do so.“I started the 225-km journey from my home to the Tikri border on Monday morning and will reach by the evening. On the way, I have been practising the stunts for the Tuesday’s parade. This is my style of extending support to the agitation,” he added.Balwinder said obviously, there was risk in performing the bike stunts and should not be copied by others. “I have practised for 15 years to perform these stunts,” he said, adding that he liked the gravity defying stunts performed by the personnel of the Indian forces during the Republic Day parade.However, with the reports saying that the there won’t be any bike stunts at the Republic Day parade this year due to the Covid guidelines, Balwinder can be a show stealer at the farmers march if given an opportunity to perform, said a motorist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/riding-high-on-wheels-emotions-47-yr-old-punjab-biker-stuns-commuters-with-stunts-203660
26-01-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Unfazed, they march ahead||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 25Patriotism is the fuel that drives farmers and the Singhu border has emerged as their “Mecca” or so it seems during a drive down the GT road leading to New Delhi.Vehicles of all hues and sizes carrying the young, the old and the middle-aged are converging at Singhu to make the Republic Day tractor rally against the three farm laws a success, while the passion and the verve of those camping there or arriving in tens of thousands since yesterday is almost infectious.Everyone is driven, nobody is untouched. Only one sentiment stands out — unity despite the diversity. The Tricolour is everywhere along the highway. The flag flutters atop tractors pressed into service from all over Punjab and Haryana.All the way from Amritsar, Jarnail Singh, accompanied by his wife and two infants — one-year-old son and two-year-old daughter — left his hometown yesterday, stayed in Karnal for the night and proceeded to Singhu today.“We want to be part of the historic tractor rally because we can’t sit back on such a momentous occasion. We have to contribute our might. When my children grow up, they would remember that they fought for a cause. We would not have to cut a sorry figure when they would ask us what we did when the farming fraternity was taking a hit. The farm laws are unacceptable and this is our way of expressing that we stand with those spearheading the movement,” he said.In Panipat’s Razapur village, its sarpanch Mangal Singh has started a 24-hour langar for those in transit. Those on their way to the Singhu border stop to grab a bite and drink steaming hot tea to beat the cold.“Panchayat members saw tractor-trolleys moving towards Singhu all through the day and the night. That made us start the langar sewa for our brethren who are fighting for us. The entire village has come together. Those coming from Punjab are leaving behind plenty of ration for those following them,” he said.Travelling in a group of 29, Gurpreet Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib said they were well-stocked for the next few days. “We are carrying 400 litres of diesel because we don’t trust this government. If it orders closure of fuel stations, we will be left stranded,” he said.The group was travelling in three trolleys. One of them was carrying two tractors. “If one tractor breaks down, we will have a spare one. We cannot miss the chance to participate in the rally. We can’t be sitting ducks when it comes to the laws which have been thrust upon us,” Gurpreet said.At Singhu, the camaraderie remains intact. The selfless service continues to flow by way of community kitchens at every km or less and nobody is a stranger. The entire crowd is woven together in only one religion — being a farmer — and that sentiment drowns all other differences. The “Kisan Gantantra Parade” is everybody’s baby and no farmer is shirking responsibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unfazed-they-march-ahead-203661
26-01-2021||Karnal||Zeal at peak on NH-44||A 65-year-old farmer from Machhiwara (Ludhiana), Shamsher Singh, has got his tractor of 1995 make repainted orange, white and green, signifying the colours of the national flag.  He reached the Bastara toll plaza here after having driven 12 hours from his home. He started at 3 am today and reached the Singhu border in the evening. “If the God allows me, I will participate in the historic parade against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. The parade will give a message that farmers are united. I request the Centre to repeal the laws, so that farmers protesting in the bone-chilling cold can return home,” Singh told the The Tribune at the toll plaza. He spent Rs 2 lakh on getting his tractor repainted and the journey till the Singhu border.  Like Singh, hundreds of farmers from Ambala, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Yamunanagar and Karnal crossed the toll plaza today. There was a stream of tractor-trailers, SUVs, cars and motorcycles on the NH-44. Among them was a remote-operator tractor driven by Pavitra Singh, a farmer from Ferozepur. He claimed he had designed the tractor.  A couple of servicemen from Punjab also crossed Karnal on their motorcycles. One of them, Harjinder Singh, said: “The Centre must repeal the laws for the larger interest of farmers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/zeal-at-peak-on-nh-44-203662
26-01-2021||---||People’s will supreme in democracy: Hooda||Chandigarh, January 25 Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday called upon farmers to ensure peace and discipline during the tractor parade tomorrow.  The former Chief Minister greeted the nation on the eve of Republic Day and said the foundation of the country had been built on equality and justice. The will of the people was supreme in a democracy, he added. Hooda praised the farmer leadership for organising such a huge and peaceful movement. “Two months have passed in the agitation against the three farm laws. In democracy, discipline and non-violence are the biggest weapons in any movement, which farmer leaders have understood well. By following this path, even the most difficult goal can be achieved,” he said.  The Leader of the Opposition appealed to farmers to take all precautions during the parade and said not only the country, but the entire world had been looking at the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/peoples-will-supreme-in-democracy-hooda-203664
26-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Protesters denied entry to Gurugram-Jaipur Expressway||Gurugram, January 25 In view of the farmers’ protest and the Republic Day celebrations, the Gurugram police have stepped up security arrangements and special instructions have been given to the police force to keep a vigil on suspicious elements. The protesting farmers have been denied entry to the Gurugram-Jaipur Expressway to ensure smooth inter-state traffic flow. The police have urged farmers to follow their assigned route and maintain peace and order. More than 150 policemen, led by ACP (Traffic) Sanjeev Balhara, today took out a flag march in the city. As many as 4,000 cops along with special forces have been deployed across the district.  Around 40 police checkpoints have been erected in the district and along the border areas, including the Kapriwas border in Rewari district. Apart from this, a unit of the ITBP and Haryana Police commandos will monitor the key locations. A three-layer security has been placed around Tau Devi Lal Stadium at Sector-38, where the Republic Day celebrations will be organised. A number of policemen have been deployed in Manesar, near the NSG campus, and Panchgaon Chowk on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway so that the farmers coming from Rewari to Gurugram do not proceed beyond these security points. To avoid protesters from Rewari and Rajasthan, a huge police force has been deployed at the Kapriwas border, where cops are stopping heavy vehicles  “The police have not allowed us to go via the expressway then how are we supposed to reach Delhi? We will gather at the designated place tomorrow and decide on the future course,” said local councilor RS Rathee.  Meanwhile, ACPs and DCPs will continue patrolling in their respective areas on a rotational basis.  “In view of the Republic Day celebrations, the entry of heavy vehicles from the Gurugram border in Delhi has been banned. We will ensure that there is no disturbance on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway. Police force has been deployed and suspects are being specially monitored,” said Kulwinder Singh, Joint Commissioner of police, Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-denied-entry-to-gurugram-jaipur-expressway-203665
26-01-2021||---||People from all walks of life reach Tikri for parade||Jhajjar, January 25 The agitation against the three farm laws has developed into a mass movement today. Besides farmers, retired Army personnel, teachers, students, migrant workers and those working in the private job, too, reached the Tikri border on Monday to join the Republic Day tractor parade.  They say the three agriculture laws would not only affect farmers, but also the common man.  “I along with other ex-servicemen have come here to participate in the parade and make it a success. It is a historic moment for all of us. While in service, we served at the border to protect the nation, and now we stand firmly with the protesting farmers,” says Hardev Singh from Ludhiana.  Dharmendra Singh, a school teacher from Moga, has taken a two-day leave to join the parade. “Though I am a teacher, my forefathers were associated with farming and hence I can feel their pain. I and my colleagues fully support the agitation,” he added.    Sagdeed Singh, a farm labourer from Punjab, said he could not stop himself from coming here. “I have come here to become the voice of farmers,” he adds.  Hardev Singh, a construction contractor from Moga, says it is not only the battle of farmers, but people from all walks of life are involved in it.  Meanwhile, thousands of people from Punjab reached Bahadurgarh in tractor-trailers and buses in the last 24 hours. The Tikri-Jakhoda bypass in Bahadurgarh remained jam-acked with vehicles.  Farmer leaders at the Tikri border have trained nearly 2,000 volunteers to manage the parade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-from-all-walks-of-life-reach-tikri-for-parade-203666
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Republic Day venue of Khattar changed||A day before the Republic Day, the Haryana Government today announced that CM Manohar Lal Khattar will now unfurl the national flag at Panchkula instead of Panipat.Earlier on Sunday, Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya’s Republic Day programme was shifted from Panchkula to Raj Bhawan citing Covid pandemic. Though, the number of cases has been constantly decreasing in the state.The government issued a revised list of chief guests for the R-Day functions.Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma will unfurl the national flag at Bhiwani instead of Rewari, and Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal will now go to Rewari instead of Rohtak.Minister of State for Woman and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda will attend the function at Nuh instead of Fatehabad and Minister of State for Archaeology and Museums Anoop Dhanak will now be the chief guest at Faridabad instead of Palwal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/republic-day-venue-of-khattar-changed-203667
26-01-2021||---||1.25 lakh tractors will enter Delhi, claim farm leaders||Sonepat, January 25The stage is set for the ‘Kisan Tractor Parade’ in Delhi against the three farm laws. Farmer leaders here claimed that around 1.25 lakh tractors will enter Delhi for the rally from Singhu border. Thousands of farmers are reaching Singhu on their tractors and other vehicles continuously for the last three days to participate in the rally.Farmer leaders had received an NOC from the Delhi Police to hold a tractor parade in the Capital with unlimited number of tractors for unlimited time, claimed Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU. All preparations for the rally are completed, “do’s and don’ts” before and during the rally, finalised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, are sent to all farmer groups, he said.The farmer leaders will gather at the central stage near Singhu border at 8 am on Tuesday morning and will move towards Delhi around 10 am, said Lakhowal.As many as 1.25 lakh tractors will participate in the rally and it will take around three days to complete the march in the Capital, he added. As many as 3,000 volunteers in green jackets will be controlling the speed of tractors and the march will move in a single lane, keeping one lane free for to deal with any untoward incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-25-lakh-tractors-will-enter-delhi-claim-farm-leaders-203668
26-01-2021||---||Traders, employees too head for Delhi||Ambala, January 25 Not only farmers but also people in private jobs and traders are on their way towards Singhu border to support the agitating farmers and to participate in the tractor march on January 26. Besides the tractors, a large number of people in cars, SUVs and two-wheelers, largely from Punjab, were seen heading towards Delhi on the Amritsar-Delhi NH-44. They were carrying the Tricolour, banners and flags of farmer unions. However, the number of such vehicles was less than the vehicles seen in the past three days. Farmers from Ambala and Kurukshetra left for Delhi on Friday and Saturday, respectively. Gurtej Singh, a businessman from Ludhiana who was on his way with his friends on motorcycles, said, “We are on our way from Ludhiana to support the farmers. We have been seeing that agricultural lands are being grabbed and turned into private colonies. There will be no agricultural land left in the coming years if things keep going like this. We have to support our farmers.” Sukhvinder Singh of Ludhiana said, “We left home on motorcycles around 11.30 am. I work in the private sector and the sole purpose of going there is to support the farmers. We want to secure the lives of our coming generations and don’t want them to be impacted due to these three black laws. We will do whatever we can do for the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traders-employees-too-head-for-delhi-203669
26-01-2021||---||Profs back stir||Profs back stir  n Faculty members of MDU in Rohtak have extended support to farmers  n Several serving as well as retired university teachers, officials and college principals are reaching Delhi  n Professors were seen cooking food and providing medical aid to farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/profs-back-stir-203671
26-01-2021||---||Police issue traffic advisory||Chandigarh, January 25 In view of the proposed tractor rally by various farmer organisations, the Haryana Police have issued traffic advisory. An official spokesperson of the Police Department said that commuters would face traffic disruptions on the national highway between Karnal to Delhi and Rohtak to Delhi from January 26 to January 27.He added that the traffic on KMP-KGP Expressway would also be impacted and interchanges at Kundli, Assaudha and Badli would not be accessible due to traffic movement on these dates. “Therefore, all commuters are being advised not to use these routes on these dates to avoid inconvenience,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-issue-traffic-advisory-203673
26-01-2021||---||118 cases, 4 deaths||Chandigarh, January 25The Covid-19 tally was pegged at 2,67,321 in the state today with the addition of 118 fresh cases. Meanwhile, the death toll reached 3,014 with four more deaths.Faridabad, Kurukshetra Yamunanagar and Palwal reported one death each.Gurugram reported a maximum of 28 cases followed by Faridabad (19), Panchkula(13) and Kurukshetra (12).Till now, Faridabad has reported a maximum of 413 deaths with Gurugram reporting 352 deaths and 323 deaths in Hisar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/118-cases-4-deaths-203674
26-01-2021||Highlight||President's medal for two state cops||Tribune News Service   Chandigarh, January 25   Two state police officers have been selected for the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service whereas 12 others will get Police Medal for meritorious service on the occasion of Republic Day.   A spokesperson for the Haryana Police on Monday said ADGP (Law and Order), Haryana, Navdeep Singh Virk, and ADGP, Rohtak Range, Sandeep Khirwar had been chosen for the President’s medal. Those who have been selected for the honour of Police Medal are Angrej Singh, DSP, Headquarters, Narnaul, Arun Deswal, Sub-Inspector, 5th Battalion, HAP Madhuban, Suresh Kumar, SI Rohtak, Kulwinder Kaur, SI ( crime branch), Hardev Singh, ESI Police Headquarters, Joginder Singh, ASI Haryana Power Utility, Amit Kumar, ASI, Vigilance Bureau, Parveen Kumar, ASI, Charkhi Dadri, Deepak Kumar, ASI, Karnal, Didar Singh, ASI, Panchkula, Harish Kumar, SI, Panchkula, and Joginder Singh, ESI Ambala.DGP Manoj Yadava said the recognition of outstanding services at the national level would further boost the morale of selected officers as well as others in the police force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/presidents-medal-for-two-state-cops-203675
26-01-2021||Quality work should be ensured||What Our Readers Say||The work on laying of interlocking tiles in the town is at full swing these days but attention should be paid on maintaining same level of the streets and drains. The accompanying photograph shows how underground pipes are being laid to replace open drains but the quality of work being done is poor thus leaving the streets in bad shape. Many streets are in similar condition due to the same reason. For the sake of this project, several well laid roads too are being dug up which is irking the residents. The concerned authorities must ensure quality work so that residents could be benefitted. Many residents want these pipes to be removed as they remain choked with garbage and keep on overflowing. Firstly, well laid roads are broken, then new pipelines are laid, followed by other such expenses, the authorities must at least ensure quality work to prevent any further waste of public money. All such projects must be carried out after a planned discussion and also must be monitored to prevent poor work. -Dr Ravinder Kwatra, shahabad markanda Let’s rise above caste, creed & religionThe recent news “20 Indians part of Joe Biden’s team” is indeed a proud moment for the Indian diaspora. Sadly, our country is still divided on the basis of state, nationality, caste, creed, colour, regional/religious affinities and reservations, which hamper its development and future growth. Let’s imbibe the egalitarian attitude to become a truly vibrant democracy. –Ramit Ritu Bagga, panchkulaLaxity by Ambala MC irks residentsThe said picture has been clicked near HN 530, Sector 9, Ambala City. The said department had carried out repairs of leaking pipelines but left the wet mould of soil causing inconvenience to residents and commuters. It is hard to understand as to why the senior and officials do not monitor the work and take a cognisance of the work left undone. We hope the concerned authorities will take a note of the issue and get the needful done immediately. –Gian P Kansal, ambala cityRoad stretch in bad shapeA stretch of road from local Dhand road in Kaithal Town near HSVP sectors and Mini-Secretariat has been lying in bad shape for about two-years and has become a nightmare for the commuters. Despite repeated requests to get the repair work done, the MC authorities seem to have turned a blind eye to this problem. However, some time back rather than repairing the road, the council got the patch work done to fill up the potholes, which got uprooted within days. Adding to the woes, there are no arrangements to ensure proper draining out of rainwater accumulated on the road following rains which further damages the road. The authorities must take a note of the situation and get the needful done. –Satish Seth, kaithalDeadlock between farmers, centre must endThe Centre finally agreeing to hold the three controversial farm laws on hold for 1.5 years is a huge relief. But, the government should have made the decision on the first day when the farmers started opposing them so that all those precious lives which were lost during the protest could be saved and many of the protesters which include elderly people, youth, women and children were not forced to sit out on roads amid the cold wave. Now that the government has made this proposal, the farmers must think over it and settle the matter. –Subhash C Taneja, gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/what-our-readers-say-203679
26-01-2021||  Talent show winners awarded ||Education Notes||Karnal: The youth welfare and cultural affairs society of KVA DAV College for Women organised a prize-distribution ceremony of the talent show-2021 on Monday. Principal Sujata Gupta said the talent show was an excellent opportunity for the students to display their creativity. She asserted that the college students had an ocean of talent hidden underneath and it was exhibited in various competitions held during the show. She felicitated the prize winners. National Voter’s Day was also celebrated. Voters made aware of rights   Kurukshetra: Markanda National College, Shahabad, celebrated 11th National Voters’ Day to encourage youngsters to exercise their fundamental right to vote in the world’s largest democracy. Chuhar Singh, nodal officer, along with Ashok Kumar, principal, administered the oath to more than 100 students. The pledge was administered to encourage young voters to exercise their franchise in a free and fair manner. Students were made aware of the documentary requirements to prepare voter ID cards.   Webinar on start-ups held   Faridabad: The incubation cell and innovation cell in association with the IQAC department of the DAV Institute of Management organised a webinar titled as “Power house to your dream” for the first-year students of MBA and MCA and final-year pupils of all undergraduate courses recently. Rajesh Kashyap, founder and corporate trainer of Nityavasu Learnings, not only gave the students an insight of the strategies to turn their dreams into reality, but also discussed the approaches for a successful entrepreneurship by planning and prioritising the tasks at hand. He also covered the government schemes available for the start-ups avenues and the guidelines for the registrations required.   Cadet selected for R-Day parade  Faridabad: Tushar Dalal, a student of BTech (Civil engineering) at the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, has been selected to participate in the Republic Day parade at Rajpath in New Delhi. Tushar is the only cadet of the Navy wing of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) selected from Haryana. The Navy wing of the university is enrolled under 1 HAR (Naval) NCC unit at NIT, Faridabad. Commanding Officer Lt Cmdr Kapil Kumar Singh congratulated Tushar, who hails from Bahadurgarh in Haryana.   2-week refresher course ends  Hisar: A two-week interdisciplinary refresher course titled ‘quantitative biology’ has concluded under the aegis of the human resource development centre, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar. Registrar Avnesh Verma was the chief guest of the valedictory function. He said quantitative biology was a unique paradigm shift in the area of biology for being an analytical study. He envisioned the teachers to be interdisciplinary in approach and try to explore different biological structures within the boundaries and out of boundaries.   School celebrates Republic Day   Karnal: Keeping the patriotic fervour alive, Pratap Public School celebrated 72nd Republic Day. The school remodeled the celebration by following all restrictions and protocols as the nation is still reeling from the effects of the pandemic. The event commenced with the hoisting of Tricolour by the chief guest followed by the national anthem. The students pledged to uphold the honour and integrity of the nation. A musical tribute was paid by the students. Director-principal Poonam Navet greeted the students on the occasion and urged them to be law-abiding citizens. National Voters’ Day observed  Rohtak: National Voters’ Day was observed at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Monday with Vice Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh administering the oath on the occasion. The VC said enlightened voters were essential for democracy. Students, who are 18 or above, must enroll as voters and participate in the democratic process. He said casting a vote was necessary to strengthen democracy. The VC urged the students to feel pride in India's democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/education-notes-203680
26-01-2021||Chandigarh||Organ donation: Yamunanagar woman gives new lease of life to 3||Laxmi Devi (45) from Yamunanagar district, who lost her life in a road accident, turned a lifesaver for three people who were donated her organs. Her kidneys were transplanted to two terminally ill renal failure patients at the PGI here, whereas her liver gave a new lease of life to a recipient suffering from an end-stage liver disease at Max Hospital in New Delhi.The liver was transported through green corridor from Chandigarh to New Delhi covering a distance of 314 km in mere 4.15 hours despite dense fog, poor visibility and other logistic issues due to the prevailing situation at the Delhi border.Laxmi Devi of Haibatpur village, Yamunanagar, Haryana, was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Jagadhari, after she was found unconscious on the road after being hit by a vehicle on January 15. Considering her critical condition, she was referred to the PGI. She was declared brain dead on January 21.Prof (Dr) Vipin Koushal, Nodal Officer, ROTTO, PGI, said: “After the family consented for organ donation, a medical team harvested the liver and kidneys for transplant. Cross-matching indicated that there was no matching recipient for liver at the PGI. So, we got in touch with other transplant hospitals in the northern region to explore options for matching recipients and finally the liver was allocated to Max Hospital, New Delhi, with the active intervention of the National Organ & Tissue Transplant Organisation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/organ-donation-yamunanagar-woman-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-3-203656
26-01-2021||---||MHA announces 946 police medals; northern states bag 128; J-K tops with 71||New Delhi, January 25The government on Monday announced a total of 946 medals for the police persons in the country, which will be awarded to them on the occasion of Republic Day with two personnel - one each from Jharkhand Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) - receiving the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry posthumously.Among the majority of the 207 Gallantry awards, 137 personnel are being awarded for their gallant action in Jammu and Kashmir, 24 personnel for their gallant action in Left Wing Extremism affected areas and one personnel for their gallant action in North-East Region.Among the states and Union Territories, the northern region bagged 128 medals in different categories with Jammu and Kashmir topping the list with 71 medals, followed by Punjab (21), Delhi (17) Haryana (14) and Himachal Pradesh (5).  Among the personnel from the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) receiving the awards, 132 are from CRPF, 71 are from BSF, 26 from CISF and 17 are from ITBP.Among the investigative agencies, 31 personnel have been awarded with the medals, while NIA received 6 and the Intelligence Bureau got 34.These medals are given in four categories with the highest one being the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, followed by Police Medal for Gallantry and then police officers are awarded for their distinguished and meritorious services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mha-announces-946-police-medals-northern-states-bag-128-j-k-tops-with-71-203472
26-01-2021||Sushil Manav||Yield drop no damper||HARYANA’S cotton acreage of 7.38 lakh hectares in Kharif-2020 is not only the highest in the cotton belt of North India, comprising Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, but also the maximum in any year so far for the state. The crop was grown on 7.01 lakh hectares in the state this time. There is a slight decline in productivity (production per hectare), though better prices have compensated farmers for the loss in yield.Read also: White gold glitters for farmers“I harvested nearly 30 quintals per hectare of cotton last year, but this time, I could get only 22-23 quintals,” says Gurdial Mehta, a farmer from Panjuana village of Sirsa. He, however, adds that he could sell his crop for Rs 5,900 per quintal this year, far better than Rs 5,390 received last year.Dr Dilip Monga, a cotton scientist and a former head of the regional station of the Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR), says that the crop was in perfect health till August 2020, when untimely rain, waterlogging and infestation by whitefly resulted in a fall in productivity. However, the productivity is still good enough to fetch encouraging returns to farmers, he adds.Senapati Tamrayat, a leading cotton broker, says that projections of higher consumption in textile mills this year have led to an increase in prices in the past few months.“Last year, consumption remained low as mills were closed during the lockdown. Even when the mills resumed functioning, it took time to generate demand. Against the consumption of 288 lakh bales in the country last year, the demand is projected to cross 350 lakh bales in the textile sector,” adds Tamrayat.Haryana produced 22 lakh bales of cotton last year. “This year, 18 lakh bales have been procured so far. Of these, 10.53 lakh bales have been procured by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) and nearly 7.5 lakh by private ginners. We are expecting nearly 6 lakh bales more before the season ends,” says Kewal Sharma, incharge of CCI procurement operations in the state.If one converts this procurement in terms of raw cotton, 52.76 lakh quintals have been procured by the agency and 37.5 lakh quintals by the private players, while about 30 lakh quintals are yet to arrive. As a general rule of thumb, the number of bales multiplied by five is equal to the quintals of raw cotton used in preparing those bales.Despite higher procurement by the CCI, the private ginners don’t lose business as the government agency also gives its cotton to them for ginning and pressing.Gurpreet Singh Nagpal, general secretary of the Cotton Ginners’ Association in Sirsa, says with prices above the MSP now, the ginners are also procuring the crop for their own business activities.This is perhaps the first time that the CCI has entered cotton procurement operations on such a scale in Haryana, as normally its role used to be that of a token purchaser. Dr Monga quotes a study by the CICR which shows that from 2007-08 to 2017-18, the CCI made significant procurement across the country only twice — 35 per cent in 2008-09 and 22 per cent in 2014-15.Mohit Sharma, branch manager of the CCI at Sirsa who looks after the corporation’s operations in Haryana, says the agency steps in only when the market rates fall below the MSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yield-drop-no-damper-203332
