28-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||Recovery of cash awards from IAS officer’s children: Ball in Chief Secretary’s court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 28 In the case of alleged false claim and payment of excess cash award and wrong conferment of Bhim Awards to IAS officer Jagdeep Singh’s children, the ball is now in the Chief Secretary's court after a clean chit from the Sports Department.  When the matter was put before Sports Minister Sandeep Singh, he noted that matter be referred to Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan. It was senior IAS officer Ashok Khemka who had raised the issue of alleged excess cash awards and wrong conferment of Bhim Awards to Jagdeep Singh's children, during his tenure as Principal Secretary Sports and Youth Affairs.Show-cause notices were issued to Jagdeep Singh's children on March 11, 2019 for recovery of Rs 60 lakh and withdrawal of Bhim Awards.Later, Khemka was shifted out of the department.After Khemka, the top officials of the department gave clean chit to Jagdeep Singh and his children and matter was sent back to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The CM marked the case to Chief Secretary for comments in October, 2019. Chief Secretary at that time Keshni Anand Arora asked an IAS officer to inquire into the matter but the officer refused. After that another IAS officer also refused to probe the matter. On September 4, 2020, Keshni Anand referred the matter back to the Sports Department.   The cash prizes and Bhim Awards were given to Jagdeep's children when he was the Director, Sports. As per a noting of present Director, Sports, SS Phulia, dated October 8, 2020, a committee of Joint Director Sports Sunita Sharma and Deputy Directors Arun Kant and Satyadev Malik have submitted that like all other eligible applicants, cash awards and Bhim Award were given to Vishwajeet and Gauri Sheoran (Jagdeep Singh’s children), “after following the guidelines/rules/schemes/departmental sports policy and after obtaining the approval from the competent authorities”. The committee has also submitted that IAS officer Jagdeep Singh, then Sports Director, was not part of selection committee and no different norms and procedures were adopted in case of his children.However, the show-cause notice issued to Jagdeep Singh and his children pointed out that Gauri Sheoran’s actual score should have been 37 but was wrongly awarded 84 for Bhim Award. Similarly, in the case of Vishwajeet, the actual score should have been 18 but was awarded 60. Their original scoresheet and the application forms have been missing from office records. It was also pointed out in the show-cause notice that Gauri Sheoran was given five cash awards against one score obtained by playing one event and cash awards were claimed and given for ineligible tournaments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/recovery-of-cash-awards-from-ias-officers-children-ball-in-chief-secretarys-court-204617
28-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Abhay Chautala’s resignation will help govt in no-trust move: Hooda||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 28Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has stated that the resignation tendered by INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala would help the BJP-JJP government and not the farmers.Addressing a news conference here today, Hooda maintained that Abhay’s resignation would help the state government during voting on no-trust motion.“We are going to bring a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP regime in the state. One vote of the Opposition has been decreased due to Abhay’s resignation from the Assembly. Now, the government will require 45 votes instead of 46 to survive the no-trust move,” he asserted.The former Chief Minister reaffirmed support to the farmers’ agitation and urged the Central Government to accede to their demands.He, however, condemned the Red Ford incident which took place during the farmers’ tractor parade in New Delhi on Republic Day and sought a thorough probe into the entire episode so as to identify the persons who reached the Red Fort with an intention to ruin the peaceful and disciplined agitation.“Barring that incident, there were no reports of any clash, indiscipline or untoward incident despite the fact that lakhs of farmers had participated in the tractor-parade,” he pointed out.The Congress leader asserted that the recently enacted agriculture laws were anti-farmer and hence the farmers were protesting against these. He sought financial aid and jobs for the family members of the farmers who have lost their lives during the agitation like the Punjab Government had announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abhay-chautalas-resignation-will-help-govt-in-no-trust-move-hooda-204614
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends suspension of mobile Internet services in three districts till Friday||The Haryana Government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts till Friday 5 pm "to prevent disturbance of peace and public order", according to a government order issued on Thursday.Mobile Internet services were suspended in these districts on Tuesday after a violent farmers' protest rocked the neighbouring Delhi."... it has been brought to my notice by ADGP, CID, Haryana … that the situation is still tense and violence may simmer in the areas of National Capital Territory adjoining State of Haryana which aroused in view of law and order situation created during tractor parade on January 26 by protestors, agitators, miscreants and anti-social elements..," stated the order by the Haryana's Home Department.The Haryana Government has extended the suspension of telecom services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), all SMS services (excluding banking and mobile recharge) and all dongle services, etc. provided on mobile networks, except voice calls in the territorial jurisdiction of Sonipat, Palwal and Jhajjar for next 24 hours till 5 pm on January 29, according to the order."This order has been issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these three districts of Haryana," it said.In view of the violence in Delhi, Haryana Home Secretary Rajeev Arora had on Tuesday issued the order to snap mobile Internet services in the three districts, which are in close proximity of Delhi, to "stop the spread of disinformation and rumours through various social media platforms, such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter" for mobilisation of antisocial elements who can disturb peace, cause loss of life and damage to property.The tractor parade on Tuesday that was held to highlight farmer unions' demand for the repeal of the Centre's three agriculture laws descended into anarchy as protesters deviated from designated routes, attacked police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-extends-suspension-of-mobile-internet-services-in-three-districts-till-friday-204604
28-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Farmers’ agitation: Resolving deadlock must to restore nation’s credence, say sociologists||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 28The happenings that took place during the farmers’ tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day have sparked a nationwide debate on the stalemate between the Central Government and the farmers opposing the recently enacted agriculture laws.Sociologists point out that India’s image has taken a beating before the international community and the government as well as the farmers should make a conscious effort to resolve the crisis to restore the country’s credibility.They maintain that there is a dire need for an alternate narrative to reach a mutually agreeable solution, for which both sides should have some flexibility in their attitude.“The government should show some compassion and reconsider the imposition of the said laws. It is high time that the Prime Minister should step in. The farmers should also be cautious to ensure that their movement remains peaceful and disciplined,” asserts Prof Jitender Prasad, a noted sociologist.He remarks that a democratic set-up gets strengthened by protests and it is imperative for the government to listen to the voice of the people, warning that the farmers’ agitation may snowball into a major uprising if it is not dealt with tactfully.Dr Neerja Ahlawat, a faculty member at the Department of Sociology at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak maintains that the ongoing agitation by farmers is an outcome of their worsening condition and simmering discontent associated with it.“Resentment was brewing amongst the farmers for decades, and the agriculture laws have only triggered the agitation. The farmers have nothing to lose and they can continue their protest demonstrations for several months, even years. The Delhi happenings have dented the reputation of the farmers’ organisations, but they have already condemned those incidents and dissociated themselves from the persons/groups involved in those incidents. Sincere efforts should be made to resolve the crisis in national interest,” she states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-resolving-deadlock-must-to-restore-nations-credence-say-sociologists-204580
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Adampur reels at 1 deg C as cold wave sweeps Punjab, Haryana||Adampur reeled at 1 degrees Celsius as cold wave swept Punjab and Haryana on Thursday. The minimum temperatures hovered a few notches below normal limits in the two states, Meteorological (Met) Department officials here said.While Adampur was the coldest place in Punjab, among other places in the state which were under the grip of severe chill included Ludhiana, Bathinda, Amritsar, Faridkot and Halwara, which recorded respective minimum temperatures of 2.4 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees Celsius, 2.4 degrees Celsius, 2.6 degrees Celsius and 2.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.Patiala and Pathankot, too, experienced a cold night recording lows of 3.4 degrees Celsius and 4.6 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 5.2 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana was the coldest place in the state recording a low of 2.2 degrees Celsius while Narnaul and Karnal also braved severe chill with minimum temperatures of 2.3 degrees Celsius and 2.6 degrees Celsius.Biting cold also swept Sirsa, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Ambala, which recorded lows of 3 degrees Celsius, 3.2 degrees Celsius, 4.4 degrees Celsius and 4.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.The MeT officials said that fog reduced visibility at many places in the two states in the morning, including Chandigarh. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adampur-reels-at-1-deg-c-as-cold-wave-sweeps-punjab-haryana-204538
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Speaker accepts Abhay’s resignation||Senior INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala today resigned from the Assembly over the farm laws. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta accepted his resignation.Abhay rode a tractor to the Vidhan Sabha complex to hand over his resignation to the Speaker to express solidarity with protesting farmers.Later, taking to mediapersons, Abhay dared JJP MLAs, who had staked claim on the legacy of his grandfather Devi Lal, to resign from the Assembly in support of farmers.He said he would embark on a statewide tour, especially of Assembly segments where MLAs had pledged support to farmers. Abhay (57) was the only INLD legislator in the 90-member House. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/speaker-accepts-abhays-resignation-204363
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 87 Covid cases||The Covid tally in the state reached 2,67,504 on Wednesday with 87 fresh cases. The toll was 3,014 as no death was reported. Gurugram reported a maximum of 20 cases, followed by Faridabad (11). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-87-covid-cases-204364
28-01-2021||Palwal||Case against 2K in Palwal||Over 2,000 persons have been booked for violence during the tractor march on the highway near Gadpuri village on Tuesday. No arrest has been made so far.The clash occurred around 12 pm, when a convoy of tractors and other vehicles of farmers reached near Softa village, where the police had put up barricades on the highway to prevent the movement of the tractors towards Delhi.Around 400 tractors and 2,500 persons were present at the point of clash, which is located close to the Palwal-Faridabad border. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/case-against-2k-in-palwal-204365
28-01-2021||A part of drain opposite Sethi Market on NH-65 on Ambala-Hisar road in Ambala City||Overflowing drain irks commuters||Quality work should be ensuredTHE work on laying of interlocking tiles in the town is at full swing these days but attention should be paid on maintaining same level of the streets and drains. The accompanying photograph shows how underground pipes are being laid to replace open drains but the quality of work being done is poor thus leaving the streets in bad shape. Many streets are in similar condition due to the same reason. For the sake of this project, several well laid roads too are being dug up which is irking the residents. The concerned authorities must ensure quality work so that residents could be benefitted. Many residents want these pipes to be removed as they remain choked with garbage and keep on overflowing. Firstly, well laid roads are broken, then new pipelines are laid, followed by other expenses, the authorities must at least ensure quality work to prevent any further waste of public money. All such projects must be monitored to prevent poor work. Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaR-Day blotted by anti-social elementsTHE Republic Day is a national day which unfortunately was blotted by some anti-social elements. The R-Day parade filled us with pride and patriotism but soon the people were devastated on seeing the violent face of the farmers' tractor parade in the Capital. It is evident that anti-social elements had hijacked the farmers' agitation. This seems to be a conspiracy to change the face of the protest. Occupying the Red Fort by these elements is not a good move and has defaced the march. Disturbing the law and order should not be allowed and people must act responsibly. Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaLaxity by Ambala MC annoys residentsTHE attached picture has been clicked near H No. 530, Sector 9, Ambala City. The concerned department had carried out repairs of leaking pipelines but left the wet mould of soil causing inconvenience to residents. It is hard to understand as to why the senior and officials do not monitor the work and take a cognisance of the work left undone. We hope the concerned authorities will take a note of the issue and get the needful done immediately. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/overflowing-drain-irks-commuters-204369
28-01-2021||Hisar||2-week refresher course ends||National Voters’ Day observedRohtak: National Voters’ Day was observed at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Monday with Vice Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh administering the oath on the occasion. The VC said enlightened voters were essential for democracy. Students, who are 18 or above, must enroll as voters and participate in the democratic process. He said casting a vote was necessary to strengthen democracy. The VC urged the students to feel pride in India's democracy.President’s Medals for KU alumniKurukshetra: Two alumni of Kurukshetra University, Navdeep Singh Virk (IPS), Additional Director General Police, Haryana, and Sandeep Khirwar, Additional Director General Rohtak rage, have been conferred the President’s police medal for their distinguished service. KU Vice-Chancellor Som Nath Sachdeva congratulated Navdeep Singh Virk and Sandeep Khirwar for their noteworthy achievement. “We are proud of our alumni who have done exemplary service to the nation and brought laurels to the entire KU fraternity.” While Navdeep Singh Virk did this Master of Business Administration from KU, Sandeep Khirwar did his Bachelor's of Law from the university.Tricolour hoisted at F’bad varsityFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad celebrated the Republic Day with patriotic fervour. Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar hoisted the Tricolour on the university premises and took the salute of march-past by the security officials, NCC cadets and NSS volunteers of the university and addressed the gathering. The VC highlighted the importance of the day and recalled the contributions of the national leaders in the early post-independence period, who worked extensively in framing the Constitution of India. He said they all needed to work for the attainment of the goals laid down by the Constitution. He urged the students to follow the path kindled by the great leaders of the nation.Y’nagar polytechnic marks R-DayYamunanagar: Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, celebrated the Republic Day on the campus of the institute. Principal Anil Kumar Budhiraja hoisted the national flag on the occasion and congratulated the staff and students. The Principal said usually the event was celebrated with great pomp and show but this year due to the pandemic, it was celebrated by following all Covid norms. On the occasion, he advised the students to improve their skill as many companies were switching their venture from China to India and they had better prospects in future.Nat’l Girl Child Day observedYamunanagar: NSS volunteers and Women’s Cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College observed the National Girl Child Day. On the occasion, college students were informed online about a balanced diet by Dr Jaswinder Kaur and Dr Neena Puri. Principal of the college Dr Harinder Singh Kang said there was no difference between boys and girls these days. He said the government was also giving more help for girls to educate them. The college management committee's Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and Principal Kang congratulated the students on the National Girl Child Day.Webinar on start-ups heldFaridabad: The incubation cell and innovation cell in association with the IQAC department of the DAV Institute of Management organised a webinar titled as “Power house to your dream” for the first-year students of MBA and MCA and final-year pupils of all undergraduate courses recently. Rajesh Kashyap, founder and corporate trainer of Nityavasu Learnings, not only gave the students an insight of the strategies to turn their dreams into reality, but also discussed the approaches for a successful entrepreneurship by planning and prioritising the tasks at hand.School celebrates Republic DayKarnal: Keeping the patriotic fervour alive, Pratap Public School celebrated 72nd Republic Day. The school remodeled the celebration by following all restrictions and protocols as the nation is still reeling from the effects of the pandemic. The event commenced with the hoisting of Tricolour by the chief guest followed by the national anthem. The students pledged to uphold the honour and integrity of the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-week-refresher-course-ends-204370
28-01-2021||---||Toll plazas resume on KMP, KGP eways||Ambala, January 27After remaining closed for more than a month, the toll plazas on the KMP expressway, KGP expressway and the National Highway-19 (Mathura road) in Palwal’s Tumsura village resumed operations today.The toll collection in Palwal had been suspended after farmers sat on dharna at Antoha village in protest against the Centre’s new farm laws.In Ambala, the police tried to persuade farmers protesting at a toll plaza near the Shambhu border to lift the dharna. Farmers, however, refused.BKU (Charuni) district vice-president Gulab Singh said, “We will continue to camp at the toll plaza until the farm laws are withdrawn. The authorities may try to remove farmers forcibly from toll plazas.”At the Saini Majra toll plaza, farmers ended the siege in the afternoon, but took charge of the toll plaza later and said they would continue to protest.Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chamukalan said, “When police reached the toll plaza in the afternoon, the number of farmers were fewer. Outnumbered, they lifted the dharna. As we received information about the development, we reached the toll plaza and took charge again.”Sultan Singh, DSP (Headquarters), said: “Farmers are returning home. The police are keeping tabs on the situation. The toll plazas are yet to become operational.”In Kurukshetra, the police made efforts to persuade protesters to end the dharna at the Pehowa toll plaza, but they refused point blank.Superintendent of Police Himanshu Garg said, “The police are in dialogue with farmers.”In Gurugram, the Kherki Daula toll plaza remained shut from Tuesday morning till evening as a precautionary measure.Toll plazas in Murthal, Panipat and Bastara continued to remain non-operational today as well.No impact of farmers’ agitation has been seen in Faridabad to date. The toll collection at the three plazas in the district was never suspended.Meanwhile, long traffic jams were witnessed on the NH-44 as farmers returned from Delhi. Hundreds of vehicles remained stuck in the jam for hours. The police had a tough time in managing traffic.Langar sewa ends||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/toll-plazas-resume-on-kmp-kgp-eways-204346
28-01-2021||Chandigarh||High Court wants challan details for ignoring mask etiquette||Less than a fortnight after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made it clear that mask etiquette was required to be injected to the public along with the vaccine to beat Covid, it has sought details on challans issued for improper wearing of or not wearing masks. Taking up the matter, the Division Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma asked Haryana to furnish information by the third week of February, when the case would come up for resumed hearing. Haryana had already undertaken to rope in anganwadi workers, Gram Sachiv employees and similarly placed organisations in the process of generating awareness. The state counsel would supply a list of other government and non-government organisations on the next date of hearing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-wants-challan-details-for-ignoring-mask-etiquette-204347
28-01-2021||Gurugram||Four vehicles added to Gurugram police fleet||In yet another infrastructure upgrade, the Gurugram police have got four more PCR vehicles. The Maruti Suzuki Ertiga cars were flagged off by Police Commissioner KK Rao today.  These four vehicles are connected with the police control room through GPS. The Police Commissioner said with the addition of these vehicles in its fleet, the victims will be able to get police support more effectively and in lesser time than before. Furthermore, the response time will also get reduced significantly as the police will be able to reach faster to the victims and crime spots. These vehicles are facilitated by the MCG through ASK automotive private limited. All vehicles have been equipped with GPS, wireless system, public address system and of course, the Red and Blue lights used on police vehicles. Four cops will be deployed in every PCR van. “These vehicles will help us to reach out to the needy people in time. We will ensure that best use of the vehicles is made by the police,” said the Police Commissioner. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-vehicles-added-to-gurugram-police-fleet-204348
28-01-2021||---||Deputy CM hoists flag in Ambala||Ambala, January 27 Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala unfurled the National Flag and received the guard of honour at Police Lines in Ambala on the Republic Day. In his address, he said, “It is a matter of pride for me to unfurl the national flag in Ambala. The 1857 revolt, the first struggle for freedom, started from Ambala.” Dushyant said, “The Constitution came into force on this day in 1950. The members of the Constituent Assembly formulated this Constitution after nearly three years of hard work. It is due to the Constitution that everyone — big and small, rich and poor — have the right to justice, freedom and equality.” He also mentioned the schemes being run by the state government during his address. He congratulated the scientists who prepared the Covid-19 vaccines. Though farmer unions had already announced that they will not cause any obstruction, heavy security arrangements had been made by the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deputy-cm-hoists-flag-in-ambala-204339
28-01-2021||---||Haryana only state to procure 9 crops on MSP, says Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar||Panchkula, January 27In his Republic Day address after hoisting the Tricolour during a function at Sector 5, Parade Ground, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said Haryana was the only state where nine crops were being procured on minimum support price (MSP).“Apart from wheat and rice, the state government is also procuring other crops such as bajra, cotton, maize, groundnuts, moong etc on MSP,” said Khattar.Khattar also spoke about a range of issues, including his government’s promise of 24x7 power supply in state villages under the Mhara Gaon – Jagmag Gaon Scheme.The CM announced to include 223 more villages under the scheme thus taking the total number of such villages to 5,223. These villages would start getting 24-hour power supply from January 26 onwards.“The ‘Har Ghar Nal Se Jal’ scheme has been started under the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide water to every rural household in the state,” he said adding that a target of providing 28 lakh water connections under this scheme has been set in the state.He said during its last six year tenure, the government had taken various revolutionary steps to bring about a positive change in the administration and provide graft-free governance to the people.The CM said special emphasis had been given on education, skill and employment of youth in the state. He said more than 80,000 government jobs had been provided to the youth in the last six years.He also honoured 22 achievers of the district in recognition of their outstanding contribution in the field of education, sports, social service and government service.Kurukshetra: Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta unfurled the national flag during the district-level Republic Day function at the sports ground of the Kurukshetra University on Tuesday.In his address, Gupta said it was due to the sacrifices of the freedom fighters and revolutionaries that the people of India were living in a free country. Their sacrifices can never be forgotten, he said.While paying tributes, he said martyrs and revolutionaries of the country had not only aimed at achieving independence but they had also dreamt of an India which was free from poverty, economic inequality, and illiteracy.Guv unfurls Tricolour, salutes Covid warriors||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-only-state-to-procure-9-crops-on-msp-says-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-204340
28-01-2021||Faridabad||Army pilot cremated with state honours||The mortal remains of Indian Army pilot, Lt Col Rishabh Sharma (36), who died in a  helicopter crash on Monday, were consigned to flames with full state honours here today. Earlier, the body reached here this morning. Union Minister for State Krishan Pal Gurjar also paid tribute to the departed soul.   Colonel Sharma and his co-pilot, Capt Anjani Kumar Singh,  were seriously injured when their helicopter crash-landed at the Basohli Brigade headquarters, near Lakhanpur, on Monday evening. While Colonel Sharma later died of his injuries, Captain Singh’s condition continues to be critical.  The deceased’s wife, son and parents, who were incidentally in Pathankot to visit him, were flown back to Delhi in the service aircraft. Colonel Sharma hailed from Garoda village in the district and had been living in Nalanda CGHS Society in Sector 21-C here. An alumnus of MVN Public School, he was selected in the NDA in 2003. On the occasion, Gurjar announced that Government School in Garoda village would be named after Lt Col Rishabh Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/army-pilot-cremated-with-state-honours-204341
28-01-2021||---||125 encroachments removed from HSVP land in Faridabad||Faridabad, January 27 The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) removed 125 encroachments from its eight-acre land in Sector 20-A here today. The land’s market value is claimed to be around Rs 200 crore. Pradeep Dahiya, Administrator, HSVP, said 75 shanties, 25 houses and as many shops of scrap dealers were removed.  “The encroachments on the prime land came up in the past two to three decades. The anti-encroachment drive will continue as there are still illegal structures in Sector 20-B. The land mafia is responsible for encroachments in Sectors 20-A and 20-B, which are institutional and commercial sectors. There, the market rate of land is around Rs 25 crore per acre,” he said. Dahiya added efforts were on to get the stay vacated on land occupied illegally by the land mafia. Paramjit Chahal, Estate Officer, HSVP, said: “The encroachments on the Faridabad bypass will also be removed. There are five illegal fuel stations, three CNG stations and 30 tubewells there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/125-encroachments-removed-from-hsvp-land-in-faridabad-204342
28-01-2021||vinder Saini---||Day on, cops put up barricades,  beef up security at Tikri border||Tribune News Service Tikri, January 27 A day after the farmers’ tractor parade spiralled into chaos in parts of the Capital, protesters at the Tikri border were seen discussing the prevailing situation in groups. The Delhi Police have put up barricades to block the Rohtak-Delhi highway and beefed up security in the area.  Earlier in the morning, the farmers gathered at the main protest site and staged a day-long dharna. Popular Punjabi artistes, including Kanwar Grewal, Sonia Mann and Harf Cheema, sang motivational songs.  Though the protesters seemed worried over yesterday’s incident and the registration of FIRs against their leaders, they are confident of winning the battle.  They claim the agitation will go on with the same zeal and enthusiasm until their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws is fulfilled. “The Delhi violence will not affect our agitation in any manner as it was a conspiracy to defame the farmers. Everything has been exposed and the public knows the reality. Our protest will continue as usual. The tractor parade has not only shown our power, but also mounted pressure on the Centre,” claimed Gurchant Singh from Mansa (Punjab). On Tuesday, the protesting farmers removed the barricades at Tikri at 9 am and entered Delhi.  The tractor parade continued peacefully as hundreds of volunteers were on duty to manage the vehicular movement.  Dressed in traditional attire, women from Haryana danced on folk songs while the youth sat atop tractors, jeeps and cars decorated with the Tricolour, balloons and flowers.  Meanwhile, Rajender Arya Dadupur, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Majdoor, Naujawan Union, termed the Delhi incident as unfortunate.  All of us are responsible for the violence as it was our duty to stop the protesters from going towards wrong routes, but we failed to do so,” Dadupur added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-on-cops-put-up-barricades-beef-up-security-at-tikri-border-204343
28-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Numbers dip at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 27A day after the tractor parade turned ‘violent’ in the national capital, the mood at the farmers’ camp was one of disappointment even as the numbers of those at the protest site went down considerably.The number of protesters reduced significantly compared to those present here over the last two days since they had come to participate in the parade.Meanwhile, at Singhu, farmers condemned the ‘shameful’ act by the ‘mob’ and ‘blamed’ the Union Government’s intelligence failure.They were hopeful that the incident would not have any adverse impact on their protest. “We did not come to unfurl a flag at Red Fort, but to get the three laws repealed. I condemn the incident. It is a conspiracy of the government to defame the peaceful protest. The area near the Red Fort always remains under high security during Republic Day and Independence Day. How did the government let the unfortunate incident happen?” said Trilochan Singh Sandu of Moga.Jugraj Singh of Ferozepur district said the incident should not have happened, yet the protest would continue with the same spirit. He blamed intelligence failure for the ‘unfortunate’ incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/numbers-dip-at-singhu-204344
28-01-2021||Ravinder Saini---||Delhi-Jaipur highway cleared||Tribune News Service Rewari, January 27 Around 1,000 farmers from Punjab and Rajasthan camping on the Delhi-Jaipur highway since January 3 shifted their dharna to the Shahjahanpur border in Rajasthan today after a panchayat of more than 10 villages served them a 24-hour ultimatum to clear the highway. The panchayat, presided over by Masani village sarpanch Capt Lalaram Yadav, was held in the district’s Dungarvaas village. It discussed the situation arising out of the road blockade. “Because the highway was blocked, heavy vehicles plied on village roads. As a result, water pipelines and roads have been damaged. Villagers are facing the problem of water shortage. The panchayat was organised against this backdrop,” Yadav said, adding residents of Dungarvaas, Masani, Jonavaas, Titarpur, Niganiavaas, Kharkara, Rasgan, Jeetpura and Nikhri were present at the panchayat. After the panchayat, a delegation of villagers apprised the district administration of its decision and met farmers asking them to shift their dharna to another place, sources said.  The district administration, too, urged farmers to clear the highway to prevent confrontation between them and villagers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-jaipur-highway-cleared-204345
28-01-2021||---||'No one will be spared': Delhi top cop names Pannu, Tikait, Darshan Pal for violation of tractor parade terms||New Delhi, January 27Strict legal action will be taken against those found guilty of involvement in the Republic Day violence in the capital and no one will be spared, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava said on Wednesday noting that the police was taking the Delhi violence “very seriously” and “will not allow any compromise with national dignity”.On Deep Sidhu’s presence at the Red Fort, Shrivastava said, “Whoever if found guilty will be proceeded against as per law.”In a detailed press conference on the sequence of events that led to yesterday’s mayhem the top cop named farm leaders Satnam Singh Pannu, Rakesh Tikait and Darshan Pal for violating the agreement on the tractor parade and delivering provocative speeches inciting supporters to break barricades yesterday.Also read: 6 buses, 5 police vehicles damaged as 10,000 farmers stormed Delhi’s ITO: FIRPlea in Supreme Court seeks inquiry commission to look into farmer violenceTwitter suspends over 500 accounts a day after Delhi violence“The police had all the options but adopted restraint because we did not want any loss of life. We acted responsibility and as per the agreement we wanted to facilitate a peaceful tractor parade. As many as 394 personnel of Delhi police are injured, many are hospitalised and some in are in ICU. Among property damaged are 408 barricades, four X-ray machines, 30 Delhi vehicles and six containers,” Shrivastava added.“The agreement was that the tractor parade will not start before 12 noon but farmers started marching from 6.30 am onwards. From Singhu border the farmers started coming to Mukarba Chowk at 7.30 am and refused to take the right turn as agreed upon earlier. Their leader Satnam Singh Pannu delivered provocative statements and once the speech ended he called upon everyone to break the barricades. Darshan Pal Singh sat at Mukarba Chowk refusing to turn right,” said Shrivastava, adding that no one will be spared if found guilty.He said so far 19 persons had been arrested, 50 detained and 25 plus criminal cases registered against the culprits. “CCTV footages are being analysed and face recognition systems used to identify the guilty. Investigations are underway,” the police commissioner said.Shrivastava said the police had urged the farm leaders to lead the tractor parade and be present with each group to control them but “farmers from all the borders betrayed the agreement and broke barricades to enter the city”.He said Delhi police’s decision to exercise restraint – as per the agreed upon terms with the farmers – ensured that not even one life was lost due to police action.Shrivastava accused farm leaders of handing over their stage on January 25 to militant elements who delivered provocative speeches making their intentions for January 26 clear.“We maintained extreme restraint because we wanted to facilitate a peaceful tractor parade as agreed on. The farmer leaders however did not honour any terms of the tractor parade,” Shrivastava said.On the Red Fort events the top cop said several farmers unions hoisted their flags and religious flags which are now case property.Among the terms agreed upon with farmer leaders in five meetings regarding the parade were – the parade will start at 12 noon and end to 5 pm; top leaders will lead; leaders will accompany every group; there will not be more than 5,000 tractors and no firearm or deadly weapon will be carried.“The farm union leaders had signed an undertaking to honour these terms but they did not,” said Shrivastava.He said the police had learnt of the tractor parade plan on January 2 and was since then engaged with the farmers. Five meetings were held; routes agreed on and undertakings signed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-one-will-be-spared-delhi-top-cop-names-pannu-tikait-darshan-pal-for-violation-of-tractor-parade-terms-204157
28-01-2021||---||Two farmer unions break away from farmers’ agitation||New Delhi, January 27In an aftermath of the Red Fort siege and violence on capital’s roads during the tractor parade on Tuesday, divisions surfaced in the farm unions’ camp on Wednesday with the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee and the BKU (Bhanu) quitting the ongoing protests and announcing their own plans to struggle for justice.AIKSCC chief VM Singh and BKU Bhanu’s Bhanu Pratap Singh today addressed a press conference to announce that their organisations were withdrawing from the ongoing farmers’ protests which had lost the legitimacy and the moral authority to continue after what happened yesterday.Asked if the entire AIKSCC was dissociating from protests, VM Singh said he was dissociating as the national president of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (RKMS). VM Singh said his organisation will leave the Ghazipur protest site. Read also: Farmer leaders Rajewal, Ugrahan, Darshan Pal, Yogendra Yadav, Chudhni named in FIRs for Delhi violenceBoth AIKSCC and BKU (Bhanu) are Uttar Pradesh based organisations.Singh attacked BKU’s Rakesh Tikait for admitting to inciting violence and asking supporters to carry batons, sticks and flags to the parade besides breaking barricades yesterday and said, “We have not joined this agitation for people to die. The farmers are not here to do what we saw yesterday. They are not agitating for someone to become a political leader.”Singh asked whether BKU’s Rakesh Tikait who has attended all 10 dialogues with the government ever raised the concerns of sugarcane farmers with the Centre.Singh also slammed Tikait for breaking barricades asking, “Why did they start early for the parade?”Singh added, “Whoever has done the wrong yesterday needs to be acted against. Ours is an agriculture dominated nation. Our agitation will continue but not in the current form. We cannot run the agitation with those who have their own separate roads and plans. We are withdrawing from the agitation,” VM Singh said.The announcements came even as Samyukta Kisan Morcha was holding its own meeting amid signs that they would dissociate from some farm organisations after the mayhem on capital roads yesterday.Meanwhile, farmer unions said VM Singh was removed from post of convener of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) a month ago.VM Singh was accused of taking pro-government positions. On December 14, he was removed as convener of AIl India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee.He is taking a decision on behalf of a committee he is no more a convener of, claimed unions.Meanwhile, sources said from Ghazipur most farmers have returned home. Earlier, where there were around 3,000 tractors. Currently, around 150 to 200 tractors are remaining.BKU president Naresh Tikait had returned to Muzaffarnagar yesterday itself, they added. Traffic is smooth on the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi highway.However, Rakesh Tikait has refused to go back saying that he plans to stay put till the end of the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-farmer-unions-break-away-from-farmers-agitation-204127
