31-01-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Advantage BJP-JJP govt in no-trust vote to be moved by Cong in Haryana Assembly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 31It is advantage BJP-JJP Government in no-confidence motion to be moved by the Opposition Congress in the forthcoming Budget Session of the Haryana Assembly.With two seats held by Opposition falling vacant in the 90-member Haryana Vidhan Sabha, a beleaguered coalition government is expecting a smooth sailing in the wake of the support of 55 MLAs as against required 45.The BJP has 40 legislators with the junior partner JJP having 10 MLAs.At least five Independent MLAs also support the government. While Independent MLA from Charkhi Dadri Sombir Sangwan has withdrawn support from the government, another Independent MLA Balraj Kundu (Meham), who initially pledged support to the government, has virtually launched a campaign against the “corrupt” regime. The BJP had earlier declined the support offer of Gopal Kanda of the Haryana Lokhit Party (HLP).The Opposition Congress has 30 MLAs. Recently, the lone INLD MLA Abhay Chautala resigned from the assembly while the seat of Congress MLA from Kalka Pardeep Chaudhary was declared vacant by the Assembly Speaker following his conviction by a court in Himachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, the Congress at its legislature party meeting here, on February 3 will formally announce its decision to bring the no-trust vote against the government in the Budget Session.In fact, the Congress is pinning hopes on the “inner conscious” of the MLAs, especially JJP and Independent MLAs, many of whom have pledged open support to the farmers’ protests demanding repeal of the three agri-marketing laws to support its no-confidence motion.The House arithmeticTotal effective strength: 88*BJP:40*JJP:10*Congress:30*Independents:7*HLP:1*At least 2 Independents unlikely to support government||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/advantage-bjp-jjp-govt-in-no-trust-vote-to-be-moved-by-cong-in-haryana-assembly-205997
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar contributes Rs 5.10 lakh for construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya||Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Sunday gave a cheque of Rs 5.10 lakh to Sri Rama Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya.According to an official statement, Khattar gave the cheque amounting Rs 5,10,000 to the committee of ‘Sri Ram Janam Bhoomi Tirtha Shetra Nyas Nidhi Samparan Abhiyan’, Haryana.Secretary of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Dr Surendra Jain, among others were also present jon the occasion.A portrait of Sri Ram Janma Bhoomi Temple was also presented to the chief minister, the statement said.Sri Rama Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust has been set up to oversee the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-contributes-rs-5-10-lakh-for-construction-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-205985
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Rain deficient in Punjab, Himachal during January; surplus in Haryana||Rainfall in the first month of this decade has been significantly below normal in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, though Haryana experienced surplus rain during this period.Punjab received 11 mm rain from January 1 to January 30 against the long period average of 19.8 mm, accounting for a deficiency of 45 per cent, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Though the districts lying alongside the state’s western border received normal to excess rain, other parts of the state recieved below par rainfall. Tarn Taran was the wettest district during this period with an excess of 89 per cent while Faridkot was the worst hit with a deficiency of 92 per cent.In the hill state of Himachal Pradesh, the deficiency was 56 per cent, IMD data shows that the state received 37.6 mm rain against the long period average of 86.4 mm. The rain was below normal in all districts in the state during this month, with the deficiency being highest in Mandi.The rain was surplus by 59 per cent in Haryana during January. IMD recorded 21.3 mm rain against the long period average of 13.4 mm. Barring four districts, Fatehabad, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula, all other districts received normal to above normal rain.The weather department has predicted that under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, light isolated rain or snow is very likely over the Western Himalayan region during February 1-3.Subsequently, due to the absence of any active western disturbance, below-normal rain or snow is likely over northern parts of the country, including the Western Himalayan region, till February 10.According to IMD, minimum temperatures are prevailing in the range of two degrees Celsius to 10 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest and adjoining areas, which are generally below normal.Considering the prevailing wind pattern at lower levels, no significant change in minimum temperatures is very likely these parts during the next 3-4 days but will rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius thereafter. Dense to very dense fog will also be experienced in several parts of Punjab and Haryana over the new few days and foggy conditions would reduce thereafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-deficient-in-punjab-himachal-during-january-surplus-in-haryana-205952
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave continues to sweep Punjab, Haryana||Freezing cold conditions continued to persist in Punjab and Haryana on Sunday with minimum temperatures hovering close to zero degree Celsius at Bathinda, Halwara and Sirsa.Bathinda in Punjab recorded a low of 0.6 degrees Celsius while Halwara reeled at a low of 0.7 degrees Celsius, meteorological department officials said here.A piercing cold swept Sirsa in Haryana, which recorded a low of 0.8 degrees Celsius.Cold wave conditions continued unabated in most other places in the two states with minimum temperatures settling well below normal limits.Narnaul and Karnal in Haryana reeled under severe cold conditions, recording a low of 2.4 degrees Celsius and 2.7 degrees Celsius respectively.Rohtak (three degrees Celsius), Hisar (3.4 degrees Celsius), Ambala (4.4 degrees Celsius) and Bhiwani (5.1 degrees Celsius) also experienced a cold night.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of four degrees Celsius.Adampur in Punjab recorded a minimum temperature of 1.3 degrees Celsius, Faridkot 2.9 degrees Celsius, Amritsar 3.2 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 3.5 degrees Celsius, Patiala 4.5 degrees Celsius and Pathankot 4.6 degrees Celsius. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cold-wave-continues-to-sweep-punjab-haryana-205946
31-01-2021||New Delhi||Farmers’ agitation: Mahapanchayats to be held at Bijnor, Jind||After the mahapanchayat in Baraut in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district, two more mahapanchayat’s are planned in UP’s Bijnor and Haryana’s Jind districts to mobilise support for the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws. While the Bijnor mahapanchayat has been scheduled for February 1, the one at Jind will be held on February 3, BKU spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said on Sunday.Meanwhile, as numbers swell at Ghazipur, where BKU leader Rakesh Tikait is camping, women from as far as Shamli are bringing water for him, Malik said.After the mahapanchayat in the Baghpat district on Sunday, which will also be attended by BKU leader Naresh Tikait (the brother of Rakesh Tikait), more farmers are expected to head towards Ghazipur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-agitation-mahapanchayats-to-be-held-at-bijnor-jind-205899
31-01-2021||---||Will go for talks: Leaders on Modi’s statement||Sonepat, January 30Leaders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmers’ unions, have welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that the Centre is ready for talks on the new farm laws. They said they would hold a meeting tomorrow and discuss the PM’s statement.“We welcome the Prime Minister’s statement. We will go for talks whenever the Centre invites us… We didn’t get any update at the Singhu border as the internet services have been snapped,” said Dr Darshan Pal, president, Krantikari Kisan Union.Security beefed upThe police on Saturday beefed up security at Singhu border. Media persons were frisked at three to four points before they were allowed to go to the protest site. On the other side of barricades, volunteers of farmer unions tightened security at night.Farmer leaders held a day-long fast to mark Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary.Harender Singh, media coordinator of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, said scores of farmers from Haryana joined the protest in the past two days. Among them were farmers from Sonepat’s Rohat village. They reached the Singhu border in 35 to 40 tractors-trolleys.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-go-for-talks-leaders-on-modis-statement-205694
31-01-2021||---||Congress to organise peace march from Feb 3 to 5||Chandigarh, January 30The state Congress will organise peace march in every block of the state from February 3 to 5 in support of farmers and also for brotherhood and harmony.Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja said the BJP government was crossing all limits of shamelessness. At a press conference, she said all tactics were being adopted by the BJP to declare the farmers as traitors.“What type of patriotism is the BJP exhibiting? It should remember that the families of these farmers have sacrificed their lives for the country. Members of their family are on the borders.”“The people of the BJP are attacking farmers, who are peacefully agitating at the sites, where the police remained a mute spectator. Farmers are being threatened and intimidated by the police at the behest of the BJP. False cases are being filed against them,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-to-organise-peace-march-from-feb-3-to-5-205696
31-01-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Tikait’s outburst unifies Jats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 30After suffering a setback following violence during the tractor parade on the Republic Day, the farmers’ agitation is back on track though it has moved on from being a Punjab-driven protest to a Jat-propelled affair.The second phase of mobilisation of farmers from Haryana following UP farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional outburst has turned the tables after the agitation started to lose steam, with voices of dissent against sit-ins beginning to grow.Though Balbir Singh Rajewal apologised, his words on the role of Haryanvis in the Republic Day violence had led to Haryanvis pulling back. Tikait breathed new life into the agitation on Thursday evening.In response, villagers in the Jat heartland organised panchayats and tractors and trolleys were on their way to Ghazipur. The renewed enthusiasm following Tikait’s appeal could spell greater trouble for the BJP-led government in the state and a bigger headache for its alliance partner, the JJP.With khap panchayats putting their weight behind the agitation, the appeal has consolidated Jats in a state divided along caste lines, with non-Jats as the BJP’s vote bank. This stark division, in the backdrop of violence during the Jat quota agitation in 2016, is bound to make it a tightrope walk for the BJP.The JJP and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala are likely to feel the maximum heat. With Jats as his vote bank and mounting support to the agitation from the Jat belt, Dushyant can no longer afford to lie low.Already under pressure from farmers to withdraw support to the BJP, the Jat spin to the protest is likely to add to his growing headache. All eyes are on Dushyant after his paternal uncle and INLD leader Abhay Chautala resigned from the Vidhan Sabha in support of farmers.With the movement set to begin a new chapter, every passing day will make it more difficult for him to strike the balance of retaining his vote bank and occupying the position of Deputy Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tikaits-outburst-unifies-jats-205699
31-01-2021||Karnal||Dharna, langar resume at toll plaza in Karnal||A day after the Bastara toll plaza here witnessed tense situation, the district administration today allowed a group of 25 farmers to restart their dharna. Besides, farmers resumed the langar sewa.A large number of police personnel was deployed on the National Highway-44 near the toll plaza to ensure smooth flow of traffic.Farmers have been staging dharna on the highway since December 25. In light of the violence during the tractor parade on January 26, the district administration had got the protest site vacated and appealed to religious organisations to end the langar sewa, which was suspended on Wednesday.The next day, farmers restarted the dharna at the toll plaza. After several rounds of meeting with farmers, the district administration allowed farmers in small group to stage dharna.“We have allowed 25 farmers to protest. The langar is only for protesting farmers,” said DC Nishant K Yadav. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dharna-langar-resume-at-toll-plaza-in-karnal-205700
31-01-2021||---||Concrete barricades at Tikri border||Tikri, January 30Intensifying the security arrangements, the Delhi Police on Saturday put up concrete barricading at Tikri border to put a check on the movement. Meanwhile, representatives of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) decided to provide passage to nearby industries at the protest site for the transportation of raw materials and goods.Industrial work has been on halt since November 27 after the protesting farmers blocked the border.“A delegation of nearby factories’ owners met us yesterday and demanded that we provide passage for transportation of their vehicles. They said that they were expecting the end of this ongoing agitation on January 26, but apparently, it will now go on for long. Hence, we need passage to restore our work. We discussed the demand at a meeting and decided to make a path available to them,” said Jasbir Kaur of Punjab Kisan Union.The concrete barricading has evoked flak from the protesting farmers. “It is an effort to weaken the agitation. What will happen if any farmer needs medical treatment in Delhi in an emergency situation? There is now no space even for ambulances to cross the border,” said Sourav, SKM volunteer from Hisar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/concrete-barricades-at-tikri-border-205701
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Tharoor among 
seven booked for sedition in Gurugram||Following a complaint by a local, the Gurugram cyber police have booked seven persons, including Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, for allegedly spreading disharmony during the clashes between the police and protesting farmers on Republic Day. Six others are journalists.The FIR was registered under Sections 124A, 153A, 153B, 120B and 505(2) of the IPC.The case was filed on the complaint of Jharsa village resident Pankaj Singh, who works with a private company.The police said Pankaj had accused senior journalists and politicians for spreading false information with the intent to create enmity between two communities. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tharoor-among-seven-booked-for-sedition-in-gurugram-205702
31-01-2021||---||Khaps plan ‘padayatra’ to Delhi on Feb 7||Hisar, January 30A conglomerate of 19 khap panchayats today announced a “padayatra” from Jind to New Delhi on February 7 under the banner of Jind khap panchayats and the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha.The decision was taken during a meeting of a khap mahapanchayat in Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza, where farmers have been staging dharna since November. Farmers, representatives of khap panchayats and women were present in the meeting.The meeting also announced boycott of BJP and JJP leaders, and asked villagers not to invite them to family or social functions. The Kandela khap, meanwhile, has invited Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait and sarv khap panchayat general secretary Yudhvir Singh to attend a mahapanchayat, which will be held at Kandela village on February 3.District BKU chief Azad Singh Palwa, who is also the pradhan of the Dharan khap, said internet services must be restored so that children could take online classes.“Farmers will block roads if internet services are not restored,” he said, adding that no flag but the Tricolour and the flag of farmer organisations should be fixed atop houses in Jind district.Khap leader Satbir Singh said all khap leaders unanimously adopted the resolution of today’s mahapanchayat.To boycott BJP, JJP leaders Hisar: The Satrol and Sangwan khaps have boycotted the entry of BJP and JJP leaders in villages, where they hold influence. The Satrol khap has influence in 42 villages of Hisar’s Narnaund region, while the Sangwan khap is based out of Charkhi Dadri district. Satrol khap pradhan Ramniwas Lohan said the Centre’s attempt to crush the farmers’ agitation had ignited a spark and the entire Haryana was now backing the movement. “We will start dharna at the Tikri border on Sunday,” he said. In Charkhi Dadri, the Sangwan khap also announced boycott of BJP and JJP leaders and urged the Centre to withdraw the new farm laws. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khaps-plan-padayatra-to-delhi-on-feb-7-205680
31-01-2021||Ambala||Centre adamant, says BKU leader||A group of farmers of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) staged a dharna outside the SDM’s office in Shahabad and observed a day-long fast today.Rakesh Bains, BKU (Charuni) spokesman, said: “Farmers have been holding a peaceful protest, but the Centre is adamant. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha will decide future course of action.”Another group of farmers observed fast at the Shambhu toll plaza. District BKU (Chaurni) vice-president Gulab Singh was among the seven farmers who sat on fast. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-adamant-says-bku-leader-205681
31-01-2021||---||Faridabad MLA faces protest; 1 detained||Faridabad, January 30Faridabad MLA Narender Gupta faced protest during the Tiranga Samman Yatra held in the Old Faridabad market today. One of the protestors, identified as Yogender, was rounded up.“Around 30 shopkeepers, who had assembled to oppose the march, claimed that the local MLA and the ward councillor had failed to resolve their problems,” said Krishan Kumar, a local resident.He accused the police of abusing shopkeepers, but resorting to mild lathicharge to disperse the protesters.The MLA, however, claimed: “Locals welcomed the yatra. It went off peacefully… I have no knowledge about anyone getting rounded up.”Adarshdeep Singh, Additional Commissioner of Police (Headquarters), claimed the yatra did not face protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-mla-faces-protest-1-detained-205682
31-01-2021||Yamunanagar/Karnal||Four killed in  road mishaps||Two persons were killed and four others injured when a tractor-trailer allegedly hit an ambulance near Karera Khurd village on Panchkula-Yamunanagar NH on Friday.The ambulance was carrying the body of Afsana (35) to UP from a Chandigarh hospital. Her mother Shakila (60), aunt Salma (55), brothers Aslam, Dilsad and father-in-law Ishak accompained the body.When the ambulance reached near Karera Khurd village, a tractor-trailer coming from the opposite side rammed into it. Shakila and Salma died on the spot. Ambulance driver Ankit, Aslam, Dilshad and Ishak sustained injuries.Manoj Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, said a case was registered against the unidentified tractor driver.Meanwhile, two cousin brothers — Amit and Ashish, aged about 19 years, of Dadupur Khurd village — died when a bus of UP Roadways allegedly rammed into a scooter at Nirmal Kutia Chowk on the NH-44 in Karnal on Saturday.The unidentified bus driver has been booked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-killed-in-road-mishaps-205683
31-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Robbers who posed as cops held in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 30The Gurugram police have nabbed two fraudsters who would pose as policemen and rob people. They had robbed four persons and had a bounty of 5,000 each on their heads. They were active in Gurugram and Rajasthan for the past one year.The accused have been identified as Vinod, a resident of Lova Majra village in Jhajjar district, and Naveen, a resident of Bhora Kalan village in Gurugram. The duo was nabbed from Basai Road in Sector 9 area on Friday.They had recently robbed a man of his cash after holding him hostage at gunpoint in Manesar area on January 24. On December 5 last year, they targeted a farmer of Rajasthan when he was returning from Delhi’s Azadpur mandi.Farmer Lal Chand told the police in his complaint that near Kherki Daula toll plaza, a car overtook their vehicle and stopped them. Four persons came out and held him and his associate hostage at gunpoint and finally fled after robbing him of Rs 35,000.“The accused confessed to four cases in which they stopped people on their way and fled away after robbing their cash and valuables. We are trying to nab their associates,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP Crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/robbers-who-posed-as-cops-held-in-gurugram-205684
31-01-2021||---||Phase III trial: 77% volunteers given second dose of Covaxin||Faridabad, January 30Around 77 per cent of volunteers received their second dose during the ongoing third and final phase trial of Covaxin, which is expected to be over next week.“As many as 900 volunteers of total 1,167 have taken their second dose (after 28 days of the first shot). The trial is likely to be over by February 5,” said Dr Anil Kumar Pandey, Nodal Officer of the project here. “No major side effect has come to notice so far,” he said, adding that the exact efficacy could be revealed only after the final compilation of the results.The first human trial of the Covid vaccine was launched on November 26 in the district. Haryana became the first state to start the Phase III trial on November 20 with Home Minister Anil Vij being the first volunteer. The initial low response picked up pace in the last week of December last year, when the number of volunteers who had approached for their first dose was just 50 per cent of the target.The Phase III trial started at the ESIC Medical College and Hospital here. The vaccine has been undergoing clinical trials in over 25 centres across the country and has already successfully completed the interim analysis from the Phase I and II trials. It has been found safe and effective, as per the officials concerned. An incentive of Rs 750 per visit is given to the volunteers.So far, a little over 15,000 of 20,134 (75 per cent) workers and officials have received their first jab in the district.ROHTAK PGIMS cancels winter breakRohtak: The PGIMS has cancelled the winter vacation of its faculty members. Those who have proceeded on vacation have been told to join their duties with immediate effect. An order to this effect has been issued by the PGIMS director to ensure the effective implementation of the Covid vaccination drive. The PGIMS has also ordered the reopening of all super-specialty OPDs, which were closed during the Covid prevalence. TNS1,963 more health workers inoculatedChandigarh: As many as 1,963 health workers got the jab in past 24 hours, taking the state’s total vaccination tally to 1.26 lakh. Maximum 21,564 persons were vaccinated in Gurugram followed by 15,088 in Faridabad. With two deaths and 97 fresh cases, the Covid tally reached 2.68 lakh on Saturday. In all, 153 people recovered in 24 hours and 1,134 active cases left in the state. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/phase-iii-trial-77-volunteers-given-second-dose-of-covaxin-205685
31-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Ambala village ‘divided in death’ no longer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 30Panjokhra village in Ambala district is not divided in death after all.Just about 8 km from Ambala, the village has five cremation grounds purported to be “belonging to different castes since inhabitation” — a claim the Punjab and Haryana High Court dubbed as splitting up of society.Less than two months after the HC observations, the gram panchayat concerned has assured the Bench of “smooth and peaceful funeral of each and every community of the village in any of the five cremation yards”.Panchayat assures High CourtThe gram panchayat of Panjokhra village in Ambala district has assured the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bench of “smooth and peaceful funeral of each and every community of the village in any of the five cremation yards.”The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash Gram was also told that the gram panchayat has further resolved to take strict social and legal action against any offender.The Bench was told that an emergency meeting was convened by the gram panchayat on December 30, 2020. A resolution was passed wherein the gram panchayat took the responsibility of removing any possible trouble or hindrance arising in cremation of the people of any community.The matter was brought to the HC notice after Jaswant Kumar (76) and seven other villagers claimed that Brahmin, Sikhs and backward classes were having separate cremation grounds in the area.In a status report placed before the Bench during the resumed hearing of the case, it was stated that all five cremation yards were in there for over 40 to 50 years prior to the existence of the present gram panchayat and were being used by the residents irrespective of their caste, creed or sect and none of the inhabitants of the village has ever been restrained to use the yard for cremation of the bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-village-divided-in-death-no-longer-205686
31-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Two booked under NDPS Act||They have been booked under Section 15 NDPS Act at Pehowa police station and sent to nine-day remand. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-booked-under-ndps-act-205687
31-01-2021||Gurugram||Gender test racket busted||The Gurugram health authorities have busted a sex determination and illegal abortion gang. Five persons, including three women, were nabbed.  The accused would take pregnant women to Najafgarh in Delhi for sex determination. An FIR was registered.  As per the police, Civil Surgeon Dr Virender Yadav got information that Sector-5 resident Satish chargesRs 70,000-80,000 for abortions. Dr Yadav formed a special team of Dr Anil and Dr Dipanshu. They arranged a decoy customer, Poonam, and handed over signed notes of Rs 75,000 to her. She made a call to Satish and requested the test, who called her at the Sector 5 roundabout, from where her took Poonam to Najafgarh in Delhi and contacted another tout Pawan.  Later, three women met Satish near civil hospital, Najafgarh. They took Rs 50,000 from him. Poonam was taken to Ankur Ultrasound Centre where Dr Vimal did the scan and revealed the gender. The team nabbed the five accused but Dr Vimal fled. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gender-test-racket-busted-205688
31-01-2021||Panchkula||Congress MLA from Kalka disqualified||Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Saturday disqualified Congress MLA Pardeep Chaudhary and declared his Kalka Assembly seat vacant. The decision was taken after a HP court sentenced Chaudhary and 14 others to three years in jail for rioting, assault, use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty, mischief by fire or explosive substance and under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act in a 10-year-old case. Quoting a 2013 Supreme Court order, Gupta said the MLA stands disqualified the moment he was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years. He added, “He (Chaudhary) has a right to appeal in the higher courts. I will act as per the prescribed laws and further orders of any court.” Gupta has also written to the Election Commission for necessary action in this regard. Meanwhile, Chaudhary said the Speaker had shown “haste” in disqualifying him. “He (Speaker) should have waited until I approached the higher court against the sentence,” he said. Chaudhary’s disqualification has brought down the strength of 90-member House to 88. The case dates back to 2011 when Chaudhary was an INLD MLA from Kalka. Sucha Singh (30), a Kalka resident, was seriously hurt after climbing atop a pole at Barotiwala to escape the traffic police. He later died at the PGI in Chandigarh. The convicts had led a mob and placed the body near the red-light chowk at Baddi after the autopsy. The mob turned violent, attacked cops and set ablaze two government vehicles. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mla-from-kalka-disqualified-205689
31-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Haryana’s revenue receipts hit three-year low||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, January 30Under Covid shadow, the revenue receipts of Haryana government have hit a three-year low with slump in earnings from GST; Stamps and Registration and non-tax revenue.   The state earned Rs 44,270 crore in April-December 2020-21 in revenue receipts, while the figure was Rs 51,026 crore in the corresponding period in 2019-20. Even in April-December of 2018-19, the state had earned higher revenue at Rs 46,808 crore.  As per CAG’s provisional figures, Goods and Services Tax (GST) earnings till December 2020-21 was Rs 12,613 crore, which is 10 per cent lower than the collections in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. The earnings from the sale and purchase of properties have slumped by 33.1 per cent this financial year as Rs 3,131 crore came in revenue while the figure was Rs 4,683 crore previously. This year, the land registration was halted too for some time after allegations of corruption had surfaced on the part of revenue officials.  However, there is a marginal dip of 4.2 per cent in sales tax, which includes earnings from the sale of petrol and diesel, as Rs 6,176 crore was earned, and 0.5 per cent in excise duty as Rs 5,001 crore was collected.  The collections from the state’s share of union taxes have come down to Rs 3,818 crore while in the corresponding period of previous financial year it was Rs 5,183 crore. Overall, there is a dip of 13.8 per cent in tax revenue from the last financial year with the state earning Rs 32,516 crore in April-December 2020-21.    There is a slump of 37.8 per cent in non-tax revenue, which includes collections from mining, transport and External Development Charges (EDC). In April-December 2020-21, the state earned Rs 2,807 crore while the figure in the corresponding period of last year was Rs 4,516 crore. The impact of slump in revenue receipts could be seen in capital expenditure, as only Rs 5,357 crore has been spent in 2020-21 till December, while the state had spent Rs 17,948 crore in the previous financial year. It implies lesser expenditure by over 70 per cent.  “State creates assets from capital expenditure. So, lesser capital expenditure means lesser developmental activities,” said Prof Aswini Nanda, Population Research Centre, Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-revenue-receipts-hit-three-year-low-205581
31-01-2021||Shubhadeep Choudhury||Cheapest non-veg 'thalis' in Chandigarh, Haryana: Economic Survey||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 30The cost of a non-veg thali was cheapest in the rural areas of Chandigarh (Rs 29.9) during the June-December 2020 period. During this period the cost of a non-veg thali was most expensive in rural Arunachal Pradesh (Rs 48.5).Another northern state, Haryana, figures lowest in the chart in terms of price of a non-veg meal in urban areas during June-December 2020 period. A non-veg thali costs only Rs 28 in the urban areas of Haryana. Mizoram, where the cost of a thali was worked out to be Rs 52.40, tops the chart for the price of a non-veg meal in urban areas during the period.During this period, veg thali was costliest in the rural areas of Andaman & Nicobar Islands (Rs 38.7). Veg thali was cheapest in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh (Rs 23.1) in the June-December 2020 period. Once again it was Andaman & Nicobar Islands where veg thali was most expensive (Rs 40.0) among all urban areas during the period. It was cheapest in the urban areas of Madhya Pradesh (Rs 24.0) during the period.Last year the Economic Survey, which presents an overview of the economy before the Budget, had first introduced the concept of working out the price of an average meal in a chapter titled “Thalinomics: The Economics of a Plate of Food in India”.The Economic Survey 2020-21, tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Lok Sabha on Friday, has continued with the practice. In all the states the prices of a meal – veg and non-veg both – have shown upward trend over the previous year in rural as well as urban areas.The National Statistical Office (NSO) compiles the “Thali index” for the Economic Survey. State-wise shares of cereals, pulses etc. are decided as per the Consumption Expenditure Survey.Thali cost represents the cost of a meal cooked in a household. It excludes PDS consumption and is wholly based on the transactional prices of componentsAccording to the Economic Survey, while thali cost increased between June 2020 and November 2020, the cost witnessed a sharp fall in the month of December reflecting the fall in the prices of many essential food commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cheapest-non-veg-thalis-in-chandigarh-haryana-economic-survey-205558
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt extends suspension of mobile internet in 17 districts till January 31||The Haryana government on Saturday extended the suspension of mobile internet services in 17 districts till 5 pm of January 31 “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order” amid a protest by farmers against three farm laws that witnessed violence earlier this week.According to an official statement issued here on Saturday, the government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services in Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Rewari, Sirsa, Sonepat, Jhajjar and Palwal district till 5 pm on January 31.“This order is issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect. Any person who will be found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions,” it said.The opposition Congress hit out at the government’s decision to suspend mobile internet services.Read also: Internet suspended at Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri borders till SundayIn a statement, Congress General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala claimed the internet ban was ordered “with the intention to crush the farmers’ agitation” and demanded its immediate resumption.He said the decision will affect professionals working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic, students, traders and shopkeepers and cause inconvenience to the common people.“The BJP-JJP government has been so engrossed in its evil designs to crush and discredit the farmers’ agitation that it seems to be least bothered about the grave inconvenience being caused to the common people,” he said.“This government should not be under any illusion to treat the peacefully agitating farmers as a vulnerable lot and the persecution of farmers shall not be tolerated under any circumstances and the entire opposition and the people of the country are in rock solid support with the farmers,” he said.The government had ordered on Tuesday suspension of mobile internet services in Sonepat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts after a violent farmers’ protest rocked Delhi. On Friday, it extended the suspension to 14 other districts.There are a total of 22 districts in the state.Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally in Delhi called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for the repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws.Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-extends-suspension-of-mobile-internet-in-17-districts-till-january-31-205555
31-01-2021||Vibha Sharma||How BJP's miscalculation strengthened farmer agitation, Jat bonding in UP, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 30Baghpat, Sonepat and Rohtak—they may be in different states (Uttar Pradesh and Haryana) but members of the ‘Jat’ community of the region share strong socio-cultural ties/bonding called “roti-beti ka rishta”.What the events of the past few days in the ongoing farmers’ agitation, especially those revolving around BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, have done is strengthened those bonds.Perhaps, this is the second time the BJP leadership miscalculated the agitation, the first being underestimating farmers and their agitation.A day after the highly-successful ‘mahapanchayat’at Muzzaffarnagar, which decided that the Ghazipur agitation would continue, a similar event is now being planned at Baghpat, the bastion of ‘Jat’ leaders Ajit Singh and son Jayant Chowdhury.Baghpat may be in Uttar Pradesh, and is an hour's drive from Sonepat, but the implications of another ‘mahapanchayat’ are expected to be felt not just in Yogi Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh but also in Manohar Lal Khattar’s Haryana—incidentally both non-Jat chief ministers.BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait’s tears have not impacted only Ghazipur but also Singhu in Haryana.A day after Muzaffarnagar ‘mahapanchayat’, BKU president Naresh Tikat has said that a similar event had been planned in Baghpat on January 31.Naresh Tikait on Friday said it was “their mistake” to support the BJP candidate, Union Minister Sanjiv Balyan, against RLD chief Ajit Singh in the last Lok Sabha elections.After the death of BKU founder Mahendra Singh Tikait, the organisation lost much of its support base, say observers.In fact, Rakesh Tikait lost when he contested the elections.But the visuals of Rakesh Tikait, a Jat, becoming sentimental and breaking down, were enough to stir emotions among his community who “collectively felt humiliated”. Perhaps the BJP has inadvertently increased his relevance, bringing together the community, and giving purpose and strength to Tikait brothers and their organisations.“Jats stand by each other in ‘dukh’. It is a typical characteristic of the community which the BJP misunderstood and turned what could have been a possible resolution into a prestige issue for them. The basic feeling now is that ‘BJP ne dukhi kar diya kyoki wo ‘Jat’ hai’ (BJP created problems for him because Rakesh Tikait is a ‘Jat’)”, explains Prof Sudhir Panwar.After Naresh Tikait calling off the agitation two days back, there were visible signs of  thinning of protests at the Ghazipur protest site.Sources say even though an “agreement” was reached with the Tikait brothers that the protest site would be vacated, the increase in security forces and presence of Loni MLA Nand Kishore Gujjar and his supporters “vitiated the atmosphere”.Asserting that he would not surrender and would also call more people to join the protest if needed, Rakesh Tikait broke down saying “he would rather commit suicide than leave and end the protest against the farm laws”.Following that, Naresh Tikait quickly called an emergency meeting and appealed to supporters to reach Ghazipur and scheduled the Muzzafarnagar ‘mahapanchayat’.Coming to the first miscalculation, many observers say the Narendra Modi government not just “underestimated” the agitation but also the determination and resolve of the Punjab farmers who managed to reach and hold on at the Delhi borders despite so many hurdles.Had it taken care of the situation in Punjab, it would not have escalated to this level, they say.Quite clearly, Punjab BJP leaders did not give the correct feedback of the situation in the state to the Centre. Whether a similar situation is now being repeated in Uttar Pradesh remains to be seen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/how-bjps-miscalculation-strengthened-farmer-agitation-jat-bonding-in-up-haryana-205493
31-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP and RSS behind stone-pelting on farmers at Singhu: Rajewal||Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Saturday said the BJP and RSS were behind Friday’s stone-pelting incident on farmers at Singhu border.He alleged that the government is continually trying to provoke them to resort to violence.Addressing a press conference at the Kisan Bhawan here, Rajewal appealed to farmers, who are now heading to Delhi, to keep the struggle peaceful.He said they had recovered from the unfortunate incident of January 26.Also read: Bajwa, Deepender welcomed on Tikait’s protest site stage; call for resolution of stalemate‘Mahapanchayat’ at Baghpat: How BJP leadership miscalculation strengthened farmers’ agitation, Jat bonding in UP, HaryanaBKU digs its heels in at Ghazipur border, more supporters pouring inProtesting farmers begin one-day hunger strikeIf protesting farmers are abused, it will make movement stronger: British MP DhesiAnna Hazare calls off his proposed fast“We are not going for war. Only peace can assure our victory,” he said.Rajewal said all the cases registered against farmer leaders or any other cases registered during farmers agitation would be discussed during negotiations with the government.“We have been holding a peaceful agitation at Delhi’s borders since January 26. Today also the agitation is peaceful,” Rajewal, the president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), told reporters.“People in large numbers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are reaching the protest sites,” Rajewal said.“Possibly by February 2, there will again be a record gathering of people at the protest sites,” he said, adding that the agitation would remain peaceful.Rajewal also condemned the Haryana government for suspending internet services.The Haryana government on Friday decided to suspend mobile internet services in 14 more districts in the state until Saturday 5 pm “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order”. Earlier it had suspended the services in three districts.Rajewal accused the Centre of instilling a sense of fear among people by showing pictures of the “unfortunate incidents”, apparently referring to the January 26 violence in the national capital during a tractor parade by farmers.“The government is trying to mislead people through false propaganda in order to defame the ongoing agitation,” he alleged.Rajewal appealed to those joining the agitation at Delhi’s borders to keep the protest peaceful.He asked them not to get provoked, which could affect the peaceful agitation.“It is our responsibility to keep the agitation peaceful,” he stressed.Rajewal accused the government of trying to trigger violence by provoking the farmers at the protest sites. “But we are alert. We will not indulge in any kind of violence,” he said.The farmer leader appealed to the Centre to shun its “stubborn attitude” and withdraw the three farm laws.On the next meeting between the protesting farmers and representatives of the government, he said “when they call us, we will certainly go”.To a question on joining the investigation following notices issued by the Delhi Police to farmer leaders in connection with the Republic Day violence, Rajewal said, “They issued the notices to us on January 27 but an FIR in connection with the matter was lodged on January 26. Since they have already taken action, what reply are they seeking?”Asked again, he said, “We will send them a reply.” The Delhi Police has issued the notices to around 20 farmer leaders, including Rajewal, over the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade, asking why legal action should not be taken against them. — with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-and-rss-behind-stone-pelting-on-farmers-at-singhu-rajewal-205478
