01-12-2021||Amritsar||Covid: One tests +ve in Amritsar district||Confusion over DEO’s websiteAmritsar: AAP national executive member Harinder Singh and Amritsar leader Vishal Joshi claimed that the official website of the District Education Office (DEO) remained suspended due to non-payment, causing inconvenience to more than 2,000 government, aided, and recognised schools, and 1,000 private schools in the district. The website www.deoseas r.org has been closed for the last few days. Meanwhile, refuting claims, Sushil Kumar Tuli, DEO, said the department uses two websites i.e. www.ssapunja b.org and www.e-Punjabsch ools.gov.in. “The other websites were made a few months ago as dummy websites as part of our efforts to digitise department’s functions. We do not have any separate official website for the district,” Tuli said. There are 2,000 affiliated government and there are about 1,000 private schools that receive necessary guidelines, circulars, notifications daily from the Education Department and government. While Tuli said no miscommunication has occurred, the representatives of aided schools say they were using the defunct websites for official information. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-one-tests-ve-in-district-345041
01-12-2021||Amritsar||Headmistress honoured||Seminar on Guru Teg BahadurThe PG Department of Hindi, DAV College, Amritsar, organised an online national seminar dedicated to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur. The seminar witnessed a galaxy of eminent scholars, who presented their views and opinions on the diversity of India and significance of Guru’s teachings in modern context. The key note speaker Dr Kamraj Sindhu of Kurukshetra University said Guru Teg Bahadur shines among the galaxy of great spiritual gurus whose message continues to guide the humanity and remains universally relevant at all the times. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar described the martyrdom of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur as one of the most important turning points in the spiritual, religious and political history of India. Dr Inderjit Singh from Indian embassy Moscow said Sikh Gurus inspired us in an era that was perhaps the most challenging phase of our history. No one can forget the contributions of the Sikh Gurus and their selfless sacrifices to strengthen the unity among different communities. Prof Shailender Kumar Sharma from Vikram University, Ujjain added that one of the key elements in the teachings of Guru Sahib has been the spirit of sewa or selfless service. This is considered as one of the foremost pious duties that the mankind can perform enriching us with selflessness, humility and gratitude towards God.Painting competition organisedContinuing with the series of activities regarding electoral awareness, a painting competition was held at Govt Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall Road. Students made collages, colourful sketches and paintings open the subject of voter awareness. District SVEEP team member Adarsh Sharma encouraged the students to spread awareness through participating in these awareness programmes. She said votes of all eligible voters play an important role and every student in the college must work to achieve this goal. He said no college student should be deprived of the right to vote. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/headmistress-honoured-345040
01-12-2021||---||Aspirants allege discrepancies  in police exam||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, November 30Candidates who applied for the post of constables in the Punjab Police lodged a protest against the alleged lapses in the results declared by the department on the second consecutive day, here on Tuesday. The protesting youth — both boys and the girls — marched in the town and staged a dharna in front of the local SDM office, blocking the traffic.Rajpal Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Gubhej Singh, Belhar Singh, Veerpal Kaur, Arashdeep Kaur, Komalpreet Kaur and others, while addressing on the occasion, said the state government had announced not to take physical trial on the basis of the written test.They alleged that the declared results had many anomalies. There were many cases where candidates with 40 per cent had been declared pass while the candidates with 60 per cent marks were shown as rejected.The leaders said the merit too was not shown in the results. The candidates said if their demands were not met, they would go on a road march.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aspirants-allege-discrepancies-in-police-exam-345039
01-12-2021||Amritsar||Fincare begins its operations in city||Fincare Small Finance Bank has commenced its operations in Punjab by opening its first branch in the holy city.The bank eyes on becoming a holistic banking partner to SMEs and MSMEs with a comprehensive suite of products and services. It opened its branches here to strengthen its footprint in the granary of India.Dr Ashish Chabra, CEO, – retail banking, Fincare Small Finance Bank, said, the expansion would address the banking needs of a variety of customers. The new branch shall offer a wide range of products such as loans against gold, savings, and current account with Sweep in – Sweep out facility, besides offering attractive interests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fincare-begins-its-operations-in-city-345038
01-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Staff protest pay disparity||The Joint Action Committee, Accounts Cadre, Punjab, organised its border zone level demonstration at the main gate of the Powercom circle office here on Tuesday.The officials and the employees of the accounts cadre from Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot took part in the dharna. They presented a demand letter to the local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri who expressed his sympathy with the demands of the agitating employees.Simranjit Singh, Sandeep Singh, Manpreet Singh, Puja Sharma, Gursangat Kaur and other leaders while addressing on the occasion condemned the indifferent attitude of the state government for not giving them reasonable pay scales.The leaders said the revenue assistant (RA) and accountants were not given the status of induction post.Other demands were releasing of blocked promotions, accounts officers be given Rs5,500 as compensatory allowance on a par with the SDO’s, etc. The leaders warned that the organisation would intensify its agitation in case the demands are not met. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staff-protest-pay-disparity-345037
01-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Farmers to get Rs 342 crore subsidy on agricultural machinery||A subsidy of Rs 342 crore would be given to farmers on 29,337 agricultural machinery by the Punjab government for handling crop residues. The information was given by Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha while distribution of agricultural machinery on subsidy to the farmers during the state level function organised at Raishiana on Tuesday.Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki and Tarn Taran MLA Dr Agnihotri also addressed the gathering during the meeting. Agriculture Secretary Dilraj Singh Randhawa and Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh besides were among the other who were present on the occasion.Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha said 1,880 agricultural machines are being provided to individual farmers, farmer groups and cooperative societies in district Tarn Taran, on which a subsidy of Rs 24 crore 47 lakh was given. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-to-get-342-crore-subsidy-on-agri-machinery-345036
01-12-2021||---||Minister urged to sanction grants for synthetic athletics track||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 30A delegation of city-based NGO Amritsar Vikas Manch met Sports and Education Minister Pargat Singh in Jalandhar and requested him to sanction a grant of Rs15 crore for the establishment of synthetic athletics track at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar.Many attempts to lay a synthetic track on nearly eight acre athletics ground did not materialise for one reason or another. About eight years ago, the then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh had sanctioned an amount of Rs5.5 crore to lay a synthetic athletics track at the GNDU but the grant was shifted to the north east due to some technical reasons. Since then, it did not receive any fund to refurbish its infrastructure.This, despite the fact that an array of prominent players, who earned medals for the country at international and national level, was produced by the border district. Omission of infrastructure is costing dearly to athletes, especially those preparing for national and international events in their career, the delegates said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-urged-to-sanction-grants-for-synthetic-athletics-track-345035
01-12-2021||Amritsar||Sacrilege incident in Pak gurdwara condemned||Senior BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina on Tuesday condemned the incident of sacrilege at Gurdwara Shri Guru Harkrishen Sahib situated at Kot Meer Badan Khan Bajarani village in Karampur tehsil, Kashmore district in Sindh province of Pakistan. Some unknown persons entered the gurdwara premises and resorted to the act of sacrilege on November 27. In a statement, Chhina said the `sacred pages’ of the holy Sri Guru Granth Sahib were torn and thrown on the ground. Not only this, the miscreants also looted Pakistani Rs 1.5 lakh from the Golak (donation box) from the Gurdwara Sahib.“No action has been taken by the Pakistani authorities over the incident,” he said. Chinna said the minorities in Pakistan are never safe nor their places of worships. “It is not the first instance when the holy place of the Sikhs has come under attack. It is becoming a routine when the Sikh shrines are under attack or those are vandalised,” said Chhina, adding that the sentiments of the Sikhs worldwide had been hurt as he called upon the Indian government to take the issue up with Pakistan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sacrilege-incident-in-pak-gurdwara-condemned-345034
01-12-2021||---||Smart playground initiative: Govt schools get infrastructure overhaul||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 30Carrying out its project of setting-up smart playgrounds in all government schools across the district, the government schools in Chheharta, Verka, Mall Road, have received funds under the sports wing. Kuljinder Singh Malhi, district sports mentor, said the process of upgrading the sports facilities in government schools had begun last year. The schools have received a total of Rs37.51 lakh under the smart playground development initiative.“Each school has been given a specific amount for sports development. Initially, we have spent Rs80 lakh for upgrading the gymnasiums in schools in Lopoke, Ajnala, Attari, Tarsika and senior secondary school in Mall Mandi, which are now completed. The gymnasiums are being used for regular practice and introduction of games to primary and senior secondary students. The current funding is for schools that have regular sports programme and offer student diet and other training facilities,” said Malhi.GSSSS, Chheharta has received 14.06 lakh, GSSS, Mall road has received Rs 11.46 lakh, Verka GSSSS has received Rs 11.96 lakh. In addition to this, the schools in Kathunangal and Muradpura have received six lakhs each for sports development. “We have already set up 80 smart playgrounds across schools in district. Two state-of-art basketball courts and hockey turfs are also being developed under sports grants. Further process is on to set up handball and shooting range etc. as per the demand of the school and indoor halls for table tennis, carrom board, chess etc have already been completed. Efforts are also on to develop sports in the rural belt,” he said.He said the financial assistance of panchayat and the SMC committee members could also be sought for this purpose as soon as possible. Notably, the annual sports grant for senior secondary schools and high schools amounts to Rs 25,000 per school, while the middle schools get Rs 10,000 as sports grant. These funds were suspended due to pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-playground-initiative-govt-schools-get-infrastructure-overhaul-345033
01-12-2021||---||Political hoardings causing defacement in city?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 30Illegal flex boards about Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s announcements are leading to defacement in the city.Other parties also display hoardings, but the Municipal Corporation’s advertisement wing is often seen removing their hoardings.CM Channi’s hoarding can be seen in all major roads of the city. The announcements being made by the CM are displayed on these advertisements. An activist, advocate Kuljit Singh, said: “The MC does not take any action against the hoardings of the incumbent party and it is not a healthy practice.”The activist claimed that the MC officials were ignoring defacement by thegovernment. The advertisement wing was already facing shortage of employees and workers claim that they were overburdened during the festive season and elections.The Ministry of Urban Development and Housing considers defacement during Swachhta Survekshan — a nation-wide cleanliness survey. The city has ranked 34th in the city due to poor marks in such components.The advertisement wing had recently taken some steps to curb defacement during elections. The flex printers were asked to check the no objection certificate (NoC) of the MC before printing advertisement material.Sushant Bhatia, in-charge, advertisement wing, MC, said: “We are regularly removing illegal hoardings irrespective of any political party.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/political-hoardings-causing-defacement-in-city-345032
01-12-2021||Amritsar||BRTS service resumes as staff end strike after 13 days||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brts-service-resumes-as-staff-end-strike-after-13-days-345031
01-12-2021||Amritsar||Youth booked for raping minor||The Bhindisaida police have booked a youth for allegedly raping and sexually exploiting a minor girl on the pretext of marriage. The accused even got engaged with the victim, but later refused to marry her.The police have registered a case and got the medical examination of the 17-year-old victim conducted. The accused was identified as Manga Singh of the same village. He was yet to the arrested.The victim told the police that she was a Class XII student. She said the accused was her classmate. She said in 2015, Manga Singh developed an affair with her. She alleged that he used to visit her home and on the pretext of marriage he made physical relations with her. She said in 2019, they got engaged and around six months ago, refused to marry her. Following this, a complaint was lodged with the police and a case under Section 376 and 506 of the IPC was registered against him. The police said efforts were on to nab him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-booked-for-raping-minor-345030
01-12-2021||---||Doc falls prey to online fraudsters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 30The instances of online frauds are rising day by day. This time, a doctor fell victim to the phishing racket.From the phone call and bank account details as to where the money was transferred, it was revealed that the accused were from West Bengal. Further probe is on. —  Sukhdev Singh, SHO Cantt police station She was identified as Dr Anjali Pal, Rani Ka Bagh area resident. She said the accused pretended to be an employee of a digital payment system and e-commerce company based in Noida. She alleged that the accused influenced her and got the details of her bank account and debit card. She came to know about the fraud, when Rs67,418 was debited from her account.Following preliminary probe, the police booked Dhiman Sarkar, SK Abdur and Buddhadeb Garain, all residents of different parts of West Bangal. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 66-C and 66-D of the IT Act was registered against them.Sukhdev Singh, SHO Cantonment police station said from the phone call and bank account details where the money was transferred, it was revealed that the accused were from West Bengal. He said further investigations were on.Going by the recent instances, the accused belonged to West Bengal. Recently, Rs22 lakh was withdrawn from the account of a woman and in the case, the accused were also from West Bengal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doc-falls-prey-to-online-fraudsters-345029
01-12-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Canal Dept's rickety structure cries for attention||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 30The decrepit old structure of the Canal Department, Drainage, Irrigation and Power Research Institute (IPRI), on GT Road opposite the railway station poses risk to residents and commuters alike.Thousands of people commute daily on the narrow road, which offers a short way between Rani Ka Bagh and Albert Road. Looking at the tilted wall conveys that it is a disaster in waiting. The department concerned must take pre-emptive action to avoid any disastrous impact.—  Naresh Johar, a resident of Rani Ka BaghThey fear that parts of the rickety building could fall on the narrow road behind. The narrow road leads to Model Town, Rani Ka Bagh and Mahindra locality from Albert Road.The canal office building spread on over 11.5 acre of prime commercial land, opposite the railway station, is in a shambles. The canal and allied departments were set up by the British after they annexed Punjab. Some portions were raised in the independent India.Some of the rooms are without roofs, while some seem to have turned into haunted places, as their doors have not been opened for the past several decades. A room is being used to dump old files and papers, while no effort has been made to secure these. The entire building presents a worn-out look, with plants growing everywhere — on roof, walls and balconies. The building has not even been whitewashed for long time and plaster has mostly come off.Naresh Johar, a resident of Rani Ka Bagh, says: “Thousands of people commute on the narrow road daily, which offers a short way between Rani Ka Bagh and Albert Road. Looking at the tilted wall conveys that it is a disaster in waiting. The department concerned must take pre-emptive action to avoid any disastrous impact.”When contacted, Amandeep Kaur, Additional Chief Administrator, said she would look into the matter.Fact fileThe canal office building, spread on over 11.5 acre of prime commercial land, opposite the railway station, is in a pathetic condition. The canal and allied departments were set up by the British after they annexed Punjab. Some portions were raised in the independent India. Some of the rooms are without roofs, while some seem to have turned into haunted places, as their doors have not been opened for the past several decades. A room is being used to dump old files and papers, while no effort has been made to secure these. The entire building presents a worn-out look, with plants growing everywhere - on roof, walls and balconies. The building has not even been whitewashed for long and plaster has mostly come off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/canal-depts-rickety-structure-cries-for-attention-345028
01-12-2021||---||Daily wager dies in road accident||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, November 30A pedestrian was crushed by an overspeeding car on the Amritsar–Khemkaran national highway near his village on Monday.The deceased, identified as Anokh Singh (26) of Bhura Kona, was on way back to his home after his duty hours from the Moti Mehal Palace, when a car coming from the front hit him.He was seriously injured and was brought to the Civil Hospital, Patti, where the doctors declared him brought dead. ASI Sunil Datti, Investigation Officer (IO) said the driver fled from spot. The car has been taken into the police custody. A case has been registered under Sections 304-A and 279 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/daily-wager-dies-in-road-accident-345026
01-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Commuters irked over regular traffic jams at Putlighar Chowk||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 30Commuters and residents are irked over regular traffic congestion at Putlighar Chowk on GT Road. Residents say they witness heavy traffic during peak morning and evening hours. Cops on duty, too, feel helpless as traffic lights are lying defunct for the last two months.Traffic lights are lying defunct at Putlighar Chowk for the last several weeks. No one is taking care of the inconvenience being faced by residents. The cops on traffic duty are helpless due to heavy flow of vehicles. The lights should be repaired — Karan, a ResidentThe students of Guru Nanak Dev University, Khalsa College, Khalsa School, Polytechnic College, Khalsa College for Women, Nursing College can be seen stuck in traffic at Putlighar Chowk in the morning. Not only personal vehicles, but public transport including BRTS buses, too, get stuck.“We provide service with four-minute frequency, but when some Metro buses get stuck in traffic at Putlighar, everything gets chaotic,” said Harpreet Singh, a BRTS staffer.“Traffic lights are lying defunct at Putlighar Chowk for the last several weeks. No one is taking care of the inconvenience being faced by residents. The cops on traffic duty are helpless due to heavy flow of vehicles. The lights should be repaired,” said Karan, a resident.Cops on duty claim that they have been working round the clock to manage traffic, but the Municipal Corporation officials do not cooperate.Not only traffic lights, heavy encroachments by street vendors and auto-rickshaw drivers also cause traffic jams. The shopkeepers encroach the land outside their shops by displaying the goods. Despite complaints, the MC fails to remove encroachments from roads around Putlighar Chowk.“Students, teachers and employees have been suffering regularly at Putlighar Chowk. The administration should address this issue,” said Gurpreet Singh, former councillor from Kot Khalsa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commuters-irked-over-regular-traffic-jams-at-putlighar-chowk-345025
01-12-2021||---||Birthday celebration takes ugly turn, 1 shot dead||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 30A birthday party turned tragic when a youth was allegedly killed after suffering gunshot injuries in Anand Vihar locality on Jhabal Road here late on Monday evening. According to the police, two others were also injured in the incident.How it happenedSonia, sister of the deceased, said Saurav (in pic left) got a call from his friend Vivek on his wife's mobile. He invited him to come to Amritsar as they were going to attend a birthday celebration of Mandeep Singh, alias Mandy. She said Saurav reached Amritsar late in the evening and around 12 midnight, they got the information about his death. Interestingly, Saurav had returned to Hoshiarpur on Monday only after there staying for two days. He was a wholesaler of fruits and vegetables.As per eyewitnesses and family members of the deceased, identified as Saurav Kumar (26), a resident of Hoshiarpur district, the youth participating in the birthday celebration indulged in indiscriminate firing. He suffered three bullet injuries that led to his death.Though the police said the youth were firing in the air, the family members alleged that he was murdered. The Gate Hakima police have booked five persons on murder charges claiming that further investigations were on and the cause behind the incident was yet to be ascertained.Sonia, sister of the deceased, said Saurav got a call from his friend Vivek on his wife’s mobile. He invited him to come to Amritsar as they were going to attend a birthday celebrations of Mandeep Singh, alias Mandy. She said Saurav reached Amritsar late in the evening and later around 12 midnight, they got the information about his death.Interestingly, Saurav had returned to Hoshiarpur on Monday only after staying for two days here. He was a wholesaler of fruits and vegetables.Following the incident, senior police officials reached the spot and carried out investigations.Paramvir Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central), said the police have booked five persons — Mandeep Singh, Vivek, Rahul, Prince and Raghu — on charge of murder. All accused were absconding and would be arrested soon. He said the residence where the incident occurred belonged to Mandeep Singh. This was his newly constructed house. He said as per preliminary probe, around 50 persons were present during the birthday celebrations of Mandeep Singh.The incident led to panic among local residents due to indiscriminate firing. The police also recovered five bullet shells from the spot. It was alleged that some criminal elements were also present in the party when the incident took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bday-celebration-takes-ugly-turn-1-shot-dead-345024
