02-12-2021||Amritsar||No new case in last 24 hours||Man loses Rs20L to phishing attackAmritsar: A local resident was duped of Rs20 lakh in a phishing attack, after which the police booked four persons from Bihar. The accused have been identified as Feroj Ali, currently residing in Shaheen Baag Abul Afzal Enclave Phase -2 South Delhi; Chandra Kishore Chaudhari of Udaipur Ankuri, Patna Bihar; H Vipin of Ghevra, Bihar; and Isarafil Ansari of Gyan Kunj North West Delhi. Victim Gagandeep Singh said the accused debited Rs20.27 lakh from his account after hacking his ID. The police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 66-C and 66-D of the IT Act and initiated inquiry. No arrest has been made so far. TNSSVEEP rath flagged offAmritsar: To make all voters of the district aware about Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) and Electronic Voting Machine (EVM), 11 awareness vans were flagged off from the District Administrative Complex on Wednesday. The vans called SVEEP rath were flagged off by Dr Ruhi Dugg, district electoral officer and Additional Deputy Commissioner. These awareness vans would be sent to all Assembly constituencies to impart electoral education on EVMs and other registration process. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-new-case-in-last-24-hours-345407
02-12-2021||Amritsar is the only place in Punjab which proudly boasts of an international airport||Terrible traffic!||Amritsar has always been a tourist hotspot with the Golden Temple and Beating the Retreat Ceremony at the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost being major attractions. However, traffic bottlenecks have been a perennial problem for the city. Under the Smart City project, various developments projects were being carried out in this regard, but they seem more like misplaced priorities, than a solution to easing traffic in the city.A handful of cops man the traffic, who become active only when any VIP or VVIP visits the city. Defunct traffic lights further add to the commuters’ misery.The major intersections of the city where traffic jams are more prevalent are Hall Gate, bus stand, Lohgarh, Rambagh Chowk, Queens Road, Crystal Chowk, Batala Road Chowk near Government Dental College and Majitha road, especially near Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Railway Station, Sultanwind Gate, Chatiwind Chowk, outer circular road, near The Mall of Amritsar.Rampant encroachments, illegal parking and haphazard parking of vehicles further compound the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/terrible-traffic-345396
02-12-2021||Amritsar||Actor Shehnaaz Gill spends time with inmates at Pingalwara||Sohna, Mohna, the conjoined twins, who are Pingalwara’s wards. She also met Dr Inderjit Kaur, director, All-India Pingalwara Charitable Society. Gill also gifted some fruits and other things to the inmates. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/actor-shehnaaz-gill-spends-time-with-inmates-at-pingalwara-345395
02-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||'Act against open tractors ferrying sand, garbage'||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 1Activists of various religious societies, Kar Sewa Buri Wale and other non-government organisations of the city have approached the Deputy Commissioner demanding solution to curb the practice of ferrying sand, gravel clay and garbage in open tractor-trailers.Most of these organisations are involved in sanitation work, who clean roads and streets leading to the Darbar Sahib Gurudwara Shaheedan and Tarn Taran Road.The activists also demanded that the timings of tractor-trailers loaded with sand gravel, clay and garbage be streamlined, as they litter the passage, cleaned by them. A delegation of activists led by Bhai Amarjit Singh Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Environment Conservation Society said there was no check of the district administration and Municipal Corporation on the movement of tractor-trailers ferrying sand, clay, gravel, debris and garbage. Even the tractor-trailers deployed on garbage collection by the MC can be seen roaming without cover.“It causes inconvenience to commuters, especially who drive two-wheelers and rickshaw. The sand and gravel enters their eyes. Several accidents are reported due to these open trailers. Secondly, when these tractor-trailers bump on speed breakers or potholes, the garbage, sand, clay scatter on the road further leading to accidents. Moreover, all efforts to clean roads go futile due to regular movement of such tractor-trailers. Several time, we have asked the officials concerned to find a solution, but no action has been taken till date. Now, we met the Deputy Commissioner and asked him to take action in this regard,” said Bhai Amarjit Singh, activist of Dera Kar Sewa Bhuri Wale. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira assured the activists of taking appropriate action.Activists including Satinderpal Singh Joni Sevak Jatha Kadah Prasad, Baljinder Singh Tinku Baba Deep Singh Welfare Society, Amritpal Singh Nishkam Kirtan Jatha, Jasmeet Singh Mani, Hardeep Singh, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, Deepak Kumar, Kuldeep Singh, Amandeep Singh, Manjit Singh, Bikram Jeet Singh and Lakhwinder Singh of Blood Donation Society were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/act-against-open-tractors-ferrying-sand-garbage-345394
02-12-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Sans compensation for land across the fence, farmers in border district tense||Tarn Taran, December 1Farmers of 47 villages in this border district, whose land lies between the barbed wire fence and zero-line at the India-Pakistan border, are perturbed over not getting compensation for their land.Under the banner of Border Area Kisan Welfare Society, Punjab, farmers organised a protest in front of the District Administrative Complex on Wednesday against not getting the compensation for the last four years.Raghbir Singh Bhangala, state president, and Surjit Singh Bhura Kohna, vice-president, were among others who addressed on the occasion.Surjit Singh said in spite of the directions given by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the state government was not releasing the compensation for their land across the fence for the last four years.Raghbir Singh Bhangala, state president of the society, said the Union Government had started giving this incentive to farmers in 1997. The then Union Home Minister Lal Krishan Advani, while addressing a gathering in Attari, had announced to give relief of Rs 5,000 per acre, which increased to Rs10,000, 10 years ago. The state and Central governments contribute 50% each to fund the compensation. Surjit Singh said in 2017, the then SDM Anupreet Kaur also embezzled an amount of Rs1 crore from the compensation amount, which was released in 2019, and hence was booked for fraud. Kulwant Singh Deputy Commissioner said the inquiry regarding the alleged embezzlement committed by the then SDM was still on. The DC, however, assured farmers of justice.The leaders said Rs1crore, which was embezzled out of the compensation by the then SDM Patti had not been distributed to farmers so far.According to reports 21,600 acre land of 220 village is situated across the fence and nearly 1 lakh farmers are affected in Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Fazilka and Ferozepur districts as their land lies across the fence.Fact file||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sans-compensation-for-land-across-the-fence-farmers-in-border-district-tense-345393
02-12-2021||---||Studies may take a hit as college teachers mull strike||Amritsar, December 1After a massive protest in Chandigarh on November 30, all teachers working in universities, government and private colleges in the district have announced to go on an indefinite strike.Following the mandate given by PFUCTO and PCCTU to cease all types of teaching and academic work in their respective institutions, teachers from Hindu College, Khalsa College, Khalsa College for Women, BBKDAV College, DAV College, Shazadanand College and other major private colleges have suspended all teaching activities.The college and university teachers have long been demanding the implementation of 7th Pay Commission recommendations. The unit members also staged dharna in front of the principal’s office and discussed anti-teachers, anti-society attitude of the state government. Area secretary, GNDU, Dr BB Yadav told the unit that the recommendations of 7th Pay Commission have been implemented in all states of India except Punjab. Also, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh are bearing the brunt because they also follow the Punjab pattern for implementation of the pay commission. He said the leadership has decided to cease work in colleges and universities totally until the government implements the 7th Pay Commission.District president, PCCTU, Dr Gurdas Singh Sekhon briefed the gathering and told that in spite of the promise given by the Higher Education Minister regarding the implementation of 7th UGC pay scales and non-delinking of teachers’ grades, no concrete development has taken place in this regard so far. “We have been protesting, holding meetings with authorities for past one year. The callous attitude of the government has forced us to take this step and call for indefinite suspension of teaching and non-teaching duties,” he said. The strike would affect the academic process as the academic session had just begun offline in full swing post the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/studies-may-take-a-hit-as-college-teachers-mull-strike-345392
02-12-2021||---||Four new academic chairs at GNDU soon||Amritsar, December 1GNDU is set to establish four new academic chairs in the current session. CM Charanjit Singh Channi will inaugurate these chairs in an event marked for December 6.These academic chairs will be set up under the state government grant and developed as centres of research. Punjab Cabinet has accorded approval for setting up of Sant Kabir Chair, Bhai Jeevan Singh/Bhai Jaita Chair, Makhan Shah Lubana Chair and BR Ambedkar Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University.Few months ago, former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had announced setting up of Sant Prem Singh Murale Wale with them. At the time of filing of this report, a senior district health official was trying to persuade protesters to submit their memorandum and lift the blockade.Tripta Kumar, a leader of the ANM Union, said: “We are not here to submit any more memorandums. We have submitted countless memorandums and held hundreds of meetings. Now, we will lift the protest only after getting appointment letters.” She said their only demand was regularisation of their jobs, for which they have decided to fight till the end.Meanwhile, junior resident doctors-cum-postgraduate students at Government Medical College continued with their protest for the third consecutive day and boycotted OPD services for two hours. The PG students are demanding from the government to expedite the admission process, so that the new batch can join as soon as possible. The PG students reasoned that in the absence of the new batch, their workload has increased, as a result of which their academics was suffering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-new-academic-chairs-at-gndu-soon-345391
02-12-2021||---||Perturbed over dilly-dallying tactics, ANMs block traffic in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 1Failing to get any response from the state government regarding their demand for regularisation, the Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANMs) blocked traffic on the Bhandari Bridge here on Wednesday evening.The ANM Union had earlier staged a protest outside the residence of Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni as per a call given by it earlier.However, as none from the district administration or the office of the Deputy CM went to meet the protesting ANMs, the desperate employees decided to intensify the stir and block traffic.An ANM said: “We have been protesting for regularisation of services for the past several years. Every time in meetings, the ministers and officials promise regularisation and forget afterwards.” She said they were working at meagre salaries and some of them have grown old hoping that someday they would get regular jobs.The ANMs received instant support from a few farmers’ associations who participated in the road blockade along with them. At the time of filing of this report, a senior district health official was trying to persuade protesters to submit their memorandum and lift the blockade.Tripta Kumar, a leader of the ANM Union, said: “We are not here to submit any more memorandums. We have submitted countless memorandums and held hundreds of meetings. Now, we will lift the protest only after getting appointment letters.” She said their only demand was regularisation of their jobs, for which they have decided to fight till the end.Meanwhile, junior resident doctors-cum-postgraduate students at Government Medical College continued with their protest for the third consecutive day and boycotted OPD services for two hours. The PG students are demanding from the government to expedite the admission process, so that the new batch can join as soon as possible.The PG students reasoned that in the absence of the new batch, their workload has increased, as a result of which their academics was suffering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/perturbed-over-dilly-dallying-tactics-anms-block-traffic-in-amritsar-345390
