03-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Revolver stolen from car glovebox||Rs50k stolen from golak, 8 bookedAmritsar: Eight persons have been booked by the Bhindisaida police for allegedly stealing Rs50,000 from a gurdwara golak. Among those booked are Satta Singh, Jarnail Singh, Mukha Singh and Manga Singh, all residents of Khassupur village. Baba Kulbir Singh of Jassraur village, told the police that he used to work as a granthi at Gurdwara Ber Sahib at Dharamkot village and lived in the accommodation on the gurdwara complex. He said on the intervening night of November 21 and 22, when he was sleeping in the room, the accused stole Rs50,000 from the golak. The incident came to light the next day. The accused were identified through the CCTV camera footage, it is learnt. The police authorities have booed the accused under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC and raids were on to nab the suspects. TNSMan held with 490-gm heroinAmritsar: The rural police have arrested a resident of Boparai Kalan village with 490-gm heroin. The accused has been identified as Sharanjit Singh, a photographer. The police had received a tip-off that the accused was coming towards Khasa from Boparai Kalan village in a truck. The police team set up a naka and arrested the accused. During the search, the police recovered the contraband. A case under NDPS Act was registered against him and further investigations were under progress. “Sharanjit was produced before a local court which sent him to two-day police remand,” said investigating officer Sub-inspector Baljit Singh. TNSEight declared PO by courtAmritsar: The local court declared eight persons, including a woman, as proclaimed offenders in separate cases of cheque bounce. The accused failed to appear before the court even after repeated reminders. Those declared POs are Jagjit Singh of Khaparkheri village, Jaswant Rai of Putlighar area, Monika of Karampura, Satish Kumar of Rani Ka Bagh, Kulwant Singh of Preet Avenue, Indu Singh of Verka, Angrej Singh of Muradpura and Dilbagh Singh of Neshta village in Attari subdivision. According to the police, the cases pertains to year 2018-2019. They said efforts were on to nab them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/revolver-stolen-from-car-glovebox-345837
03-12-2021||Amritsar||Sports Day at DAV Public School||IIM launches leadership programmeIIM, Amritsar, has launched programme ‘Leading In Next Normal’, which commenced on November 29 and will go on till December 4. This six-day virtual Leadership Development Programme (LDP) will help professionals in acquire strategic and functional-level analytical skills to lead an organisation. It will provide a platform to share varied best practices from their organisations and discuss contextual challenges that impact the overall industry. This training aims at helping the officers of IOCL transition to the next leadership level. At the inaugural ceremony on Thursday, Director IIM congratulated IOCL for their developmental interventions for the officers and stressed the importance of continuous learning. Vippin Kumar Jain, Chief General Manager, e-learning and development explained the importance of “Project Saksham” and various competency-based leadership development initiatives at IOCL.GNDU admissions till Dec 15Department of Lifelong Learning of the Guru Nanak Dev University is running skill-based six-month certificate courses in cutting and tailoring and beauty culture courses for matric pass girls. Similarly, the courses of web designing, English speaking and communication skills and computer basic concept for boys and girls with Class XII qualification. The last date of admission has been pushed to December 15. For further information students can visit university website www.gndu.ac.in/lifelong/default.aspx.Voter awareness activity organisedAmritsar: A voter awareness campaign was held at Government School, Kot Khalsa under SVEEP activity. The students were made aware about voting procedure and the nodal officer and his team informed about the new voter registration form number 6, the form for vote trimming, and details in voter cards via Form no 8 that can be filled for correction. This form is available to the general public through the National Service Portal NVSP. IN Or Voter helpline app. It was also informed that from November 30 onwards new voters will be able to register their E-EPIC. On this occasion, a poster competition was conducted in the school and the importance of voting was explained to the children. The principal and other teachers of the school were present on this occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sports-day-at-dav-public-school-345836
03-12-2021||Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri||Tarn Taran Diary: A deadly cocktail of drugs and corruption||A student with many feathers in her capShehnazdeep Kaur, a student of Class XI of Dashmesh Privar International School (DPIS), Aima Kalan, has been adjudged the overall student by the Sahodaya School’s Complex on the Children’s Day. Jaswant Singh Khalsa, chairman of the DPIS, said, Shehnazdeep secured 82% marks in her Class X exam. She was the best player of the school and takes part in the curricular and takes active part in the cultural programmes organised in the area. She belongs to a very marginal farmer family and her father is an ad-hoc teacher in the SGPC-run school. Gurmeet Singh, father of Shehnazdeep Kaur, said he was proud of his daughter.Beware! Transformer oil thieves on the prowlThe mystery of missing thousands of litres of oil from one of the transformers installed in the 66 KV Power Sub Station, Naushehra Pannunan, during the employees’ strike has raised many eyebrows. Harpreet Singh, official of the power sub-station, said, the stolen oil was worth lakhs of rupees. Meanwhile, a number of transformers supplying power to the tube-wells too were stolen from Gandiwind Dhattal, Ruriwala, Marhana, Chamba Kalan and other villages during the period when the employees were on the strike. Sukhdev Singh, Angrej Singh, Balwant Singh and other residents of these villages said days when the Powercom employees were on strike, proved to be the golden days for the thieves who took advantage of the blackout in the villages.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-a-deadly-cocktail-of-drugs-and-corruption-345835
03-12-2021||Neha Saini||A self-made singer indeed!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 2A believer of "Where there is a will, there is a way," 23-year-old Ankit, who works as a salesman in a chemist shop, has released his first song. Harbouring dreams of becoming a professional singer, Ankit had trained himself for a while in music, but had to leave his training in between to support his family. He started working at the age of 19, while pursuing his studies. But his talent and passion made him work towards finding a way to achieve his dream.Ankit, who has adapted a stage name, V Mark, released his debut song titled Aaja Soniye few days back via digital platform. "I started learning music while in school and performed at school and college events. I had to leave my training to earn a livelihood. But I kept on training myself by watching YouTube videos and following online tutorials by some professional singers. I managed to save some money as launching a song is quite expensive deal these days," he shared. Ankit's father also works in a sales job. He spent 80k from his savings to produce and release his song through collaboration with independent musicians and production crew."Producing a song these days is quite expensive as you have to have backing of a music label or production house. But digital platforms also offer some hope for aspiring singers like me. It has been five days since my song has been released and I am quite happy with the response of my near and dear ones," he says.Ankit says that he wants to pursue singing career but he doesn't have much financial support. "I have to support my family. I usually work in a 9-hour shift so I mostly practice during night hours. I hope to continue my Riyaz and make it as a singer one day," he shares. For now, he is only happy to see his song get as many likes as it can.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-self-made-singer-indeed-345821
03-12-2021||---||Training on occupational health & safety||Amritsar, December 2A training programme on occupational health and safety was organised by the Director of Factories, Punjab and the Punjab Safety Council on the premises of Khanna Paper Mills Limited, Amritsar.Over 60 participants from the various industries situated in Amritsar attended the event. The different sessions were held on the subject of basic first aid and CPR, work permit system, behaviour-based safety and fire safety in industries.All topics were covered with practical demonstration. During the two-day programme, lectures were delivered by Dr Mrugesh Patel (Reliance Industries Limited), Manoj Mehta (Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala), Minhaj Gauhar (Khanna Paper Mills Limited) amd Gurpreet Singh (Khanna Paper Mills Limited).The programme was inaugurated by Ishu Sangar, Deputy Director Factories. He said the occupational safety and health should be adopted as the core value in industries. He emphasised on raising awareness on these issues.The valedictory session was addressed by BM Khanna and Renu Khanna, Chairman, Khanna Paper Mills Limited. Khanna also distributed the award of honour to the faculties and certificates to participants||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/training-on-occupational-health-safety-345820
03-12-2021||---||'Catch the Rain' project launched||Amritsar, December 2Nehru Yuva Kendra, Amritsar, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India, is running Jal Shakti Abhiyan “Catch the Rain” project in the district on behalf of Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India.A meeting of Youth Clubs and National Youth Volunteers was held along with representatives of schools and colleges in city. District Youth Officer Akanksha Mahawaria informed the Youth Clubs and national youth volunteers about this programme and launched a poster of this programme.The youth clubs in various villages, schools and colleges will initiate ground-level campaign to implement the directives under the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/catch-the-rain-project-launched-345819
03-12-2021||Amritsar||'Kisan morcha will not end till our demands are met'||Responding to speculations that farmers would leave Delhi agitation, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee leaders claimed that the agitation would not end until Centre assures farmers of the MSP and fulfils other demands.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab, state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the Union Agriculture Minister was misleading the nation about the number of martyrs of the farmer struggle. He said no written document had been received on the withdrawal of police cases on farmers, amendment in Pollution Act and power bill. The agitation will continue until the demands were met.State senior vice-president Swainder Singh Chatala, said Centre doesn’t have any data on the number of martyrs of the agitation. However, postmortem of all martyrs during the agitation at Delhi border has been done. Total 689 farmers and labourers have been martyred.“Neither the Pollution Act nor the Electricity Bill has been amended. The Delhi Police and the Railway Police are also under the Centre and they didn’t cancel cases against farmers. No action has been taken against the Lakhimpur Kheri accused Ajay Mishra. Therefore, this morcha will continue,” said Pandher. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kisan-morcha-will-not-end-till-our-demands-are-met-345818
03-12-2021||---||Agri laws repealed now, BJP resumes political activities||Amritsar, December 2After repealing the three contentious agri laws, the local BJP leadership resumed its political activities. The farmers’ unions are also not interrupting their function after repealing the agri laws. Rajesh Honey, who contested against Navjot Sidhu from East constituency, displayed his campaign material and initiate public meetings.Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik is also conducting public meetings in various areas of the city. The state BJP has already announced that the party will contest all 117 seats and create history with a thumping majority.District BJP president Suresh Mahajan said: “The demands of farmers have been addressed. Now there is no conflict and our functions are being organised.” State BJP president Ashwani Sharma, too, came to Amritsar on Wednesday to attend a meeting held at Shaheed Harbans Lal Khanna Memorial office of the BJP.In view of the 2022 Assembly elections, the BJP has been working towards strengthening the organisational structure of the party. The state president has scheduled tour of all Assembly constituencies of the state. Sharma called upon workers to mobilise support in their respective areas to make party candidates victorious in the five Assembly seats. He asked workers to make people aware about the people-friendly policies of the Centre and expose the Congress government in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-laws-repealed-now-bjp-resumes-political-activities-345817
03-12-2021||---||Students bear the brunt as classes remain suspended in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 2Total education bandh, due to the strike called in by PFUCTO and PCCTU, had an impact on the academics as classes remained suspended in major colleges in the city on the Day 2 of the bandh. DAV College, Hathi Gate, suspended all classes till further notice. Dr Rajesh Kumar, principal, DAV College said the situation was uncertain as no teaching was possible under current circumstances. “We have informed the students about the situation and it is unfortunate that studies had to bear the brunt.”Khalsa College too suspended some of its classes as 70-80 of its teaching faculty participated in the education bandh call. Principal Dr Mehal Singh said the college management was accessing the situation and will only act according to the best interest of students and teachers. “The ad-hoc and contractual faculty is continuing with classes. Online classes are no longer being held. The indefinite bandh call might delay the semester end exams due in this month,” he said. Meanwhile, the protest cum dharna entered into second day as teachers observed dharna in front of respective Principal offices / college gates in every college including DAV College, Khalsa College, DAV College of Education, Hindu College, Khalsa College for Women, SN College, Khalsa College of Education, BBK DAV College for Women, SDS Pherumaan College, Rayya, SR Government College and GND university, Amritsar. Five members from DAV College, Khalsa College and BBK DAV College will sit on the hunger strike at their respective colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-bear-the-brunt-as-classes-remain-suspended-345816
03-12-2021||---||Free, disabled-friendly shuttle service for PwDs at GNDU soon||Amritsar, December 2About 15 per cent of the world’s population, 3 per cent of India and 2.5 per cent of Punjab’s population suffers from disability. International Day of Persons with Disabilities, that falls on December 3, has a specific theme every year.The theme for this year is ‘Fighting for Rights in the Post-Covid Era’. Given the push towards equal rights and opportunity for People with Disabilities (PwDs), GNDU has announced a series of initiatives and infrastructure for PWD students and faculty. Prof Sunil Kumar, nodal officer, equal opportunity cell, GNDU and Associate Professor of Hindi Department, briefed about the changes brought about on campus to facilitate PWDs.“GNDU has various scholarships for disabled students including fee waiver. An ‘Equal Partnership Cell’ has been set up for PWDs with a nodal officer and grievance redressal officer. The university will soon run free on-campus bus service with disabled-friendly features to tackle accessibility issues. We have already constructed lifts, ramps, railings and special unisex toilets for the disabled in every department and administrative building. Special counselling centre has been opened for PwDs and our Health Centre provides free daily check-ups and proper care and medicines,” he said.GNDU had recently announced BEd in Special Education to train teachers and faculty in the field of special education. The varsity has also set up a specially designed optimised computer lab for the disabled in Bhai Gurdas Library.“Student volunteers have been prepared to assist in various activities. All possible help is given to persons with disabilities to prepare for competitive examinations, for employment and placement and to encourage them to participate in Paralympic games,” said Prof Sunil Kumar.Kumar said besides the infrastructural help, society must change the indifferent attitude towards PwDs. “People with disabilities come under the ‘world’s largest minority’. The feeling of discrimination between the common man and the physically disabled people living in society has to be eliminated. PWDs have to be made aware of their rights. Inferiority has to be removed from the mind and serious efforts are necessary to connect with the mainstream of society.”International Day of Persons with Disabilities||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/free-disabled-friendly-shuttle-service-for-pwds-at-gndu-soon-345815
03-12-2021||Amritsar||Five robbers held with daggers, bike in Amritsar||Acting of a tip-off, the Islamabad police on Thursday arrested five robbers and recovered two mobile phones, three daggers and a bike from them.Those arrested have been identified as Deepak, Gagan and Rohit, both residents of Khandwala; Davinder Singh, alias Vishal, of Putlighar area and Harman Kumar, alias Gol Gappa, of Kot Khalsa.One of their accomplices identified as Kacha of Wadali area managed to slip from the spot. Sub-Inspector Sulakhan Singh, Investigating Officer in the case, said the police got specific input that the accused used to rob people by pointing sharp weapons at them and that they were hiding at a secluded place near Joura Batha Bohri Sahib Road and were planning some loot. Following this, a raid was conducted and five of them were arrested. He said the police confiscated three daggers from them on the spot besides recovering two mobile phones and a bike. Antecedents of the bike were being verified and raids were on to nab their sixth accomplice. A case under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC was registered against them. The accused reportedly confessed to committing robberies in Ranjit Avenue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-robbers-held-with-daggers-bike-345814
03-12-2021||---||Amritsar youth's murder: No arrest even after 4 days||Amritsar, December 2Even after four days, the police are yet to nab the suspects in connection with the alleged murder of Hoshiarpur youth during a birthday celebration on the intervening night of November 29 and 30 in Anand Vihar locality on Jhabal Road.Paramvir Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Central, said six police teams are on job and carrying out raids at the suspected hideouts of the accused.The police had booked five persons Mandeep Singh, Vivek, Rahul, Prince and Raghu on the charge of murder of Saurav Kumar (26), a wholesaler of vegetable and fruits in Hoshiarpur district.The ACP said during preliminary probe, it was found that a birthday celebration was going on at a residence in Anand Vihar locality, where all participants were heavily drunk. Several of them apparently indulged in firing, which led to Saurav’s death and injuries to two others. He suffered three bullet injuries, one of which pierced through his throat, which led to his death.According to people, the revellers were firing indiscriminately and there was panic among inhabitants. One of the accused is reportedly a close relative of a prominent politician. The police have recovered four empty bullet shells of .32 bore.The family members of the deceased said Saurav got a call from his friend Vivek on his wife’s mobile, where he was invited to come to Amritsar to attend a birthday party of Mandeep Singh, alias Mandy. Saurav along with his driver and brother reached Amritsar late in the evening. The incident occurred around 12 midnight.The police said the accused had switched off their mobiles. The six police parties were raiding at different locations to nab the accused.“We are hoping to nab them soon,” the ACP said.How it all happened||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youths-murder-no-arrest-even-after-4-days-345813
03-12-2021||---||Main demands accepted, PSPCL staff call off protest||Amritsar, December 2In a respite for general public, the protesting Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) employees have called off their protest against the management after it accepted its prominent demand of revision in pay bands.The protest by PSPCL employees had entered the 18th day on Thursday. After the decision by the employees’ unions to call off the stir, the employees at some of the offices joined duties and accepted electricity bills from consumers.The protesting employees had been on mass casual leave for the last 18 days. The unions had extended the protest till December 7 after a meeting on Wednesday as PSPCL management had failed to implement the demands earlier accepted by it. However, the management accepted the main demand of the employees after which the unions decided to soften their stance.Rajinder Singh, president of Technical Services Union (Vaigyanik group) said the only pending issue is the notification regarding holidays during the protest.“Till now, the management has been considering the protesting employees who had availed their casual leave as absent from duty. We have demanded from the management to consider us on leave for the period.” He said the management has decided to take a decision in this regard till December 5. He said unions would take the next decision after December 5, if the management failed to fulfil its promise.PSPCL employees had earlier initiated the protest on 32 issues, including regularisation of contractual workers, correction of anomalies in pay commission report, implementation of better pay bands, revival of old pension scheme, initiation of free power for new retirees.The employees had also demanded recruitment on vacant posts to reduce the workload on the existing staff. They have also been demanding a stop on recruitment through outsourcing companies. Residents complained that long delay in rectifying the faults in the power transmission lines was resulting in non-availability of electricity for long hours.“There was no one to respond to complaints. Had the protest been held in the summer season, it could have been troublesome for consumers. It is good that the employees have ended the protest,” said Kewal Kumar, a resident. The protest was being supported by field workers, clerical staff, pensioners and technicians of the power corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/main-demands-accepted-pspcl-staff-call-off-protest-345812
03-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||After declaring truce,  ANM, MPHW staff postpone stir for three days||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 2Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANM) and Multipurpose Health Workers (MPHW) announced to postpone their protest against Health Minister OP Soni for three days after he assured them to take up the issue of regularisation with the state government.However, the employees said the protest outside the residence of PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu would continue. The ANMs and MPHWs had blocked the Bhandari Bridge on Wednesday after they failed to get any response from the Health Minister. The protest on the bridge, which is the lifeline of the city, had resulted in long traffic jams.Later, the district administration managed to persuade the employees to lift the blockade on the assurance that a meeting with the Health Minister would be held on Thursday.Contract Health and Multipurpose Female Workers’ Union vice-president Sukhbir Kaur said: “Most of the ANMs were employed on contract in 2006 and 2008. Now, as the government is claiming to regularise 33,000 workers, our case is not being considered even as we fulfil all criteria.” She said presently, the ANMs were being paid around Rs20,000 per month. “We have managed to get this salary after nearly 15 years of service. Initially, the salaries were very low,” she said.The ANMs are instrumental in ensuring delivery of mother and child care services in the state. Even the mother mortality rate (MMR) and infant mortality rate (IMR) reduction in state has been made possible due to their vigilance as they keep a check on each and every pregnancy and child delivery in their areas. Recently, during the Covid vaccination drive, the employees engaged in ensuring vaccination of residents in their areas.The employees leaders said due to the indifferent attitude of the government, around 3,000 workers in the state were working at low salaries hoping that one day their efforts would be recognised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-declaring-truce-staff-postpone-stir-for-three-days-345811
03-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Omicron scare: Passengers from countries  'at risk' being tested at Amritsar airport||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 2In the wake of threat from the new Covid variant — Omicron, the authorities at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport have initiated rapid PCR test for passengers arriving from countries at risk.The airport and state authorities engaged some private agencies to conduct the rapid PCR with accula technique, which can test 40 passengers in an hour. The authorities claimed that all passengers arriving from Rome and UK (Birmingham and London) are being tested at the airport.VK Seth, director, Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, said: “Following the directions of the government, we have initiated testing of passengers arriving from three destinations. We also conducting rapid PCR test of those passengers, who have a travel history in countries at risk in the last 45 days. In case someone tests positive, we will immediately inform the state authorities to quarantine the passenger. No passenger has tested positive so far.”The airport authorities and district administration had a meeting on the arrangement on Tuesday evening. The district administration have arranged private laboratories for rapid PCR test to save the time of passengers at the airport. The rapid PCR test report prepares within five hours and the passengers are allowed to leave after getting a negative report. Generally, passengers will have to stay at the airport for six hours to get the report.Apart from this, the airport authorities conduct random RT-PCR test for passengers arriving from those countries where Omicron cases are not reported. The passengers arriving from countries at Omicron risk are being asked to go for home quarantine for seven days on the directions of state government.Two test +ve in districtAmritsar: With two positive cases, the district Covid tally increased to 47,432 on Thursday. The district, at present, has a total of eight active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 10,009 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday. Of these, 3,711 residents received the first dose of the vaccine, while 6,298 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/omicron-scare-passengers-from-countries-at-risk-being-tested-at-amritsar-airport-345807
