04-12-2021||Tarn Taran||4 booked for abducting girl||Differently-abled give memo to DCTarn Taran: On the International Day of Persons with disabilities, the state unit of the Angheen and Blind Union, Punjab, presented a demand charter to Kulwant Singh, DC, here on Friday. The union led by Lakhbir Singh Saini, state president, demanded reservation in the institutions in local self government such as panchayats, municipal corporations etc. Reservation quota to be raised from 4 per cent to 10 per cent in the jobs, Rs 5,000 pension across the nation under ‘One Nation-One Pension’. ocOne arrested with weaponTarn Taran: The police arrested Sajan, alias Ghanna, of Ekta Nagar on the Chamrang road, for allegedly possessing an illegal weapon. ASI Vinod Kumar said the police intercepted him during patrolling on the Majitha road. He said the police got suspicious of his activities and during search, they recovered a .32 bore pistol with two live bullets. A case under the Arms act was registered against him and further investigations were under progress to ascertain the source of the weapon. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-booked-for-abducting-girl-346185
04-12-2021||Amritsar||One held in Amritsar for making fake Aadhaar Cards||The Civil Lines police have arrested a man who was allegedly involved in the preparing fake Aadhaar Cards. The accused was identified as Gurpreet Singh aka Babbu, a resident of Guru Amardas Colony in Naraingarh area in Chheharta.The police has a tip-off about the accused following which a trap was laid. He used to work in the court complex area. A case has been registered against him while further investigations were under progress after taking him into police remand. The police confiscating a computer and other material used in the making the fake Aadhaar cards.The investigating officer, said the police got a specific input that Gurpreet was involved in preparing fake Aadhaar Cards. Following the investigation was carried out a cop was sent to him posing as customer for preparing an Aadhaar Card. He said he took Rs 500 from the cop and with 10 minutes made an Aadhaar card. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-in-amritsar-for-making-fake-aadhaar-cards-346184
04-12-2021||Amritsar||Five booked for abetting suicide||Two weeks after a youth died under mysterious circumstances in Gate Hakima police station area, the police have booked five persons, including two women, on the charges of abetment to suicide. The deceased has been identified as Arun Kumar (22). Those booked are Sanjna, her father Bittu, Bittu’s mother Goga and brother Sema, all residing near Tarn Taran Civil Hospital and Kane of Pathankot area.Sub-inspector the police got information about mysterious death of Arun Kumar. In the autopsy report, the cause of death was cited to be asphyxia caused due to hanging. A case has been reistered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-abetting-suicide-346183
04-12-2021||A heavy security was thrown around AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Gurdaspur Diary: Kejriwal mesmerises Pathankot crowd||Tripat Bajwa leads from the frontAs elections draw near, politicians start doing different things differently. This time Tripat Bajwa held a spade and dug a part of the street in Fatehgarh Churian, which was later recarpeted. Workers accompanying him were stunned when Bajwa asked one of them to hand over a spade to him. His aides made sure some press photographers were near to click Bajwa’s opening shot. The street has since been re-carpeted. All eyes are on Bajwa for his next move!SAD leaders start election campaignIn many seats of Gurdaspur district, SAD leaders have started their campaigns. This is bound to hold them in good stead when it comes to the hustings. The BJP, AAP, BSP and the Congress have yet to announce their candidates. In Dera Baba Nanak, the SAD candidate Ravi Karan Kahlon, son of former Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon, reaches the first port of call before the sun rises. He covers 8-10 villages every day. He knows he has to work hard as he faces a formidable candidate in Dy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. Although the Congress has not made any official announcement, it is certain that Randhawa will contest from Dera Baba Nanak. The other Akali leaders who have started canvassing are Lakhbir Singh Lodhinanagal from Batala and Gurbachan Singh Babbehali from Gurdaspur.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-kejriwal-mesmerises-pathankot-crowd-346182
04-12-2021||---||International Disability Day observed at Pingalwara||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 3Bhagat Puran Singh Special School at Pingalwara, Manawala Branch, on Friday marked the International Disability Day with children with special needs performing cultural events. Slogan writing and paper reading competitions were held at the institute and folk dance was performed by special children on the occasion. President of Pingalwara Dr. Inderjit Kaur, Col. Darshan Singh Bawa Administrator, Jai Singh Administrator, Tilak Raj General Manager, among others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-disability-day-observed-at-pingalwara-346179
04-12-2021||Amritsar||Punjab International Trade Expo: Job demand up in tourism sector, says Sanjay Kumar||“There has been around 3% increase in jobs in tourism sector. It has climbed from 27% to 30% in recent years,” said Sanjay Kumar, Special Chief Secretary, Department of Cultural Affairs, Archives, Archeology and Museums.He was speaking during a seminar on tourism being organised by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry at 15th PITEX.He pointed out that Punjab has number of heritage places of historical importance while connectivity of Delhi-Katra road has not only increased the number of tourists but also new trends are emerging in this area.“Cultural tourism should be promoted in order to give international recognition to Amritsar and efforts were being made to establish Amritsar on international map. In the past few years, Punjab is also growing rapidly in the field of medical tourism,” he said.Speaking on the topic of Rural Entrepreneurship and Farm Tourism, Harkirat Singh, Convener of Tourism Committee of PHDCCI, said now village tourism was being promoted in a professional manner. Foreign tourists are now getting attracted towards village tourism and farm tourism of Punjab.Meanwhile, the 15th PITEX has been witnessing huge rush and business community are very excited by the crowd at the Punjab International Trade Expo being organised in Amritsar in collaboration with the Punjab Government. Huge enthusiasm among people is being seen on the second day in the PITEX happening after two years due to Corvid. Amit Arora, the operator of the furniture mall, told that he has been coming here from last 3 years, this time people were eagerly waiting for PITEX as it could not be held due the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-international-trade-expo-job-demand-up-in-tourism-sector-says-sanjay-kumar-346175
04-12-2021||---||NHM staff hold rally in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 3Employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) seeking regularisation of their services had decided to return their appreciation letters and awards to the Health Department against the indifferent attitude of the state government.The NHM employees under the banner of NHM Union, Punjab, had been on the agitation path since November 29 demanding for the regularising of their services.They organised a rally in support of its current demand here on Friday in front of the Civil Surgeon’s office. The male and female employees across the district participated in the rally in a big number. Loveleen Kaur, district convener, led the agitation.District president Jasbir Singh, Mandeep Singh, Neeru Mannan, Harjit Kaur were among the other who addressed on the occasion.The leaders said that their associates rural doctors, pharmacists, Asha workers, Staff Nurses, Ministerial staff had been working in the health department with meagre salaries since the past 15 years but the state government had never think to regularise their services.The organisation decides to return their awards given to them for their remarkable services while serving during the period when Covid-19 was at its peak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nhm-staff-hold-rally-in-tarn-taran-346173
04-12-2021||Amritsar||Play highlights rich-poor divide||Dastak Theatre on Friday, in collaboration with the IAFA presented a play — Bhukkh Agg Hai — at Art Gallery. The act revolved around a girl, who is asked to write an essay on hunger by her teacher. Belonging to an elite family, she has no idea what hunger actually means. The story sensitively portrays the gap between elite class and the poor.The play written by Krishna Baldev Vaid, was directed by Rajender Singh, who also acted in it. Singh said, “The story shows the gap between those belonging to the affluent class and the poor and the under-privileged class. The meaning of hunger, sleeping on a hungry stomach will never be felt by those, who can afford to spend on lavish meals. The play will make people think about the latter. The treatment of the play is not serious though, it has message wrapped in some humour.”Amita Sharma, associate director on the play, said the play was a satire. It’s about the two classes that our society is divided into — the ones who can afford to buy at fancy eating joints and waste the food and the others who cannot afford even two square meals a day. The play has been one of the most critically acclaimed plays of hindi, but we performed it in Punjabi with minor variations of our own,” said Amita. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/play-highlights-rich-poor-divide-346169
04-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar: Youth kidnapped, thrashed five days ago succumbs in hospital||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 3A youth, who was kidnapped and brutally thrashed by several persons five days ago, succumbed to his injuries at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here.The police have recorded the statement of the deceased identified as Rahul and a case is being registered.However, the family members alleged that the accused thrashed Rahul on November 29 and a complaint was lodged with the Division D Police station in this connection. But, they failed to take any action against the accused in this connection.Ravinder Kumar, father of the deceased alleged that his son died in the noon today while no police official reached the hospital till late in the evening.While giving details, he told that on November 29 his son had gone to Chita Katra to procure for garments. He said he had given Rs 15,000 to him to be given to someone as payment. He said the accused including Tiddi, Pichhi, Sahil Mast, Shibu, Pratham, Nancy, Kali, Honey and several other persons with criminal background kidnapped him and took him to Khai Mohalla where he was brutally thrashed.The accused made a video of him in which his cloths were removed and e was being beaten brutally. The video was later uploaded on social media. He alleged the accused them dumped him in Ranjit Avenue area where a passerby informed the police. When he got a call from the police, the family reached the spot and rushed him to the hospital where he succumbed today. Mohit, brother of the deceased, alleged that they were getting threats from those who had killed his brother.Gaurav, a social worker, said it took five days for the police to register an FIR when the youth died in the hospital. The police failed to visit the hospital and record the statement of the victim who was under treatment here. “This gave ample chance to the accused to abscond,” he alleged.Harinder Singh, SHO Division D Police station said that a case is being registered following the statement of the victim’s family. He said raids were being carried out to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-youth-kidnapped-thrashed-five-days-ago-succumbs-in-hospital-346167
04-12-2021||---||Stepfather rapes minor, booked||Amritsar, December 3In a shocking incident, a minor girl was allegedly raped by her stepfather in Dudhala village falling under the Kathunangal police station here. The incident came to light when the girl reportedly got pregnant and narrated the entire incident to her mother.The accused, identified as Kashmir Singh, has been absconding following registration of an FIR under Sections 376, and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The victim’s mother, in her statement to the police, said, it was her second marriage and she had three children from the first marriage, a 10-year-old son, a 14-year-old daughter and another 8-year-old daughter. She said she was married to Kashmir Singh in 2016. She said she brought her children to Dudhala village after the marriage. She said yesterday, her elder daughter told her that on June 14, Kashmir Singh came home drunk and raped her. She said he threatened to kill her mother and other family members in case she revealed this to anybody. She said her daughter got pregnant later on.Perturbed over this, she lodged a complaint with the police while the accused got absconding after the incident came to light. The police said medical examination of the girl was being conducted while raids were on to nab Kashmir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stepfather-rapes-minor-booked-346166
04-12-2021||---||Services hit at government medical hospital in Amritsar as strikes cripple normal functioning||Amritsar, December 3Strikes marred the functioning of the Government Medical College and hospital on Friday. The junior resident doctors as well as the expelled safai sewaks held a sit-in seeking fulfilment of their demands.The junior doctors observed a complete strike today. It disrupted the medical services as they are the main medical workforce in all departments of the hospital.They are asking the government to conduct the counseling for the NEET PG at the earliest. Due to delay in the counseling new staff is not joining, resulting in the pressure of work on the junior doctors who are also pursuing their post-graduation. They said overburdening of work had been disrupting their daily study schedule.These departments are X-ray, orthopedics, surgery, medicine, pathology, micro-biology, forensic, bio-chemistry, paediatrics, gynae and others. They held a protest outside the OPD. Even MRI, CT scan, ultrasound and all kind of labs were also closed.Jaswinder Singh of Lopoke village stated that he had specifically come to get some tests conducted for his aged father. “Now, I will have to get these tests conducted from outside which are very expensive.” There were many patients like Jaswinder who came from different parts of the district but had to return disheartened.Indefinite strike by expelled safai sewaks of government-run hospitals entered the third day on Friday.Protesters, with most of them being women, said, they were hired eight to 15 years ago. Initially, they were paid Rs 2,700 per month, later it was increased to Rs 3,500.Their strength was around 150 and nearly half of them were expelled from job after the Covid-19 period. They said now, around 50 of them assembled here, seeking re-appointment. At the time of expulsion, they were drawing a monthly salary of Rs 6,000. Ved Prakash Babloo, former president of AAP district youth wing, also participated in the protest along with the safai sewaks. He questioned the system of the government with regard to class fourth staff.He said they had carried out main job during the Covid-19 period. Instead of rewarding them, most of them were shunted out. He said there was an indefinite strike and it would be lifted after their demands are accepted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/services-hit-at-government-medical-hospital-in-amritsar-as-strikes-cripple-normal-functioning-346165
04-12-2021||---||Punbus, PRTC contractual workers block access to Amritsar ISBT||Amritsar, December 3Seeking regularisation of the contractual staff, members of the Punbus and PRTC Contract Worker Unions will go ahead with indefinite strike across the state from December 6.Today, they blocked access to the Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) for two hours to protest against the government for not accepting their demands. Raising slogans against the government, they squatted on the floor from 10 am to 12 pm.The government was caught offguard as they did not have any alternate arrangement in place to handle the situation. A passenger Parminder Singh said there was nobody to guide passengers at the ISBT. It was only through word of mouth that he came to know that private buses were plying from outside. It was convenient for passengers arriving at the bus stand but difficult for those who want to catch bus to reach their necessary destinations.Kuljit Singh, president, PUNBUS contractual Workers Union, said about 7,500 contractual workers employed with the PUNBUS and PRTC across the state will not join the duty from Monday. “Even after repeated assurances, the government have not regularised them. About 400 contractual workers are employed in two depots of this city only.” Citing his personal case, he said he had been working as a cashier on a contractual basis for the past over 12 years.He stated that majority of them have been working for six years and even more. As per the norms of the Department of Transport, the financed buses being plied under the PUNBUS after paying off their loans would be merged in the Punjab Roadways. However, the same rule is not employed for the staff as they continue to be employed on contract. Buses under the Punjab Roadways are driven by regularised staff and no workers are employed under contract in it. Commuters plying their vehicles on the roads around the ISBT underwent a harrowing traffic hassles as passenger buses, being plied by private transporters, indulged in boarding and de-boarding passengers on roads.Traffic was beyond management for traffic cops. Rupinder Kaur Marwaha, a commuter, said it was almost impossible to move ahead from the traffic jam in the GT road, adjoining the bus stand. As buses were parked on the road, the police personnel were trying to pressurise drivers to drive ahead their vehicles.On contract for the past 12 yearsKuljit Singh, president, PUNBUS contractual Workers Union, said, about 7,500 contractual workers employed with the PUNBUS and PRTC across the state will not join the duty from Monday. "Even after repeated assurances, the government have not regularised them. About 400 contractual workers are employed in two depots of this city only." Citing his personal case, he said he had been working as a cashier on a contractual basis for the past over 12 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punbus-prtc-contractual-workers-block-access-to-amritsar-isbt-346164
