05-12-2021||The 15th edition of PITEX||PITEX: Back with a bang!||A premier trade and business exhibition organised by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry — PITEX is one of the biggest consumer oriented event in the region including Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. The annual trade fair invites a lot of business, locally as well as internationally, as it hosts exhibitors from not just India, but from across the Indian sub-continent. Missing out on the event last year due to the pandemic, PITEX returned this year with a bang, with more than 400 exhibitors, attracting massive footfall on first two days. The stand out feature of the annual event is the exquisite and exclusive craftwork that is displayed from India and other countries. This year, among the Indian states, UP has maximum stalls, while international exhibitors include handicrafts from Iran, Afghanistan, Egypt, Dubai, Thailand, Turkey. Exhibitors from Jalandhar, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana and Amritsar, too, are upbeat regarding this year’s edition in hope for a revival of B2B activities. Most popular picks this year are brassware and crafts from Moradabad, Jamdani from Kashmir, hand-crafted ceramicware from Turkey, wood work from Haryana and UP, minakari from Rajasthan, exquisite crafts from Iran, jute made products from Ghazipur and hand-made Punjabi jutti from Patiala. Take a look and grab your shopping bags….||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pitex-back-with-a-bang-346336
05-12-2021||Amritsar||Protesting Punbus workers booked||Two teens abductedTarn Taran: A resident of Pakhopur village, with the help of a fake Aadhaar card got married to a teenaged girl in court whom he abducted two weeks ago from Gandiwind Dhattal village. The mother of the victim said Jobanjit Singh, the accused, abducted her daughter on November 22 from the village. Jobanjit fraudulently changed the date of birth as October 21, 2002, while her exact date of birth was October 21, 2005. The accused produced the birth certificate in court and got married. The accused has been booked under Sections 417, 363 and 366 of the IPC. In another incident, a teenager was abducted from Nagoke village on the intervening night of October 24 and 25 by some unidentified person. The Verowal police have registered a case under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC. OCJagwinder Singh is DEO Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Jagwinder Singh Lehri PES took charge as the District Education Officer (EE) on Saturday succeeding Rajesh Kumar Sharma, who has been transferred as DEO (EE) Amritsar. Jagwinder was previously working as DEO (EE) Fatehgarh Sahib. He belongs to Tarn Taran. Meanwhile, Harbhagwant Singh assumed charge as local DEO (secondary) on Saturday succeeding Satnam Singh Bath, who had been transferred as DEO (EE) Fazilka. OC2 mobile phones seized from jailAmritsar: The Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated two mobile phones from the jail complex. One of them was seized from a jail inmate, while another was found abandoned. The police have booked a prisoner Tarsem Singh, alias Sema, of Bhaini Rajputan. He was in possession of a keypad mobile phone of Samsung brand. The police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against him. TNSTourist robbed of mobile phoneAmritsar: A Chennai resident fell prey to a snatcher, when he was returning from Attari-Wagah joint check post after witnessing the beating the retreat ceremony. Jai Kishan Malani, the victim, said he along with his wife Nidhi had come to Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and watch the retreat ceremony. He said they were returning in an auto-rickshaw, when a bike-borne person snatched his iPhone-11. A case was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesting-punbus-workers-booked-346337
05-12-2021||---||Murder, kidnapping: 11 booked, three held in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 4A day after a youth succumbed to his injuries at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here on Friday, the police have launched a manhunt to nab the suspects.As many as 11 persons have been booked for kidnapping, illegal detention and murder and three of them have been arrested. The deceased was identified as Rahul, a resident of Judge Nagar locality. He used to work at a toy shop in IDH market near the bus stand here.The police have nabbed Rahul, Rohit and Pusham in this connection, while raids were on to nab the remaining suspects who are at large after the victim died in hospital. Baldev Singh, Sub-InspectorThose booked are Rohit, alias Nanu; Pusham, both residents of Khai Mohalla; Sahil Mast; and Kala Mattu of Chhota Haripura; Pratham; Shibu of Khai Mohalla; Danish Bhagat, alias Bhichi, of Vadda Haripura; Vishal, alias Chhota Don, of Shakti Nagarl; Rahul, alias Billa, of Vadda Haripura, Ritik Malhotra of Khai Mohalla and Honey Mattu of Haripura.SI Baldev Singh said the police have nabbed Rahul, Rohit and Pusham in this connection, while raids were on to nab the remaining suspects who absconded after the victim died in hospital.He said a case under Sections 302, 364, 341, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25/27/54/59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them.Ravinder Kumar, father of the deceased, said on November 29, his son had gone to Chita Katra to procure garments. He said he had given Rs15,000 to him, which was to be given to someone as payment. He said the accused kidnapped him and took him to Khai Mohalla, where he was brutally thrashed after removing his clothes. The accused also made a video of him when he was being beaten brutally. The video was later uploaded on social media. He alleged that the accused dumped him in Ranjit Avenue area, where a passerby informed the police. When he got a call from the police, the family reached the spot and rushed him to the hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-kidnapping-11-booked-three-held-in-amritsar-346338
05-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Trade expo helping self-help group women in beating Covid blues||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 4Ranjit Kaur, a state award winner, who runs a self-help group to empower rural women also sets her stall at on-going Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX) at Ranjit Avenue in the city. Ranjit Kaur has written her success story with hard work and dedication. Her husband Jasbir Singh, a resident of Mullewal village, had adopted beekeeping as subsidiary occupation. With the motivation of experts at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Jasbir and Ranjit Kaur attended training sessions to make pickles, Sharbat, Jam and other food processing and preservation techniques.Ranjit Kaur initiated the processing of food in 2009 and shared her practical experience other women from village. Jasbir Singh helped them in the marketing of product. Within two year, 12 woman of the village got registered self-help group named Swani. They started preparing organic pickles, jams and other agro products under good hygienic condition. Swani has become a brand name and various government agencies supported them to flourish their business.Ranjit Kaur visits in all major fairs organised by various agencies of state government, including Kisan Melas and SARAS melas. They also got a mobile van to visit various cities and towns to sell the products.However, the outbreak of pandemic in 2020 hit their business as all fairs and public gatherings were restricted. Swani, a self-help group, produced the pickles and jams in bulk but got no place to sell it. “We are recovering from the crisis as carnivals and fairs resumed. We have now variety of pickles and jams. The PITEX is good platform for exhibition of products”. Ranjit’s pickles and other products are attracting the customers in the expo.‘Parking fee being charged illegally’Shopkeepers and residents at Ranjeet Avenue market, adjoining PITEX ground, opposed the charging of parking fee being levied by contractors hired by PITEX organisers. Some social activist raised issue that the organisers gave parking contract to some private player to manage vehicles parked open on the ground. The parking contractor should collect fee for parking on the designated space. But the contractor is charging parking fee from adjoining Pizzeria market in Ranjit Avenue, which is on the land of Amritsar Improvement Trust. Varun Sareen, an RTI activist, said: “The parking mafia is illegally operating in market in name of PITEX. They are issuing slips of PITEX 2019 and overcharging for vehicles. When we asked from AIT officials, they confirmed that no one got any permission to charge for parking at Ranjit Avenue market. We demanded an inquiry as to who was collecting the fee illegally?” Harpandeep Singh Aujla, area councillor, reached and supported residents and shopkeepers. He also demanded action against illegal collection of parking fee. Some visitors at PITEX claimed that Rs100 was being charged for a car and the slip was being issued of Rs20. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trade-expo-helping-self-help-group-women-in-beating-covid-blues-346339
05-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Miscreant dressed as cop loots bank at gunpoint||Tarn Taran, December 4Two armed robbers, one in a police uniform, robbed Rs30.65 lakh from the local HDFC Bank branch on Saturday at gunpoint.The bank is situated on Jandiala Road, which is one of the busiest roads in town, and is exactly opposite the residence of local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, where the police are deployed round the clock.Bank Manager Harwinder Singh Sandhu said one of the robbers who was in police uniform trespassed the bank premises and instructed all bank employees and customers to gather at the corner. He warned that in case anybody dared to raise an alarm, he would be shot dead.The other associate of the robber remained outside the bank on his bike.The robber who entered the bank premises reached the cash counter which was open. He put the cash in his bag and both escaped towards the Khalsapur Road.DSP Barjinder Singh said the police are checking the CCTV camera of the bank, in which the masked robber who trespassed the bank has been captured. He expressed hope that it would help the police in its investigation. He said the security guard of the bank had no weapon and he remained a mere spectator.SSP Harwinder Singh Virk and other higher police officials reached the spot to collect first-hand information.The robbery raises questions regarding the police vigil as they failed to nab the robbers at any naka installed at all entry points of the town. The police have registered a case under relevant sections of the IPC and Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/miscreant-dressed-as-cop-loots-bank-at-gunpoint-346340
05-12-2021||---||ASHA workers continue to boycott work||Amritsar, December 4The two-day strike by ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union to demand an increase in their wages under the Minimum Wages Act and to comply with their other departmental demands continued for the second day on Saturday.Apart from fake announcements, the govt neither has time nor policy for ASHA workers, facilitators and other health workers. On the one hand we are declared Covid warriors and on the other, the government is choosing to ignore us by not giving due rights to those who fought on the frontline during the pandemic. Paramjit Kaur Mann, Union leaderOn the second day of the strike, ASHA workers and facilitators boycotted all their duties and protested against the Punjab Government by staging dharnas at various basic community health centres, including Manawala, Baba Bakala, Tarsikka, Lopoke, Verka and Ramdas.Union leaders Paramjit Kaur Mann said the Congress government led by Charanjit Singh Channi was in a dilemma. “Apart from fake announcements, they have neither time nor policy for ASHA workers, facilitators and other health workers on ground. As a result, ASHA workers and facilitators across Punjab have gone on strike for two days. We will also participate in numbers at the rally announced on December 5 in Jalandhar.”She said if the Punjab Government was evading the implementation of minimum wage, then on what basis would the private sector legislate the minimum wage? “On one hand we are declared as Covid warriors and on the other, the government is choosing to ignore us by not giving due rights to these warriors who fought on the frontline during the pandemic,” said Mann.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asha-workers-continue-to-boycott-work-346341
05-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Poor patients at receiving end, courtesy medicos' strike||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 4The protest by junior resident doctors-cum-postgraduate students at Government Medical College, who are demanding joining of the new batch of students, has nearly paralysed the medical services for the poor.The Resident Doctors’ Association has already intensified the protest from two hours daily boycott of OPD initially to full day boycott of OPD and operation theatres for the last two days.Though the national body of the resident doctors has already given a call for boycott of emergency services, too, the residents at GMC have still not taken a decision in this regard.Sunita Devi, a resident of Kot Khalsa, said: “All private doctors charge over Rs300 as OPD fee per visit. Some of them charge around Rs750 per visit. The poor cannot afford them. We can only visit government hospitals, which charge Rs5 or Rs10 for OPD.” She said similar is the case with other charges for medical services. Even though the services at government hospitals are comparatively poor, the poor have no other option.RDA president Dr Sahil Kondal said: “We do not want the poor patients to suffer. Our objective is to highlight our grievances so that these are resolved at the earliest.” He said Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister Raj Verka Verka has accepted their request for a meeting to discuss the issue on Sunday.The JRs who would be having their final exams in the month of May next year said due to shortage of JRs, as the first batch has not joined yet, they were unable to devote time for their academics. The JRs would be having their midterm exams in the month of December. After that, they are required to submit their research thesis by the end of January.A junior resident doctor said: “Around 200-225 students join as JR every year. So, at present we are short of this number. As a result, the remaining of us have to spend extra time at the OPD and operation theatres.” At GMC, the JRs hold the fort for senior faculty members, who are placed on-call and visit in case the junior residents or senior residents face a crisis.While in the absence of junior residents, senior residents and faculty members are continuing with their OPD and other duties, but the protest has crippled the delivery of services for poor patients. The JRs demanded that the counselling of the next batch be held at their earliest, so that the workload on them is reduced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poor-patients-at-receiving-end-courtesy-medicos-strike-346342
05-12-2021||---||No Omicron case reported from Punjab: Om Parkash Soni||Amritsar, December 4Putting an end to social media rumours, Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni on Saturday said no case of Omicron, the new variant of deadly coronavirus has been reported from Punjab so far.Soni, who also holds the portfolio of health, said the government was vigilant and all necessary steps were being taken in view of the safety of general public. He said 36 per cent of the population of the state has received the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Replying to a media query regarding protest by ANMs, Soni said the protesting employees should end their stir now as their demand was being considered by the state government. The ANMs are protesting against the government demanding regularisation of their services. Soni said the matter has been discussed with the CM and all justified demands of the employees would be accepted.He said the work on the Rs120 crore cancer institute at Government Medical College has been completed and it would become operational soon. He said the institute would be a boon for patients, who earlier had to go to PGI for treatment.Earlier, Soni flagged off awareness vans and a cycle rally from Bhai Dharam Singh Satellite Hospital, Ranjit Avenue, to create awareness about non-communicable diseases. He said the state government has screened a total of 31 lakh residents in the state of which 14.37 per cent are diabetics, 15.38 are suffering from hypertension and 0.35 per cent have been found suffering from different kinds of cancer. He said diseases such as diabetes and hypertension are easily preventable by making certain positive changes in lifestyle.No fresh covid case reported in districtAmritsar: The district Health Department did not report any positive case on Saturday. At present, the district has a total of eight active cases. Meanwhile, 11,886 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive. Of these, 4,398 have received the first dose of the vaccine, while 7,488 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-omicron-case-reported-from-punjab-om-parkash-soni-346343
