06-12-2021||Form high-powered vigilance panel||OPEN HOUSE: Is fixing sand price enough to address this age-old mining menace without reining in mafia?||In our country our politicians are always attracted to any business in which government permission in form of licence, permit, quota etc. is necessary and with one time investment (made by illegal means) and chances of regular returns are pretty well. Now just recollect the old days of ration depot holders, cement dealers openly black-marketing kerosene, sugar and cement respectively. Then they switched over to cinema halls and cold storages. By this time petrol pumps, gas agencies fell in their kitty. Afterwards our politicians got the title of colonisers, transporters, liquor barons, sugar mill owners etc. At present they just acquire the partnership in big business houses without any investment and their supporters join the infamous business of sand, drug or cable mafia. Hence there is no end to it. The only solution to this problem is to have a high powered vigilance commission at the centre with branches in all states and its members should be retired police, administrative officers and financial experts to regularly scrutinise the assets of politician in the country. Its jurisdiction should be confined to scrutinising the assets of politicians only. Let the truth behind ‘Raj Nahi Sewa’ should be known to the poor countrymen.Naresh JoharPresent govt not keen to fight mafiaI clearly remember the long period when all production of cement factories was regularly gulped by our civil engineering projects like Bhakhra Nangal project and cement bags were rationed for the general public. The Department of Civil Supplies would inform applicants of their turn for two bags through their self-addressed post cards. The price of a bag of cement those days was Rs2.5 and that of sand and concrete a pittance. Then came ‘development’, which in our country is a close cousin of graft. We now have to pay more for concrete and sand than for cement. The sand mafia had learnt a simple lesson that they could dig up any amount of sand from any part of a river, free of cost, and then market the same on their own terms, courtesy links with the minister and apathy of the government. Thus, they have already mined millions of cubic feet from various sites in the state, never mind if their reckless digging has caused irreversible damage to our environment. Most of our bridges are exposed to risks of getting washed away during heavy rain. As a rule, well-marked sections of a canal or river are allotted and the allottee permitted to mine only up to sanctioned depth, and leave proof in the shape of unmined pyramidical pillars of sand. The height of hypocrisy is that cities are dotted with billboards announcing government rates of Rs5.5/cubic ft inviting only ridicule because sellers care two hoots. The loot goes on. This licenced loot started at the turn of this millennium and is at the peak these days with thousands of trucks carrying gravel/sand leaving mining sites daily and can be seen hawking their booty on the national highway in Amritsar. The present makeshift government does not seem keen or competent to fight this sand mafia.MOHAN SINGHGovt unaware of ground realityCM Charanjit Singh Channi had made an important announcement to stop sand mafia. He said the price of sand in the state has been fixed at Rs5.5 per cubic ft. However, even after the announcement, the prices of sand were not reduced. The CM also directed the Mining Department to ensure that sand and gravel should be available in the market at government rates while directing DCs and SSPs to keep check on it. At every turn, CM Channi has put up a board in which it is written that sand mafia has come to an end. Harpal Singh Cheema, LoP, said the sand mafia which has been going on for 20 years could not end without taking concrete steps. How will the sand mafia be eradicated by allowing landlords to extract and sell sand from their fields? This is not only a big question but also raises the suspicion that sand mafia will continue under the guise of landlord for 4-5 months. Sand is available at prices ranging between Rs25-30/cubic feet. Few days ago, CM Channi claimed that his government has ended sand mafia and reduced the prices of sand. Soon after, Mr Sidhu said mafia is still operating and sand is being at old prices.Sucha SagarConduct the survey of river ecosystemsThe brazen illegal and mechanised mining activities across the state have been irreversibly and irreparably affecting riverbank and biodiversity. The state government has failed to ensure sustainable sand mining practices. Successive governments in the state have miserably failed to name a single person associated with the sand mining mafia or to penalise a single official despite prolonged litigation and allegations of patronage by the ruling party legislators. It is alleged that sand mafia is being run by those sitting in the Assembly. Then how can populist declarations made by the government be enough to address the age-old menace without putting the mafia responsible for these illegal activities behind the bars? The government departments and the police appear to have turned a blind eye to the large scale illegal sand mining. The National Green Tribunal had often directed the government to take a strict action against the erring officials but of no avail. The government should conduct the survey of river ecosystems and take suitable steps to protect such river stretches which might be vulnerable and demarcate mine lease areas with pillars, fencing etc. Many sand mining laws are there but they are not implemented in letter and spirit. That is why illegal mining is taking place even on government land. So loopholes in the sand and gravel policy should be plugged.Tarsem S BumrahManufacture sand from crushing rocksRiver sand is considered as minor mineral. The demand for sand skyrocketed from the past few years due to increasing urban development. Several reports are witnessed with news related to illegal sand mining in various states. The prominent reason behind excessive mining is the good quality of sand, which need not to be processed. The administration has made numerous laws to rampant illegal mining but fails to comply with these. This activity has turn out to be disastrous for both environment and human lives as habitat of aquatic organisms have been ravaged and posing threats for groundwater recharge. The government should check on these practices by installing technological devices to keep vigilance on illegal miners and put them behind bars. There should be strict laws regarding rationale proportion of mining.Sukhmeet KaurState Govt must take corrective measuresThe government’s stand of reducing sand price to appease villagers is not justified. This is because age-old menace of mining sand continues uninterrupted without any action on mafia at all. The government has already failed in putting the mafia responsible for these illegal activities behind the bars. At least it can start now taking corrective measures and numerous steps to stop illegal mining and prevent riverbeds being ravaged.Sanjay ChawlaPrice cap just an election stuntThe claim by the government of reducing the sand price is just an election stunt to woo the voters. Many such claims are being made considering the fact that elections are just around the corner. The real mafia behind sand mining is not punished and the practice is continuing unabated in the state. The truth is that many politicians are hand in glove with the sand mafia for their own interests. They are unbothered about the negative effects that this malicious practice has towards the environment. Real action must be taken by the government as per the regulations and anyone found guilty must be punished severely.JATINDERPAL SINGH BATTHMafia should be handled very strictlySince long the sand mafia is busy in its illegal business under the political patronage. The people may not voice openly but they are clear who the local or state leaders are behind this practice. Reducing the sand price and expecting to get rid of this age old menace is utopian. Reason behind all this is the nexus between crime and crime controlling machinery. All of them are hand in glove with one another. The government in addition to its efforts to reduce the rate should also cleanse the law enforcement force. Without sincere efforts of the law makers and its executors nothing plausible is expected. There won’t be any exaggeration to say ‘spare the rod and spoil the child’ that is the mafia should be handled very strictly.Madhu SharmaQUESTIONPolitical parties offering freebies to people ahead of the elections is common. Instead of promising good governance or welfare measures, the parties prioritise giving sops to lure voters. Don't you think this freebie culture is against the basic principles of democracy? What is your opinion and how can we stop this practice?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 9)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-is-fixing-sand-price-enough-to-address-this-age-old-mining-menace-without-reining-in-mafia-346809
06-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Sand mafia active in Khemkaran: Gauravdeep Singh Valtoha||Tarn Taran, December 5The youth wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal organised an event at Algon Kothi village on Sunday and accused Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi of making false promises.The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) said during the last four and a half years, the Congress looted the state and now by changing its leadership, they want to befool voters.The YAD leaders alleged that illegal sand was being extracted by mafia from Khemkaran at a very large scale and CM Channi should act at the earliest.The rally was organized by Gauravdeep Singh Valtoha, chief, YAD (Majha region). Former MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha said sand mafia was quite active in the border area under the patronage of the ruling party leaders.The former MLA alleged that grants worth Rs 400 crore were released for different development schemes for Khemkaran, but they were being misused.Valtoha alleged that leaders of the ruling party had discontinued facilities (Atta-Dal Scheme) to thousands of BPL families.YAD leaders highlighted various facilities given by the previous SAD government to all sections of society, including free power supply to farmers and the Scheduled Castes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sand-mafia-active-in-khemkaran-valtoha-346808
06-12-2021||Tarn Taran||9-year-old killed in road accident||Phishing: 2 booked after 8 monthsTarn Taran: Two swindlers withdrew Rs 6.47 lakh from a bank account of Kulwant Singh of Lalpur village through ‘Aini Desk’ app on his mobile phone. The incident took place on April 16, but the case was registered on December 4 by the Sarhali police. Kulwant has account in State Bank of India’s Dhotian branch. The accused have been identified as Amrit Kumar of Noida (Uttar Pradesh) and Rihna Masa Ram. Patti Deputy Superintendent of Police Kuljinder Singh conducted an inquiry and registered the case. A case under Sections 417, 420, 424, 120-B, of the IPC and Sections 43, 66-B, 66-C and 66 of the IT Act has been registered against the accused who are on the run. OCRadiologist to get two awardsAmritsar: Dr Amandeep Singh, professor, department of radiology at Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research and Director ACS Diagnostics, has been selected and named for two honours in the field of radiology at national level. These are the coveted Prof VP Lakhanpal Gold Medal Award and the Dr Diwan Chand Aggarwal Memorial Oration. Dr Singh claimed that he was the first radiologist from Punjab to get both gold medal award and the oration. The awards have been announced by the Indian College of Radiology and Imaging (ICRI) and Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA). Every year, the honour is bestowed upon one radiologist from the country for exemplary academic contribution in the field of radiology. Dr Singh has written many research papers, including book chapters in radiology. The awards would be presented to him at the annual national conference of Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA) to be held at Amritsar 2023. TNSEndangering lives?Amritsar: Violating the Motor Vehicles Act and risking the life of labourers, the firm hired by Gujarat Gas to dig trenches for the pipeline are ferrying labourers atop water tankers in the city. Local activists raised objections on the practice. The police and the administration are also ignoring it, they said. Naresh Johar, a local activist, said the firm has adopted all safety measures while digging tranches for the pipeline. But when labourers come on site, they travel atop water tankers. It is not safe. Moreover, tractor-trailers are not meant for the transportation of human beings. Satyam Trivedi, manager, Gujarat Gas pipeline, said: “We have hired a private contractor to lay the gas pipeline. We have instructed them to adopt all safety measures. If there is some negligence at the level of contractor, we will take immediate action and the practice would be stopped.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-yr-old-killed-in-road-accident-346807
06-12-2021||Our Correspondent||50 protesting Punbus employees booked||Tarn Taran, December 5Patti police on Saturday booked 50 Punbus contractual ‘unidentified’ workers who had blocked the Tarn Taran and Patti bus stands on Friday. They have been holding protests over their pending demands.Cases had been registered on the written complaint of the general manager (GM) of the roadways depot concerned. The GM alleged the employees not only created hurdles for general public but also disrupted the functioning of the department.The police said the Punbus workers had been booked under Sections 353, 186, 148 and 149 of the IPC.The employees have been on agitation path under the banner of the Punjab Roadways Punbus Workers’ Union for the last few years.Satnam Singh Tur, president of the local roadways depot unit of the union, condemned the state government for its move to terrorize them by registering criminal cases against them. He said the union had been demanding the regularization of the workers’ services as they had been working in the department for over the last 15 years. He said they were being paid meagre salaries.He said the union had given a notice to the state government warning that they would go on strike from December 7. Despite suppressive tactics of the state government, they must observe strike on that day, he added.On warpath||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/50-protesting-punbus-employees-booked-346686
06-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Body of missing girl found buried in gurdwara||The body of a 6-year-old girl, who went missing from her home in Goindwal Sahib village, on November 30 was found buried under sand at Gurdwara Baoli Sahib, Goindwal Sahib, on Sunday.The police have registered a case under Section 365 of the IPC and Section 302 of the IPC has also been added.ASI Kuldeep Singh, IO, said the body was sent to Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran, for post-mortem. The deceased has been identified as Parveen Kaur.Sandeep Kaur, mother of the deceased, said her daughter had gone to the village gurdwara on November 30 in the evening, but she failed to return. People alleged that the deceased was sexually abused and then buried under sand at the gurdwara. The police said it would be clear after the post-mortem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/body-of-missing-girl-found-buried-in-gurdwara-346688
06-12-2021||Amritsar||No fresh Covid case reported in Amritsar district||The district Health Department reported no positive case on Sunday. The district has eight active cases so far. Meanwhile, 2,301 residents were inoculated on Sunday. Of these, 822 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 1,479 received the second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-fresh-covid-case-reported-in-amritsar-district-346690
06-12-2021||---||Problematic winter is back again!||Amritsar, December 5As the winter season has already begun and the night time temperature has substantially dipped, asthmatic and cardiac patients are at a greater risk of falling sick if proper precautions are not taken, said health experts.In the winter season, the pollutant-mixed air comes down to the lower zone, which is the breathing zone. With the fall in temperature, patients feel heaviness in the chest area and breathing exercise becomes very difficult. — Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil SurgeonThe doctors in the city said the number of patients with breathing related trouble had already increased at hospitals. They said cardiac patients, too, must take ample precautions as the winter season can aggravate problems.The doctors said fog and frost in the coming days could further add to the woes of these patients. They said a large number of viruses become active in the winter season, which results in an increase in infections.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said: “In the winter season, the pollutant-mixed air comes down to the lower zone, which is the breathing zone.”With the fall in temperature, patients feel heaviness in the chest area and breathing exercise becomes very difficult,” he said.Dr Naresh Chawla, district TB officer, said: “In the winter season, asthmatic patients are at a high risk because the immune system is depressed, whereas hyper sensitivity of the airways is witnessed among patients.”Dr Sandeep Aggarwal, a child specialist and assistant professor of paediatrics at Government Medical College, said: “In the initial days of the winter season, children generally fall sick due to cold and flu.” He said small children should be amply covered with clothes, especially during early mornings and evenings.The doctors said low temperature could result in decrease in blood supply to the heart and other vital organs and in turn can result in increase in blood pressure. They said the possibility of heart attack increases many times in heart patients during winter as the heart has to overwork.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/problematic-winter-is-back-again-346692
06-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Navjot Sidhu’s aide councillor's resignation fails to evince response from Congress||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 5Three days after submitting his resignation, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s close aide Sukhdev Singh Chahal, who is the councillor from Ward Number 76, has not received any response from the party so far.Chahal resigned as councillor alleging lack of development in his area on December 3. Chahal had submitted his resignation to Sidhu instead of the Municipal Corporation General House. The MC officials said they didn’t get the resignation from any councillor. “There must be some internal issue of the political party but we haven’t received any resignation. The General House is the competent authority to take decision over it.Chahal said: “We get ticket to contest the election from the Congress party so I have submitted my resignation to the party president. He will decide on it.”However, Navjot Singh Sidhu has not responded so far. According to information, Cabinet Minister Raj Kumar Verka met Chahal to pacify him.Chahal said he was upset over the non-development of his area even after Sidhu got a good position in the government and party. “My ward used to get ignored, as I was from Sidhu’s camp. But even after Sidhu attained power in the party, no development work was approved for my ward,” said Chahal.Chahal had been making efforts to get the approval of Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) to construct residential flats for slum dwellers in his ward. Chahal claimed that he made several attempts to get approval for works but AIT Chairman did not paid heed. He tried to contact Sidhu to share his issues, but he was out of reach.Finally, Sukhdev Singh Chahal resigned from the post of councillor on December 3. Sukhdev Singh Chahal was in the BJP when Sidhu first contested the election from Amritsar in 2004. When Sidhu joined Congress in 2017, Chahal also switched to Congress. Chahal had a good relation with Sidhu and his family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/councillors-resignation-fails-to-evince-response-from-congress-346694
06-12-2021||Amritsar||High footfall at Punjab International Trade Exhibition in Amritsar amid Omicron scare||Exhibitors at the Punjab International Trade Exhibition (PITEX) were pleased to see a high footfall on the weekend. It was a win-win situation for both exhibitors and shoppers as the exhibition was not organised last year due to Covid-19 restrictions. Lifestyle enhancing home decor items, dry fruits from Iran and Afghan caught the fancy of visitors. Naveen Seth, assistant secretary general, PHD Chamber, said on an average, five to six countries participate in PITEX. The chamber will approach the Ministry of Commerce and Industries to increase participation from foreign countries next time, he said. He said in 2017, a Reverse Buyer Seller meet of SAARC countries was organised successfully and a similar meet shall also be organised in the next edition of PITEX in 2022. Industrialists at PITEX appealed to the government to restart Indo-Pak trade as it would boost economy of both countries. RS Sachdeva, chairman, Punjab State Chapter, PHD Chamber and Naveen Seth, assistant secretary general, PHD Chamber put up this demand during an exchange of ideas on Sunday. A representation in this context would be submitted to CM Charanjit Singh Channi. They sought that industrialists and traders be allowed to visit across the borders, as there was huge demand of Indian products in Pakistan and vice-versa. They demand that the government should allocate fund for the proposed exhibition centre in the holy city. A long pending demand of the industry should be met. “To reduce automobile pollution, many provincial governments waived off road tax on e-vehicles to promote electronic vehicles. However, the Punjab Government was still charging road tax on e-vehicles,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/high-footfall-at-expo-amid-omicron-scare-346696
06-12-2021||GS Paul||Amritsar: Forced to abandon jobs, they are now selling dry fruits here||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 5Exhibitors from Afghanistan participating in the Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX), being held in Amritsar, expressed gratitude towards the Centre for giving them a temporary shelter.However, they said they were striving for better prospects of earning livelihood after the situation got worse with Taliban taking the reins of their native place.We were a well-settled family of eight. My father was a manager and mother a teacher. After Taliban started penetrating into the Afghan area, we migrated to Noida temporarily after my parents quit their jobs and sold the assets. Here also, we are not eligible to attain citizenship. We deal in dry fruits with the help of our connections. Mustafa 20-year-old who is now dealing in Afghani dry fruitsThey are selling the best quality Afghani ‘kagzi badam’, cashews and walnut, and organically grown saffron and dates at the exhibition.Born and brought up in Kabul, 20-year-old Mustafa, now dealing in Afghani dry fruits, does not want to recall how his parents, both government employees, had to abandon their jobs, property and shift to New Delhi for a safe life, a year ago.“We were a well-settled family of eight. My father was a government manager and mother a teacher. After Taliban started penetrating into the Afghan area, we migrated to Noida temporarily after my parents quit their jobs and sold the assets. Here also, we are not eligible to attain citizenship. We deal in dry fruits with the help of our connections. We wish to take refuge in the UK, the US, Canada or European countries,” he said.Hailing from Mazar-i-Sharif, 23-year-old Farhad said the governance in Afghanistan had collapsed with the Taliban taking control.“In Afghanistan, the law and order was already deteriorated. You have no freedom to live life as per your will. We had no choice but to move out. Our family migrated to Lajpat Nagar in New Delhi, from where, we tried our hand in dry fruit wholesale business. My friends and relatives back home told me about the condition there. Girls cannot go out to study or do jobs. The banks have no cash,” he said.His brother Hameed (29) keeps his hopes high. “East or West, the homeland is the best. I wish the situation normalises, and we can reunite with our families in Afghanistan,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-forced-to-abandon-jobs-they-are-now-selling-dry-fruits-here-346697
