07-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Teen missing: Four booked||Revolver, gold ornaments stolenTarn Taran: A licenced revolver and gold ornaments were stolen from the house of a Patti city resident, Balwinder Kaur, when she and her other family members were not present at home recently. The revolver belonged to Satnam Singh, a relative of Balwinder Kaur who kept his revolver under lock in an almirah as he was to go to Rajasthan. Balwinder Kaur and her father-in-law and mother-in law too were not at home when the revolver and the ornaments were stolen by breaking the lock of the almirah. Patti police on Sunday registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC. OCNo positive case reported in distAmritsar: The district Health Department has not reported any Covid positive case on Monday. With the recovery of two patients, the recovery count increased to 47,432. The district at present has a total of six active cases. Meanwhile, 11,404 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Monday. Of these, 4,293 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 7,111 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-missing-four-booked-347383
07-12-2021||Amritsar||International Disability Week observed||Students get placed in TCSThe placement and training cell of DAV College celebrated two of their students getting placement in Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), a multinational information technology services and consulting company. The college is also preparing the written papers and interviews for the internship and placement of the students, who are yet to find good job offers. Satwik Gupta and Sanyam Gupta of Commerce Department of the college have been selected in TCS Company. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar and in-charge of Placement Cell, Prof Vikram Sharma extended their best wishes to the succesful students and also congratulated the Commerce Department of the college for this achievement. They said the selected students should work diligently to set an example for their juniors and win accolades for their alma mater.Blood Donation Camp organisedA blood donation camp was organised at Guru Nanak Dev University. The NSS Unit I of the Law Department and NSS Unit II of GNDU in association with the Blood Bank of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, organised the camp on the university campus which was sponsored by HDFC Bank, Amritsar. Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean Academic Affairs, of the university presided over the function. He interacted with all the donor students and encouraged them for similar endeavours in future also. A directory of blood donors’ was also prepared on this occasion. As many as 150 students registered themselves for blood donors’ directory and 100 units of blood were donated by students at this camp. Prof Anish Dua, Dean Student’s Welfare, also applauded various NSS activities carried out throughout the year, especially blood donation camps by volunteers under the guidance of NSS coordinator Prof HS Gujral, programme officers and field officers Dr Pawan, Head, Department of Laws.Entrepreneurship Awareness CampGlobal Group of Institutes organised an entrepreneurship awareness camp in association with Indus Enterprises (TIE) and IKG Punjab Technical University on its campus. The awareness camp was organised to introduce entrepreneurial development programmes for students along with their academics that help students to explore innovative ideas and skills so as to channelise the same into accelerating industrialisation. The objective was to develop necessary entrepreneurial knowledge and skills among them, to impart basic managerial knowledge, understanding and to provide them post-training assistance, to develop and strengthen entrepreneurial quality and motivation among students, to help students in selecting the right type of project and products and to formulate the effective and profitable project. Around 80 students participated in this camp which was addressed by Vishal Sharma, Deputy General Manager, Bennett and Coleman. TNSStudent honoured by sgpcTarn Taran: Amarbeer Kaur, a student of the ninth standard of Guru Gubind Singh Covent School, Sohawa (Sarhali), who bagged the first position in the district, in the religious examination conducted by the SGPC was honoured in the school on Friday. She won a cash prize of Rs 5,000 and a shield which was given to her by the SGPC President. Anu Bhardwaj, school Principal said Amarbeer Kaur is an all-rounder student who stands first in annual exams and also takes part in spots and extra-curricular activities. Amarbeer Kaur was honoured by Baba Sukha Singh, Parton of the school. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-disability-week-observed-347381
07-12-2021||Amritsar||Dal Khalsa to convene assembly of minorities||In an extraordinary step, the Dal Khalsa has announced to convene an assembly of leadership and delegates of struggling minority nationalities -Kashmiris, Sikhs, Tamils, Nagas, Twiprassa and others in Amritsar on December 10, to deliberate on the deteriorating human rights situation in India.To challenge the brutalisation, police excesses, growing intolerance and centralisation process of the Indian state and to express solidarity with struggling nationalities, peoples and regional identities, we have resolved to call for this meet, said party’s senior leader Kanwar Pal Singh at a press meet held at party office here on Monday.Elaborating the plans, he said there would be joint visit to the Golden Temple in the morning and the conference will start at local hotel around 5 in the evening.Denouncing the recent attack on innocent civilians in Nagaland, party general secretary Paramjeet Singh Tanda held the Union government responsible for such tragic incidents as they believe its a result of the state providing impunity to its security forces. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dal-khalsa-to-convene-assembly-of-minorities-347380
07-12-2021||---||NHM employees hold march in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 6Employees of the National Health Mission (NHM) took out a march in the town and presented a memorandum of their demands to the local MLA here on Monday.The employees had been agitating under the banner of the NHM Union, Punjab, demanding the regularisation of their services.Jasbir Singh, district president of the organisation, said they had been working in the state Health Department for the last many years, but the government did not prepare any planning to regularise their services. Doctors, staff nurses, ASHA workers and ministerial staff joined the march. The memorandum was received by the personal assistant (PA) to the MLA Agnihotri as he was not present in the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nhm-employees-hold-march-in-tarn-taran-347378
07-12-2021||---||Protest, black flags greet Punjab CM Channi at GNDU||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s GNDU visit was greeted with protests and black flags as Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union members, who have been sitting on protest for the past four days, gathered and held demonstrations outside the GNDU main gate. The teachers from major colleges in the city gathered outside the university gates in the morning and also attempted to enter the university premises, but were prevented by the police personnel. Later, members of various unions, who came to protest at the back gate of the university, submitted memorandums to the police officers after assurances. The teachers are demanding implementation of the 7th Pay Commission wages and several other benefits and have announced indefinite strike across the state, suspending academic activity in colleges and universities.Dharna outside CM’s residence tomorrowLeaders of the aided school teachers and other employees union announced to join teachers from across the state to hold a rally outside Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence in Morinda on December 8. Sharing that they were disappointed by the government for not implementing the 6th Pay Commission, the union has given an ultimatum of two days to the government to work out a solution for resolving their issues.Meanwhile, the CM inaugurated five academic chairs at GNDU. In his address, Channi said: “A new education model will be introduced by the government shortly which would focus on quality education for all. This will provide better opportunities to youth for employment, with an objective to retain youth in their homeland.”GNDU will now have Dr BR Ambedkar Chair, Sant Kabir Chair, Bhai Jiwan Singh/ Bhai Jaita Ji Chair, Makhan Shah Lubana Chair & Bhagwan Valmiki Chair at the university. The grant for the chairs will be given by the state government. The CM said he is happy over the establishment of five prestigious chairs named after great personalities with the objective to carry forward the legacy of wisdom, truth, humanity and courage. He said our younger generation should know the great sacrifice and struggle made by our ancestors. “A sangeet academy in the name of eminent folk singer Gurmeet Bawa, who passed away recently, would be established shortly at the GNDU, CM added.Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti, MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, Cabinet minister Rajkumar Verka, too were present at the ceremony.While inaugurating these chairs, Channi said Punjab model of education will be based on equality and job oriented education for all. He shared that the state government has already decided to bail out universities from the fiscal crisis as grants have been given to Punjabi University, Patiala, and all requirements relating to grants will be provided to the GNDU as well as per demand.Navjot Singh Sidhu, president, Punjab Pradesh Congress, in his address said as per the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev, sarbat da bhala and unity is the key mantra of success. He said Sant Kabir, Baba Sahib Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, Bhai Jiwan Singh, Makhan Shah Lubana and Maharishi Valmiki are not religious personalities only but institutions themselves.Rally planned in Education Minister’s constituencyThe Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, Punjab, (Joint Teachers’ Front) district unit announced to hold a massive rally in Education Minister Pargat Singh’s constituency on December 8 as he has failed to resolve the issue of their demands, despite repeated assurances. “The minister failed to address the issues of teachers. The Joint Teachers’ Front (JTF) held several meetings with him on the demands that include merger of the computer teachers in the department, the condition of 50 per cent should be removed, immediate regularisation of vacancies, cancellation of cases against teachers, clearing outstanding promotions of each category, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-black-flags-greet-channi-at-gndu-347377
07-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Animal welfare association sends notice to health, police officials||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6Even as six months have elapsed since an NGO exposed an illegal blood transfusion unit at Jethuwal village here, the health and police authorities have failed to take action against the alleged doctor involved in running the illegal unit.Inaction on the part of the Health Department and police officials can endanger the lives of innocent patients. If the authorities fail to take action within 15 days, we will be forced to approach the court for the same. — Dr Rohan Mehra, president, Anti-crime and Animal Protection AssociationUpset over the indifferent attitude of the authorities concerned, the Anti-crime and Animal Protection Association has sent a legal notice to the health and police authorities in this connection.Dr Rohan Mehra, president of the association, said following a tip-off on June 21, he, along with Manikaran Dhalla, president of Being Human Blood Donation Society, busted the illegal blood transfusion unit which was running a paint and construction material store at Jethuwal village.He said at that time a Class XII pass out boy was giving blood to patient. The entire incident was photographed and videos were also made and health and police authorities were informed. Dr Rohan said the SMO of Government Hospital in Majitha, Dr Satnam Singh, reached the spot and later a medical officer of a primary health centre also reached there.He said the in-charge of the Sohian Khurd police chowki also reached the spot and assured them of appropriate action. Nevertheless six months have elapsed since then and nothing has been done by the authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/animal-welfare-association-sends-notice-to-health-police-officials-347376
07-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Pvt vehicles ply on BRTS lanes, cause traffic chaos in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6The unauthorised use of the Bus Rapid Transport System (BRTS) corridors by private vehicles often result in disruption of the normal flow of metro buses, which are usually available to commuters at an interval of four-minutes, at the bus stops.Instead of being used by the metro buses and emergency vehicles, these corridors have become free for all as private cars and two-wheelers can often be spotted using these exclusive lanes.A bus driver said, “Sometimes, cyclists or rickshaws enter the lane because of which they have to slow down the buses.” He added that because of this, they fail to maintain their schedule schedule.On Monday, a metro bus going towards Kacheri Chowk had to pull sudden brakes as a cyclist, unmindful of the bus, entered the lane suddenly. Many of the passengers fell off their seats and some of them received bruises, said Lovejit Singh, who was travelling in the bus.The BRTS lanes though were constructed for the metro buses but its use for emergency vehicles, including fire brigade, ambulance, and police vehicles in emergency circumstances is allowed.Further, the iron grills installed on both the sides of the BRTS corridor have been broken to make way for pedestrians. This too causes the bus drivers to slow their speed to save the pedestrians who are crossing the road at the unauthorised points.An official associated with metro buses said, “The private vehicles even use the elevated road reserved for the metro buses. We have deputed security personnel at the bridge near the Verka Chowk but still some drivers do not listen to them.” He said it was not possible for them to deploy guards everywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pvt-vehicles-ply-on-brts-lanes-cause-traffic-chaos-347374
07-12-2021||---||Majdoor safai sewak union goes on indefinite strike in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6Members of the Punjab Federation Majdoor Safai Sewak went on an indefinite strike from today. The strike hardly affected sanitation work in the city as the Awaz Mulazam Di and the Sanjha Front did not participate in the protest and their members carried out cleaning and sweeping of roads in the city.Members of the federation assembled in the MC office and raised slogans against the government. Vinod Bitta, president of the federation, criticized the government for its anti-worker policies like non-regularisation of contractural staff. He demanded that the hiring of workers on contract must be stopped.Bitta said safai karamcharis were being exploited as they were being denied even gazetted holidays. The government offered them 15-day additional salary in lieu of work performed during the gazetted holidays like on Independence, Republic Day and others. He said they turned down the offer saying that they must be paid one-month full salary.Ashu Nahar, a leader of the Awaz Mulazam Di, stated as they did not declare the strike, their members did not take part in it. “Our demand of implementation of the pay commission has been implemented. We want part-time and contractual workers — engaged in the safai, street lights and sewerage work — should be given permanent jobs. But we do not want to pursue the path of agitation, which would cause inconvenience to city residents and tourists coming from all parts of the country and abroad.”He accused the leaders resorting to agitation path of playing dirty politics through safai karamcharis. “This faction even did not participate in the state-level strike recently called over the demands of safai karamcharis. Now, they have suddenly become sensitive to the cause of class fourth employees,” he thundered.Raj Kumar Raju, chairman, Awaz Mulazam Di, said the government should adopt pro-employee stance to resolve their problems and only then the latter would shun the path of agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majdoor-safai-sewak-union-goes-on-indefinite-strike-347373
07-12-2021||---||Carjacking at gunpoint in Amritsar, 2 booked||Amritsar, December 6Two armed persons with faces covered snatched car from a plywood company official, when he was returning to Amritsar on late Saturday evening.I work as a sales officer at a plywood company in Jalandhar. On Saturday around 8.35pm, when I was coming back to Amritsar in my car, another car overtook and stopped in front. Two youth came out. They had covered their faces. After coming close to me, they pointed a gun and snatched my car. —  Dilraj Singh, A Resident of Navapind villageDilraj Singh, a resident of Navapind village, said he works as sales officer at Century Plywood Company in Jalandhar. He said on Saturday around 8.35pm when he was coming back to Amritsar in his I-20 car, another car overtook and stopped in front of his car.He said two youth came out of the car. They had covered their faces. After coming close to him, they pointed a gun at him and snatched his car. He said he had his laptop and some garments in the car. Following a complaint, the police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27 of the Arms Act at Majitha police station.The police authorities said investigations were on to identify the suspects. The CCTV cameras in all routes were also being scrutinised to get some clue.Auto-rickshaw driver held in snatching caseThe Majitha Road police have arrested Maninder Singh, alias Dhanna, of Ishwar Nagar located on Tarn Taran Road, for allegedly robbing Amarjit Singh, a marginal farmer of Dinanagar of Rs36,000 which he had earned after selling his Basmati crop.Maninder was accompanied by his nephew Jangi while committing the crime. Raids were on to arrest Jangi, ASI Kulwant Singh, Investigating Officer, said.He said the incident occurred on November 29. Amarjit took the auto-rickshaw being driven by Maninder Singh from the bus stand for a hospital on Majitha Road. He said on the way, the accused took out a dagger near Makhan Fish restaurant and snatched Rs36,000 from him and fled.ASI Kulwant Singh said the duo was drug addicts and committed the crime for their daily dose. They divided the amount between them. The accused was identified from the CCTV cameras installed near the spot. He was earlier arrested by the police in 2019 under similar offence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-at-gunpoint-2-booked-347372
07-12-2021||---||After Sukhbir Badal & Capt Amarinder Singh, CM Channi lays stone of multipurpose complex||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6CM Charanjit Singh Channi became the third dignitary after former Deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal and Capt Amarinder Singh to have laid the foundation stone of the proposed multipurpose sports complex to be raised at the Ranjit Avenue locality here on Monday.A brainchild of former cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu, president of the PPCC, the sport complex became a victim of politics. As relations between Sidhu and the Badals soured, the project was not executed. After Sidhu joined the Congress, a ray of hope re-awakened that it would be completed. But soon a tiff started between the then CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Sidhu. Hopes again dashed. Construction work never saw the light of day.It was on November 12, 2011, when the then Deputy Chief Minister (Sukhbir) had laid the foundation stone of the multi-sports complex. Later, Capt Amarinder Singh had laid the stone of the complex in 2017. Proposed to be spread over 21 acres of land, the sports complex was proposed to have three cricket grounds, three basketball courts, three tennis courts, two volleyball courts, a hockey ground, a football ground, a synthetic athletics track, skating rinks as well as indoor sports complex. It will also have sports infrastructure like four badminton, four table tennis, two squash courts, a wrestling and a swimming pool. Besides, a community centre will also be set up. It will also have parking lots with each ground. The Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) was to provide nearly Rs 25 crore for the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-sukhbir-capt-channi-lays-stone-of-multipurpose-complex-347371
07-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Drone spotted in Ajnala, security forces on alert||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6The Border Security Force and the Punjab Police carried out search operation in Sundarnagar border outpost area in Ajnala, in Amritsar sector, following sighting of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) here late on Sunday night.Drone sorties a serious concernAccording to the police authorities, the drone was sighted twice – once around 11pm and another at 12 midnight. The BSF jawans fired at the drone, which returned back safely.The BSF and Punjab Police teams searched the area till late in the evening on Monday to find out if anything was smuggled into the Indian territory. A similar drone sortie was made on December 1, when a 3.5-kg heroin was seized during a search operation.In the recent past, drone sorties have become a matter of serious security concern as anti-national forces in Pakistan were supplying hand grenades, tiffin bombs and contraband to create law and order problem in the border state, especially in view of the upcoming Assembly poll.The state government has strengthened the second line of defence besides patrolling in the border belt for thwarting any untoward incident. The police confiscated hand grenades and tiffin bombs while busting alleged terror modules recently.The Punjab Police have been on high alert following the seizure of RDX from Gurdaspur and regular confiscation of China-made hand grenades used by the Pakistan army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-spotted-in-ajnala-security-forces-on-alert-347370
