08-12-2021||Amritsar||Inter-Zonal Youth Festival kicks off||Guest lecture on ‘Cloud Computing’The PG Department of Computer Science and IT of DAV College, Amritsar, organised a guest lecture on “Cloud Computing” lead by Varinder Sharma, Manager Cloud Governance. The guest lecture was conducted under star college scheme of DBT. Varinder said, “For companies like Google and Microsoft, harnessing the resources as and when they need it is not a problem. With the huge infrastructure come problems like machines failure, hard drive crashes, software bugs, etc. This might be a big headache for such a community. Cloud computing offers a solution to this situation.”CM visits government schoolPunjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday morning paid a surprise visit to Government Senior Secondary School, Wadala Bhitewad. After inspecting the school and meeting children, he praised teachers for ensuring proper maintenance, cleanliness and education. The Chief Minister also oversaw the preparation of mid-meal meal, cleaning of kitchen and utensils. He also checked the attendance of staff. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inter-zonal-youth-festival-kicks-off-347631
08-12-2021||---||Book dedicated to Bhai Vir Singh released||Amritsar, December 7Naad Pargas, a literary publication, celebrated the 150th birth anniversary of Bhai Vir Singh, a noted philanthropist, writer and scholar.Educators and writers who participated in the event said Bhai Vir Singh needed to be understood in the continuity of Bhai Gurdas and Bhai Mani Singh. “The literary creation and spiritual experience of these three personalities is well established. Progressive criticism of him has tried to understand Bhai Vir Singh’s thoughts and contributions in a volatile way,” said former head of the School of Punjabi Studies from Guru Nanak Dev University Dr Dharam Singh.The chief guest, Dr Gurnam Kaur Bedi, described Bhai Vir Singh’s thoughtfulness and contribution as the creator of a modern India, similar to that of Rabindranath Tagore, Muhammad Iqbal and Aurobindo. A poster of Plato’’s book (edited by Dr Harwinder Singh) translated by Bhai Vir Singh and a special issue dedicated to Bhai Vir Singh of Gurmukhi newspaper were also released on the occasion.Selected poems and ghazals by Bhai Vir Singh were musically performed during the first session of this special commemorative function held in three sessions. In the second session, a panel discussion was organised in which Dr Sukhwinder Singh from Naad Pargas briefed on the institutional research work done on Bhai Vir Singh and briefly described the upward trends in progressive and academic studies. Amaninder Singh, one of the speakers in the session, said Bhai Vir Singh through his writings brought to our notice the monopolistic attitude of Indian civilization and the features of Gurmukh centered model against the feudal system of Mughal imperial power.During the third and final sessions of the function, the compositions of Bhai Vir Singh were recited in Tarnum during which Joginder Singh Jogi recited ‘Khima-Sanjog’, Charanjit Singh recited ‘Guru Nanak Tu’, Varinderpal Singh recited ‘Ishq Te Khera’ and Surinder Singh recited the poems ‘Babal ji tusin kavan desh aaye’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/book-dedicated-to-bhai-vir-singh-released-347632
08-12-2021||---||'1,859 anganwadi centres operational in Amritsar district'||Amritsar, December 7Various schemes of Social Security and Women and Child Development and Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) were discussed threadbare during the District Planning Committee on Tuesday. Raj Kanwalpreet Pal Singh, chairman, District Planning Committee, said 1,859 anganwadi centres were functional in the district. Out of these, 1250 centres were operational in government schools, 67 in the buildings constructed by the department.He said supplementary nutrition was being provided to pregnant women, nursing mothers, children from six months to three years and children from three years to six years. He said beneficiaries were also provided sweet oatmeal, kheer, panjiri and children from three to six years were provided halwa and milk for breakfast.The chairman said under the Sakhi One Stop Centre Scheme, the government was constructing a Sakhi One Stop Centre at the Civil Hospital. The centre aims to help women who become victims of violence at homes and workplace, he said and added that 258 cases have been registered from 2019 till date.District Programme Officer Manjinder Singh said supplementary nutritional diet, health education, pre-school education, supplementary nutrition programmes and referral services were also being offered.He said the main objective of these schemes was to lay proper foundation for physical, mental and social development of children from zero to six years of age and to provide nutrition and health education to pregnant women and lactating mothers.Under the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, pregnant women and nursing mothers, housewives or working women (who are working in any field but do not get maternity benefit) can avail this benefit. Pregnant women can register at anganwadi centre during the first 150 days of pregnancy. Under this scheme, a pregnant woman can avail benefits only for a living child. So far, 25,523 beneficiaries have availed the benefit of this scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-859-anganwadi-centres-operational-in-amritsar-district-347633
08-12-2021||---||Devotees take out nagar kirtan in Amritsar to mark Guru Tegh Bahadur's martyrdom day||Amritsar, December 7A nagar kirtan was taken out from Akal Takht to Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal on the occasion of the martyrdom of the ninth Sikh master — Guru Tegh Bahadur. Giani Jagtar Singh, head granthi of the Golden Temple, after the ardas enshrined Sri Guru Granth Sahib in a golden palanquin decorated with flowers.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami, senior vice-president Raghujit Singh Virk, junior vice-president Principal Surinder Singh, general secretary Karnail Singh Panjoli and other prominent personalities were present. Dhami said: “The martyrdom of Guru is a source of inspiration for the Sikhs as well as for the entire humanity,” he said. A large number of sangat including gatka and band parties also participated in the nagar kirtan.The decorated procession from Akal Takht was received with warmness by the sangat at various places. The route followed was from Sri Guru Ramdas Niwas, Chowk Pragdas, Chowk Manna Singh, Chowk Karori, Chowk Baba Sahib, Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai, Corridor, Gurdwara Kaulsar Sahib, Atta Mandi, Bazaar Bansan, Bazaar Papar, Bazaar Katthian, which culminated at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/devotees-take-out-nagar-kirtan-to-mark-guru-tegh-bahadurs-martyrdom-day-347634
08-12-2021||---||7th Pay Commission: Teacher unions' stir enters Day 6||Amritsar, December 7The hunger strike by the Khalsa College Teachers’ Union entered sixth day on Tuesday. Teachers protested at the college gate on the call given by the PCCTU and the Punjab Federation of College and University Teachers’ Organisation. The agitating teachers came out in support of Prof HS Kingra of PAU (Ludhiana), who is on a hunger strike.Dr Randhir Singh, president, Khalsa College Teachers’ Union, said the government was running away from its responsibilities and was reluctant to implement the 7th Pay Commission of the University Grants Commission (UGC), which has been due since 2016.He said the report related to the 7th pay panel has been passed in the Legislative Assembly, but the government was reluctant to implement the same.Dr Parminder Singh, secretary, Khalsa College Teachers’ Union, said they not only want implementation of the 7th pay panel, but highlight the policies degrading the level of higher education.The state government would destroy higher education in the state by delinking the pay scales from the UGC.Khalsa College principal Dr Mehal Singh confirmed that the Principals’ Association supports this struggle for the improvement of higher education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7th-pay-commission-teacher-unions-stir-enters-day-6-347635
08-12-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: One dies, two test +ve in Amritsar district||Engineers’ strike from December 9Amritsar: Council of Diploma Engineers, a body of engineers working in different government departments, has announced to observe hunger strike on December 9 to protest against the alleged anomalies in the pay commission report. Leading a protest of employees at Water Supply and Sanitation Office, Ashwani Kumar said engineers were earlier given a pay grade of Rs4,800 which has now been reduced to Rs3,800 in the new pay commission report. The employees’ leader also demanded that petrol allowance given to junior engineers and assistant engineers be increased to 80 litre per month from the present 30 litres per month. TNSOlympians await government jobsTarn Taran: Resentment prevails among the Tokyo Hockey Olympians who had not been given government jobs as per the commitment of the state government. The parents of the Olympians said here on Tuesday that the government had assured to give them gazetted-rank government jobs but the promise had not been fulfiled till date. They said these players are to depart for Bangladesh within next few days to take part in the Asia Hockey Cup and the resentment prevailing among them would affect their performance. They had appealed CM Charanjit Singh Channi to release orders of their jobs immediately. Shamsher Singh, Harmanpreet Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Varun Kumar, Rupinderpal Singh are among the players who were in the winner team in the Olympian team. OCWhen rural artisans got a platform to showcase productsAmritsar: National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) collaborated with PHD Chamber of Commerce to install 20 stalls for rural artisans, Self Help Groups (SHG) members and members of FPOs of Punjab and other states of northern India to showcase their products at PITEX, that concluded on Tuesday. The FPOs promoted by NABARD sold various products such as honey, jaggery, multigrain flour (atta), turmeric powder, organic basmati, desi ghee, pickles and anar dana among other things. The SHGs showcased and marketed their handmade products such as paintings, woollen clothes, artificial jewellery, jute products and rugs among other things. Sangrur Phulkari Producer Co Ltd, the Off Farmers Producer Organisation (OFPO) promoted by NABARD, also participated. The OFPO artisans marketed their traditional embroidery craft of phulkari. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-one-dies-two-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-347636
08-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Watch towers at Ram Bagh: Been there for ages, seen it all!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 7Luckily, three of the four watch towers strategically constructed at four corners of the historic Char Bagh, a quadrilateral garden around the Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Ram Bagh (Company Bagh), have managed to survive the onslaught of time and apathy of different governments.The fourth one which ought to have been somewhere inside a private elite club, which has encroached upon a major portion of the garden, is no longer available and perhaps was demolished by the club decades ago. The loss of tangible heritage is immeasurable, but those in awe of historical places may find solace in the three towers that have managed to survive.Though the double-storey watch towers are not in an excellent shape, these are still popular among the local youth and wedding photographers thronging for some excellent clicks with the historical monuments that have stood guard since the time of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.The historians believe that the four watch towers on the corners of the quadrilateral garden were connected with high walls that marked the periphery of Maharaja’s Summer Palace inside the Ram Bagh. The conservation projects in the recent years have managed to trace the old lost wall, which was demolished by the British after annexing the Sikh state.Around 2-feet high wall (stub wall), as a part of the revival project to give visitors a feel of the place, has been constructed. However, the presence of private elite clubs on the premises of Ram Bagh is a hindrance in the way of proper upkeep, revival and conservation of the historic garden.While the recent development works at the historic bagh has resulted in constructing numerous concrete pathways and huge parking spaces for four wheelers, the original structure of the place, too, needs to be preserved and conserved, residents said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/watch-towers-at-ram-bagh-been-there-for-ages-seen-it-all-347637
08-12-2021||---||Punbus contractual workers go on indefinite strike||Amritsar, December 7The Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union went on an indefinite strike from Tuesday. The agitating employees held a protest outside interstate bus terminus and demanded regularisation of their jobs.The union is demanding regularisation of contractual employees from long time and the consecutive state governments have failed to regularise our services after repeated assurances. Jodh Singh, Vice-president, Punbus Contractual Workers' UnionDue to the agitation, around 200 buses remained stationed at the bus stand, while the union members claimed that 2,700 buses remained off the road.The protesters sought employment of ‘outsourced employees’ on a contract basis and resumption of services of those who were removed.Jodh Singh, vice-president, Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, said the union was demanding regularisation of contractual employees from long time and the consecutive state governments failed to regularise their services after repeated assurances. The union raised slogans against the state government while ruing the fact that no government official had approached them till now. Earlier, too they had held demonstration against the government by blocking the entry and exit points of the ISBT. The police had also registered a case against the union members in this connection.Kuljit Singh of the union said there were around 7,500 contractual workers employed with Punbus and PRTC. He said of them, 400 have been employed in Amritsar only. Kewal Singh and Heera Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punbus-contractual-workers-go-on-indefinite-strike-347639
08-12-2021||---||Hoshiarpur youth's murder: No arrest even after eight days||Amritsar, December 7The police have failed to make any headway in the case involving the murder of a Hoshiarpur youth during a birthday celebration in Anand Vihar locality under Gate Hakima police station here.The family members and the relatives of the deceased alleged that the police were acting under some influence as one of the suspects was a close relative of a ruling party leader in the area.Saurav Kumar (26), a wholesaler of vegetable and fruits in Hoshiarpur district, was shot dead during a birthday celebration in Gate Hakima police station area. The family said the police were not arresting the accused.The police had booked five persons Mandeep Singh, Vivek, Rahul, Prince and Raghu on the charge of murder. He was killed in the intervening night of November 29 and 30.The police investigations had revealed that during the birthday celebration at a residence, all participants were apparently heavily drunk. Several of them indulged in opening fire in the air, which led to Saurav’s death and injuries to two others. He suffered three bullet injuries one of which pierced through his throat, which led to his death.Assistant Commissioner of Police Paramvir Singh said the police teams were raiding different locations to nab the suspects, who were at large. He denied that the police were acting under any pressure or influence.“We are investigating the case on merit and police teams have been carrying out raids regularly to nab the suspects,” he said. According to family members of the deceased Vivek had invited Saurav to attend a birthday party of Mandeep Singh, alias Mandy. Saurav along with his driver and brother reached Amritsar late in the evening. The incident occurred around 12 midnight. On Monday, the family members and relatives had held a demonstration outside Gate Hakima police station demanding immediate arrest of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoshiarpur-youths-murder-no-arrest-even-after-eight-days-347640
08-12-2021||---||Nursing staff resume their protest in in Amritsar, health services hit||Amritsar, December 7Medical services at government hospitals were hit hard on Tuesday after the nursing staff resumed their protest against the state government alleging that it has failed to fulfil its promises.The nurses at the Government Medical College, Civil Hospital, sub-divisional hospitals, PHCs and CHCs took part in the protest. The employees held the protests earlier last month too but had later resumed duties after getting assurance from deputy CM Om Parkash Soni, who also holds the portfolio of health.Punjab Nursing Association vice-president Lakhwinder Kaur Samra said, “The government has failed to consider our demands. Now, the protest will continue till our demands are accepted.” The association stated that the protests would be held from 9 am to 4 pm every day.The association has also announced to boycott emergency services, besides evening and night shifts. The employees complained that the new pay commission has threatened their early grade pay of Rs 4,600 which would get reduced to Rs 3,800.Besides, the nurses have been demanding renaming of the cadre as nursing officers, special professional allowance in view of their odd duty hours and other benefits. The association claimed that nurses in many other states and those working under the central government are getting a special nursing allowance of Rs 7,000 per month. It stated that due to odd working hours and rotational shifts, the family life of employees had been affected.Association president Palwinder Kaur said they regretted the inconvenience caused to the patients. “But the responsibility for the loss of the services for patients is of the government and the health minister as the employees had earlier ended the protest after they were assured by the state government,” she added.The nursing staff at government hospitals is crucial for rendering proper medical services and in their absence, the poor patients, especially those admitted indoors are at a loss.Key demandsNurses have been demanding renaming of the cadre as nursing officers, special professional allowance in view of their odd duty hours and other benefits. The association claimed that nurses in many other states and those working under the Central government were getting a special nursing allowance of Rs 7,000 per month. It stated that due to odd working hours and rotational shifts, the family life of employees had been affected.NHM staff block national highwayTarn Taran: Demanding regularisation, employees of the National Health Mission (NHM), staged a protest on the national highway (No. 54) and blocked traffic on Tuesday. Agitating staffers submitted a memorandum to Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Paramjit Kaur. Ayurveda and Homoeopathic Medical Officers, ASHA workers and staff nurses participated in the dharna. Jasbir Singh, district chief, National Health Mission, said the state government was dilly-dallying their regularisation. He said they have been working in the department for the past 15 years. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nursing-staff-resume-their-protest-health-services-hit-347641
08-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Senior Congress leader booked for opening fire at two in Patti||Tarn Taran, December 7Senior Congress leader Tarlok Singh Chakwalia, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2002 Assembly elections from Patti, has been booked along with 15 others for opening fire at two persons on Tarn Taran-Patti Road near Grand Kairon Resorts on Monday.Rajan Bajaj, a resident of Khemkaran, was left injured and Krishan Kumar managed to escape unhurt.The accused has been booked under Sections 307, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.The root cause of the incident was illegal truck union and their professional partnership. Krishan in his statement told the police that he was just leaving the resort after attending the marriage ceremony when armed men of Chakwalia attacked him. He said as his friend Rajan Bajaj came to his rescue, the accused fired at him. Bajaj was admitted to the Patti Civil Hospital from where he was referred to Guru Nanak Hospital, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/senior-congress-leader-booked-for-opening-fire-at-two-in-patti-347642
08-12-2021||---||Waiter robbed, stabbed to death in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 7Ramesh Singh, a resident of Uttarakhand, who worked as a waiter, was allegedly killed by two unidentified robbers on late Monday night.Ramesh was heading back to his rented accommodation at Jagdambe Colony, when the incident took place. The accused decamped with his jacket and cash.The CCTV cameras are being analysed to find the clues about the perpetrators. We are working on different theories, besides the robbery angle into the murder. A case has been registered in this regard. Sarabjit Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (North)Family members of the deceased on Tuesday held a demonstration outside Sadar police station as cops delayed registering an FIR.The aggrieved family alleged that employees travelling during late night hours become an easy target of unscrupulous elements. They said the police have failed to curb snatchings and robberies.Pritam Singh, a relative of the deceased, said earlier too miscreants had robbed Ramesh. Yesterday, he was attacked and murdered with sharp-edged weapons.Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Sarabjit Singh reached the spot and pacified the agitators. He said the accused would be arrested at the earliest and investigation was under way.“The CCTV cameras are being analysed to find the clues about the perpetrators. We are working on different theories, besides the robbery angle into the murder,” said the Assistant Commissioner of Police. He added that a case has been registered in this regard.An eyewitness told the police that she came out of her house on hearing screams of Ramesh. She said she saw two persons escaping away from the spot after taking the jacket and cash of the deceased. She said she could not see the faces of the accused due to darkness in the area.Was attacked earlier as wellPritam Singh, a relative of the deceased, said earlier also miscreants had robbed Ramesh Singh (in pic). On Monday, he was attacked and murdered with sharp-edged weapons when he was returning from work. An eyewitness told the police that she came out of her house on hearing screams of Ramesh. She said she saw two persons escaping from the spot after taking the jacket and cash of the deceased. She said she could not see the faces of the accused as it was dark.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waiter-robbed-stabbed-to-death-in-amritsar-347643
