09-12-2021||The name of Prem Singh Lalpura (in pic right) (February 26||Tarn Taran Diary: Remembering Prem Singh Lalpura||Work on public toilet hangs fireRenovation work on the public toilet at Palika Bazar in Tarn Taran town is still far from completion. The work was left midway around six months ago, which is creating problems for residents, particularly women who come to the holy town to pay their obeisance. Most of the pilgrims often park their vehicles in the Palika Bazar, though it is not a legal parking site. As the public toilet had lost all the apparatus, including toilets seats, water tapes, etc, the municipal council started renovating it. The wall was razed to install an exhaust fan and sand was seen sprinkled at the toilet complex. As the (gents) toilet remains locked, both male and female use the lady toilet, creating an awkward situation daily when men enter the toilet and women too enter it. The toilets seem to have never been cleaned for the last few years. No sweeper has been dedicated for the toilets for the last more than four years. So is the condition of almost all public toilets in the town. Even the public toilet in the municipal council complex too cries for proper sanitation and other facilities. Sharanjit Kaur, Executive Officer (EO), Municipal Council, was contacted repeatedly for her comments on the pitiable condition of the toilets in the town, but she did not pick up the phone.Edu officials for cheating-free examsOfficials of the district education department during a meeting appealed to all sections of society to come forward to cooperate with the department to make cheating-free exams possible and a reality. The meeting was attended by higher district officers, school principals, Block Elementary Education Officers, representatives of the teachers’ organisations and other officials of the department. Jagwinder Singh Lehri, DEO (Elementary), presided over the meeting. Paramjit Singh, Deputy District Education Officer (EE), Rajesh Kumar Sharma, DEO (EE), Amritsar, Jaswinder Singh, BEEO, principal Surinder Kumar, district in-charge, Sikhia Sudhar Committee, principal Tejinder Singh, Birinder Singh Lehri (a lecturer, who conducted the stage) were among others who addressed the meeting. The officials stressed that the overall development of the student was the need of the hour for which his general intelligence quotient (IQ) was enriched. The officials laid stress on organizing educational competitions from time to time. They said they would seek the cooperation of social activists and social organizations in providing playing apparatus, etc, for the physical development of the student. It was resolved to work more hard as the annual exams were drawing near. Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remembering-prem-singh-lalpura-348063
09-12-2021||---||Private hospitals asked to install oxygen plants in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 8After facing the shortage of oxygen for medical use during the Covid pandemic, the district health department has planned to equip private hospitals with oxygen plants to face any such eventuality in the future.The hospitals such as Guru Nanak Dev Hospital associated with Government Medical College, Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital and subdivisional civil hospitals at Baba Bakala and Ajnala have already been equipped with the oxygen plants. As per the plan, a total of 14 private hospitals with more than 50-bed capacity have been chosen for installation of oxygen plants.These hospitals were earlier allowed by the administration to admit Covid-19 patients. The shortage of oxygen at hospitals had surfaced during the peak of Covid-19 pandemic. Unluckily, at least five patients admitted at a private hospital died due to the shortage of oxygen.The health officials stated that a meeting with representatives of private hospitals was conducted and they were exhorted to get the oxygen plants installed. A senior official of the department stated that most of the private hospitals responded positively and a few of them had already started working towards their installation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/private-hospitals-asked-to-install-oxygen-plants-in-amritsar-348064
09-12-2021||Amritsar||GNDU food scientist Dr Amritpal Kaur gets science award for research||Dr Amritpal Kaur, associate professor, Department of Food Science and Technology, Guru Nanak Dev University, is among the recipients of the Science and Technology Award for Research (STAR) by the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), New Delhi.Dr Kaur has been given this award for her contribution in carrying out research projects in the field of food technology. This is a prestigious award instituted by the SERB to recognise and reward outstanding performance of principal investigators of SERB projects.The recipients will get a fellowship of Rs 15,000 per month and a research grant of Rs 10 lakh per year for three years. Dr Amritpal Kaur is the first food scientist to get this award and fellowship from SERB, New Delhi. Earlier in 2019, she had received an award from the SERB in the individual category along with Prof Narpinder Singh from the Department of Food and Technology, GNDU.Dr Kaur has published 115 research papers in international journals of repute having high impact factor. The h-index of her publications is 38 with nearly 5,500 citations. Earlier, she has been awarded Shastri Institutional Collaborative Research Grant (SICRG) in collaboration with McGill University, Canada. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-food-scientist-gets-science-award-for-research-348065
09-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Water Resources Dept to finally have new building||Amritsar, December 8After documentation work, which stretched close to six years, the Water Resources Department has finally floated a tender for the construction of its new state-of-the-art building on nearly two acre prime land. The tender is likely to be opened this month.Notably, the department used to be known as Canal Department earlier and used to house the drainage wing and Irrigation and Power Research Institute (IPRI). Its local office has an illustrious history of carrying out research and design of dams in the state, including the iconic Bhakra Dam.Currently, the demarcation of the land handed over to PUDA was being carried out. Subsequently, a plan will be devised to auction the area for commercially purpose. Amandeep Kaur, Addl Chief Admin Officer, PUDAEven then, the construction of its offices did not figure in the priority list of the government.Extremely slow pace of work of government departments could be judged from the fact that it was way back in 2015 that the Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) had forwarded a proposal to re-construct the canal office building spread over 11.77 acre of prime commercial land, on GT Rand opposite the railway station. After the passage of nearly six years, the department has now sanctioned a grant of Rs38 crore for raising a new administrative complex. All these years, its offices are functioning from a rickety structure. It also brought out the slow pace in carrying out the documentation and planning work.Since the erstwhile Parkash Singh Badal government had placed the 11.77 acre of its prime land under the Optimum Utilisation of Vacant Government Land (OUVGL) scheme, the Water Resources Department will get only 2 acre land over which a building would be raised to house all its wings. The rest of the land will go to PUDA, which will exploit it for commercial gains.Amandeep Kaur, Additional Chief Administrative Officer, PUDA, said: “Currently, the demarcation of the land handed over to PUDA was being carried out. Subsequently, a plan will be devised to auction the area for commercially purpose.”LONG WAITAll these years, its offices were functioning from a rickety structure | Now, Rs38 cr sanctioned for raising a new complex||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/water-resources-dept-to-finally-have-new-building-348066
09-12-2021||---||Day 9 of education bandh: Students at receiving end||Amritsar, December 8Students from major city colleges are a harried lot as classes remain suspended for the ninth consecutive day on Wednesday owing to the bandh call of college and university teachers.The teachers’ protest against the non-implementation of the 7th Pay Commission and reversal of the state government’s decision to delink from UGC began earlier this year after educational institutions were reopened for offline classes. There were continuous disruption of classes ever since, but when PFUCTO announced a complete education bandh across the state, students were the direct sufferers.Earlier, when colleges were opened for offline classes, teachers’ protests were going on. At first, only one or two lectures were disrupted, but now a full week has been wasted. Of course, it affects our academic performance as most students from science courses need practical training as well, which is not possible due to the strike Yash, a BSc (Comp Science) student QUltimately, students will be the ones affected adversely if the situation is not resolved soon. “No one is thinking about students. We have already wasted enough academic hours due to the pandemic and transition towards online education. Our loss will not be compensated Karthic, BA (designing and multimedia) studentThe teachers are sitting on roads across the state, fighting for what is their right. UGC is a regulatory body and its regulations are like an act. They must be implemented in will and by delinking itself from UGC the state government is further endangering quality higher education Seema Jaitley, dist secy, PFUCTO “Earlier, when colleges were opened for offline classes, teachers’ protests were going on. At first, only one or two lectures were disrupted, but now a full week has been wasted. Of course, it affects our academic performance as most students from science courses need practical training as well, which is not possible due to the strike,” shared Yash, a student of BSc (computer science). Yash along with several other classmates, is a hosteller, who is waiting for classes to resume. “This year has been tough for students as studies remained disrupted due to the pandmeic first and now only a month after resumption of offline classes, this strike happened. Syllabus is not complete and we cannot study ourselves or cram up everything. It’s a helpless situation for students as soon the year-end exams will be declared by GNDU and then we will have to rush with everything,” he said.Karthic, another student of BA (designing and multimedia), too, said ultimately, students will be the ones affected adversely if the situation is not resolved soon. “No one is thinking about students. We have already wasted enough academic hours due to the pandemic and transition towards online education. Our loss will not be compensated.”He said students from science stream are the worst affected. However, he also said teachers’ demands were legitimate and the authorities concerned must swiftly find a solution for student’s sake.Meanwhile, PFUCTO members from the district said they were considering student’s concerns and would not let any loss of learning to happen. “We are well aware of the loss of academics that is being caused but our demands are legitimate and we were forced to sit on strike as our last resort. The decision to implement the 7th Pay Commission came in 2016 and ever since, we are waiting for the state government to act on it. Recently, when the CM visited GNDU, even the VC urged him that the implementation must happen. Yet the government remains unresponsive.With the higher education minister assured Prof HS Kingra, president of the teachers’ body, to end his fast, we are hopeful that the notification might come soon in this regard,” said Seema Jaitley, district secretary, PFUCTO and GNDU area in-charge. Jaitley said education seems to be the least concern for the state government. “The teachers are sitting on roads across the state, fighting for what is their right. UGC is a regulatory body and its regulations are like an act. They must be implemented in will and by delinking itself from UGC the state government is further endangering quality higher education and livelihood of teachers,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-9-of-education-bandh-students-at-receiving-end-348067
09-12-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: No new positive case reported in Amritsar||Punbus workers’ stir continuesAmritsar: Members of the Punbus and PRTC Contract Workers’ Unions continued with their indefinite strike on Wednesday. Today was the third of their strike. Seeking regularisation of contractual staff, they squatted in front of the Amritsar depot-I and depot-II and did not allow any bus belonging to the Punbus and PRTC to move out of the depots. They raised slogans against the Charanjit Singh Channi government for not paying attention to the contractual staff of the state transport department. Meanwhile, buses of private transports and the Punjab Roadways were seen plying without any hassle at Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-state Bus Terminal (ISBT). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-no-new-positive-case-reported-348068
09-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Couple loses Rs 6.2 lakh in online fraud||Amritsar, December 8In yet another incident, a couple lost over Rs 6 lakh in an online fraud. Interestingly, their mobile number, password of their account changed online without their knowledge.The couple had gone to the bank to transfer some money in their bank accounts after a fixed deposit got matured. The incident occurred in September and the victims Asha Arora and her husband Vijay Arora kept making rounds of the bank before they approached the police for justice and registration for FIR.Following preliminary probe, the police booked Saroj and Anamika of Uttar Pradesh on whose accounts the money was transferred. The police said efforts were on to nab the suspects.The victims said when they had gone to the bank for transferring the cash into their account, the bank officials said it would take some days. They said they were shocked to learn that their amount was transferred to two other accounts in 11 transactions. They immediately approached the bank but they denied immediate reprieve saying it was the customers’ fault.Perturbed, they lodged a complaint with the police. During investigations, it was revealed that after the couple filed an application to transfer their money, his mobile number and email ID changed through online banking from the bank. Therefore, they did not receive any message.The police have registered a case of fraud and under the IT Act while launching further probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-fraud-couple-loses-rs-6-2l-348069
09-12-2021||---||Day on, no headway in Amritsar waiter's murder case||Amritsar, December 8A day after a waiter’s murder by unidentified robbers in the Jagdambe Colony area, the police have started scrutinising the footage of CCTV cameras installed near the spot for finding clues to identify the suspects.Gurbinder Singh, SHO, Sadar police station, said the accused would be arrested soon as the police got some clues and they were working on it.Ramesh Singh (in pic), a resident of Uttarakhand, working as a waiter in a hotel, was killed allegedly by two unidentified robbers here on late Monday night. He was returning to his rented accommodation in Jagdambe Colony when the incident took place. The accused decamped with his jacket and cash.The family members of the victim on Tuesday held a demonstration outside the Sadar police station protesting against police failure to take action against miscreants robbing waiters coming late in the evenings. They said the police had miserably failed to curb rising incidents of snatchings and robberies.The SHO said night patrolling had been increased and nakas were being set up to check snatching incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-on-no-headway-in-waiters-murder-case-348070
09-12-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Lakha Sidhana booked for firing in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, December 8Lakha Sidhana, one of the most dreaded gangsters in Punjab at one time who was also an accused in the Republic Day violence at the Red Fort following farmers’ rally, was booked by the local police in connection with a firing incident in Tarn Taran on Tuesday.Sidhana was, however, seen live on social media on Wednesday, where he claimed himself to be innocent and said he had nothing to do with the firing incident in Tarn Taran and was involved falsely by the Tarn Taran police to defame him.DSP Barjinder Singh said the case was registered on the complaint of Kanwalranbir Singh Bath, a known artist of the local Master Colony, who said he edited a song ‘Sun Tatta Tatta’, which was sung by model and singer Soni Mann and he also pasted the photo of Lakha Sidhana in the song.Kanwalranbir said Lakha and another accused Jagdeep Singh had some objections to the song and warned him to remove the song from social media else be ready to face the consequences.The DSP said the accused first trespassed the house of Kanwalranbir and then fired at the house. All family members had a narrow escape.The city police had booked 20 persons in the case of which four had been identified and the antecedents of the rest were yet to be known.Besides Lakha Sidhana, Jagdeep Randhawa, Karan Pathak of Dhotian and Tejpartap Singh Jodhpur have been identified. None of the accused has been arrested the DSP said.The DSP said the police conducted raids at the residence of Lakha Sidhana in Bathinda to arrest him but he was said to be at Singhu border in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lakha-sidhana-booked-for-firing-in-tarn-taran-348071
09-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar's historic Company Bagh becomes a victim of official apathy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 8Residents, morning walkers and heritage lovers are an inconvenienced lot since the historic Company Bagh has turned into a garbage dump yard towards the Lumsdon Club side.They rue the indifferent attitude of the government and the authorities concerned. They have failed to pay attention towards the upkeep of this historically important heritage complex.Residents point out besides the apathy of the authorities concerned, the main culprits here are three clubs operating inside the complex which dump their waste at this site. The tractor trolleys of the municipal corporation can also be seen dumping garbage at the spot, says a visitor.“Even as crores of rupees has been spent on the renovation and preservation work of the heritage structure – the summer palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh — the work is still far from completion. The authorities hardly spare a thought for the maintenance of the ‘green wealth’ here,” said Dr Rakesh Sharma, a visitor. Cleanliness is another casualty at the Company Bagh.“Just turn towards the Lumsdon club side after entering the place from the Madan Mohan Malviya road side, you can witness the negligent attitude of civic authorities,” said another resident Jagdish Singh.Part of the garden where influential politicians, including Anil Joshi and Sunil Datti, visit is somewhat clean, while the rest of the area at the Company Bagh is a picture of neglect.“I feel one side of the Bagh has become a victim of discrimination. The part, where influential and politicians stroll in the morning or evening, is neat and maintained while the remaining area remains unkempt and ignored,” the residents point out.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said he was not aware of this and would look into the matter. Necessary instructions would be passed on to ensure that the Company Bagh is maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/company-bagh-becomes-a-victim-of-official-apathy-348072
09-12-2021||---||Health staff protest on, patients suffer in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 8Even as the state government has shown no sign of distress due to the ongoing protest by different sections of employees in the Health Department so far, it has already started affecting the poor patients at government hospitals.PatientspeakThe government is indifferent towards the plight of employees as well as the general public. If it cares, it should sternly ask the employees to resume their duties or accept their demands. The indecisiveness on the part of the government is causing trouble for the poor patients. Harinder Kaur, a resident of ChhehartaThe private hospitals and clinics are already out of the common man's reach. The government must at least ensure best possible heathcare to residents. Sanjeev Kumar, A patientProtesterspeakWe lifted the protest outside the residence of the Health Minister after assurances from him. If no decision will be taken on our demand of regularisation, we will initiate a hunger strike outside the residence of the Health Minister Tripta Sharma, a leader of ASHA Workers’ UnionHarinder Kaur, a resident of Chheharta, said: “The government is indifferent towards the plight of employees as well as the general public. If it cares, it should sternly ask the employees to resume their duties or accept their demands.” She said the indecisiveness on the part of the government is causing trouble for the poor patients.Another patient Sanjeev Kumar said: “The private hospitals and clinics are already out of the common man’s reach.” He said the government must at least ensure best possible heathcare to residents.The employees including the nursing staff, contractual clerical workers and ANMs are vigorously continuing with their protests, as they feel that sooner or later the government would feel the pressure because of the upcoming Assembly election.The nursing staff under the Medical Education and Research Department and Health Department held demonstrations at their health institutions for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The protesting employees have also boycotted emergency and operation theatre duties.The indoor patients departments at government hospitals are mostly managed by the nursing staff along with resident doctors. As employees are away from their nursing stations, patients are devoid of the nursing care which is crucial in recovery.Lakhwinder Kaur Samra, vice-president, Punjab Nursing Association, said: “We have boycotted all services till the time the government accepts our demands.” She said they had served a prior notice to their respective administrations before initiating the protest.Meanwhile, ASHA workers who are already continuing with their protest outside the residence of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu have announced to wait for the Cabinet meeting scheduled on Thursday.Tripta Sharma, a leader of the ASHA Workers Union, said: “We lifted the protest outside the residence of the Health Minister after assurances from him.” She said if no decision was taken on their demand of regularisation, they would initiate a hunger strike outside the residence of the Health Minister.The contractual clerical and support staff workers with the Health Department are also agitating to get their services regularised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-staff-protest-on-patients-suffer-in-amritsar-348073
09-12-2021||---||35-year-old 'drug addict' woman found murdered in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 8A 35-year-old woman, identified as Gurpreet Kaur of Naag Khurd village falling under Majitha police station in Amritsar rural, was found murdered at the Vallah vegetable market on Wednesday.The victim has been missing from her house for the last couple of days and it was alleged that she was a drug addict. According to the police, she was strangled before being assaulted with sharp weapon that led to her death. The body was taken into custody and sent for autopsy.Lakhwinder Kaur, mother of the deceased, said she came to know about her death through the police. She said she was married to Jaspal Singh of Naag Khurd village and has two children — a daughter (14) and a son (10). She urged the Police Department and the government to arrest the accused who killed her and think about the two children. She said Jaspal Singh was a rickshaw puller.She said Gurpreet got hooked to drugs after marriage and remained under rehabilitation. She said she was now under treatment at OATT centre. She said she has a couple of cases of theft against her as well. She used to steal at the Golden Temple to get some money for her drug dose.Jasbir Singh Pawar, SHO Vallah police station, said the police got information around 8am. Preliminary investigations revealed that she had injury marks on her head and face. She was also strangled by the assailant. He said the post-mortem report would ascertain the exact cause. He said robbery or dispute during drug consumption could be the reason behind the killing. He said investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/35-year-old-drug-addict-woman-found-murdered-in-amritsar-348074
