10-12-2021||Amritsar||One Covid positive case reported in Amritsar district||NHM staff rally todayAmritsar: Employees of the Health Department, working under National Health Mission, have announced to hold a protest in the city on Friday to highlight their demands. Dr Inderjit Singh Rana, state head of NRHM Employees Association, Punjab, said the government is neither concerned about its employees nor about the health of the people of the state. He said NHM staff have been fighting for their legitimate demands for a long time. The lack of consistency in the statements of the CM, Health Minister or higher officials of the Health Department proves that the state government is not serious about resolving the demands of the employees, he said. Committee members Jaswinder Kaur and Gurpreet Singh said the massive rally to be held in Amritsar, the home town of deputy CM OP Soni, to wake up the government from slumber. TNSHuman Rights Day observedAmritsar: The Manav Adhikar Sangharsh Committee (MASC) observed World Human Rights Day at Amritsar Club. The executive committee and other members of the organisation were present on the occasion. The MASC had been organising medical camps, serving the impoverished and the needy children, providing ration, masks, sanitisers, medicines, funding marriage of poor girls, helping elderly and debilitated and supporting any citizen for their fundamental rights, said Dr Raman Gupta. Dr Harish sharma, national president, Raj Kumar Khosla, state president, Rajesh Arora, state general secretary and others were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-positive-case-reported-in-amritsar-district-348594
10-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Justice sought for 6-yr-old girl||The indefinite hunger strike launched in Goindwal Sahib, 25 km from here, by AAP leader Manjinder Singh Lalpur entered its second day on Thursday.The AAP leader wants the arrest of the accused responsible for the brutal murder of 6-year-old girl Parveen Kaur, whose body was recovered hidden under sand at Goindwal Sahib Gurdwara on December 5. The AAP leader said as the girl was missing under mysterious circumstances from November 30, the police did nothing to locate her. He said in case the police had performed its duties sincerely, the precious life could have been saved. Though Manjinder Singh himself was on hunger strike, his associates accompany him during the day and go home at night. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/justice-sought-for-6-yr-old-girl-348593
10-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Call to address safai karamcharis' issues on priority||Amritsar, December 9In a meeting held with officials of various departments of the district administration and the Municipal Corporation here on Thursday, Inderjit Singh, a member of the Punjab State Safai Karamcharis Commission, said the salaries of sanitation workers should be sent directly to their bank accounts and their grievances addressed on priority.He said the commission was concerned about the safety and rights of the sanitation workers. Inderjit Singh said it was the duty of all of us to solve the problems faced by the workers on priority.He said special care should be taken for the safety of sewermen and sewerage should be cleaned with machines only. If for any reason an employee was required to enter a manhole for cleaning, all safety standards must be followed. He said all payments of workers should be ensured online and medical services provided.He said gloves, face masks, uniforms, etc, should also be provided to sanitation workers from time to time so that they did not fall prey to any disease. He directed the MC officials to ensure that the PPF of the workers be deducted and if any of the workers die while cleaning the sewerage, as per the instructions, one member of the family must be given a job so that the livelihood of their families could continue.He directed them to ensure timely payment of salaries to the workers and timely payment of DA as per the instructions of the government.He also took details of workers’ leave and listened to their demands. He assured them that the commission was committed to working towards their rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/call-to-address-safai-karamcharis-issues-on-priority-348592
10-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Chopper crash victim Naik Gursewak Singh's kin condoled||A large number of area residents and representatives of political, social, religious organisations and prominent persons on Thursday visited the residence of Naik Gursewak Singh at Dode Sodhian village here to express their condolence with the bereaved family.The braveheart (35) died on Wednesday in a chopper crash in which the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), his wife, and other persons were travelling near Coonoor in Nilgiris (Tamil Nadu).Virsa Singh Valtoha, chief spokesman for SAD, was among others who expressed their sympathies with the family. Kanwaljit Rai, SHO, Khalra, said the mortal remains would reach the village on Friday and the cremation would be held on that day.Jaspreet Kaur, wife of Gursewak Singh, said at the time of his departure on November 14 after his leave exhausted, he had promised his 3-year-old son that he would buy him a bicycle when he would come back on leave next time. Kabal Singh, father of Gursewak Singh, said he had great hopes from his son as he was very caring towards him and was influential too. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gursewaks-kin-condoled-348591
10-12-2021||Of all Sikh religious places||Gurdwaras that are named after trees||Also readGolden Temple: Artistically Gold!Satguru Nanak Pargateya: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Sultanpur LodhiSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranAmritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinctionGurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur LodhiReverred for over five centuries, this huge ber (Ziziphus mauritiana) tree at Gurdwara Ber Sahib in Sultanpur Lodhi still bears fruit. Situated on the banks of holy Bein, this is the tree under which Guru Nanak used to meditate and hence it is historically important. When the gurdwara was renovated, a platform was constructed around the tree leaving huge gaps around it so that it had space to spread out more. Just near the tree is the ‘Tap asthan’ or the meditation place, where the first Sikh master used to sit and recite hymns during his stay of 14 years, nine months and 13 days in this holy town.Gurdwara Palah Sahib (Gumtala)Guru Hargobind Sahib used to come to this place for resting and hunting. The first ever Sikh war in history was caused by an incident, which occurred at this place. The Sikhs caught a hawk, which was owned by Mughal emperor Shahjahan. When the Mughal soldiers came to this place and asked for the hawk, the Sikhs replied: “You are talking about the Baaj (hawk), we will soon lay our hands on your taj (crown).” As a result, an army under Mukhlis Khan was sent back. The place is named after the tree ‘Palah’ which no longer exists.Guru Ka BaghSikh Gurus had planted an orchard near the Darbar Sahib. Recently, the SGPC had initiated the revival of the Guru Ka Bagh on a 2.5 acre plot on the Darbar Sahib complex.Gurdwara Bhai Salo di Beri (Pandori Waraich)Bhai Salo ji, a prominent devotee, who was a contemporary of fifth Sikh Guru and in-charge of the construction work of the new town had stood under a jujube tree at Pandori Waraich village and stated that whosoever would donate fuel (dung cakes, wood) for baking bricks would be blessed with a son. A gurdwara has now been constructed at the place.Gurdwara Lachi Ber SahibIn 1577, when the excavation of Amrit Sarovar began, Guru Arjan Dev and Bhai Salo ji used to sit under this tree. In another historically important incident, Bhai Mehtab Singh and Bhai Sukha Singh tied their horses with this tree before proceeding to behead Massa Rangar to punish him for desecrating the holy place in 1797. Due to its small-sized berries (size of cardamom), it is called lachi ber.Gurdwara Dukh Bhanjni BeriThe story of Bibi Rajni and the metamorphosis of her leper husband is believed to have happened under this jujube tree. The believers take a dip in the sarovar under this tree till date to find solace from their troubles.Gurdwara Ber Sahib (Mattewal)The place is associated with Guru Hargobind Sahib. It is believed that the Sikh master rested at the site under a jujube tree.Ber Baba Buddha SahibUnder this holy tree, which exists till date, Baba Buddha, who remained closely associated with the first six Sikh Gurus, camped to oversee the excavation of the holiest of the ponds — the Amrit Sarovar.Gurdwara Bohri Sahib (Kot Khalsa)The place is on the old route from Amritsar to Guru Ki Wadali. Guru Arjan Dev used to stop under this tree whenever he travelled on this route.Gurdwara Toot Sahib (Sultanwind)The place in Sultanwind village is named after a mulberry tree associated with the Sixth Sikh Master. In an interesting incident, Bhai Manjh Ji had fallen into a well near the tree, when he had gone to bring the firewood for the langar. Guru Hargobind and devotees found him standing in the well with the wooden logs on his head, as he did not want these to get wet.Gurdwara Pipli Sahib (Putlighar)The place on Amritsar-Lahore-Kabul route had a pipal tree under which Guru Arjan Dev welcomed devotees from Afghanistan and north-western districts for the excavation of holy sarovar at the Darbar Sahib. It was at this place, that the 6th Sikh master — Guru Hargobind Singh — rested after killing Mukhlis Khan in the first battle with the Mughal army in Sikh history.Gurdwara Tahli SahibThe place on Kathunangal-Mattewal Road is associated with Baba Bir Singh Naurangabadi, a prominent Sikh figure of the 18th century. Several other gurdwaras in Punjab associated with him are known as Tahli Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spiritual-roots-348590
10-12-2021||---||Understanding tangible & intangible borders||Amritsar, December 9Majha House hosted its annual lecture series in memory of 2nd Lt SS Gill and Kuldip Nayar recently.Former diplomat and author of the book ‘The Fractured Himalayas: India, Tibet, China 1949-1962’ Nirupama Rao along with Jagrup Singh Sekhon, former professor of political science at GNDU, eminent military historian Sq Ldr Rana Chinna and granddaughter of Kuldip Nayar Mandira Nayar were among the panellists.Nirupama Rao, who has explained the dynamics of mountain borders and the concept of contact spaces for cultural and economic exchange being lost to geopolitics in her book, talked about how the definition and significance of borderlands has changed over time.She stressed on the fact that the individual ecosystems of borderlands, whether they are mountain borders or oceans, have been overpowered by geopolitical interests.“These borderlands have tended to be viewed as targets of Central government policy radiating from national capitals rather than as areas that possess their system of existence. The policy must focus on local issues that directly impact the lives of people. The concept of frontier zones which historically provided for ‘an intermingling of peoples’, allowing the retention of close integration across borders between communities in terms of language, custom and religion, has been lost. Geopolitics trumps all,” she said.She also talked about the concept of connector zones, or recognition of a shared habitat that was once common to the Himalayan borderlands. “The Himalayan Fringe that I speak of and which marks the frontiers between South and Central Asia, including Tibet, holds the key to the future of close to three billion people — in terms of climate, water, sustainability, preservation of intangible heritage, disaster management and prevention, and human security.”Mandira Nayar, a journalist and granddaughter of Kuldip Nayar, said there was a need to explore our borderlands more closely to witness and feel at close hand, the pulse and sentiments of people, who live there, the ones who are the first casualties of tensions on shared borders. She talked about her grandfather’s legacy of peace between India and Pakistan that could not be realised in his lifetime. Kuldip Nayar initiated the peace campaign to light candles at Wagah every year on Independence Day eve as a message of peace and brotherhood between the two nations.Several references were also given to understand the themes of displacement, longing and hope on borders, on how people living in these areas learn to negotiate the realities of conflict and political contention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/understanding-tangible-intangible-borders-348588
10-12-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Tarn Taran: ADC apologises to ASHA workers on behalf of DC||Tarn Taran, December 9Tension prevailed in the meeting called by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh with the agitating ASHA workers here on Thursday to discuss their demands when leaders of the ASHA workers opposed the alleged objectionable language used by the DC.Hundreds of ASHA workers and facilitators under the banner of the district unit of the All India ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union organized a dharna on National Highway No.54 in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here. Long queues were seen of vehicles on both sides of the national highway as the dharna lasted for hours and the administration failed to pacify the agitating workers.The leaders of the union alleged Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh allegedly used objectionable language against them. The agitating workers lifted the dharna from the national highway and sat in front of both the gates of the DAC blocking the way of all the officials and staff of various departments.Manjinder Kaur, district president, and Seema Sohal, state leader of the organization, said the leaders of the organization on the call of the administration had gone to the DC office to discuss their demands, but he allegedly used filthy language against workers.The leaders said their main demands included honorarium on the Haryana pattern, increase in their honorarium as per the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission, two uniforms (one each for winter and summer season), Rs 10 lakh insurance free by the state government, bike for each worker, etc.ADC Jagwinderjit Singh Grewal went up to the dharna site and expressed sorry on behalf of the DC and said in case their feelings were hurt, he was sorry for it. Seema Sohal said the union would discuss the issue in its meeting to be held on Friday and the next course action.The ADC confirmed that he pacified the protesting ASHA workers and felt sorry on behalf of DC Kulwant Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adc-apologises-to-asha-workers-on-behalf-of-dc-348587
10-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Killer Chinese strings return, so does Amritsar residents' fear||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 9After a major injury to a resident due to the Chinese string, commuters, especially two-wheeler riders, are worried about their safety on city roads. Despite the ban on the sale and use of plastic string, commonly known as Chinese string, these are still available at every corner. As Lohri and Basant festivals are approaching, the use of kite string has already started in the city. Youngsters can be seen flying kites on their rooftops and roadsides. However, the plastic string is not openly available in the market. It is being sold with references and some code words. The kite lovers arrange the string easily, as its supply continues through personal contacts.These strings have proven deadly for human beings, especially commuters on two-wheelers. After the deep cut on the left cheek and jaw of a commuter on Tarn Taran Road, commuters are in scared to ride two-wheelers. They prefer cars instead of two-wheelers to avoid any injury due to the kite string. The city, which is already facing traffic congestions, would get more four-wheeler traffic due to the fear of plastic string.Recent caseOn Saturday, Manjit Singh of Celebration Enclave was returning home on his scooter. When he reached the flyover on Tarn Taran Road, a string cut his left cheek and jaw. He was rushed to a hospital, where doctors made efforts to stitch his injury. The horrifying pictures of the victim went viral on social media creating panic among residents.A nightmare for birdsA number of birds, including owls, pigeons and eagles have got entangled in these Chinese strings in the past. Rohan Mehra from an animal protection organisation claimed that hundreds of pigeons die every year due to the killer string. He recently initiated an awareness campaign to make the public aware of the ill-effects of ‘Chinese dor’. “Ironically, deaths of birds and injuries to human beings are not being reported anywhere and the administration doesn’t take any effective step,” Rohan said.The banOn December 18, 2017, the Punjab Government had imposed a complete ban on the manufacturing, sale, production, storage, supply, and use of kite flying thread made out of nylon, plastic or any other synthetic material, including the popularly known ‘Chinese Manjha’ in the state. Synthetic Manjha, Nylon thread and other similar synthetic threads used for kite-flying has an adverse effect not only on human beings but on cattle, birds, soil and ecology as well. Not only Chinese string but any other kite-flying thread that is sharp or made sharp by lacing the same with glass, metal or any other sharp material is also banned in the state.No action taken so farLast year, the police had confiscated hundreds of rolls of plastic string for sale and nabbed several persons. But this time, the police have not initiated any such drive so far. The police officials claimed that the sale was yet to start and individuals were using old strings. The Municipal Corporation had also constituted a committee to curb the manufacturing and storage of the banned string. They have also seized some rolls. Despite tall claims, the administration and police seem helpless to stop the sale and use of the string.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/killer-strings-return-so-does-residents-fear-348586
10-12-2021||Amritsar||Army's claim of mistaken identity false: Nagaland body||A Nagaland-based organisation — Naga People’s Movement for Human Rights — rejected the claims of the Indian Army’s counter-insurgency operation as a “mistaken identity” and its retaliatory violence claiming the lives of 14 civilians in Oting village in Mon district of Nagaland.A 12-member delegation of the Nagaland organisation reached Amritsar today to participate in a conclave of minority communities being attended by Sikhs, Kashmiris, Nagas and Tamil people. The event has organised by Dal Khalsa to mark International Human Rights Day on Friday.On Saturday evening, a special unit of the Army mistakenly opened fire at a pick-up van carrying coal miners from the Tiru area to Oting village (about 15 km away), killing six on board. Seven more civilians and a soldier died when villagers, alarmed by the gunshots and the death of their brethren, clashed with the troops about an hour later.Neingulo Krome, secretary of the Nagaland organisation, said though the Centre had expressed grief and termed it as a case of mistaken identity, it was a totally fabricated botched operation that claimed innocent lives.“The ones who lost lives were local labourers who used to take the same route to reach their work place. After killing them, the forces also tried to brand some civilians as militants by planting weapons and dressing them in camouflage and boots,” he alleged.Former secretary general of the organisation Dr Veenuh said after the abolition of Article 370 and 35 in Jammu and Kashmir, the Centre had turned a blind eye to the rights of Nagaland residents.“In 2015, the Government of India led by PM Modi and the National Socialist Council of Nagaland had entered into an agreement to respect Naga people’s separate identification and existence for sharing the sovereign power to end the violent confrontation once and for all. It was recognised by the erstwhile Atal Bihari Vajpaee government too. Now, the Modi-led government has refused to implement it,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/armys-claim-of-mistaken-identity-false-naga-body-348369
