11-12-2021||Amritsar||2 booked under Child Labour Act||Two held with 75-gm heroinTarn Taran: Patti police arrested two persons with 75 grams of heroin from their possession here on Friday. The police said Sukhwant Singh of Chuslewar village was arrested with 35 grams of heroin by Patti Sadar police and Paras of Patti town was arrested with 40 grams of heroin. Cases under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act have been registered by respective police stations. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-booked-under-child-labour-act-349092
11-12-2021||---||Covid: One tests positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, December 10With one Covid-19 positive case reported on Friday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,436. The health authorities of the districtdid not find any recovery case, so the recovery count stood as it is at 45,835.At present, Amritsar district has two active cases. No casualty due to the novel coronavirus was reported in Amritsar district during the last 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-one-tests-positive-in-amritsar-district-349091
11-12-2021||from page 1||AAP declares 3 candidates, greenhorn Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh fielded from North seat||party. He is likely to contest from this constituency.In the last Assembly election, Harbhajan Singh ETO (retired) secured impressive 33,912 votes which was 27.17 vote percentage, the maximum among the Aam Aadmi Party contestants in the district.He had stood third in the constituency. Sukhwinder Singh Danny of Congress topped with 53,042 votes and SAD’s Dalbir Singh was second with 34,620 votes.Teacher-turned-excise officer-turned politician Harbhajan Singh is a native of Jandiala Guru region. After hardly serving for four years in the PCS allied service in the Excise and Taxation Department, he had tendered his resignation to join politics.After serving for 16 years, he had taken a premature retirement as a lecturer of political science from the Government Senior Secondary School, Jandiala Guru, where he had once received his education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-declares-3-candidates-greenhorn-kunwar-partap-fielded-from-north-seat-349090
11-12-2021||Amritsar||2-day seminar on teacher education for sustainability||Two-day annual seminar on Teacher Education for Sustainability and Food and Nutritional Securities: Challenges for Sustainability began here on Friday. Being organsied by the Guru Arjan Dev Institute of Development Studies its Director General Dr Gursharan Singh Kainth while welcoming the delegates said climate and sustainability concerns were growing ever more important to today’s world.The movement toward a net-zero emissions economy is a global imperative. Climate change affects everything from geopolitics to economies to migration. Because it touches everything so the seminar seeks to examine it from every angle. When Covid-19 began to tear through countries, politicians and business leaders largely followed the advice of experts and accepted swift government action to flatten the curve of infections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-day-seminar-on-teacher-education-for-sustainability-349089
11-12-2021||---||'Need to safeguard rights of minorities'||Amritsar, December 10On the occasion of Human Rights Day, the Khalra Mission Organisation (KMO) sought intervention of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in the atrocities against Sikhs and other minorities.Jagdeep Singh Randhawa of the KMO said the Indian state carried out sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib, protected culprits; stopped Muslims from offering Namaz, abolished Article 370 and recently killed 13 civilians in Nagaland. All this points towards continuation of these brutalities. Instead of giving more powers to provinces, they are centralising power to weaken every province in India, he accused.Darshan Singh and Satwinder Singh Palasaur said the corrupt rulers, by pursuing corporatisation and capital policies deprived 90 percent of Indians of the basic needs of food and shelter. No action has been taken for 3,000-kg drugs recovered from the Mundra Port in Gujarat. All of them appealed intervention for fair investigation of these brutalities.Meanwhile, a webinar organised by the Regional Public Relations Bureau of the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on the occasion of Human Rights Day was held today.Speaking on the occasion, advocate Amandeep Singh Bajwa interpreted the articles of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). A social activist Subhash Sehgal gave a detailed account of the challenges of implementing human rights at the grassroots level. Sapna (IIS), deputy director, Press Information Bureau, Chandigarh, said massive erosion of basic the human rights during World War II had made the world community think about human rights. As a result, the UNO issued the ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ on December 10, 1948. Gurmeet Singh (IIS), Field Publicity Officer in-charge of the Ministry’s Field Outreach Bureau, said the National Human Rights Commission was set up in our country in 1993 to protect human rights. However, since the year 1950, the Constitution of our country has come into force, in Part III of which every Indian has been given many fundamental rights.Baljit Singh, Assistant Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chandigarh, thanked all guests and said human rights could ensure that we achieve a better, more equitable and sustainable world in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-safeguard-rights-of-minorities-349088
11-12-2021||Amritsar||GNDU Inter-Zonal Youth Fest ends||Expert talk on Big Data and CloudTech Talk Club run under the auspices of the Department of CSE/IT at the Global Group of Institutes organised multifarious activities to develop and hone the overall skills of the students pertaining to self-discipline, effective communication and their overall personality. An expert talk on “Big Data and Cloud” was conducted by the club with an aim to apprise and educate the students about the importance and demand of this powerful technology in the near future. Varun Sethi, Associate Practice Lead, Big Data ; Cloud, Abzooba, Pune delivered the expert talk and enlightened the students and faculty on the scope and application of this technology in Industry. Another online quiz titled “Smart Hacks 2020-2021” in association with ICT-IIT Kanpur was organised by the club as part of activity based teaching and learning process for the benefit of the students, who participated in the online quiz. Tech Talk Club also organised group discussion on contemporary times and expressed their views showcasing their knowledge and understanding of the issues affecting the world at large and India in particular.Workshop for faculty membersFaculty members from as many as 150 colleges were trained in a workshop organised jointly by Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar (GNDU) and Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), New Delhi here on Friday. This workshop titled “Advancing Green Educational Campuses – A Regional Experience Sharing” was organised to sensitise colleges to mobilise action for a green campus. Directors of Internal Quality Assurance Cell of universities and colleges were invited and attended the workshop. A green campus is a place that consumes fewer natural resources and generates less waste. This requires a range of measures for energy conservation, water conservation, waste management, reducing air pollution and improving overall health and well-being of the campus habitants.“Guru Nanak Dev University has conducted a tree plantation drive, established a 1.48 MWp solar rooftop power plant, won the second cleanest campus award given by Ministry of Human Resource Development in 2018 and 2019, treats it wastewater in-situ treatment and ensures its reuse in the University Botanical Garden among many other initiatives.” – Dr Sarbjot Singh Behl, Nodal Person RUSA, GNDU highlighted in his inaugural address at the workshop. CSE has mapped these initiatives taken by selected campuses who are also a part of CSE’s Forum of Green Campuses and published a preliminary assessment in a report titled “Green Campus Movement”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-inter-zonal-youth-fest-ends-349087
11-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Improvement Trust move to turn green belt into residential plots draws flak||Amritsar, December 10A section of residents of Housing Board Colony, C-block, in Ranjit Avenue has objected to the proposed move of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) to carve out two plots out of a park, over which a tubewell for water supply is installed, in their colony.The AIT through an advertisement published on November 25 invited objections to the proposed plan to carve out two residential plots measuring 34x65 feet.Manoj Kumar, a resident living adjoining the park, claimed that the dimensions of the given plots were not factually correct given in the public notice. He alleged that the green belt of the adjoining houses was being encroached upon through this new scheme of things.Naresh Sharma, another resident, said the display board installed at the entrance to the colony announced that space as a green belt. So, converting it into residential plots was not in the right spirit, when the entire world was concerned about the depleting green cover.The already installed tubewell at the park went out of order in 2018 and was abandoned. The ADA handed over the entire water supply of the colony, including the tubewell, to the Municipal Corporation in 2020. The MC again made another bore about 50 feet away from the previous borewell site. Vinod Kumar, another resident, said this change of nature of the public park into residential plots was against the statutory principles of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in various matters. Besides, the Trust must act as a custodian of the environment, open spaces for recreation and fresh air, playgrounds for children.GS Bedi, another resident of the colony, confronted the information given in public notice that the water supply pump has been closed. He claimed that the water supply pump was still there.They requested the Trust officials to withdraw the public notice in the interest of public and stop the proceedings of converting the part of public park into a residential plot.‘Trust must take care of open spaces’The already installed tubewell at the park went out of order in 2018 and was abandoned. The ADA handed over the entire water supply of the colony, including the tubewell, to the Municipal Corporation in 2020. The MC again made another bore about 50 feet away from the previous borewell site. A resident said change of nature of the public park into residential plots was against the statutory principles of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in various matters. Besides, the Trust must act as a custodian of the environment and open spaces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/improvement-trust-move-to-turn-green-belt-into-residential-plots-draws-flak-349086
11-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Foggy days ahead: Have authorities taken steps to check mishaps?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10Despite high road accident rate on city and periphery roads during foggy days in the past few years, the authorities have failed to improve road infrastructure. With the foggy season already set in, it would be no exaggeration to say that fog would prove fatal for commuters as the condition of roads has turned from bad to worse over the past few years. A large number of commuters die in road accidents every year during the foggy season.In 2019, a study by traffic experts of Guru Nanak Dev University found that as many as 43 deaths were reported and 67 persons were injured from 2016 to 2019 in the district. Casualties are reported during the November-January period owing to poor visibility, especially at night, due to fog.Gopala Dhawan, Road Safety Engineer, who collected the data from Amritsar, stated that the number of road accidents doubled during foggy days. Besides, owing to lack of basic road infrastructure for safe commuting in fog, a high death rate is reported every year.“Ironically, there has been no significant improvement in road infrastructure during the last few years. The emergency response system in periphery areas is also very poor. The growth of shrubs alongside roads hides the road signs and road markings from view. Besides, road reflectors are missing. All these factors lead to road accidents in foggy days,” said Dhawan.Ironically, most of the roads in the city and peripheral areas are without street lights. Though street lights have been installed on main roads, many of them are lying defunct. Reflectors on road dividers are missing. Due to low visibility, vehicles often ram into podiums. Several roads in the city have been dug up for repair works. Concrete blocks and barriers have been laid to divert traffic.The BRTS and bypass roads have some engineering issues, which lead to regular road accidents. Vehicles often ram into iron grills on the BRTS corridor due to its faulty design and poor maintenance.Stray cattle also pose a threat. Cattle can be seen sitting or roaming the roads. The Municipal Corporation has failed to keep stray cattle away from roads even though the gaushala is fully functional.“To avoid pile-ups in the foggy season, the triangle reflector kit should immediately be used after a road accident. Highway patrolling personnel and the police should be called to manage traffic,” said Gopala Dhawan, a traffic expert.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/foggy-days-ahead-have-authorities-taken-steps-to-check-mishaps-349085
11-12-2021||---||Farmer among two robbed||Amritsar, December 10Armed persons robbed a farmer when he was returning home after withdrawing cash from a bank in Gujjapeer village falling under Ajnala police station, here on Thursday. Gobind Singh, victim, was accompanied by his 15-year-old son when the incident took place. The police have registered a case and further investigations were under progress.He stated that he, along with his son, had gone to Punjab National Bank in Chamiyari village. He said he withdrew Rs 1 lakh from the bank and put it in a bag. He was returning home on a bike when two youths stopped him near a brick-kiln. They pointed a pistol and a sharp weapon towards them and threatened them. They snatched the bag and fled away from the spot.The Ajnala police have registered a case under Sections 379-B, 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act against unknown persons.In another incident, three youth snatched a licensed pistol and some cash from Gurmukh Singh, a resident of Guru Ramdass Colony in Fatehgarh Churian in Gurdaspur district. He said he was returning to his home from Amritsar on Wednesday late evening when he was intercepted by three bike borne persons. He said they pushed his scooter due to which he fell down. They later snatched Rs900 and licensed revolver from his pocket. The Jhander police have registered a case under Sections 379-B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-among-two-robbed-349084
11-12-2021||---||Cops solve woman murder case||Amritsar, December 10Two days after a drug addict woman, Gurpreet Kaur (35), was found murdered in the Vallah vegetable market, the police on Friday claimed to have solved the blind murder case with the arrest of two persons, including a truck driver, in this regard.Those arrested have been identified as Sukhchain Singh of Moga and Sitara Singh of Maqboolpura area.The police said illicit relations and drug abuse was the reason behind the murder. Sukhchain had illicit relations with her while Sitara used to provide the contraband to them.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said during investigation the police found that Sitara used to provide smack to the victim for consumption. The police team, headed by Vallah police station SHO Jasbir Singh, arrested him. His interrogation led the police to the fact that Sukhchain Singh had illicit relations with her.Jasbir Singh said Sukhchain found the victim in compromising position with another man due to which he was very upset. He said Sitara was also upset with her as she had not given him the money even after consuming drugs. Sitara was a drug peddler, who also consumed the contraband. Therefore, the duo planned to kill her. On Tuesday evening, he offered her drugs and asked Sukhchain to take her to the Vallah vegetable market on bike where he killed her.A scene was created at the police station when the family members of Sitara Singh reached there and accused the police of implicating him in a false case. They alleged Sitara was in the house with the family when the victim, Gurpreet Kaur, was stated to be killed. They alleged an ASI picked him from the house and demanded Rs 10,000 as bribe while threatening him to falsely implicate in the case. Though he took the amount, he still implicated Sitara in the murder case.ADCP Harpal Singh said he had asked the family to file a written complaint and the matter would be investigated. He added that it was on the interrogation of Sitara, the police arrested Sukhchain Singh for murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-solve-woman-murder-case-349083
11-12-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Assembly poll: AAP declares 3 candidates||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10With Aam Adami Party (AAP) declaring names of three party candidates from as many Assembly constituencies from the holy city in its first list of candidates to contest the ensuing 2022 assembly polls, the poll scenario is likely to hot up in the coming days.Former Punjab Police Inspector General Kunwar Vijay Partap is fielded from the North Assembly segment, Dr Inderbir Nijjar for the South and Harbhajan Singh ETO (retd), from Jandiala Guru.Of these three AAP candidates, cop-turned-politician is a greenhorn in politics. He joined AAP after taking premature retirement in June stating that “till justice is done in sacrilege and firing incidents, the prevailing state of affairs for the common man is “meaningless”. He is pitted against SAD-BSP’s candidate Anil Joshi, a former Cabinet minister. While sitting MLA from the North is Sunil Dutti of Congress.At Amritsar South constituency, Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar will be contesting for the second time. In the last assembly election, he had secured 24,923 votes while Congress candidate Inderbir Singh Bolaria had won by 22,658 votes. He got 47,581 votes. Gurpratap Singh Tikka of SAD had to settle for 16,596 votes.This time SAD is likely to field Talbir Singh Gill from the constituency while another prominent Congress party leader Harjinder Singh Thekedar has announced to join Capt Amarinder Singh-leded party. He is likely to contest from this constituency.In the last Assembly election, Harbhajan Singh ETO (retired) secured impressive 33,912 votes which was 27.17 vote percentage, the maximum among the AAP contestants in the district. He had stood third in the constituency. Sukhwinder Singh Danny of Congress topped with 53,042 votes and SAD’s Dalbir Singh was second with 34,620 votes.Teacher-turned-excise officer-turned politician Harbhajan Singh is a native of Jandiala. After hardly serving for four years in the PCS allied service in the Excise and Taxation Department, he had tendered his resignation to join politics. After serving for 16 years, he had taken a premature retirement as a lecturer of political science from the Government Senior Secondary School, Jandiala Guru, where he had once received his education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/assembly-poll-aap-declares-3-candidates-349082
11-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||NHM staff try to gherao Dy CM Soni's house, face 'police wrath'||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10Contractual employees of the Health Department under the National Health Mission from all over the state held a demonstration outside Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni’s residence at Rani Ka Bagh area here on Friday.They were demanding the regularisation of their jobs while police personnel had tough time in stopping them from reaching and gherao the residence of Soni. The NHM employees confronted the policemen who had barricaded the road leading to his house in the posh locality.The police allegedly used mild force to stop the agitators from proceeding towards Soni’s house. They had a tough time in controlling the large crowd of NHM employees staging the protest against the Punjab Government.A staff nurse, Monu, alleged she was slapped by a male cop while a woman constable tossed the turban of another NHM employee. “Is it not ‘be-adbi’?” she questioned. She said she would file a complaint against that cop.Speaking to mediapersons, she said she had joined the department in 2008 and even after a lapse of 13 years, she was not regularised. She said there are thousands of such employees who were seeking regular jobs.Dr Inderjit Rana, national president (Ayushman) and Punjab president of NRHM Employees’ Association, pointed out that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had announced that the jobs of around 36,000 contractual employees had been regularised, but no notification was issued in this connection. As a result, besides the contractual employees of the Health Department, employees of other government departments were also on agitation path. He said the NHM employees were manhandled by policemen.Earlier, the protesters took out a rally at Golden Avenue and then marched towards Soni’s house. On reaching there, they raised slogans against the Punjab Government and the Deputy CM.They alleged the government seemed least bothered about its employees and the health of the people. They said the association had been fighting for their genuine demands for a long time and consecutive governments never paid attention to their legitimate demands.Later in the evening, the protesters were pacified when OP Soni agreed to meet them in the morning at 10.30am at his house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nhm-staff-try-to-gherao-dy-cm-sonis-house-face-police-wrath-349081
11-12-2021||Neha Saini||Strike by teachers set to hit GNDU exam schedule||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10The ongoing teachers’ strike across the state is set to disturb the examination schedule for the current odd semester conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU). As all teaching and non-teaching activities have been called off by the protesting teachers, GNDU is considering its options before they plan the schedule for the coming examinations that usually begin in mid-December.This will be the second consecutive year when the normal course of examinations stands to be delayed or disturbed as last year the pandemic-induced lockdown had delayed the conduct of semester examinations.With other universities in the state, including Panjab University and IKGPTU, already announcing online examinations under the given situation, GNDU has ruled out any such move. “The question of online examinations does not arise as we have been conducting offline classes since August 16 onwards. Considering the situation, we are planning to release the examination date sheet within 10 days. Syllabus is not the issue here, but participation of teachers is required for conducting the examinations offline. Naturally, with teachers on strike, it might cause delays,” said Prof Manoj Kumar, Controller of Examinations, GNDU.While most affiliated and constituent colleges were expecting practical exams to begin by December 15, the ongoing strike has moved the date sheet forward by at least 10 days. Prof Manoj said they were hopeful that the situation with teachers might find a solution in three-four days. “We are keeping our watch on the cabinet meeting scheduled for Monday. We hope the government considers student welfare and future academic discourse. The teachers’ strike is also not a good signal for the future of higher education as according to the UGC guidelines, 90 days of regular classes are required for the semester system. If teaching remains suspended for more days, the legitimacy of the course can be revoked or challenged.” He also termed the teachers’ strike justified. “They have been waiting for years for the 7th Pay Commission pay grades. Their demands must be taken seriously if the quality of higher education in the state has to improve,” he said.Meanwhile, the teachers’ strike entered its 11th day as they blamed the government for giving empty assurances. Gurdas Sekhon, a teacher from DAV College and member of the district unit of PFUCTO, said if the education of students was affected, then the government would be responsible for that. “The government should shun its obstinate attitude and fulfill the teachers’ demands. The policies of the Punjab Government are completely wrong. We will not end the strike until our demands are met,” he said.Dr BB Yadav of PFUCTO said the teachers of Punjab and Chandigarh were suffering financial loss due to non-implementation of the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission. The Seventh Pay Commission recommendations were not implemented even in Himachal Pradesh as the rules of Punjab were implemented in Himachal.Dr Yadav said according to the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations, 50 per cent of the fund was to be given by the University Grants Commission to the Punjab Government for teachers’ salaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/strike-by-teachers-set-to-hit-gndu-exam-schedule-349080
11-12-2021||---||CDS chopper crash: In Punjab village wait on for Naik Gursewak Singh's body||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 10Body of Naik Gursewak Singh (35) of Dode Sodhian village here will be brought to his native village after around two days. The brave heart died on Wednesday in a chopper crash in which the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), his wife, and other persons were travelling near Coonoor in Nilgiris (Tamil Nadu).The family of the martyr and area residents are worried over the delay in handing over of the body. As Gursewak’s body got charred in the mishap and it was difficult to be identified. A team of the Indian Army had reached his native village on Thursday and collected blood samples of his father Kabal Singh for DNA test.Jaswinder Singh, brother of the martyr, said the family had contacted the Army headquarters which told them that it might take two to three days to complete the formalities and then the body would be brought to the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wait-on-for-naiks-body-348879
11-12-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to honour farm union leaders at Golden Temple||Expressing relief over the victory of farmers’ agitation, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s (SGPC’s) executive committee (EC) has decided to honour the farm union leaders on their scheduled arrival to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple on December 13.“The SGPC has stood by the farmers’ cause and will continue to stand firmly by them,” said SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami, who chaired the EC meeting.In the wake of ‘shahidi pandarwarah’ of martyrdom of sahibzadas, the SGPC has announced that only a simple menu would be in the langar distribution at all gurdwaras to commemorate the martyrdom fortnight between December 21 and 30. There will be no sweets in langar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-honour-union-leaders-at-golden-temple-348859
