12-12-2021||Amritsar||Awareness Camp for Voters||Two Flower Fairs at GNDUTwo flower fairs in the courtyard of the university will be held from December 15 onwards. The flower festivals will also host discussions and workshops on how to bring floriculture and business on modern lines. Subject matter experts will participate and offer research papers from which farmers and entrepreneurs can work on new ideas. This year’s fair will be held from December 15 to December 17. This fair attracts people from all over Punjab who love the environment and enjoy the flower fair with the message of loving nature on their way back home. Brainchild of VC Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, these flower fairs are an extension of GNDU’s green initiatives. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/awareness-camp-for-voters-349196
12-12-2021||Amritsar||Over 13,000 PwD voters registered in Amritsar district||The Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) team is carrying out regular registration camps in schools and colleges to ensure maximum participation and inclusivity of voters during the 2022 Assembly elections.Directing its efforts towards registration of Persons with Disabilities (PwD) and third gender voters, the team has registered 13,067 new PwD voters (a significant increase from 6,101 PwD voters in the 2019 General Elections). The count of third gender voters, too, has increased with 65 new voters registering themselves till December 10.The 20 member SVEEP team has been focusing in increasing the representation of PwD and third gender voters. A string of activities, including availability of wheelchairs at all polling stations, deputation of booth volunteers, NCC and NSS cadets for assistance of PwD voters, ensuring facilities of Braille-ballot sheet, helpdesk, using signages and pictures for easy communication and pick and drop facility have been worked out. Besides ramp facilities, drinking water and toilets, at all polling stations would also be available. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-13-000-pwd-voters-registered-in-amritsar-district-349197
12-12-2021||Our Correspondent||1,235 cases settled in Lok Adalat||Tarn Taran, December 11On the directions of the National Legal Services Authority the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) National Lok Adalat was organised in the district on Saturday.Judicial Officer Gurbir Singh, Secretary, DLSA, said under the supervision of District and Session Judge-cum-Chairperson of the DLSA a total 14 benches were formed to dispose of the cases come for hearing.The Judicial Officer said of the 2,673 cases heard during the Lok Adalat, 1,235 were settled and a recovery of Rs 9.64 crore was made.He added that ten benches were formed in Tarn Taran, three in Patti and one in Khadoor Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-235-cases-settled-in-lok-adalat-349198
12-12-2021||---||Activists pledge to protect rights of all communities||Amritsar, December 11On Human Rights Day, which falls on December 10, civil liberty activists from Punjab, Kashmir, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu and Tripura assembled in Amritsar and kicked off their campaign to fight for the protection of their religious, civil, economic and political rights.They paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and were honoured by SGPC’s former secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka at a programme held at the entrance plaza of the shrine convened by Dal Khalsa.A charter of Human Rights Declaration was also released. They vowed to work unitedly for the rights of all communities, ethnicities, regions, nationalities and marginalised social groups. They resolved to be committed to engaging, debating and evolving solutions on principles enshrined in the UN Human Rights Charter and practices that respect humans and their choices.Neingulo Krone, general secretary of Naga People’s Movement for Human Rights, spoke about the Naga quest for dignified peace by implementing the Indo-Naga Framework Agreement signed in 2015 that speaks about a separate identity and sovereignty for Nagaland residents.Advocate Atif Geelani from Kashmir raised the issue of fake encounters, torture, illegal arrests in Kashmir and repeal of Article 370 and 35A.The activists demanded the Centre to scrap all legal and administrative impunity to police, para-military and armed forces. They demanded release of political prisoners.They sought respect for all nationalistic, cultural, religious and linguistic distinctiveness and demanded anti-CAA movement, demolishing the pseudo-culture of majoritarianism and suppression of the right to expression, dissent and privacy.They also chided the Government of India for its failure to recognise the deaths of 700 farmers and Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which three farmers and a journalist were crushed to death. They demanded adequate compensation to kin of victims during the course of the farm agitation.Others present on the occasion included Harpal Singh Cheema, HS Dhami, Kanwarpal Singh, Emaan Singh Maan and Prof Jamohan Singh, all representing Punjab; Dr Neivesto Venuh and Neingulo Krome representing Nagaland; Seeban Ashai and Advocate Atif Geelani from Kashmir and Vasantha, Srijan Chawla from New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activists-pledge-to-protect-rights-of-all-communities-349199
12-12-2021||---||Residents seek redressal of road safety issues, write to MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla||Amritsar, December 11City residents sought follow up of the pending National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) issues from MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla for which Minister Nitin Gadkari had given assurance in the Question Hour session during the last Parliament session.Office-bearers of Amritsar Vikas Manch wrote to MP Aujla on current status from NHAI officials for installation of streetlights on the bypass section of NH-3 Amritsar road. “The Minister of Road Transport and Highways had replied to Aujla’s question in last Lok Sabha session for early redressal of Amritsar bypass street lighting issue as well as redressal of important road safety measures on the stretch by installing safety blinkers/cat eyes along with approval for elevated road stretch over Gumtala-Amritsar Airport section.A tender for streetlights had floated a few months ago. However, it seems this will need a strong push by the MP to get the project started. So, we have written to the MP to follow up with the department concerned and officers,” said Yogesh Kamra, secretary, Amritsar Vikas Manch.Many major accidents have accelerated in recent months and with the onset of winters dense fog on this stretch will aggravate poor visibility further on this bypass stretch. The residents of localities including Holy City, Swiss City, Guru Gobind Singh Avenue, Guru Amardass Avenue, Jhujhar Singh Avenue, Gumtala Village, Loharka Road, Ranjit Avenue, Guru Nanak Dev University use the NH-1 for daily commuting and millions of tourists and visitors use the same road for SGRDJ International Airport, Attari - Wagah Indo-Pak border, Ram Tirath, War Memorial, Saada Pind and Amrit Anand Park.Furthermore, the demand for six laning of Amritsar bypass section from Dhilwan to Attari along with poor upkeep of Amritsar-Pathankot NH-54 section and removal of identified major blackspots on NH-3 was also raised in the Lok Sabha session by the MP. In reply to MP’s question, transport minister had assured to take up these issues on priority.“We requested to take up these issues with Chairman NHAI or concerned officials for early implementation of installation of road lights across the entire bypass stretch along with redressal of other pending issues expeditiously,” added secretary AVM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-seek-redressal-of-road-safety-issues-write-to-mp-gurjeet-singh-aujla-349200
12-12-2021||---||7th pay panel: College teachers' stir enters Day 12||Amritsar, December 11The college teachers under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) held a protest from Lawrence Road to Company Bagh on Saturday over non- implementation of the 7th Pay Commission. Teachers from DAV College, BBK DAV, Khalsa College and Hindu College, among others, took part in the agitation.Teaching staff working in other states are getting the benefit of 7th Pay Commission for the last five years, but the Punjab Government is talking about delinking the Punjab Higher Education Department from the University Grants Commission. Dr BB Yadav, area coordinator , Guru Nanak Dev University“More than 900 professors of the district are on strike for the last 11 days and the government is sleeping. It’s a matter of grave importance as teachers have been waiting for four years to get the benefits that their counterparts in other states are getting,” said Dr Gurdas SIngh Sekhon, district chief, PFUCTO.He said numerous meetings have been held with the government, which only gives assurances.Dr Seema Jaitley, a teacher from Hindu College, said, “Due to this, studies of students in colleges are getting hampered. The future of students is getting spoiled, but the government is sitting carelessly. The place of teachers is in colleges, not on the roads. Therefore, the government should give us our due and not spoil the semester.”Guru Nanak Dev University area coordinator Dr BB Yadav said teachers, too, do not want to hold protest. “We have been forced to hold the stir. The 7th Pay Commission has been hanging for a long time. Teaching staff working in all the states are getting the benefit of 7th Pay Commission for the last five years, but the Punjab Government is talking about delinking the Punjab Higher Education Department from the University Grants Commission.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7th-pay-panel-college-teachers-stir-enters-day-12-349201
12-12-2021||Amritsar||Man dies, father among 4 booked||Dist reports 1 positive caseAmritsar: With one positive case reported on Saturday, the district count increased to 47,437. The health authorities have also reported the recovery of one patient, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,836. The district at present has a total of two active cases. TNSConvention of minorities heldAmritsar: Vasantha, wife of GN Sai Baba, who is imprisoned in Maharashtra for alleged terror links, has appealed to secure release of her husband. She was here to attend a convention of minorities organised by the Dal Khalsa on the occasion of International Human Rights on Friday. She said atrocities were being committed on her husband. She said he was already on a wheelchair and now his left arm was almost paralysed. He is also currently suffering from heart disease, gall bladder and kidney stones, hypertension and other ailments. So, he needs immediate medical attention, saying that medical parole has been sought several times but no hearing was being held. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-dies-father-among-4-booked-349202
12-12-2021||---||Deputy CM assures National Health Mission staff of resolving issue in next 3 days||Amritsar, December 11The representatives of National Health Mission (NHM) Employees’ Union and Joint State Committee held a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister Om Prakash Soni regarding their demands.The employees’ leaders said Soni, who also holds the portfolio of health, has assured them of a solution to their issues within the next three days. The employees had held a massive protest outside the residence of Soni on Friday, after which he agreed to meet them on Saturday.The NHM employees working on contractual basis for the last many years are demanding regularisation of their services. The employees’ leaders said Soni had again invited them for a meeting on December 14. Gurpreet Singh Bhullar of NHM Employees’ Union said: “Many of us have spent more than a decade in the Health Department, but are still waiting for regularisation.”Meanwhile, the protest by the nursing staff at government hospitals entered the fifth day on Saturday. The protest has affected medical care for patients and even admissions to the government hospitals, claimed nursing employees.Lakhwinder Kaur Samra, vice-president, Punjab Nursing Association, said: “Never in history have we seen that a pay commission report had actually resulted in decreasing the salaries of employees.” She said the demand regarding special professional allowance for nursing employees is justified as many other states and even the Central government was paying it to their employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deputy-cm-assures-national-health-mission-staff-of-resolving-issue-in-next-3-days-349203
12-12-2021||---||Work as a team during Assembly poll: DC to officials||Amritsar, December 11Ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Khaira and District Election Officer Gurpreet Singh Khaira, held a meeting with senior police and administrative officials on Saturday.During the meeting, the DC passed instructions to deposit the licenced weapons at police stations or with registered arms dealers in order to ensure peaceful polling in the district. He also asked the police officials to keep an eye on criminal elements.He asked the officials to keep vigil at polling booths, which had witnessed violence and areas where reports of illicit liquor supply and cash to woo voters surfaced earlier.He asked the police officials to prepare the list of absconders and miscreants who had come out on bail in the recent past and anti-social elements who could create law and order problem during the elections. The DC asked the police and administrative officials to work as a team. He instructed the Returning Officers to make an election cell at their offices.Among others who attended the meeting included Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Ruhi Dug, SSP Amritsar (Rural) Rakesh Kaushal, Subdivisional Magistrates and Returning Officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-as-a-team-during-assembly-poll-dc-to-officials-349204
12-12-2021||---||Trader shot at in East Mohan Nagar area||Amritsar, December 11A hardware trader, identified as Vishesh Gupta, was shot at by unidentified armed assailants in the East Mohan Nagar area here this evening.The police have started a probe into the incident.According to information, Vishesh Gupta was closing his shop (Parkash Iron store) when the accused with covered faces came on a bike and open fire on him. His driver, Prince who was near the spot, informed his family members and the police of the incident.As per eye-witnesses, the incident occurred around 8.30pm. Around four shots were fired at him. After firing, the accused fled away from the spot. His condition is stated to be serious.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jugraj Singh said investigation was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trader-shot-at-in-east-mohan-nagar-area-349205
12-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Harinder Kaur: Leading by example||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 11Harinder Kaur of Birbalpur village, who is a first woman farmer from the area to receive the Krishi Karman Award from the Centre, has been motivating several women to adopt modern techniques in farming.A postgraduate in zoology from Guru Nanak Dev University with specialisation in fisheries, Harinder resorted to hi-tech techniques in farming and has never burnt crop residue.Harinder said she had great interest in farming since childhood. She got inspiration from her grandmother, Swinder Kaur, who resorted to farming after death of her husband.Harinder owns 32 acres and has experimented with many crops and the Centre awarded her for record yield of Basmati variety of paddy. “Our area is blessed with cultivation of Basmati. The government should encourage this paddy variety. We can produce world’s best basmati. I stopped burning crop residue in the fields longtime ago and it has helped the soil health,” she said.Dr Narinderpal Singh Sandhu from the Krishi Vigyan Kendra said, “Harinder has motivated several women in the area. She’s a regular participant at the awareness events organised by the Agriculture Department and the KVK. Her achievement will encourage more farmers.”“I have been following the literature and experts of Punjab Agricultural University for long. Now, we are going to start self-help group to empower women. I am working fulltime in the farming for the last 10 years. I also had some bitter experience with the government agencies,” said Harinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harinder-kaur-leading-by-example-349206
12-12-2021||---||7 robbers held with weapons||Amritsar, December 11The Gate Hakima police arrested seven persons while planning a loot from near the railway tracks in the Gurbax Nagar area here on Friday.The police have recovered a revolver, a toy pistol besides three sharp weapons, a kirch and a baseball bat besides a bike from them.Those arrested have been identified as Kuldeep Singh of Sanglan Wali Gali, Gate Hakima; Suraj, alias Bhurji; Danish and Akashdeep Singh, alias Abhi, of Dashmesh Nagar area in Kot Khalsa; Parasdeep Singh Randhawa of Haripura; Akash and Nikhil Kumar, alias Bhollu, of Shaheed Udham Singh Colony.The police have registered a case under Sections 399, 402, 148, 149 IPC and Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act against them. The police authorities said the accused were produced in court and brought on police remand for further interrogation.They said the police had specific input that the accused had formed a gang and used to rob people in different parts of the city. Further investigations were on, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-robbers-held-with-weapons-349207
12-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Man consumes poison, dies; paramour booked||Tarn Taran, December 11A resident of Vein Poin village perturbed over being cheated by his paramour consumed some poisonous substance at her village — Kallha — on Friday.The Goindwal Sahib policehave booked Jaswinder Kaur, her husband Balwinder Singh, her sister Sukhwinder Kaur Shindi, who is a resident of Lakhna Tappa, and her brother-in-law (husband’s brother) Gurdial Singh under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC.ASI Balraj Singh, Investigating Officer (IO), said deceased Bikramjit Singh (37), who was the relative of one of the family members of accused Jaswinder Kaur, had an affair with her. The accused took maximum advantage of the situation and took lakhs of rupees on the pretext of giving it back, but had no intention of giving it back.In the course, Bikramjit Singh and his wife Mandeep Kaur went to take the money back on Friday and she again dilly-dallied over it and refused to return all of it.Perturbed over this, Bikramjit consumed some poisonous substance and died during treatment at a private hospital on Friday. The ASI said the accused were at large and the police were conducting raids to arrest them. The post-mortem of the body was conducted at the local Civil Hospital on Saturday.Woman dies after taking poison by mistakeKanwaljit Kaur (22), wife of Lovepreet Singh, died as she consumed some poisonous substance by mistake at her house at Sangatpur village here on Friday. Gurmeet Kaur, mother-in-law, and Kewal Singh, father of the victim, in their joint statement to Chohla Sahib police said she consumed some poisonous substance and died during treatment. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-consumes-poison-dies-paramour-booked-349208
12-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||11 cell phones seized in high-security Amritsar Central Jail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 11While the state government has initiated a process to install cell phone signal jammers in the jail premises, miscreants continue to sneak in mobile phones and other prohibited materials inside the ‘high security’ Amritsar Central Jail unabated.In a search operation carried out on Friday, the jail authorities confiscated as many as 11 mobile phones. Following a complaint by the jail authorities, Islamabad police have booked five jail inmates for violating the jail norms.Those booked include Junait Ali of Gurdaspur, Sharif Mohammad of Dhianpur village near Rayya, Yaqub Ali of Ludhiana, Lovedeep Singh alais Kala of Hassanpur Kalan in Batala and Jagdev Singh alias Jagga of Balian Manjpur village in Jandiala.A team headed by Ramesh Chand, Assistant Superintendent, Amritsar Central Jail, searched barrack number 6 and 7 in room number 8. As per details, the jail staff recovered a smartphone from Lovdeep Singh and from Jagdev Singh while three phones were found hidden near exhaust fan of the bathroom in barrack number 6. Another mobile was recovered from a flush tank. Similarly, two unclaimed phones were seized from dustbin.The jail authorities said during checking of barrack number 7 a mobile phone was confiscated from Sharif Mohamad while a touch screen phone was seized from Junait Ali. A keypad cell phone was also recovered from Yaqub Ali.The police have registered an FIR under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against them. Cops said the accused would be brought on police remand to investigate how they managed to sneak in the mobile phones.On Thursday, 10 bundles of cigarettes and six heater springs wrapped in a packet were found between watch tower 4 and 5. The packet was apparently thrown inside by unknown persons from outside. The intelligence agencies have expressed their concerns a number of times that notorious criminals, including gangsters, cross border smugglers and alleged terrorists, were using mobile phones to run their networks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-cell-phones-seized-in-high-security-central-jail-349209
12-12-2021||---||Waiter's murder: 1 held, another still absconding||Amritsar, December 11With the arrest of one accused, the police on Saturday claimed to have solved the murder case in which a waiter was killed by unidentified robbers in New Jagdambe Colony five days ago.The victim, identified as Ramesh Singh, was returning home at that time. The accused was identified as Joban Singh, a resident of Ajnala, and his accomplice Bobby, alias Billa of Kirpal Colony on Majitha Road, is absconding and raids were on to arrest him.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective) Jugraj Singh said Joban Singh, aka Gunga, was arrested from the 88-feet road area and the police recovered the jacket of the victim from his possession. He said Bobby had several cases of robbery and theft registered against him and he had come out of the jail on bail in August this year.The accused looted Ramesh Singh’s mobile and his jacket during the incident. He used to work as a waiter at Chawla Chicken on Sultanwind Road. He was returning home on cycle when the duo attacked him and tried to rob him. As he resisted their attempt, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon leaving him seriously injured and later he died.Residents of the area and relatives of the victim had held a demonstration against the police alleging that incidents of looting employees returning late in the night had become the order of the day and the police failed to curb such incidents. CP Sukhchain Singh Gill had formed an SIT, led by ADCP Jugraj Singh, to crack the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waiters-murder-1-held-another-still-absconding-349210
12-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Grand welcome planned for farmers returning from Delhi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 11Farmers returning from the Delhi borders, after ending their stir, will receive a grand welcome at every major township en route to the holy city on December 13.A meeting of the leaders of different farmers’ unions was held here during which it was decided that they would be showered with flowers. The welcome would not be loud but those returning deserve an applause and respect.The welcome will be simple but respectful. No garlands will be used. We will shower flowers on the farmers’ cavalcade and bow our heads to those who stood firmly throughout. Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leaderThe farmers and leaders would be finally greeted near Jallianwala Bagh before entering the holiest of the Sikh religious shrines to pay obeisance. The welcome events would be held at Beas, Rayya, Khalchian, Tangra, Jandiala Guru, Golden Gate and near Jallianwala Bagh.Farmer leaders including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal and others are expected to reach the holy city on December 13 to pay homage at the Darbar Sahib. The farmer leaders from Punjab said though the agitation was started by farmers from Punjab, entry of Rakesh Tikait and the efforts he made in Uttar Pradesh to mobilise farmers against the three agriculture laws were instrumental in the present victory.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader, said: “The welcome would be simple but respectful. No garlands would be used. We would shower flower petals on the farmers’ cavalcade and bow our heads to those who stood firmly throughout.” He said the general public was too excited to welcome the farmers.Meanwhile, an Akhand Path was initiated at Gurdwara Manjit Sahib Diwan Hall on Saturday, which would culminate on December 13 to thank the almighty for the success of the farmers’ agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grand-welcome-planned-for-farmers-returning-from-delhi-349211
