13-12-2021||Amritsar||Farmer leaders get rousing welcome in Amritsar||A large group of farmers led by farm union leaders was accorded a warm welcome at different locations on their way to the Golden Temple here on Monday.On reaching the main entry point of the city at Golden Gate, various political outfits and NGOs accorded a warm welcome to them and showered rose petals.  On reaching the Golden Temple, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) honoured leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a grouping of 40 farmer unions who led the struggle against farm laws.They were honoured by SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami.   Earlier, the SGPC president welcomed the farm leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Rakesh Takait, at the plaza outside the Golden Temple. The other leaders honoured on the occasion were Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Darshan Pal, Yudhvir Singh,  Kulwant Singh Sandhu, Pargat Singh, Buta Singh Burjgill, Ruldu Singh Mansa and Harmeet Singh Qadian.The SGPC also organised a special religious congregation after the culmination an "akhand path" at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall.Dhami said, "With the immense grace of the Guru Sahib, the farmers' struggle has been won."    "It is a blessing of the Guru Sahib that on the occasion of Guru Nanak Dev Ji's Parkash Purb (birth anniversary), the Prime Minister announced the repeal of three black laws enacted by the Government of India," he said."Due to the stubborn attitude of the government, more than 700 farmers lost their lives but the government finally had to back down. This movement has strengthened the brotherhood. Proving to be the younger brother of Punjab, Haryana strongly stood in support in every difficult time," said Dhami.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, "Many difficulties were encountered during the farmers' morcha (agitation) but by the grace of the god, every difficulty was overcome." BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said he had vowed that after the “victory” of their agitation, he would return home after thanking the Guru at the Golden Temple.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha had last week decided to suspend their stir. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-leaders-get-rousing-welcome-in-amritsar-349920
13-12-2021||Amritsar||Jeweller survives 'suicide' attempt||Lahan, illegal liquor seizedTarn Taran: Under Operation Red Rose of the police and the excise staff on Sunday in the Mand area of Gagrewaal village along Beas, a huge quantity of illegal liquor and lahan was seized. The operation was carried out under the headship of Excise Inspector Amrik Singh. Huge qualities of lahan and illegal liquor were recovered from an unclaimed place the area. The officials informed that ten plastic tirpals, six iron drums, two plastic containers, 14 plastic drums and one working still apparatus were also recovered from the spot. OC2 positive cases reported in Amritsar district Amritsar: With two positive cases reported on Sunday, the total count of cases from the district has increased to 47,439. The health authorities have also reported recovery of two patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,838. The district, at present, has a total of two active cases. Meanwhile, 2,260 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Sunday. Of these 893 received the first dose of the vaccine while 1,367 received second dose on Sunday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jeweller-survives-suicide-attempt-349779
13-12-2021||---||Amritsar MC House to discuss 50 development work proposals||Amritsar, December 12The Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) will extend the dog sterilisation project and discuss more than 50 proposals at the general house meeting to be held on December 14. The agenda branch has prepared around 50 proposals of various development works and most of these proposals are about the development works of various constituencies.The meeting will discuss the extension of dog sterilization project being run by the MCA at the Animal Birth Control (ABC) centre in Nariangarh. Earlier, the MC had funded the project to sterilise 5,000 dogs only. The house would also discuss handing over the gaushala at Gumanpura village to some registered organisation so that stray cattle are taken care of. The estate wing may also get the approval to sell the goods and material seized by them. Some other projects are related to recarpeting of streets and installation of streetlights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-house-to-discuss-50-dev-work-proposals-349767
13-12-2021||Not less than bribing gullible voters||Open House:  Do you think freebie culture is against basic principles of democracy & how can we stop this practice?||Offering freebies to people ahead of the elections is one of several tools used by politicians to unduly influence the gullible voters in their favour. Offering freebies is no way short of bribing and this, along with intimidation of voters and dividing them misusing religion, caste, creed, language or region, is both shamming and shaming our democracy. Politicians resort to these tactics because their work does not speak for themselves as they do little to make the country a welfare state by promoting education, healthcare, skills etc. They do not create enough infrastructure that could generate livelihood for the people at large. They remain selfishly busy minting money from their profession of politics besides dutifully watching the interests of their big donors. Poor and illiterate voters fit in their scheme of things whose guaranteed gullibility they can always exploit during elections. Why would any political outfit ever work to eradicate poverty then? The poor cannot be blamed for welcoming freebies or underhand money that is offered for votes because they cannot even think beyond their immediate needs. They need to be awakened that every government is under a democratic obligation to provide them with quality education, healthcare and means of livelihood. And that they must seek to become self-reliant rather than depending upon alms-like freebies. Offering any freebies during polls or including these in manifestoes should be made an offense. That will force the politicians to work on the ground.HL SharmaDemand amenities as a matter of rightWe Punjabis are known throughout the world for our self-respect. Our golden history supports this argument with unparalleled sacrifice made by our freedom fighters like Bhagat Singh, Udham Singh, Madan Lal Dhingra and many more. So, instead of asking or accepting freebies, we as taxpayers should ask the ruling regime that when people pay for drinking water and electricity then why they should install RO system and inventor at their place. Even for collection of door-to-door garbage, money is charged. Similarly, after paying road tax, why after every few kilometres toll plaza collects the tax? It should be the responsibility of the government to provide drinking water and uninterrupted power supply for which they are duly paid. Same should be the case of garbage collection. There should not be any toll plaza, it should be the responsibility of the government to maintain national and state highways.Therefore, instead of asking or accepting any freebie we should duly pay our normal charges but do ask for our rights also.Harsh JoharDon’t forget teachings of our great gurusOnce infamous routes for making easy money were available in the form of betting and gambling which were considered as great vices. But with the changing times such easy money making routes got the respectful place in the form of share trading and cryptocurrency. Keeping in view this basic weakness in human being our corrupt politicians adopted this path of luring the voters with freebies another form of making easy money. But we should not forget the teaching of our great masters. Baba Nanak, Guru Ravi Das and Sant Kabir not only preached the importance of hard earned money but throughout their life in addition to religious preaching remained glued to their respective profession. We should always remember the sayings of Baba Nanak “Kirat Karo, Wand Chako, Naam Japo”( Work hard, Share your earning, Recite God’s name). Therefore, we should not fall prey to such temptation of freebies rather ask for more employment opportunities for our youth.Nityanshi ChopraTake account of money collected from taxesInstead of asking for freebies from the political parties, vigilant voters of the state should ask them questions viz: When there was meagre tax collection in 50s and 60s, we got city like Chandigarh with world class infrastructure like PGI, High Court, Panjab University, State Assembly etc. We erected Asia’s biggest power project like Bhakhra Dam. We established numerous prestigious institutions like Agriculture University Ludhiana, Pandit Moti Lal Nehru School of Sports Rai, Sonepat, Kurkshetra University etc. But why it is so that when revenue collection in form of taxes increased many fold since then, we are not in a position to maintain the old institutions, what to talk of establishing new one. The latest example in this regard is that of Punjabi University, Patiala, which is on the verge of closure. Leave aside the other collections, country’s GST collection is more than one lakh crore per month. So instead of asking or getting freebies our voters should take the account of money government collects in form of taxes.Naresh JoharDraft strict law to end freebie cultureYes, certainly the freebie culture is against the basic principles of democracy. Democracy does not imply exploitation of people by offering freebies to people which after assumption of power is never fulfilled. Luring of voters by giving false promises just in order to grab chair is an old culture continuing since Independence by our politicians. However, time has now come to end this age-old culture by putting ending these malafide practices. We can stop this practice forever by drafting a law in this regard. After law is made awareness can be created amongst general public to approach courts and drag politicians there for offering freebies.Sanjay ChawlaSome benefits good in the long runI believe that giving some benefits to people is good in the long run as long as these have some sort of utility. Electricity can be incentivised to people as it is a very important need for almost every household. Medicines can also be given free of cost to people so that they can save more money. But giving things like Wi-Fi to people freely can prove to be very harmful for majority of the population. I think that giving some freebies to people is fine but firstly the basic services like electricity, education, food etc. must be prioritised and then other things must be considered.Jatinderpal Singh BatthFreebies reason behind power cutsFreebies like free power to farmers are one of the main causes of unscheduled power cuts. Anything given free is the root cause of shortage of any commodity and so is in the case of power shortage in summer when consumption of electricity is at the peak. It has become a political gimmick to promise freebies by all political parties, so when any of these parties come in power, they try to fulfil the promises they had made. The result is that during summer and heat waves, any installed power capacity falls short of demand, because those getting free power consume much more than even their requirements and needs. With overloading then there are breakdowns and outages for all the consumers. Free power to any section of society is an injustice to those who are paying their high power bills through their nose. Instead of free power to farmers or others, their power supply rates can be reduced to some extent. However, proper and regular maintenance of the power lines and transformers during winter, when power demand is much less, will go a long way in avoiding power failures due to line defect outages. And in this context all promises of freebies made by political parties must be banned by Election Commission and/or by the Supreme Court of India. Lure of freebies needs to be replaced with promises of good governance, which can bring about a pleasant change in the lives of people.LJ SinghFreebies don’t solve the real problemsDemocracy is said to be the government of the people, by the people and for the people but the power hungry politicians have reduced it to freebies, sops, gimmickry, platitudes, banality, falsehood, deception, knavery, swindling , skulduggery and trickery to grab the votes of the gullible electorate to further their own selfish interests. Instead of doling out sops and freebies to make Punjabis dependent on such crutches, Punjab’s political parties in the poll fray should focus on chalking out a roadmap how they intend to make the people independent and self-reliant against the monolithic unemployment, corruption, dearness and education that is in the doldrums if voted to power. People should ask them what agrarian plans they are supposed to have to augment the farm incomes and offset the acute problem of depleting ground water caused by the over-dependence on the wheat- paddy cycle of crops. Why don’t they talk of filling vacancies of doctors, teachers, professors and other employees lying vacant in government hospitals, schools, colleges and universities? Freebies don’t solve the real problems. Rather the parties should assure the policies and programmes that ensure the people enhanced security, social welfare, better income opportunities and better health care which the democratic principles convey loud and clear. The practice of freebies and sops is absolutely unwanted and uncalled for as it converts democracy into a business. The Election Commission ought to play a crucial role to control all these shenanigans of the parties so that the roots of free and fair poll are not shaken. Whether the Punjab CM is a Sikh, Dalit, Hindu or Muslim, it hardly matters. What matters the most is that the CM is a broadminded secular head who puts the people and state’s welfare, development and progress before his own chair to provide good governance. Democracy demands this, not freebies. It is one of the major functions of the government to provide public goods and utility services at the lowest cost possible to the widest possible population without undermining the financial stability of the state. Only people using their votes judiciously can make the parties listen to reason. The belief of political parties that they can get away with money and power is to be rendered ineffective if the true spirit of democracy is to find its real form and shape.Tarsem S BumrahNeed to aware public about their rightsOffering freebies to general public ahead of elections by political parties is a common activity in our country to lure voters. False commitments are given by politicians and when it comes to actual action; their so called statements in favour of country take no time turning into false pretences. There are some common practices prevail, which are being used only few months before elections. For instance, filling of potholes on roads with adulterated material and after short span of time resulting in accidents and tires of vehicles get damage due to worst situation of roads. Administration should not go in slumber when inhabitants actual need it the most. Public should also need to aware and not get fascinated by these freebies offered by political parties because meagre amount is not enough to survive for successive years. Pivotal aspects should be considered while giving vote so that conspicuous candidate who is capable to revive economy and take corrective actions after listening to public’s grievances will be picked.Sukhmeet KaurPrevious promises yet to be fulfilledPolitical parties had been eluding the voters since the last election only to reappear a few months ago just ahead of the Punjab Legislative Assembly elections in 2022 with an array of sops and allurements. A majority of the promises that they made ahead of the previous elections are yet to materialise. The refrains of waiving off power bills and making electricity cheaper, stipends to women and youth, and much more are quite common these days. While such gimmicks are quite common to newcomers in politics, it’s quite shocking to see veterans employ such tactics too to woo voters. Besides choosing representatives responsible for running the country smoothly, the aim of democracy is also to elect efficient leaders, who can determine the country’s priorities for the future. The trend of offering freebies ahead of elections is completely against the spirit of democracy as it makes the politicians insincere, unaccountable, and less competitive. Those found indulging in this practice should be debarred from contesting elections.Shaheen P ParshadPolitical parties don’t discuss real issuesPunjab is holding Assembly elections in 2022 that is why every political party is tempting the people of Punjab to provide free provisions. One party promises free 200 units of electricity for each category of people while the other party talks to give free 300 units of electricity for every family. One party offers 10 lakh interest-free, loans to students to study abroad and the other party talks of giving free plots to make homes. All these temptations are being given to boost the voters’ favour. No party in Punjab talks about major issues. No party promises to end unemployment in Punjab, eradicate drugs or bribery or to create a better environment in the state, or to provide better education to the students in the schools, or to provide the facility of getting treatment in the hospitals at low cost. All the parties are talking about giving maximum provision to the people which is a deception, they come to power by giving sweet perks to the people. Promises are not fulfilled after coming to power. Then people feel cheated. There should be a law in every state of the country that every political party that promises in the election manifesto has to fulfill its promises in any case otherwise legal action could be taken against that party and that party has no right to contest in the next election. The party should also write in the election manifesto what promise to fulfill in how long. If the election manifesto becomes law then no political party would be tempted to give free things to the people before the election.Sucha SagarFreebie culture is in our bloodWho doesn’t like freebies? The freebie culture is in our blood. However, rich or educated we may be, we are always tempted to it. Don’t we get attracted to grand sales, the marketing tactics of buy one get one free? So, there is no surprise to get enchanted by the freebies offered by political parties during the election season. The sad story of world’s biggest democracy is that even though we are celebrating the Amritotsav of our freedom, the majority of voters are below poverty line or uneducated. In a democracy majority wins. Political parties are neither concerned about the spirit of democracy nor the principles on which it is based. They need to fulfil their basic needs. Health, education and good governance is beyond their perception. It is easier to live with whatever comes there way than waiting for really good times. The so called social welfare schemes prove either mere eyewash or become redundant in bureaucratic system. So the immediate gratification is preferred over long-term and respectable means. There is no doubt to admit that general public always waits for political doles instead of becoming self-reliant and self-sufficient like our western counterparts. To get rid of these political gimmicks the onus lies on us as well as the legislation. We as responsible voters should condemn these freebies by raising our voice to convince the politicians that we are not beggars but the builders of democracy. There should be a provision of penalising the parties who play with fiscal, social status of the public by announcing certain schemes for poor and castes.Madhu SharmaQUESTIONAs experts project third Covid wave to hit India by early 2022 amid surge in Omicron cases globally, what steps do you think the district administration and individuals must take to prevent the spread?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 16)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-do-you-think-freebie-culture-is-against-basic-principles-of-democracy-how-can-we-stop-this-practice-349766
13-12-2021||---||Tamasha highlights dark side of reality TV shows||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12The Indian television loves a good dose of ‘reality’ shows served with an overdose of drama. The craze for the reality shows among the audience is never-ending, but it has been quite a while that these reality shows are being called out for exploiting talent and affecting mental health, especially for kids.While there have been many debates on the subject, city-based theatre group Young Malang presented their new production titled Tamasha based on how the reality shows impact those who are blinded by the glamour and fame. Tamasha has been written by Davinder Gill and directed by Sajan Kapoor. The play was staged at Punjab Naatshala over the weekend.With the tinge of satire that has now become one of the essential elements of storytelling in Young Malang’s plays, Tamasha revolves around a group of participants of a reality show. The desire for instant fame, money and the promise of a better life overshadows the doubts and questions related to the means adopted to achieve that goal. Here, in the story, a number of participants are shown to adopt various antics and devise schemes to succeed, often resulting in humorous situations in their show of one-upmanship.All these characters come from middle class families, and thrive in the prospect of getting instant fame and money through the reality show, whether by hook or crook. Regardless of how you have earned your place, the story gives a first-hand demonstration of how, in pursuit of material things, we often lose our principles, integrity and often ourselves. Performed by a bunch of young and rising theater artistes from the city, the play received a packed house.Talking about the theme and subject, Sajan Kapoor, director and founder of Young Malang, said the subject might not be new but important nonetheless. He said that given that Amritsar has, oflate, been producing a lot of reality TV stars, whether its singer, actors, comedy artistes, dancers or content creators, the blind race towards fame through these shows is not a good signal. “Often, it is the parents who, in their aspiration to find recognition through their children, push them to the brink, as these kids compete in a make-believe world that is far from any reality,” he said.After the play on Sunday evening, Shiromani Natakaar Jatinder Brar, founder of Punjab Natshala, also felicitated the artistes who performed on the behalf of the institution by giving them certificates.Interacting with the audience, Brar said the play taught us that parents should not put pressure on their children for their fame. “Rather, they should be inspired to live their life in their own way. Only happy children can build a happy future,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tamasha-highlights-dark-side-of-reality-tv-shows-349764
13-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Goods worth Rs 5L destroyed in fire in Tarn Taran||A fire broke out at ‘Fateh Dupatta Centre’ situated in Gali DSP wali here on Saturday night. The fire caused a loss of goods worth Rs 5 lakh, including the decoration of the shop. Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Amritsar who runs the shop on rent, said he had gone to his house when someone informed him of the fire on his mobile around 10.15 pm and he rushed to the shop on his bike.Gurpreet said the whole goods and the shop were reduced to ashes by the time he reached there. He said he had started his business just five months ago. Nearby residents called the Fire Department and a fire tender reached the spot in 20 minutes from a distance of just 100 metres away. Gurpreet said the fire must have broken out due to a short circuit. It was the third fire incident in the town in less than a month. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goods-worth-5l-destroyed-in-fire-349763
13-12-2021||Amritsar||Proposed hike in GST may up prices of cloth, garments, shoes: Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal||The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has stated that the proposed hike in the GST rates will up the prices of cloth, garment and shoes from January 1, next year. They have demanded a rollback of the proposed hike in the GST.Piara Lal Seth, president of the PPBM, said the GST rate on garments and footwear costing less than Rs1,000 per piece so far, would be hiked from 5 to 12%. “The move could only fuel inflation and traders are likely to see this change in cost overruns and low demand in the domestic and export markets,” he said.The MSME sector (micro, small and medium enterprises) of the textile industry, which is struggling with inadequate working capital, will be hardest hit by this blow. “We should not forget that the MSME sector provides most of the employment in the country after agriculture,” he observed.Sameer Jain, general secretary, PPBM, said factories and shops with stocks of cloth, garment and shoes will have to be sold at 12 per cent GST rate from January. So, they will have to increase prices of these commodities by 7% as they had taken its input credit by 5 per cent. Its entire burden will be passed on to the customers. The Central Government had collected a record GST collection of Rs 1.31 lakh crore in October and it is expected to increase in the coming months.The Shawl Club of India has also expressed concern over the increase in the GST of these articles, stating that shawl is a seasonal commodity and most of its sales and production are in hilly and cold areas like Jammu and Kashmir. The shawl is a labour-intensive product and the increase in the GST will affect both the domestic and export markets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/proposed-hike-in-gst-may-up-prices-of-cloth-garments-349762
13-12-2021||---||Meritorious School teachers struggling to get regular jobs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12Teachers of Meritorious Schools lifted their sit-in after they were assured of regular jobs by Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni here on Sunday.All 270 teachers of 10 meritorious schools in the state under the banner of Meritorious Schools Adhyapak Union, Punjab, were sitting outside the residence of Soni. Earlier, they took out a march from SR Government College for Women and arrived at his residence.They showed a copy of the notice to Soni which was issued when he was the education minister in 2018. The notice had offered them an opportunity to regularise them under the education department at a basic pay of Rs 15,000 per month.Kulwinder Singh Batth, president of the union, said despite their consent to the offer it remained non-implemented all these years. It was around seven years ago that 270 teachers were hired at a monthly salary of Rs 40,000 for meritorious schools. They say they have been struggling for regular jobs for the last seven years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/meritorious-school-teachers-struggling-to-get-regular-jobs-349760
13-12-2021||Amritsar||Farmers returning from Delhi get rousing reception in Amritsar||The farmers who returned to their homes after spending a year at Delhi borders on Sunday received a warm welcome at different places on their way back home. A group of farmers under the banner of the Kirti Kisan Union arrived here. The farmers came to the morcha outside BJP MP Shwait Malik’s residence from where they departed towards their villages.The Kirti Kisan Union had been running a permanent protest outside the BJP MP’s residence here. Union leader Jatinder Chhinna said, “It took us 24 hours from the Singhu border to reach Amritsar. On the way we were greeted by people from Haryana and Punjab at various places.” Chhinna said a meeting of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha would be held on January 15 in Delhi to pursue the demands and chalk the future course of action for farmer associations.The farmer leaders stated that it was a big victory of the farmers of the country and it would ensure that the farmers get their due. “The farmers’ victory has made it clear that the government cannot allow the big corporate houses to exploit people for their gains,” he said.While the farmers associated with the Kirti Kisan Union returned, those belonging to remaining associations are expected to return on Monday for whom grand receptions have been planned at various places in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-returning-from-delhi-get-rousing-reception-in-city-349759
13-12-2021||Amritsar||Gurdaspur youth booked for murder bid||During investigation, police teams found two live bullets and empty shells from the spot. The police have booked Karandeep Singh of Ghat Khokhar village in Gurdaspur. The police said raids were on to nab the suspect and his arrest would lead to identification of his accomplice.The police said as per the initial probe, the incident was the outcome of a dispute over a girl. But, investigation is still under progress and everything would be clear following the arrest of the suspects.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jugraj Singh said a case under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of Arms Act had been registered against Karandeep and his accomplice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-youth-booked-for-murder-bid-349758
13-12-2021||---||Men posing as 'cops' target scrap dealer in Majitha area||Amritsar, December 12Several persons posing as cops robbed an iron scrap dealer and his brother in the Majitha area here on Saturday. The victims have been identified as Harpreet Singh and his brother Lakhwinder Singh, both residents of Sarchur village in Ghaniyeke Bangar in Gurdaspur district.Though the police have registered a case in this connection, no breakthrough has been made so far in the caseThough the police have registered a case in this connection, no breakthrough has been made so far in the case.The complainant, Harpreet Singh, told the police that he had been working as a scrap dealer for the past five years and used to collect scrap from villages in his jeep. He said three days ago he got a call on his mobile and the caller told that he was speaking from Bhangali Kalan village. He told him that he had around 15 quintals of iron scrap which he wanted to sell. He said the deal was settled at Rs 30 per kg.He said he along with his brother Lakhwinder Singh took his canter and the weighing machine and reached Bhangali Kalan village. He said a man approached them and asked them to take the vehicle towards the Tarpai village road. He said when they reached near Bhangali Kalan park, a youth was standing there with his bike. He said as they were meeting him, a car reached there from which four youths dressed as cops and another youth in civil dress came out.He said before they could understand anything, the car-borne persons started thrashing them without any reason. He said they took out a pistol and bundled him into the car. He said the man who had called him also sat in the car while a ‘cop’ sat beside his brother in the vehicle.The complainant said they took them to Rore villa resort in Majitha and snatched Rs26,000 and a mobile from him and Rs5,000 from his brother. He said his brother managed to flee from their custody in the canter and later, all the accused left him near Manjupura village and fled towards the Amritsar side.Majitha police have registered a case under Sections 379-B, 171 and 149 of the IPC against unidentified persons and launched further investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/men-posing-as-cops-target-scrap-dealer-349756
13-12-2021||---||ASI 'shoots' Congress leader's son in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) allegedly shot a Congress leader’s son in the Ram Nagar Colony area under the Islamabad police station here late this evening.The deceased, Kaku, was closing his grocery shop when the incident took place. ASI Rajesh Kumar, who lives in the neighbourhood, it at large.Senior police officials reached the spot and started their investigation. ACP Sanjiv Kumar said a probe was underway and statements of the victim’s family were being recorded.According to eyewitnesses, the victim had an altercation with the ASI a few days ago but locals brokered truce. Today, the ASI allegedly abused Kaku, leading to an argument, following which he allegedly opened fire. Kaku was taken to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asi-shoots-cong-leaders-son-in-asr-349575
13-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Naik Gursewak Singh cremated with honours||The mortal remains of Naik Gursewak Singh (35) were cremated with full military honours in his native Dode Sodhian village on Sunday in the presence of a large number of residents and relatives.The body reached the village at 12.40 pm. Naik Gursewak Singh had died in a chopper crash near Coonoor (Tamil Nadu) on December 8. The Army man’s wife Jaspreeet Kaur (32) said her son would also join the Army and serve the country.A contingent of the Punjab Police paid tribute to Gursewak Singh at his residence. Wreaths were laid by Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, SAD leader, former MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha, and other officials. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/naik-gursewak-cremated-with-honours-349572
