14-12-2021||Amritsar||Kamaljit Gill is AIDB vice-prez||Encroachments: panel in actionAmritsar: The committee constituted by the Municipal Corporation to probe into the encroachment on Lawrance Road started recording statements of officials concerned. The committee constituted under the chairmanship of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu includes Councillors Mahesh Khanna and Priyanka Sharma. Committee’s nodal officer Daljit Singh recorded statements in this regard of officials of the MTP Department, civil wing and Estate Wing of the MC. The committee questioning that how wall was constructed to occupy the prime land by breaking the pavement. After taking the statements of all the officers, the committee members said that if needed, the committee would call any officer again. TNS1.12 lakh litre of lahan destroyedTarn Taran: The Excise Department conducted a search operation against the manufacturing of illegal liquor on Monday. The excise teams recovered 1.12 lakh litre of lahan and 180 litre of illicit liquor from different places besides other equipment used to manufacture illicit liquor. The excise staff destroyed the lahan and the illicit liquor on the spot being it unclaimed. OCNo fresh case Reported in distAmritsar: No new Covid case was reported by the District Health Department on Monday. The district at present has two active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 9,696 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Monday. Of these 3,878 received first dose of the vaccine while 5,818 received second dose. TNS5 mobile phones seized from jailAmritsar: The Amritsar Central Jail authorities have recovered five mobile phones from as many jail inmates during a search operation on Sunday. Those booked have been identified as Harjaap Singh, Rashpal Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Harjinder Singh and Surinder Singh. They all were found in possession of five keypad cell phones. The accused were lodged in room number 6 of barrack number 4. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kamaljit-gill-is-aidb-vice-prez-350249
14-12-2021||---||Amritsar DC flags off voter awareness van||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13To amplify its efforts regarding voter awareness and registration, the district administration has been undertaking initiatives to reach out to maximum voters. On Monday, DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira flagged off two audio-visual voter awareness vans from the District Administrative Complex.The vans will tour the constituencies for the next 30 days and engage people in electoral awareness. The DC said the two vans have been installed with big screens and would first take tour at Heritage Street, Attari Wagah Border and other prominent places in the city. He said the main purpose of this van was to provide information to the people about electoral process, inform and educate about new voting mobile applications and online procedure and address any complaints.He said even before this, 11 awareness vans were running in the district through which people were being made aware about voting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-flags-off-voter-awareness-van-350248
14-12-2021||Amritsar||Intra-departmental activities held||District-level essay competitionThe Nehru Youth Centre, Amritsar, Ministry of Youth and Sports organised a district-level speech competition at Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology. Dr Manju Bala, director, KCET, and other guests of the college were among the panel of judges. The topic of competition was based on the meaning of nationalism and patriotism on which the students were asked to write and express their views. The idea behind conducting the competition was to hone the communication skills of youth. The winners included Samridhi Tandon, from Swaroop Rani College (first position); Satish Kumar from Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology College (second position) and Shaina Padwal from Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology College (third place). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/intra-departmental-activities-held-350247
14-12-2021||Most of the time||Gurdaspur Diary: An enfant-terrible or a Robinhood?||The world is this young painter’s canvasKajal (16) is a painter well known in the city. At 14, she won the top prize in the national painting competition for the disabled. She has suffered from a disability since birth and cannot move around by herself. It is her paternal uncle and driver Raj Kumar who tends to her every need. He wraps her in his arms and takes her to school almost every day. In the evenings, he makes sure that she gets some entertainment in the form of playing outdoor games. Her father, Narinder Kumar and mother Raj Kamal, treat her with kid-gloves. At 8, her parents knew that their daughter would make a name for herself in the world of painting after she won a district-level competition. Now she has been adopted by a Good Samaritan Romesh Mahajan who also runs the Red Cross De-addiction centre on the Gurdaspur-Sri Hargobindpur road. He says he will take care of all her financial needs. On her part, Kajal, is aiming for the civil services. At present she is a Class XII student of Government Senior Secondary School, Dhariwal, 8 km from Gurdaspur. “Almost every day, I dream of my painting and paint my dreams,” says Kajal. Yoga therapist Dolly Sharma, who is regularly in touch with Kajal, says the girl has tones of resilience. “Beauty lies in the eyes of the beholder. However, when it comes to the artistic expression, truly magnificent masterpieces do not necessarily have to be pretty. Instead, the beauty of an artwork is closely linked to stimulate emotions within us. It is an artist’s potential to successfully communicate a wide range of thoughts and feelings that make art beautiful. Kajal has all these qualities and even more. She is equally good at painting and studies. I am sure this girl has it in her to become an IAS officer. At least, unlike others, she is willing to give it a try,” said Dolly. Romesh Mahajan says he will try to fulfill every need of Kajal to ensure she makes the grade in the civil services.In Sujanpur, it is Babbu all the wayEvery politician worth his salt knows for sure that three-time Sujanpur BJP MLA Dinesh Singh Babbu’s social connect with the masses is extremely strong. He wakes up early and by breakfast, he has already met sarpanches and panches of nearly a dozen villages. He has a fleet of cars at his disposal but prefers to walk to nearby villages or, at the most, asks some workers to give him a lift on a two-wheeler. Not many know that from 2012 till 2017, he was the Deputy Speaker of the Punjab Assembly. It is another matter that he never got a chance to preside over the house. Reason: During his tenure as Dy Speaker, the Speaker never remained absent. The party’s internal survey reports prove that he is strongly placed to retain his seat. Whenever there is any party function, his wife and daughter do not sit on the dais. Instead, they mingle with the workers and sit on the chairs earmarked for the commoners. Ex-Gurdaspur MP Vinod Khanna used to cite examples of Babbu’s humility and modesty to senior Delhi based leaders. Despite being an MLA for 15 successive years, his head is not in the clouds. Instead his feet are firmly planted on the ground. In Sujanpur, not even a single BJP worker is staking a claim for the ticket. Everybody knows it is reserved for only one man. In the neighbouring seats of Bhoa and Pathankot, you can see ticket contenders. But none in Sujanpur!Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-enfant-terrible-or-a-robinhood-350246
14-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Unaided school staff submits memo to Punjab CM||Leaders of the Unaided School Front, Punjab, presented a memorandum of demands to the Punjab Chief Minister through Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh here on Monday. The main demand of the front was the regularization of the staff working in the aided schools over the last few years.Harpreet Singh, state president of the front, said the front had been demanding regular jobs for staff in the aided schools, besides the implementation of the equal pay act. The front also sought the sanctioning of posts of teaching and non-teaching staff according to the strength of students in such schools across the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unaided-school-staff-submits-memo-to-cm-350245
14-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Flower petals showered on farmers heading back home in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13Hundreds of farmers sitting at Delhi borders for more than a year returned to their homes with social, religious and political organisations showering rose petals on them here on Monday. More farmers are expected to return in the coming days.Flower petals were showered on the farmers at Beas, Rayya, Butari, Khalchian, Tangra, Jandiala Guru, Makhu, Harike, Sarhali, Naushera Pannua, Sheron, Tarn Taran, Daburji, Golden Gate and Jallianwala Bagh. Large crowds of residents turned up at places to accord welcome to the returning heroes. At many places, residents organised langars and distributed sweets.Residents termed the farmers as heroes who had not succumbed to government pressure. They braved vagaries of weather while staying in the open at Delhi borders.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader associated with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), said, “The local farmers expressed gratitude to especially those who had spent long time at Delhi borders. Some of them had not visited their homes for the last one year and they were dropped at their homes by large groups of supporters today.”Senior leaders of the SKM and its affiliated farmer organisations, including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Rakesh Tikait, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, Ruldu Singh Mansa, Harmeet Singh Quadian, Buta Singh Burj Gill, Jagjeet Singh Dalewal, Satnam Singh Ajnala, Manjit Rai, Dr Darshan Pal, Nirbeh Singh Dudhike, Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, Kawalpreet Singh Pannu and others, were present and paid obeisance at Darbar Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flower-petals-showered-on-farmers-heading-back-home-350244
14-12-2021||---||Poor coordination leads to jam on Amritsar's Bhandari RoB||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13Closure of Bhandari Railway Overbridge (ROB) led to massive traffic snarls on Monday. Considered to be the lifeline of the city, development works related to extension of the RoB, began two years ago. The Amritsar Improvement Trust had given the nod to construct two additional lanes of 31-ft each at a cost of Rs 14 crore to a private firm.Today no mechanism was in place to inform commuters in advance related to the construction work on the RoB. As a result, the entire stretch witnessed serpentine queues of vehicles. Commuters caught in jam were seen asking locals about altenative routes to reach their destinations.After witnessing a massive rush on Cooper Road, Crystal Chowk, Ram Bagh, Hall Gate and Hathi Gate, an alternative route was thrown open along the Sabzi Mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poor-coordination-leads-to-jam-on-bhandari-rob-350243
14-12-2021||Amritsar||GNDU colleges to join green campus initiative||Mobilising colleges under its affiliation to join the green campus initiative, the GNDU had recently conducted workshop for 150 colleges. Training the management and faculties in sensitisation programmes and build sustainable campuses, experts from the GNDU, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), New Delhi, and the Punjab Pollution Control Board conducted lectures and workshops on range of measures for energy conservation, water conservation, waste management, reducing air pollution and improving overall health and well-being of the campus habitants.Meanwhile, the GNDU is continuing with its series of projects to move towards its zero-carbon campus goals. Dr Ritu Raj Kaur, assistant professor, Guru Ramdas School of Architecture, who has been keeping emission inventory for the GNDU said the university has implemented several green initiatives during the lockdown period to ensure the emission cut down. “We have established a 1.48 MW solar rooftop power plant and achieved 100 per cent waste water treatment on campus which is then reused. An e-bus facility has also been started on campus for students at nominal charges.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-colleges-to-join-green-campus-initiative-350242
14-12-2021||---||7th Pay Commission: Studies hit as teachers' protest enters 13th day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13About 20,000 college and university teachers in the state have been sitting on protest for the past 13 days, seeking the government nod for the implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission recommended by the University Grants Commission, with effect from January 2016.The teachers under Punjab Federation of University and Colleges Teachers Organisation (PFUCTO) have ceased all academic and co-curricular work in all academic institutions, including four state universities, 48 government colleges and 136 non-government aided colleges.All eight colleges and universities in Amritsar observed protest dharna in their respective places and raised anti-government slogans against the callous attitude of the state government regarding higher education in Punjab. Yet no decision has been reached by the state government despite the fact that higher education has been completely halted for the past 13 days, putting students under distress once again.With all hopes now pinned on the impending Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, teachers in the city stress that the issue of de-linkage from the UGC will have greater implications on the future of higher education in the state. “Wages are of course an issue here, but the decision of the state government to delink from UGC is far more important an issue to take up than any other. Delinking from the UGC will put the higher education in the state at a risk of losing its credibility as no student will like to enroll for courses that are not certified or recognised by UGC. Also,Dr BB Yadav, area secretary, GNDU, during a dharna at DAV College, Amritsar, stated that in spite of the promise of the Higher Education Minister regarding implementation of the 7th UGC pay scales and non-delinking of teacher’s grades, no concrete development has yet taken place in this regard. De-linkage will also mean chaos and confusion for students and qualified teachers will not be able to find jobs in other states, despite all academic and professional prerequisites in place. Jobs will be compromised and it will also affect teachers’ promotions. Grants coming from UGC will be compromised as well,” shared Priyanka Bassi, a teacher from BBKDAV college. BB Yadav, area in-charge, GNDU, PFUCTO, said the teachers had been subjected to not just financial losses, but also mental harassment due to the wrong decisions made on the part of the government.“Wages have not been implemented, but the decision of delinking teachers’ grades from the UGC pay scales will mean creating instability in the higher education sector. There is already a shortage of teaching force in higher education and this decision will further impact the future of teaching as a profession.”While teachers in the state have found support from their counterparts in Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, Dr Munish Gupta, a teacher in DAV College, said calling out teachers for the academic loss is not justified. “We are finding support from all corners; even student unions are justifying our demands. We won’t back off as soon the Code of Conduct will be enacted and we would again be helpless.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7th-pay-commission-studies-hit-as-teachers-protest-enters-13th-day-350240
14-12-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar's BRTS corridor set to don a new look||Finally, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation has commenced maintenance works of Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor. Earlier, the corridor was under the Public Works Department. After the intervention of the Mayor, the MC took over the project.The poor condition of the BRTS corridor gave a wrong impression to those visiting the holy city. Moreover, the broken grills often led to accidents. Wild grass on the BRTS corridor obstructed the vision and movement of commuters. Missing sign boards and reflectors also led to accidents. As a result, the MC has started with painting of grills and road signs.The Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), a wing of the Local Government Department, had taken over the BRTS from the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board in October 2020, but the Amritsar MC was unwilling to operate the Metro bus. Now, the Punjab Roadways operates the Metro bus and civic body looks after the maintenance of the BRTS corridor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brts-corridor-set-to-don-a-new-look-350238
14-12-2021||Amritsar||Babbu Mann: Was sure of farmers' victory||Punjabi singer Babbu Mann on Monday visited the Golden Temple along with farmers who came back from Delhi borders. Mann, who had been lending support to the farmers’ stir and had gone to Singhu border to boost their morale, said he never had a doubt about farmers’ victory.“Farmers are the backbone of nation. They are the ones running the economy. No government can afford to rule or suppress them. I was 200 per cent sure that they will emerge victorious. It’s a lesson for future governments as well that they cannot rule over farmers by ignoring their welfare,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/was-sure-of-farmers-victory-babbu-mann-350237
14-12-2021||GS Paul||Punjabis taught Haryanvis how to raise voice peacefully against atrocities: Khap pardhan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13The pardhan of Kandela khap, Tek Ram Kandela, said such a massive farm agitation (384 days long) has exposed the Central Government’s nefarious designs of defaming Punjabis with derogatory tags, including ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘anti-nationals’ , which ended up by bringing people from Punjab and Haryana closer.He said residents of Kandela village located on Chandigarh-Jind Road were among the first ones in Haryana to actively participate in the farm agitation on Delhi border against the three agri laws.He said the Punjabis taught their Haryanvi counterparts the tactics of raising their voice against the government’s atrocities.“Before that, the Haryanvis always resorted to violent path when it comes to fight against the government policies and voice their concern. I am 85-year-old and I have never seen such a successful and powerful, yet non-violent agitation in my life. The Punjabis made us learn how to bring the government to its knees through dialogue and patience. We were impressed with the ‘langar’ tradition of the Punjabis, which continued to feed the agitators, despite several constraints,” he said.Criticising the Centre sponsored media for defaming the farm agitation, he said, “The Centre had adopted all tactics to scuttle the farm agitation by tagging the farmers as ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘Khalistanis’, but never succeeded in it. The January 26 violence at Red Fort was the outcome of some disgruntled elements whereas it had nothing to do with the farm agitation,” said Kandela.He said other issues like the guaranteed procurement on MSP and the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021, too, would be addressed across the table with the Centre.He said the SYL Canal issue would be amicably settled between people of both the neighbouring states, if not on political platform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabis-taught-haryanvis-how-to-raise-voice-peacefully-against-atrocities-350235
14-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Residential properties turning into commercial centres, Amritsar Improvement Trust looks on||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13Residents of D-block in posh Ranjit Avenue locality are peeved over the conversion of residential complexes into illegal commercial centres. They alleged the authorities concerned have always preferred to look on or turn a blind eye to the violations, though they have been apprised of the matter.We had put up signboards near the spots warning against such acts. If it is still going on, I will lodge a complaint against the violators with the police, demanding the registration of FIRs. I will get it checked tomorrow if there is any commercial activity going on there and appropriate action would be taken — Damandeep Singh, Chairman, AIT Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Park Welfare Society has filed complaints and submitted memorandums to the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) authorities a couple of times, but the AIT maintains silence over the issue due to alleged political influence of the violators.“A delegation of the society had met the current and the previous AIT chairman — Dinesh Bassi and Damandeep Singh — in August and October. They assured us of taking appropriate action against the violators and even promised to get the work stopped immediately. However, they did nothing, but the speed of work at these sites came down for some time,” said Dr Rohit Mahajan, noted cardiologist and resident of the society.In their memorandums to the AIT, they alleged that residential plots, including D-767, D-765 and D-631, had been converted into commercial centres by creating big halls in them. A salon had already started functioning here. These properties come under the 97-acre scheme, D Block Ranjit Avenue scheme.They pointed out that the AIT should not allow shop-cum-offices bordering the locality to have entry and exit points towards residential areas.Vinay Dhingra, president of the association, said rampant violations and commercial activities in the area would create a nuisance in the locality, besides violating the privacy of residents.“While carving out the scheme of Ranjit Avenue in Amritsar, different areas were duly earmarked for residential and non-residential/commercial activities and people have been allotted accordingly, but several unscrupulous elements are bent upon converting their residential properties into commercial centres, which is totally against the scheme and is a clear violation of the building bylaws,” said Ashwani Kumar, another resident. This despite the fact that the matter was brought to the notice of some officials of the AIT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residential-properties-turning-into-commercial-centres-ait-looks-on-350234
14-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Second accused behind waiter's murder nabbed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13The police have arrested second accused wanted in the murder of Ramesh Singh, a waiter, who was heading back home from his work in New Jagdambe Colony, on late night of December 6.The accused has been identified as Bobby alias Billa, a resident of Kirpal Colony Majitha Road. The police have recovered Ramesh’s mobile phone and sharp-edged weapon used in the crime from his possession.Bobby had several criminal cases of similar nature registered against him and he had come out on bail a few months ago.Earlier, the police had arrested Joban Singh alias Gunga of Rokhe village in Ajnala. The police had recovered Ramesh’s jacket from him.Ramesh used to work as waiter at Chawla Chicken on Sultanwind Road. He was returning home on cycle when the duo attacked him and tried to rob him.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective) Jugraj Singh told that Bobby was held from near Baba Sri Chand Gurdwara. He said Ramesh had identified one of the accused, thus the duo killed him with sharp-edged weapon.He said Bobby had several cases of robbery and theft against him and he came out on bail on August this year.The residents of the area and relatives of Ramesh had held demonstration against the police day after the incident while alleging that snatchings with employees returning late in the evening became an order of the day and cops failed to curb the crime.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill had formed a SIT led by ADCP Jugraj Singh to crack the case. CIA in charge Sukhwinder Singh and Sadar police station SHO Gurbinder Singh were also a part of the team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/second-accused-behind-waiters-murder-nabbed-350232
14-12-2021||---||ASI, nephew arrested for killing Congress leader's son in Amritsar's Islamabad area||Amritsar, December 13Islamabad police have arrested Assistant Sub-Inspector Rajesh Kumar and his nephew Saurav Sethi, both residents of Khuh Bhalle Wala in Ram Nagar Colony of Islamabad area, in connection with the killing of a grocery store owner, Sanjay Anand alias Kaku, on Sunday late evening.He was shot dead by the accused around 10pm when he was closing down his shop. ASI Rajesh Kumar was at present posted at Sultanwind police station.Perneet Dhillon, SHO, Islamabad police station, said the accused was in an inebriated condition when he entered into a verbal duel with the victim and later shot him dead. Both the suspects were arrested from Kot Khalsa area. Sanjay Anand was son of Congress leader Vilayati Ram.The SHO said as per an initial probe, it was found that the ASI was perturbed due to the presence of a factory near his house. He had filed a number of complaints against local residents and the factory owner for one reason or the other. He suspected that Sanjay Anand and his neighbour Nishan Singh used to intervene and help people so that no action could be taken on his complaints. He also suspected that the residents of the area were against him.According to information, Kaku was closing down his shop when the ASI along with Saurav Sethi reached there. He entered into an argument with him. He had a quarrel with him a few days ago also. However, residents of the area intervened and pacified both of them. The SHO said the ASI was drunk and following heated arguments took out his pistol and shot at him. Kaku was immediately rushed to a private hospital by nearby residents where doctors declared him dead.The police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the duo. He said the weapon used in the crime was yet to be recovered. The accused were produced in court, which remanded them in police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-nephew-arrested-for-killing-cong-leaders-son-350230
14-12-2021||Karam Prakash||Needle-free shots in Punjab by next week||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 13The Punjab Health Department is likely to roll out a new Covid-19 vaccine (ZyCoV-D) in the state by next week.Initially, it will be administered in Patiala, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. Beneficiaries aged above 18, who have yet to receive the first dose of any Covid vaccine, would be administered the world’s first needle-free vaccine. Unlike Covishield and Covaxin, ZyCoV-D will be administered in three doses at a gap of 28 days between consecutive shots.State Nodal Officer Dr Rajesh Bhasker said, “Health workers’ training in administering the new vaccine will start from Tuesday. By the next week, we will start administering the new vaccine to the people.”Only around 41 per cent of the total targeted population has been fully vaccinated in the state so far. Around 1.68 crore beneficiaries in the state have received one dose of Covishield or Covaxin, while 85 lakhs have received both doses of the said vaccines.Bhasker said the vaccine would be administered into dermis (inner layer of skin), located between epidermis and hypodermis, using a needle-free applicator. “The vaccine administration will be painless. Moreover, it has not reported any side-effects so far,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/needle-free-shots-by-next-week-350054
