15-12-2021||Amritsar||Distribution of tablets to libraries||Dr HK Verma is KCVAS principalKhalsa College Governing Council (KCGC) today appointed Dr Harish Kumar Verma, a renowned veterinary academician and retired director, extension education, Punjab Agriculture University (PAU), Ludhiana, as new Principal of Khalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (KCVAS), Amritsar. He joined his office in the presence of top KCGC authorities, including honourary secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, who said KCVAS was the only College in the private sector running successfully and the institution would gain from the vast experience of Dr Verma. A PhD from PAU, Dr Verma has written 36 books and nearly 140 research papers in the diverse field of veterinary education. He has more than 35 year of teaching experience and has participated in national and international-level conferences besides winning many awards and accolades.Voter awareness campThe SVEEP team today installed VVPAT, EVM machines at Government School, Ghanunpur, under the voter awareness campaign by district administration. Students along with the local residents were made aware of the use of these machines and other electoral registration process. Pradeep Anand, principal of the school, his staff and local dignitaries were present on the occasion. The team also demonstrated how to cast votes using these machines in such a way that those who are voting for the first time in the election would get a chance to know about it. Another camp for third gender voters were held at Haripura and Baba Bakala in collaboration with the Child Development Officer Wing, was to make the transgender voters aware of their right to vote and their fair use. A special meeting was held with the transgender organisation’s head Dimple Baba and his associates for the same as well. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/distribution-of-tablets-to-libraries-350604
15-12-2021||---||Two men snatch a car at gunpoint on Mall Road in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 14Two unknown persons snatched a car at gunpoint from Mall Road area on Monday evening.Inderjit Verma, a resident of Pink Avenue, along with his grandson, Rihan Verma had come to a gym, when the incident took place.The police have started a probe and registered a case under Section 379-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in this regard. Inderjit stated to police that after locking their car, they were moving towards the gym when Rihan said he forgot something in the car. He took the keys from him and went to the car. As he opened the car, the accused came there and pointed a pistol at him.They tried to bundle him inside the car, but he raised an alarm. Inderjit also rushed to the car and people also started gathering. He said the unknown accused pulled Rihan out and fled towards Lawrence Road side with car.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-men-snatch-a-car-at-gunpoint-on-mall-road-350603
15-12-2021||Amritsar||Four firms apply for recarpeting of roads in Amritsar||After a long delay in e-tendering related to recarpeting of roads under the Rs 46 crore project, the tenders have been floated for the third time. Now, four private companies have applied for the same and officials of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation are hopeful that the tender may materialise this year.Earlier, the MC had initiated the e- tendering process in April. The technical bid of the tender was opened on August 24. The residents were expecting that roads would be recarpeted before the 2022 Assembly elections as the incumbent government would aim to get the credit.The MC’s technical team would evaluate the tenders and then civic body would open financial approval and case would be sent to for the vetting to the Local bodies Department. After the approval of the government, the work orders would be issued to the firm.The roads, including New Kot Mit Singh Road, Temple Colony Road , Dairy Complex Road, Gobindgarh Fort Road, Civil Hospital Road, Guru Harkishan School Road, Janata Colony Road, Khazana Gate to Hakima, Bhagtawala to Gilwali, Gilwali to Chattiwind, Sultanwind to Hansli, Hansli to Ghee Mandi, Gilwali to Chattiwind, Bari Gate to Lahori Gate, Court Road, Kachari Chowk to Hartej Hospital, Gumtala bypass, Race Course Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Guru Gobind Singh Chowk to Power Colony Majitha Road, SSSS Chowk to Hussain Pura, Maqbool Road, Rani Ka Bagh, Sadar Police Station, Bhandari Bridge to Kachari Chowk, Queens Road, Cooper Road, Joshi Colony Main Road, Jamun Wali Road, Basant Avenue Main Road, Madan Mohan Malviya Road, Lawrence Road, 88-ft Road, Bhagat Kabir Marg, Dasondha Singh Road, Old Jail Road, Albert Road, Taylor Road, Ranjit Avenue Main Road, Joda Phatak to GT Road, New Golden Avenue Road, Islam Ganj Road, Abadi Shivala Road, Main Shivala Road, Main Krishna Square, 100-feet Road and Guru Ravidas Marg, need urgent repair. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-firms-apply-for-recarpeting-of-roads-in-amritsar-350602
15-12-2021||Neeraj Bagga||District public library in Amritsar without power for last two months||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 14Readers of Sohan Singh Josh district public library are highly inconvenienced as its new premises have been without power for the past two months. It started functioning from its new address – abandoned British-era Deputy Commissioner’s office – in October — but it does not have power connection. Readers also rue high parking charges in the district court complex hindering their daily visit.Arunpreet Singh, a young visitor, said, earlier, building of the library was airy and the adjoining park and the open area provided free and uninterrupted light for reading. Newspaper stands at the verandah proved to be convenient for reading.Another regular visitor Naresh Johar said library at a crowded place like the district court does not provide a congenial environment for reading. He added that high parking fee was another pinching point for readers, which was unaffordable to many students still dependent on their parents and guardian.Prabhjot Kaur, Librarian, said she has been trying to get the power connection restored. She approached Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Kharia with the request to get it shifted to the new library. “Today, I got a letter from the SDO of the PSPCL in this regard and hope that the power will be supplied soon.”On the loss of losing the airy infrastructure after the shifting she said the previous building had a limited space. There was only one hall room to serve the readers and most of the space was occupied by 90 almirahs.The new heritage building offers eight rooms which house children, lending, reference, audio-visual story-telling, stack area, activity sections. A room serves for technical section for processing books and also doubles up as office of librarian. In addition two rooms are kept reserved for cafeteria. The district library has 53,000, 50 chairs and other furniture to cater to its over 1,600 members. Citing the example of state library Patiala she said it was over five acres of land and had plenty of rooms and halls for carrying out various activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-public-library-in-amritsar-without-power-for-last-two-months-350593
15-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: Abandoned, infant gets new lease of life||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 14Abandoned by her parents barely six days after her birth, Pari has not only got her a new lease of life but her name too from the employees at the paediatric department of Government Medical College here.Pari, who was suffering from jaundice and other medical conditions, fought bravely for her life and was kept on ventilator as she could not breathe on her own. The employees at the department not only took turns to feed and keep her warm, but also pooled money to purchase clothes and other necessary items, said Dr Sandeep Aggarwal, assistant professor of paediatrics.A person, Sandeep Singh, a resident of Sultanpur (Pathankot), had got her admitted at the hospital on November 22. However, he abandoned the girl two days later and did not return to the hospital.Investigation by the local police to identify the parents proved futile as the address was found fake. It was then that the medical staff took it upon themselves to save the little angel and named her Pari.Dr Manmeet Sodhi, head, paediatrics department, said, “Everybody felt that the child should have a name. Usually, the parents choose the name, but as they were not around, the responsibility fell upon the nursing staff and resident doctors.” She said she was proud of her junior colleagues who went beyond what is professionally expected of them.Professor Ashwani Sareen said, “It is a miracle that the child has survived. It has been made possible with the love showered on her by the employees. She had become a part of the GMC family.”Deputy Medical Superintendent Dr Narinder Singh said, “We had reported the matter to police after the parents went missing.The child has been handed over to Childline after complete recovery on December 13.” He added that the employees had set an example which would show light to medical professionals in general.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/abandoned-infant-gets-new-lease-of-life-350587
15-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi to make a record in making announcements: AAP||Amritsar, December 14Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) city chief Jeevan Jyot Kaur slammed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for lying to the masses. She said, “It seems he (CM Charanjit Singh Channi) is trying to set a world record in making announcements.”She said Channi had announced a gazetted holiday to mark the birth anniversary of Bhai Jaita. “It is a pity that martyrdom of Baba Jeevan Singh is being made a victim of caste discrimination,” she said and added that no memorial has been erected to remember his sacrifice.The previous government had started a memorial at Anandpur Sahib near Virasat-e-Khalsa, which is still incomplete. “The maintenance and construction of Baba Jeevan’s historical gurdwaras in Anandpur Sahib and Shaheed Chamkaur Sahib is being carried out by the management in collaboration with sangat. No initiative has been taken by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee,” she said.The AAP leader claimed these were not even included in the list of historical shrines and nor was Baba Jeevan’s name included in the list of martyrs of the Battle of Chamkaur. These things need to be seriously considered by the intellectuals, politicians and religious leaders of society, she pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cm-charanjit-singh-channi-to-make-a-record-in-making-announcements-350586
15-12-2021||---||Teachers protest stopping of rural allowance, other incentives||Amritsar, December 14The Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), an umbrella organisation comprising multiple school teacher unions, on Tuesday held protests against the Punjab Government’s decision to withhold rural area allowance.Terming it anti-employee, members of the DTF, including Vikram Dev Singh, state president, and others, said the decision would deprive thousands of teachers serving in rural areas of financial incentives. “It will also have an impact on the wages recommended under the Sixth Pay Commission payable to the direct recruits after December 31, 2015. It’s deprivation of all benefits of the commission and is another example of how the government cares two hoots about teacher welfare,” said Vikram Dev Singh.Ashwani Awasthi, district president of the front, appealed to all the teachers of Punjab to be part of the state rally to be held on December 19 in Kharar under the banner of Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners United Front. The protesting teachers also burnt the copies of letters issued by the department to notify these changes.“Our Chief Minister and Finance Minister Manpreet Badal claimed that they would ensure all benefits under sixth pay commission to employees. Acting in contradiction, they have now shown their indifference towards employees working in rural Punjab. Teachers, who have been posted in rural schools, miles away from their homes, have been surviving on bare minimum. Adding to their financial woes, the government now wants to discontinue incentives. Similarly taking another fatal decision, no arrears and benefits will be given to those serving probation period. We demand to provide full pay scales and allowances during probationary period under probationary period Act-2015, to provide pay scales of Punjab to employees recruited after 17th July 2020, to abolish the new pension system and restore the old pension system,” said Awasthi.He said the Punjab Government had consistently refused to make decisions on giving higher pay grade to all the employees in service for more than 14 years, border area allowance, Handicap Travel Allowance, Special Teacher Allowance, Experimental Allowance and 37 other types of allowances.Teachers lodge protest in Tarn TaranTeachers of several government schools across the district, under the banner of different teacher organisations, lodged a protest here on Tuesday against stopping of allowances given to them since decades. The protesting teachers burnt the photocopies of the notification released by the state government in this regard.Prabhjot Singh, Manjinder Singh Dhillon, Baldev Singh, Sarabjit Kaur, Prabhjot kaur, Kuljit Kaur and other leaders of different teacher organisations said the state government had stopped several allowances, which had been given to them and other employees since decades.The teacher leaders warned that they would intensify their agitation against the state government. The leaders appealed the state government to give a second thought to it. — OCCollege teachers’ strike enters 14th dayThe college and university teachers' strike has entered the 14th day in protest against non-receipt of the 7th Pay Commission. Teaching staff members of various colleges of the city have been on strike for the last two weeks. University exams are on the brink of being postponed whereas several colleges have already postponed their internal examinations. Dr BB Yadav, GNDU area in-charge, PFUCTO, informed that they were waiting for the decision in a cabinet meeting as government representatives have assured of a solution to this matter. The teachers have warned that their strike will continue till their demand is met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-protest-stopping-of-rural-allowance-other-incentives-350584
15-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar North: Drug menace overshadows works||ON the face of it, the political leadership in the constituency can claim of developmental works but residents are grappling with law and order and drug-related problems.Amritsar North constituency comprises the Civil Lines area, including posh localities of Ranjit Avenue, Green Avenue, Basant Avenue and localities on Majitha and Batala Road. The area roads are in somewhat better condition as compared to others. But when one visits localities like Faizpura, Karampura and Mustafabad, one gets to know about the crime and drug menace. Snatchers move in the area without any fear as the police authorities have failed to nail criminal elements.Jagtar Singh, a resident of Karampura, said a large number of people could be seen gambling and consuming drugs in the ground located on the rear of the mental hospital while the police looked the other way because of political patronage to nefarious elements.Several parts of Mustafabad area paint a picture of neglect as the residents are waiting for metalled roads for long. Sewerage lines have been laid but the dug up roads have turned into potholes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-north-drug-menace-overshadows-works-350420
15-12-2021||Amritsar||Trustee points out 'lapses' in Jallianwala Bagh work||Pinpointing several lapses in the facelift of the Jallianwala Bagh, Tarlochan Singh, a former MP and member of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, has submitted a report to the Union Ministry of Culture.Also read: The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampAmid criticism from several quarters over the changes and additions that were introduced during the renovation carried by the ministry under the supervision of Archeological Survey of India (ASI), Tarlochan Singh has asked the ministry to undo some of the alterations.Talking to The Tribune, Tarlochan Singh said he had submitted his observation in writing to the ministry to initiate action. “The first and foremost objection was to restore the narrow entrance passage to its original form.”“The murals that have now been installed on both of its sides should be removed immediately as these do not go with the unfortunate episode that had occurred at the site. It should have remained intact,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trustee-points-out-lapses-in-jallianwala-bagh-work-350425
