16-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Punbus staff stir enters 8th day||Signature drives launchedTarn Taran: The civil administration led by SDM-cum-Returning Officer (Patti) Alka Kalia under sweep movement to make students aware of their right to vote launched signature campaigns in different educational institutions of the subdivision here on Tuesday. Nodal Officer of the programme Baljit Kaur, Child Development and Project Officer (CDPO), said under the move students of Guru Nanak Dev University College, Patti, Shaheed Bhagat Singh College of Education Kairon (Patti), ITI, Patti, pledged to exercise their right to vote and put their signature on the sheet. While addressing the students, the teachers made them aware of the importance of voting. OC50-yr-old killed in road mishapTarn Taran: Karnail Singh (50), a daily wager, a resident of Kairowal village, was killed in a road accident on the Tarn Taran-Jhabal road near the bus stand of his village here on Monday. Sources said the victim was returning home after finishing his work. He was crossing the road when a speeding car coming from the Jhabal side hit him. Karnail Singh was killed on the spot and the car driver managed to flee from the spot. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC. OCOne more case surfaces in distAmritsar: The district on Tuesday reported one more positive case of the novel coronavirus, taking the total count of cases to 47,440. The district also reported the recovery of two patients with which the total number of those cured has increased to 45,840. The district at present has a total of two active cases. However, no death due to the virus was reported today. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punbus-staff-stir-enters-8th-day-351031
16-12-2021||Amritsar||Youth, who tried to end life, booked||Even as the jeweller, identified as Sajan, a resident of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, was fighting for life at a private hospital here, the police have booked him under the Arms Act. He had attempted suicide by shooting himself in a hotel room on Mahna Singh Road falling under the Division-B police station here two days ago.The incident came to light when hotel staff informed the police about the incident. The police found him lying in a pool of blood. Though the police found no suicide note from the spot, they recovered an illegal weapon from the spot which he used to shoot himself in the head.ASI Lakhwinder Singh, investigating officer of the case, said police recovered a .38 bore pistol with four live cartridges, two magazines and an empty shell from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-who-tried-to-end-life-booked-351029
16-12-2021||---||Ashwani Pappu replaces Sonia as Amritsar district Congress chief||Amritsar, December 14Ahead of the upcoming state Assembly elections, senior Congress leader Ashwani Kumar Pappu has replaced Jatinder Sonia as the new president of the district Congress chief (urban).While the Congress under the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee President has retained Bhagwant Pal Sacchar as the district Congress president (rural), his urban counterpart was shunted out.The local political observers said though Jatinder Sonia had tried to get close to the new party leadership, but her replacement was inevitable as party needed a new face who could enthuse confidence among the cadre.Pappu, who is expected to formally take charge on Saturday, said: “The grass root workers in the party are its backbone. They would now get the respect and attention they deserve.”He added that Congress under Charanjit Singh Channi as Chief Minister has emerged strongly than ever. “Our job is to highlight the achievements of the government among the people and at the same time give feedback to the party so that it can meet the expectations of masses,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ashwani-pappu-replaces-sonia-as-district-congress-chief-351028
16-12-2021||GS PAUL||CM or ‘Ailanjeet’? asks Channi’s ‘sister’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 14Kuldeep Kaur, a woman had gained the limelight when Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, with folded hands, had addressed her as ‘sister’ and assured her of a job in the hospital, during his visit to Amritsar recently. But it seems it turned out to be futile.“Though it was improper of me to say that, but now, I believe that people have rightly named him as just ‘Ailanjeet’ who just makes announcements. Koi apne bhain nu is tran sarkan te rolda hai?People call me sarcastically as Channi’s sister,” she said.Kaur, who was among the protestors at joda phatak during the CM’s visit, worked as Covid-19 warrior on Class IV basis appointed temporarily by the government at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, to deal with the pandemic crisis. But, when things got a bit normal, they were all laid off.“On December 6, I had managed to reach CM Channi Saheb and apprised him of how our services were utilised during Covid-19 crisis and later we were abandoned by the Health Department. Addressing me as ‘sister’, he had put his hand on my head saying then ‘Bain tera tan kam ho gaya hai’. I was also relieved that now my family could lead a better life, but a week had passed, there was no official communication from the government’s side. At least 175 persons were affected in Amritsar only. If we are not heard, we would also give Channi government a befitting reply in the upcoming Assembly polls in 2022,” she said.Photos had also went viral on the social media about the CM’s meet with Kaur then. At present, braving the chilly weather conditions with their families, over 20 affected ones have been living and preparing their food in open on the street for a few months leading to the residence of Cabinet minister Raj Kumar Verka, demanding job.Kaur’s protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cm-or-ailanjeet-asks-channis-sister-351027
16-12-2021||---||Class XII student suffers face injury by killer Chinese string||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 14Despite the fact that the Chinese kite string has wreaking havoc on people in the city, the police and the district administration have failed to curb the menace which has been assuming alarming proportions day by day.A school student narrowly escaped but suffered grievous cut on his face while returning home on the elevated road here this evening.Dhairya, a Class XII student of DAV Public School, was rushed to the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital where he was given 12 stitches for stitching the wound.His family members said he was returning home in Garden Enclave located on the Amritsar-Attari bypass road after his exam. He was travelling on a scooter on the elevated road and could not see a dangling synthetic kite string. Before he could understand, it slashed his face near chin leaving him bleeding profusely. He came down the elevated road near Pingalwara from where a nurse took him to the Civil Hospital for treatment and later his family members were informed about the incident.Though there is a ban on the sale and purchase of the deadly string, it continues to be sold under the table using code names. Further, the illegal sellers only give the strings only to those with whom they have some connection.On Monday, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Gurpreet Singh Khaira had again issued ban orders that would remain in force till February 3. In the order he pointed out that the plastic string could neither be broken nor decayed, becoming dangerous and environmental haphazard. He said commuters travelling on two-wheelers were always in danger of suffering injuries and birds tended to perish after entangling in the Chinese string. The police also issue similar ban orders from time to time. Nevertheless, its implementation remains on paper. Manmohan Singh, a resident, alleged that the police or the district administration made no efforts to nail the perpetrators which could help in curtailing its sale and purchase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/class-xii-student-suffers-face-injury-by-killer-chinese-string-351023
16-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Mystery shrouds death of goldsmith; two arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 14Mystery shrouds the death of a goldsmith identified as Robin, a resident of the Tahli Sahib road located on Sultanwind Road falling under the Division B police station here after a jeweller and his unidentified accomplices allegedly poured acid or some poisonous substance in his mouth here on late Monday evening.He died at Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital on Tuesday morning. Following the statement of Mansi, wife of the deceased, the police have booked a jeweller, Jasbir Singh, aka Sonu Kanda, Deepak and two other unidentified accomplices on the charge of murder.Robin, who originally hailed from Una, Himachal Pradesh, used to work for Jasbir Singh and was living on rent at his residence along with his wife and two children. Mansi told the police that Jasbir had given gold and silver to Robin for manufacturing jewellery which was to be delivered yesterday. However, he failed to deliver the same. The accused became infuriated and started quarrelling with him. In anger, they caught hold of him and ‘forcibly’ poured acid or some poisonous substance in his mouth due to which his health condition deteriorated. He was rushed to hospital where he died.The police said Jasbir had a quarrel when he demanded the advance payment made to Robin. Robin was allegedly a habitual drunker due to this, his work was suffering.Prabhjot Singh, SHO, Division B police station, said it was matter of investigation whether ‘poisonous substance’ was forcibly poured or he consumed poison and ended his life. He said a medical board had been constituted for autopsy.“On the statement of Mansi, Jasbir and three others were booked for murder,” he said. The police have arrested Jasbir Singh and rounded up Deepak who was with him at that time. His remaining two accomplices were yet to be identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mystery-shrouds-death-of-goldsmith-two-arrested-351022
16-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC nod to over 50 development projects||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 14The Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) held its general house meeting and gave the nod to more than 50 proposals of various development projects here today. There was a brief discussion on a few proposals and four proposals are pending to be discussed in the next house meeting.Two proposals to end services of safai karamcharis and a horticulture worker was kept pending. Another proposal of giving the contract of mechanical road sweeping to a firm is also pending. Four different proposals related to water supply, sewerage, installation of tubewells and street lights would be discussed in the Finance and Contract meeting on December 17 and then would be approved.On the recommendations of a few councillors, the general house of the MC tabled an agenda to consider the notices served by previous MC commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi as illegal and personal vendetta. Jaggi had issued notices to Mayor Rintu to pay Rs 74,26,800 as rent and power bill of MC commissioner’s residence, corporation house.Priyanka Sharma, councillor from Ward No.13, stated in the proposal that the the Corporation House, Mall Road, Amritsar, was set up as Camp Office for the Mayor during the pandemic. Malwinder Singh Jaggi, previous commissioner, MCA, had served notice on the Mayor concerning rent and other dues for usage of corporation house. The councillor claimed that first citizen of the city was legally entitled to avail residential accommodation and other facilities as per provisions of Section 38 (5) of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, the said notices are not only illegal, perverse, beyond the authority of Commissioner and sheer misuse of position but also derogatory to the office of Mayor and Municipal Corporation as well, which is an elected constitutional body.“The said notices are a result of frustration and ill will of the then commissioner and a glaring example of personal vendetta as the Mayor has foiled the attempts of the then commissioner to get encroached upon valuable land of the MC land on the Lawrence Road to his near and dears or for some extraneous circumstances,” wrote Sharma.Sharma proposed action against Jaggi and stated that the Mayor being constitutionally elected head of Municipal Corporation is entitled to residential accommodation and other facilities as per Section 38 (5) of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, and whenever any property being used by the Mayor to carry out the functions was conferred upon him by law and the corporation, the corporation will bear the expenses of the same. If some prior approval was required, the house unanimously approves the same ex-post-facto since the joining of the Mayor,” reads the proposal.Pending payments: Oppn, Cong oppose moveHanding over gaushala to Trust: Panel formedThere was a proposal of the MC to hand over the gaushala at Guhmanpura to Delhi-based Kamadhenu Gaudham Trust. Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi opposed the move and claimed that better option could be explored locally. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu constituted a two-member committee, including Raman Bakshi and Vikas Soni. The committee will submit a report on the next meeting of the general house.Two-minute silence for RawatEarlier, Mayor Karamjit Singh formally inaugurated the meeting. A two-minute silence was observed as a tribute to CDS General Bipan Rawat who died in a chopper crash and other eminent personalities, who have passed away recently. During the meeting, the House felicitated Sandeep Rishi, who was appointed as the Commissioner, MC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-nod-to-over-50-development-projects-351021
16-12-2021||Amritsar||ASI booked for murder in Amritsar sacked||SVEEP van flagged offTarn Taran: Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh flagged off an awareness van under Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme to inform voters about their Right to Vote on Wednesday. The van would cover rural and urban areas in the district. The DC said it was equipped with audio-visual aids, which would raise awareness among voters regarding how to get themselves registered as a voter, importance of voting, voter helpline and facilities for divyangs (disabled) persons among other things. The DC said the administration had taken many steps to raise awareness among citizens under SVEEP to make them aware about their Right to Vote. OCNursing staff’s stir enters day 10Tarn Taran: In continuation with their indefinite strike, nurses working on contract organised a dharna at the local Civil Hospital here on Wednesday. They condemned the state government for its failure to fulfil their genuine demands. While addressing on the occasion, Kulwant Kaur, district president of the Joint Action Nursing Committee Punjab and UT, and other leaders said their current demands included removing the anomalies of the Sixth Pay Commission, restoration of the old pension scheme, name of the designation to be changed as nursing officer and others. Kulwant said the talk held with Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni on Tuesday failed to reach any conclusion. She said they kept sitting on the dharna day and night to boycott the emergency services. The agitating nurses presented a memorandum to the Civil Surgeon and the SMO of the Civil Hospital. The normal functioning in the state-run health institutions has been badly hit due to the strike of the nursing staff. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-booked-for-murder-sacked-350992
16-12-2021||Tejinder Singh||Tarn Taran Diary: Tejinder Singh brings honour to his village||Ubboke — a leader of the masses, indeedMajor Singh Ubboke (April, 27, 1927- November 3, 2020) was a leader of the masses, who remained active in the state and the national politics for more than 60 years. He got involved in the Sikh religious affairs at a young age. Born in a backward area in Ubboke village (near Patti), he was the lone boy of the village who did his BA (from Khalsa College, Amritsar) and later joined the Indian Army in education core. During his service, he started taking keen interest in the Punjabi Suba Morcha. He left the Army job and joined the Punjabi Suba Morcha Movement. He was elected an MLA from Valtoha (now Khemkaran) twice (1980-82, 1984-1986) and once a Lok Sabha member from Tarn Taran (Now Khadoor Sahib) constituency as the SAD candidate. He was a Cabinet minister in the Surjit Singh Barnala government. He developed personal relations with the people of his area. He made umpteen efforts to supply irrigation and drinking water to residents of Khara Majha for whom he did his best to supply canal water and drinking water through deep tube-wells. The groundwater in the areas such as Khalra, Khemkaran, Bhikhiwind, Sabhra, Rattoke, including downstream area of Sutlej from Harike, ground used to be salty, and was not fit for drinking and irrigation. Being a Cabinet minister in the Surjit Singh Barnala government, he once came to Jhabal village to attend a social function where a large number of people from the area came up with the critical problems ailing them. He left the spot only after listening to everybody. He remained there till late evening and gave a patient hearing to all. Ubboke was loyal to Jathedar (Late) Gurcharan Singh Tohra in the politics and in SGPC affairs. He was nominated as the acting president of the SGPC during the emergency. During his student life, he was a hockey and kabaddi player. He was also known to play gatka. People like Ubboke are hard to find.Martyr’s village in a dilapidated stateIt was the occasion of the cremation of brave Naik Gursewak Singh on December 12, who died in the helicopter crash accompanying CDS General Bipin Rawat. Heaps of cow-dung was seen all over the roads in Dode Sodhian village of the brave soldier. The village street drains filled with wastewater raised a stink. Most of the streets of the village were kutcha. One of the residents said they were habitual of living under such inhuman conditions. Another resident said the administration could have made better arrangements to clean the streets and remove cow dung heaps as a mark of showing reverence to the martyr. This issue has never been a part of the state government’s agenda even after 74 years of Independence. Even other villages of the state are in the same condition.Contrbuted by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-tejinder-singh-brings-honour-to-his-village-350991
16-12-2021||Amritsar||Faculty Induction Programme||Innovations in Teaching TechShort-term course on innovations in teaching technology concluded at GNDU. The valedictory ceremony was presided over by Director of Research, Prof BS Chadha, Director HRDC Prof Sudha Jitender and Deputy Director Dr Rajbir Bhatti welcomed the chief guest and participants. The course coordinator Prof Shalini Bahel presented the course briefing. Prof Chadha stressed upon the significance of keeping abreast of the latest developments and innovations in teaching techniques for the teachers. The participants shared their feedback and the session concluded with vote of thanks. Applications are invited for Refresher Course on Gender Sensitization and Human values, Basic and Applied Sciences and short term course on data analysis and statistical techniques as approved by UGC and prospective candidates can see the websitewww.hrdcgndu.org.Lecture on TrichologyThe Department of Lifelong Learning organised an extension lecture on “Extension of Trichology (Study of Hair)” in which the resource person was Anita Thakur, Head of the Department of Cosmetology, Trinity College, Jalandhar. Prof Saroj Bala, Director apprised the guests of the activities and programmes taken up by the department. She advised the students to sharpen and refine their skills and become entrepreneurs and appreciated the students for showing their interest of learning by interacting with the resource person. Anita Thakur, in her lecture give detailed overview of different methods of analysis of hair and techniques of hair care. She also emphasised on herbal care of hair and told the students about the importance of relation of internal health with hair beauty. She solved the queries of students at the end of session. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/faculty-induction-programme-350987
16-12-2021||Amritsar||Activists seek removal of Harish Chaudhary||The activists of the Parjapat community demanded removal of Harish Chaudhary from the post of in-charge, Indian National Congress, Punjab and Chandigarh.The office-bearers of All-India Parjapat Community, led by Ragubir Singh Rajasansi, called to boycott the Congress until the party removed Chaudhary from the in-charge post.The activists of other backward classes have been demanding action against Chaudhary for his alleged involvement in Kamlesh Parjapat fake encounter case in Rajasthan. The businessman was killed in police encounter on April 22 in Barmer of Rajasthan. The Parjapat community has been demanding justice for his family all over the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activists-seek-removal-of-harish-chaudhary-350986
16-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi’s decision to set up Lord Jesus Christ Chair hailed||Amritsar, December 15Punjab Minorities Commission welcomed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s decision to set up a chair of Lord Jesus Christ at one of the universities in the state.Commission chairman Prof Emanuel Nahar, in a release issued here on Wednesday, said a study centre where pastors and students would be able to receive religious education would be set up. At the same time, the problem of cemetery for Christians has also been solved in the districts where there was no space for cemetery. A space would be made available. In addition, community halls would be constructed in every district, where people belonging to the Christian community would be able to hold their programmes. Chief Minister Channi also released an amount of Rs1crore to the Welfare Board. Prof Nahar said the CM also announced that the community would be given 5 marla plots.He said in the last 72 years, Channi was the first CM who has done so much for the Christian community. The Punjab Government has given gift to the community before Christmas, he said.Commission member Subhash Thoba said Prof Nahar constantly strived to convey the demands of the community to the government and implement it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minorities-panel-welcomes-move-350985
16-12-2021||Amritsar||Kin of deceased Amritsar MC employees given job letters||The Municipal Corporation of Amritsar gave job letters to kin of its deceased employees here on Wednesday.The MC had constituted a sub-committee consisting of councillors Pramod Babla and Rajesh Madan, Joint Commissioner Hardeep Singh, Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar, councillor Mahesh Khanna and Superintendent Satpal to review the applications received for jobs on compassionate grounds.The sub-committee reviewed 75 cases and out of which 59 ones were cleared. The committee members stated that appointment letters were given to 59 applicants and the remaining cases would again be reviewed.Mayor Karamjit Singh said the Congress government was always working for the well-being of the employees. He said the MC would take care of the dependants of the employees who died in harness. We would provide jobs to dependants and ensure their livelihood.”He said the existing MC House had constituted a sub-committee, which performed its duties well to provide jobs to the dependants of deceased employees on priority. So far, appointment letters have been issued to 183 kin of the deceased employees.Mayor appreciated Pramod Babla and councillor Rajesh Madan for their services in the subcommittee. “The services of sewermen and street light workers working under Mohalla Sudhar Committees would also be regularised soon. A resolution has been sent to the government for approval,” said the Mayor — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kin-of-deceased-amritsar-mc-employees-given-job-letters-350984
16-12-2021||---||GNDU campus in full bloom||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 15The three-day Bhai Vir Singh Flower and Plant Exhibition, dedicated to the birth centenary celebrations of philosopher and environmentalist Bhai Vir Singh, started at GNDU on Wednesday. Apart from flower lovers, a large number of competitors are participating in various events related to flower arrangement, individual categories of several flowering species, ornamental plants along with cacti and succulents and rangoli.The exhibition aims to motivate students towards nature and floriculture.VC Professor Jaspal Singh Sandhu, who supports the exhibition-cum-flower show by making it an annual feature in the GNDU calender, said: “We all need to respect and love nature. This type of effort needs to be promoted to connect youth with nature.” He said in future, more exhibitions would be organised in this field to associate youth with nature.Dr JS Bilga, horticulture consultant, who also curated the exhibition, said: “A large number of flower lovers from all over the state have participated in the exhibition and competition. This year, 532 entries have been received, which will be divided into different categories — 45 guldaudi (outdoor), 38 indoor plants and 22 cacti.” He said this exhibition was open for public from December 16 from 9am to 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-campus-in-full-bloom-350981
16-12-2021||---||NDRF conducts mock drill at Jallianwala Bagh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 15The district administration in collaboration with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) conducted a mock drill to battle any kind of natural calamity at the Jalliawala Bagh here on Wednesday.The objective was to save maximum lives from any kind of natural calamity in the district. Apart from officials of the administration, those from the Fire, Police, Health and other departments participated in the drill.SDM-I T Benith said the mock drill was to prevent any untoward incident in the district. He said in case of any untoward incident, the administration first informs the Fire and Police departments and a relief camp is also set up at a nearby school. Full medical aid and food are provided to the injured at the camp.Deputy Commandant of NDRF Rishi Mahajan said the mock drill was attended by 35 NDRF jawans and all these jawans were fully competent to deal with any accident. On the response time in case a natural calamity strikes, he said disaster response and rescue teams could reach within two hours of the dissemination of information.Onkar Singh DSP, Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh, Municipal Health Officer Dr Yogesh Arora besides officers from various departments were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ndrf-conducts-mock-drill-at-jallianwala-bagh-350979
16-12-2021||Neha Saini||Heritage  status: Pul Kanjri, the 'Taj Mahal' of Punjab, losing its sheen||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 15If the Taj Mahal stands as a symbol of love for the world, Pul Kanjri has a similar status, if not less, for the people of Punjab. The hauntingly beautiful Pul Kanjri, situated a few kilometres away from the India-Pakistan border at Wagah, has an equally interesting story behind its existence, the one that makes it the most popular tourist destination for travellers. Built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh, as a bridge on a canal, while crossing the Ravi, Pul Kanjri, also called Pul Mooran, was built as a symbol of love that Maharaja Ranjit Singh was said to have for Mooran Sarkar.Mooran was a Muslim nautch girl, who used to perform for Maharaja at the Baradari of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, halfway between Amritsar and Lahore. It is said once she was unable to cross the canal over Ravi and lost her silver footwear. She later refused to perform for him and that’’s when he decided to built a structure that later became the abode for the star crossed lovers. Pul Kanjri was named as nautch girls were called Kanjri in Punjabi. Later, its name was changed to Pul Mooran.Its history might have begun with a love story, but Pul Kanjri became an important centre for trade in later years of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s regime. Post Partition, the structure was captured by the Pakistani army during the Indo-Pak wars of 1965 and 1971, but was recaptured by the Indian Army later. The age-old structure might have lost its sheen but it still stands as an example of the legacy of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s glorious reign.The ‘Baradari’, used as a home stay for Maharaja while travelling from Amritsar to Lahore, has been conserved and renovated, while other structures, some in deteriorated condition, have been left as such. It has 12 gates, a vast courtyard, that was used for cross-border cultural programmes till a few years ago, and a pond nearby that is now maintained by the Tourism Department.Some of the frescoes of the Hindu deities and Guru Nanak Dev with Bhai Bala and Bhai Mardana are still intact, however, most of the structures have been whitewashed in the name of heritage conservation. It attracts a good tourist footfall, especially the ones coming back from Wagah after watching the retreat ceremony. Due to the history and story behind its origins, Pul Kanjri has also become the most popular location for pre-wedding shoots for couples. The legend behind it||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heritage-status-pul-kanjri-the-taj-mahal-of-punjab-losing-its-sheen-350978
16-12-2021||---||Teachers burn 'no allowance' copies||Amritsar, December 15Criticising the Punjab Government for its “wrong” education policies and anti-teacher attitude, teachers from government schools began their protest against the discontinuation of various allowances and incentives for school teachers here on Wednesday.A large number of teachers and other employees of schools burnt copies of letters sent by the department in this regard.Teachers also threatened to intensify their stir if the decision was not withdrawn.“The government has asked the department concerned to dispense salaries, without including the allowances that were earlier being given to teachers, especially who were posted in rural areas. The government is consistently trying to increase the woes of teachers by ignoring their rights and welfare,” said Keshav Kohli, a teacher and member of the Democratic Teachers’ Front.Earlier in the past also, school teachers were at loggerheads with the state government over the issue of regularisation of ETTs, merger of computer teachers into the department and implementation of allowances under the Sixth Pay Commission.Varsity, college teachers to intensify stirDespite all the assurances made by ministers and officials, no decision has yet been taken on the implementation of the recommendations of the 7th CPC. Calling for intensifying their protests, teachers from the district are set to move to Chandigarh for a large-scale demonstration against the government. There seemed to be no end in sight to the education bandh and teachers blamed the government for the loss of academic session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-burn-no-allowance-copies-350977
16-12-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Tarn Taran: Kisan leaders showered with flowers at Piddi||Tarn Taran, December 15Elections are just round the corner in Punjab but Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, made it clear on Wednesday that the organisation was in no mood to contest or participate in any way.Satnam Singh Pannu, state president, KMSC, who was at Piddi village, near Tarn Taran town, said the election system had failed to resolve the problems of the masses. He said it was due to this reason that no office-bearer of the organisation would take part in the election process — either by contesting or by canvassing in favour of any political party. He said the organisation believes in the struggle to get their rights and justice.Piddi village is the native place of Satnam Singh Pannu. He and other leaders were honoured by the area residents on their return.Sawinder Singh Chutala and Jasbir Singh Piddi, both core committee members of the organisation, too, were among other leaders who were honoured. Residents showered their leaders with flowers and highly appreciated their contribution in remaining out in the open in scorching heat and cold winter weather for such a long period.The leaders and residents accompanied their leaders to Gurdwara Baba Kahan Singh at Piddi, where they took blessings of the Almighty and performed the Ardas for the strong unity of farmers. Pannu highlighted the tactics of the Union Government as to how it did anything and everything to nosedive the kisan movement and bring a bad name to the agitation.He said with the repealing of the three farm laws, it was the partial victory of the farmer agitation, as many other issues were yet to be resolved. He called farmers to unite and be ready for better results. He said there were still many other issues that need to be resolved, including the cancelling of criminal cases registered against farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kisan-leaders-showered-with-flowers-at-piddi-350976
16-12-2021||---||Amritsar: KMSC all set for 'rail roko' stir from Dec 20||Amritsar, December 15The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Wednesday held a convention to make preparations for its scheduled ‘rail roko’ stir from December 20. The KMSC had given a call for blocking rail traffic demanding complete loan waiver, compensation and jobs for the families of those who died during the protest, ownership rights to the cultivators, release of dues of sugarcane growers and other issues.The leaders said the payment of paddy crop of many farmers had been stopped due to red entries in their revenue records. KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said: “These farmers are still waiting for their dues even as they had sold their crop two months ago. In agriculture sector, most farmers are dependent on their biannual income and harassing them in such a way is not justified.”The farmer leaders said many issues related to the agriculture sector were still unresolved and the ‘rail roko’ programme would put spotlight on such problems. The KMSC had participated in the recent agitation of farmers, but is not a part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. It followed the SKM from time to time, but also maintained its separate identity. It even had set up a separate stage at Singhu border and did not share space with unions associated with SKM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-all-set-for-rail-roko-stir-from-dec-20-350975
16-12-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: Eye on poll, road-carpeting work picks up pace in winter||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 15Ahead of the Assembly elections due early next year, the government has allowed the carpeting of several deplorable roads in the city.It is rare to see a road being relaid in winter, as it does not provide conducive temperature for the material to become solid and compact. Leave alone relaying a road, government agencies hardly carry out even patch work in cold climate.With the Assembly poll drawing near, various works, including laying of new roads, are on in full swing in different parts of the city. Re-carpeting of several roads in the city has brought cheer to residents, but leaders of the opposition took a jibe at the government for initiating the work ahead of the poll. Dilapidated roads, which had been crying for attention for the last few months, are being repaired in cold weather.Suresh Mahajan, president of district urban unit of the BJP, said it was quite apparent that the move to carpet the roads at this juncture was merely an election stunt. He said the roads in the central assembly constituency, represented by Deputy CM OP Soni, were being carpeted by the funds received under the Smart City mission.Similar works were also being carried out in the east, north and other constituencies. Mahajan, who had been chairman of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), stated that in many Assembly segments development works were being carried out with the funds taken from the AIT, which was generated after selling its properties.He maintained that it would economically destabilise the AIT as it was not sparing funds to finance its new and old residential and commercial schemes. The move would lead to exhaustion of its resources and funds.He claimed that the carpeting work being carried out in the winter season would not last long as it required a minimum temperature of around 22°C.SAD leaders said the government kept telling during its four-and-a-half-year tenure that its treasury was empty. “Now, all of a sudden it got the funds and its leaders are now saying that there is no dearth of funds for development works,” said the leaders.However, carpeting and re-carpeting of roads has come as a relief for residents. They said bad roads always posed a threat of road accidents and fatalities.Ruling party leaders said as the funds were available, residents of various localities were demanding that roads in their areas must be recarpeted.Opposition leaders take a jibe at govtWith the Assembly poll drawing near, various works, including laying of new roads, are on in full swing in different parts of the city. Re-carpeting of several roads in the city has brought cheer to residents, but leaders of the opposition took a jibe at the government for initiating the work ahead of the poll. Dilapidated roads, which had been crying for attention for the last few months, are being repaired in cold weather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-eye-on-poll-road-carpeting-work-picks-up-pace-in-winter-350973
16-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||First day of Poh marks arrival of foggy season||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 15Residents woke up to a dense fog cover, first of the season, on Wednesday morning, which resulted in huge inconvenience for commuters.While the city areas had a relatively better visibility, in rural areas the fog remained till 12:30 pm.As it was the first day of the month of Poh, as per the Punjabi calendar, a large numbers of people were out on roads to visit religious places to observe ‘sangrand’.The month of ‘Poh’ is considered the coldest month of the year.With the visibility constrained to only a few metres, the commuters had a hard time reaching their destination.A bank employee posted in Tarn Taran said: “Usually it takes me around 45 minutes to reach my workplace, but today it took one-and-a-half hours.”Commuters said the absence of proper road infrastructure in rural areas to guide drivers through fog is the biggest threat to the safety of commuters. The absence of proper fog lights and tail lights on private vehicles is another major cause of accidents as the other drivers fail to spot such vehicles on time.Rajinder Singh, a retired Roadways driver, said: “Never switch on the music system in your car if there is fog. It is a major distraction for the driver, as he cannot listen to the sound of vehicles which do not have fog lights.” He said drivers should avoid overtaking vehicles going ahead.The white markings on the side of the road which help drivers stay on the road during fog are not available on most of the link roads connecting rural areas with the city.“Many people travel on these link roads from villages for work. Others travel from city to villages daily. If the roads have proper markings and signs, it would help daily commuters,” said Charanjit Kaur, a government employee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/first-day-of-poh-marks-arrival-of-foggy-season-350969
16-12-2021||Amritsar||Youth throws 'gutka sahib' in Golden Temple sarovar, held||A youth has been apprehended at the Golden Temple complex allegedly for throwing ‘gutka sahib’ (small Sikh holy book) in the shrine sarovar.He has been identified as Ranbir Singh, who was caught on the spot by SGPC employees and later handed over to the police.SGPC officials said the youth, with shorn hair, was spotted taking out the ‘gutka sahib’ from his pocket and before he could be intercepted, he threw the holy book into the sarovar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-throws-gutka-sahib-in-sarovar-held-350874
16-12-2021||---||Over 2,000 cases of illicit liquor seized in Amritsar||Chandigarh, December 15The Punjab Excise Department on Wednesday busted an organised module selling smuggled imported scotch without holograms in Amritsar district and seized 2,150 cases of liquor.Giving the details, Punjab Excise Commissioner Rajat Agarwal said the Excise Department had once again tightened the noose on persons involved in smuggling and selling non-duty paid liquor in the state. A tip-off was received that a few persons were involved in selling smuggled and non-duty paid expensive imported brands of scotches and imported beer in Amritsar and adjoining areas evading the excise duties and levies, causing a huge loss to state exchequer.Acting on the tip-off immediately, a team of Special Operation Group of the Excise Department swung into action and kept tab of the suspected persons involved in the trade. It came to notice that the accused had set up two illegal godowns in Amritsar where huge quantity of expensive imported liquor brands were illegally stored. The accused have stake in liquor business in some groups in Amritsar.On the intervening night of December 9/10, the teams identified the location of two illegal godowns and raided them at Bhagtanwala and Khairabad. A sizeable quantity of liquor was found without holograms. Some cases of liquor had the holograms of Punjab pasted over the Chandigarh holograms, which showed that the accused even smuggled the liquor from Chandigarh. This liquor was allegedly being sold through a network of bootleggers or to marriage palaces and bars thereby causing loss to the state exchequer. Multiple teams were called in from other districts to take stock of godowns and thorough checking o recovered stock was done by teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-2-000-cases-of-illicit-liquor-seized-350870
16-12-2021||Vishav Bharti||Amritsar conjoined twins Sohna, Mohna excited to vote for first time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Will they vote for the same candidate or different ones? That is the obvious query when one comes to know that Amritsar-based famous conjoined twins Sohna Singh and Mohna Singh will cast their votes for the first time.Sohna Singh smiles to the query, but Mohna Singh does not react. They are in Chandigarh to attend a function where along with four others they will be declared as icons by the Election Commission. Sohna said that they were excited to vote for the first time.Born on June 13, 2003, in Delhi, they were abandoned by their parents and adopted by an orphanage in Amritsar.In June, when they had filled separate Form-6 to claim their right to vote, there were doubts whether both will get separate voting rights or will be considered as one. Even the Amritsar Deputy Commissioner had written to the State Election Commission for clarification on the issue.A senior state election functionary said the issue had cropped up before them. But since both of them speak and have separate cognitive functions, they qualified for separate voting rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asr-conjoined-twins-excited-to-vote-for-first-time-350856
