17-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Vaccination awareness van flagged off in Tarn Taran||Woman dies in road mishapAmritsar: A 24-year old woman, identified as Rajinder Kaur, died after a speeding vehicle hit her scooter on the elevated road here on Wednesday. The unidentified accused fled from the scene. Investigations were on to identify the suspect, the police said. Partap Singh, father of the victim, told the police that Rajinder was driving a scooter and reached the elevated road around 9am, when an unidentified vehicle hit it from the side, due to which she fell and was critically injured. A passerby admitted her to a private hospital, where doctors declared her dead. The police said a case under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC was registered against the unidentified person and probe was on. The police are scrutinising the CCTV cameras to identify the accused. TNSOne +ve case reported in distAmritsar: With one positive case reported on Thursday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47, 442. The district has a total of four active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 9,745 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive today. Of these, 3,409 received their first dose, while 6,336 received their second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/awareness-van-flagged-off-351377
17-12-2021||Bhai Vir Singh Flower and Plants Festival was inaugurated for masses on Thursday at Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan of Guru Nanak Dev University. Various types of flowers and plants have been displayed by affiliated colleges||Flower, plant festival inaugurated at Guru Nanak Dev University||Prof Jaspal Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, GNDU, said love for flowers and greenery is the essence of life. Dr Jaswinder Singh Bilga said the exhibition is dedicated to the memory of environmentalist Bhai Vir Singh, whose birth centenary is being celebrated this year.This year, more than 300 entries have been received in outdoor and indoor plants, flowers and cacti.The main attraction is chrysanthemums and variety of ferns and bonsai. The rangoli contest is also being held to promote natural colours and flowers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-full-bloom-351376
17-12-2021||---||When in trouble, dial 181||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 16The Punjab Police Mahila Mitar and Women Help Desk, organised an awareness programme at the Bus Rapid Transport System (BRTS) station opposite Khalsa College here.Amritsar MC Commissioner Sandeep Rishi was the chief guest and Assistant Commissioner of Police Manpreet Kaur Shimar was also present on the occasion. The programme was organised to raise awareness among women travelling in BRTS buses, including working women and students, about the women helpline number 181 launched by Punjab Government. The helpline number was launched by the state government facilitating women to lodge their complaints against various crimes including domestic violence, eve-teasing at bus stops, buses or other public places.Shimar said the complaint was immediately forwarded to the police station concerned and officials take swift action. She said women should know that the number remains active 24X7. She said the Punjab Police Mahila Mitra wing immediately swings into action and reaches the spot to help the victim.SI Navreet Kaur, Women Help Desk in-charge, along with other women cops travelled in Metro buses to raise awareness among girls and women. They also pasted stickers in the Metro bus stations.Drivers, ticket booking staff and security guards deputed at the Metro stations were also briefed about it. They were told that they should inform the police in case they find some suspicious activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-in-trouble-dial-181-351374
17-12-2021||Neha Saini||Symbolism an important aspect of Indian culture: Dr Sonal Mansingh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 16Sharing how she performed inside a hanger while fighter planes were jetting off in Kargil in 1999, Dr Sonal Mansingh, the dance exponent, was at her candid best as she interacted with a houseful of audience at Phulkari-Women of Amritsar’s exclusive session.She shared how her troupe has arranged for a special performance for soldiers on the frontline. “I believe that Indian soldiers and classical dancers can withstand the same level of pain and strength,” she said. Dr Sonal Mansingh’s session was mostly centered around culture and its interpretations. She said with dance, she also learnt the intrinsic values of Indian culture.“The most simple and important aspects of our culture is namaste or namaskar. The gesture of folding your hands out of respect and greet someone also holds deeper meaning. When we fold our hands and bow our heads in namaste, we create a beautiful hast mudra, let go of our arrogance by bending our head and offer respect with grace. We also offer the energy of the left half or feminine half and right half or masculine half together and press the fingertips that represent the five elements to create a full energy circle,” she explained.She also explained the meaning of Bharat through concepts of dance. “Bharat cannot be understood in English as language are the repository of cultural traditions and values. If you breakdown Bharat, Bha-means Bhaav (expression, sentiments), Ra-means raaga (symbolising love and harmony) and Ta-means Taal (rhythm). We need to understand these minute but significant details of our culture and practice these to ensure their continuity,” she said. She said this symbolism was an integral part of our culture.Dr Mansingh, who is also a member of the Rajya Sabha and recipient of Padma Vibhushan and Padma Bhushan, said every citizen should learn Indian dance forms, whether classical or folk. “They are the traditions that need to connect generations through time. There are numerous gestures and mudras that we learn that hold spiritual as well as physical symbolism. Dance also helps in raising awareness in individual, just like practising yoga or meditation.”Dr Sonal Mansingh now mostly engages herself as an art educator, cultural activist. Deepa Swani, president, Phulkari, said: “Dr Sonal Mansingh is a legendary personality who has contributed greatly to Indian art and culture. Having her share her knowledge with the citizens of our city provided great opportunity to learn from her and enjoy a stimulating evening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/symbolism-an-important-aspect-of-indian-culture-351373
17-12-2021||---||Amritsar civic body to hike wage of garbage lifters on donkeys||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 16The Municipal Corporation will hike wage of ‘Donkey batches’ (garbage lifters who collect trash from narrow streets of the old walled city on donkeys).Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu announced in the recent meeting that daily wages of donkey owners will be revised soon.Deputy Mayor Younas Kumar claimed in the General House meeting that there has been no hike in their salary for the past 15 years. The Mayor assured that their wages would be increased.The owner of the donkey gets less than Rs 100 per day. This amount is insufficient to feed a donkey. “What about the person who collects garbage door to door? This is a violation of rates fixed by the government. Some extra amount should be paid to feed donkeys,” said advocated Younis.The narrow streets in the walled city prove a major challenge for door-to-door collection of garbage. Small carts cannot enter 3-ft wide streets, thus donkeys have been roped in to collect garbage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-to-hike-wage-of-garbage-lifters-on-donkeys-351372
17-12-2021||Amritsar||Two snatchings reported in Amritsar||Unidentified bike-borne persons snatched a purse from a girl who came to meet her friend in Amritsar.Victim Jyoti said her purse contained Rs10,000, a mobile phone and an ATM card. The victim said she went to meet her fried Gurpreet at Kot Mit Singh area on Bhai Manj Road. She said she alighted at the Golden Gate, where her friend came to receive her. She said Gurpreet’s brother was also coming from Chandigarh and they were waiting for him.She kept her purse on the scooter, when two bike-borne persons came, snatched the purse and fled. Gurwinder Singh, IO, said the CCTV cameras were being scrutinised and a case was registered.Meanwhile, a resident Amarjit Singh said he was coming from Davinder Nagar side on Tarn Taran Road when his mobile phone was snatched by an unidentified person. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-snatchings-reported-in-amritsar-351371
17-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||5 yrs on, Amritsar Smart City projects in limbo||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 16Even after more than five years of the launching of the ‘Smart City Mission’ by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, no significant project has seen the light of day in the city so far.The Centre had chosen the holy city under the Smart City project on September 20, 2016. Major announcements related to multi-core projects were made during all these years.The projects, which have been completed, include installation of streetlights and renovation of some parks.Most of the development works were announced in 2016-17, but started with a delay. Revamping of Outer Ring Road was initiated last year, but only a small stretch has been completed. As a result, commuters face harrowing time commuting on this one-km stretch from Lohgarh Gate to Khajana Gate.The Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) had announced to construct multi-storey parking lots at Kairon Market and Macchi Mandi in 2018, however, the tenders have not materialised so far. The ASCL had proposed to strengthen the road and sewerage network, but the entire process has got stuck at the tendering phase. Redevelopment of Circular Road as a Smart Road began with a delay.The Rejuvenation of Auto-Rickshaw in Amritsar through Holistic Intervention project (RAAHI), for which a cash subsidy of Rs 75,000 has been given for replacing the old diesel autorickshaws with e-autos to improve the public transport, has been on the track. The beautification and rejuvenation of Tung Dhab seems a distant dream.Sandeep Rishi, CEO, Smart City-cum-Commissioner MC, said, “The projects began with a delay. The utility shifting of Circular Road delayed the project. I will get the progress report and will try to complete the project till the target date. Several projects are on the tendering stage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-yrs-on-smart-city-projects-in-limbo-351370
17-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Bank employees' stir causes inconvenience||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 16Bank employees led by the Punjab Banking Employees’ Federation went on two-day strike to oppose privatisation of banks. The protest was held on a call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU).The agitating employees held a rally outside the Hall Gate and criticised the Centre. Later, the agitators took out a march in the city.Ravi Rajzan, secretary, Punjab Bank Employees’ Federation, said, “All bank employees are united in this fight against the illogical and detrimental move of the Central Government.”Meanwhile, traders faced inconvenience due to the stir of the bank staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bank-employees-stir-causes-inconvenience-351369
17-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Punjab Health Dept staff on the warpath||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 16In yet another day of protests by the employees of the Health Department, ANMs and multipurpose health workers held a massive rally outside the residence of Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Om Parkash Soni, while the ministerial staff workers burnt the copies of the official letters in front of the Civil Surgeon’s office on Thursday.With the announcement regarding the Assembly elections expected soon, there is a growing feeling among protesting employees that the state government is trying to frustrate them by giving false assurances and doing nothing.Nurses abstain from work, services crippled for 11th day in Tarn TARANTarn Taran: Nurses working at government-run health institutions across the district abstained from their duties for the 11th day on Thursday. The strike call given by the Punjab and UT Joint Action Nursing Committee had been stressing on their long-pending demands. The nurses staged dharna on the complex of the local Civil Hospital and raised slogans against the state government for not redressing their grievances. Kulwant Kaur, district president of the organisation, said the demands include removing of the anomalies of the 6th Pay Commission, releasing of diet/ uniform/ nursing care/ night duty/ travel allowances, restoration of the old pension scheme and name of the designation to be changed as Nursing Officer among others. The other leaders who addressed include Parminder Kaur, Raj Kaur, Rakesh Rani, Paramjit Kaur. The nurses have been boycotting emergency services for 11 consecutive days, which had crippled medical services in the district in government-run institutions. — Gurbaxpuri As has happened election after election, once the election dates are announced and the Model Code of Conduct comes to force, the government employees will have no option but to end their protest.However, this time the ANMs who are seeking regularisation of services said in case the Model Code of Conduct comes to force, they would focus their entire energy on staging protests against the ruling party.“We will not end our protest. The politicians might change after the elections, but the bureaucracy would be the same. We will continue with our stir till our demands are met,” said Sukhbir Kaur, a leader of the ANMs.Jagdish Thakur of Punjab State Ministerial Staff Workers’ Union said: “Many of the allowances which were given to the employees by the 5th Pay Commission report were withdrawn in the 6th Pay Commission report.” He said it was happening for the first time that the revised pay commission report was against the interests of the employees.More cadres of employees from the department are expected to hit roads as the Pharmacists’ Union, too, have announced a protest march to express resentment against the withdrawal of certain allowances. The nursing employees of the Medical Education Department and Health Department are already on a warpath as they had boycotted all services earlier last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-dept-staff-on-the-warpath-351368
17-12-2021||---||Fog, snag hit 24 flights from Amritsar's Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 16At least 24 international and domestic flights from Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport here were either diverted or cancelled during the past 24 hours due to heavy fog in the region.Airport officials said the flights had to be cancelled or diverted due to a technical snag in the runway visibility range (RVR) equipment. However, due to sudden positive change in the weather conditions on Thursday evening, the air traffic was resumed to near normal, they said.Everything depends upon the weather as the snag in the RVR system is yet to be corrected. VK Seth, director airport, said, “They are still waiting for the required equipment to arrive, after which the problem would be completely resolved.” He added that CAT-II and CAT-III systems were defunct at the present and they only had CAT-I system functional.Meanwhile, passengers faced heavy inconvenience as their flights did not reach the desired destinations. While several of them were off boarded at New Delhi, others had to wait for resumption of normal air traffic.They complained that the airport authorities had no system in place to provide comfort, alternate travel arrangements or other facilities to the passengers who had faced difficulties due to an administrative fault on part of the airport authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fog-snag-hit-24-flights-in-amritsar-351145
