18-12-2021||---||Batala’s (Miss) Universe Harnaaz Sandhu||When a thing ceases to be a subject of controversy, it ceases to be a subject of interest. Conversely, it is only an interesting thing that attracts controversy. And, yes, by all means the crowning of Harnaaz Sandhu as Miss Universe was surely an interesting development by any measure. And that is the reason why it courted controversy. The moment the Batala born girl was catapulted into a position of eminence and fame, social media was abuzz that she was a product of Chandigarh. That she was born and brought up in the city. Now, this could not be any further than the truth. Minutes after the first social media post hit her senses, and nearly pulverized them into submission by the sheer fallacy it carried, Dr Satinder Kaur Nijjar rushed to put things into a proper perspective. She and her husband Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar own Nijjar Hospital in Batala. And that was where the (Miss) Universe came into being.The Nijjars took time off their busy schedules and started digging out the truth from the hospital records. Finally, after hours of effort, they finally struck gold. They had found the copy of the birth certificate of Harnaaz. Now, it was the turn of this document to start doing rounds of social media. Dr Satinder vividly remembers the day Harnaaz was born. The birth certificate is now one of the couples most prized possessions. “Harnaaz has achieved an exalted status. She will have to work hard to maintain the desired standards. After all, nowhere has it been written on her birth certificate that life would be easy!” said Dr Kaur. And, by the way, Dr Kaur, nowhere has it been written on the birth certificate that life would indeed be fair! Are you listening, Miss Universe?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batalas-miss-universe-harnaaz-sandhu-351720
18-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Jeobala resident declared PO||Coop society member bookedAmritsar: The Kathunangal police have booked Gurmeet Singh, former secretary of a cooperative society, for allegedly bungling over Rs25 lakh. He was charged with fraud, criminal breach of trust and forgery following a complaint by Rajwinder Singh, president of the society. He lodged a complaint with the police in June, while a case was registered now following a probe by DSP Majitha. Rajwinder said the accused misappropriated Rs25,10,780 of the society members. A case under Sections 420, 409, 465, 467, 468 and 476 of the IPC has been registered against accused Gurmeet though he was yet to be arrested. The police said while further investigations were under progress, efforts were on to arrest him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jeobala-resident-declared-po-351711
18-12-2021||The other day when SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal visited Dera Baba Nanak to campaign for his party’s candidate Ravi Karan Kahlon||Gurdaspur Diary: Ravi Karan Kahlon pulls crowds||Channi’s visit to hospitalA private hospital is akin to a parked car with its meter running. This was known to CM Charanjit Singh Channi and hence his government has taken a decision to improve the lot of government hospitals which are invariably cheaper than their private cousins. Being comparatively inexpensive is the main reason why the poor flock to government entities more than the rich. The other day while on a visit to the city, the CM thought it prudent to check for himself the facilities at the Civil Hospital at Babri, 6 km away from the city. On his way, the CM must have wondered why the hospital was located far away from the city.It was during ex-MLA Gurbachan Singh Babbehali’s second term as MLA from 2012 till 2017 that the entity, for some inexplicable reason, was taken out of the city’s precincts and relocated to its outskirts. If the CM launches a probe even now, six years after it was sent packing to Babri, many heads are bound to roll. Nevertheless, once at the hospital, the CM was given a guided tour by Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar. He visited the emergency and gyneacology, pediatric and surgery wards before proceeding towards the store where medicines are kept. He checked the expiry dates, at random, of some of the medicines lying in the store. He also interacted with the staff. On their part the doctors and the para-medical staff were not a happy lot. Because, for a change, the CM did not make any grand announcement!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-ravi-karan-kahlon-pulls-crowds-351710
18-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Sports Meet organised at Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Jhabal||Voter awareness camp at DAV CollegeAmritsar: The Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) team organised a seminar at DAV College followed by a voter awareness drive. The seminar was organised as a part of the ongoing programme of the Election Commission of India to dispel misconceptions about electronic voting machines (EVMs) and Voter Helpline App by creating awareness among students. Students from the department of mass communication and video production and NCC cadets attended the seminar. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar lauded the move to organise an awareness seminar. A presentation was given on the Voter Helpline by Barinder Jit Singh, Nodal Officer, SVEEP. He said new mobile apps have been developed by the ECI, especially Voter Helpline App, PwD App and cVIGIL App. The cVIGIL App can be used by citizens to upload live pictures or videos of any violations of the model code of conduct during the election.Tiny tots celebrate sports weekDAV Public School (5 Cantt branch) celebrated Sports Week from December 13 to 17. Students from LKG to Class III participated in the event with great zeal. The tiny tots exhibited the spirit of sportsmanship by participating in different activities. Children conveyed the message that participation matters more than winning or losing a game. Principal Anita Mehra appreciated the efforts of the participants and said we all learn more outside the class through the medium of sports.Workshop on international art formsThe department of lifelong learning has organised three-day workshop on ‘International Art Forms’ in the department. Prof Saroj Bala formally welcomed expert Kanchan Arora, a specialist from Pidilite Industries Ltd. She also told the students to showcase the items made by them during the workshop so that they can earn while learn. Arora guided the students in crafts made by using clay, fabric glue, moulds, acrylic colours and canvas board. At the end of workshop, the students learned various art forms, including abstract figures, alphabets, tiny pebble art, how to make jute bags, tote bags, T-shirt designing, batik hangings and tumi dagger art.Industry academia interface at GGITraining and placement cell of Global Group of Institutes organised a two-day Industry Academic Interface on its campus for students of BTech. Ranjan Vashishta, managing director, Quantum Jump Consulting Group, and ex-deputy general manager Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, shared his experience in production, engineering and training of employees. He informed students about various challenges faced in industry and and corporate world. Vashishta also made the students aware of the ongoing trends in the industry.Flower fest concludes at GNDUBhai Vir Singh Flower and Plants Festival concluded on Friday at Guru Nanak Dev University. Prof Hardip Singh, Dean, Acadmic Affairs, presided over the event and gave away prizes to the winners. He said these festivals are essentials to create awareness for the protection of environment. Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, ranked first, while Khalsa College of Education, Amritsar, stood second and KMV College, Jalandhar, ranked third. Prof JS Bilga and Gurwinder Singh said the festival is dedicated to Bhai Vir Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sports-meet-organised-351702
18-12-2021||Amritsar||'No atrocities will be tolerated against SCs'||Deepak Kumar, senior vice-chairman, Commission for Scheduled Castes, who visited Wadaa Fattowal village in Ajnala on Friday, said no atrocities will be tolerated against the Scheduled Castes.Deepak along with the commission member, Raj Kumar Hans, went to the village to hear a complainant.Deepak said a complaint was lodged by Pal Singh of Fattowal village regarding use of derogatory remarks against his caste and an abortive attempt was made to kill him. He directed Ajnala DSP Jasbir Singh to take legal action against the miscreants and submit the report to the commission by December 20. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-atrocities-will-be-tolerated-against-scs-351700
18-12-2021||Amritsar||Sports kits distributed at Khalsa College, Amritsar||Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, Punjab Youth Development Board chief, distributed 20 sports kits to the players at Khalsa College here on Friday.He exhorted sportspersons to channel their energy in sports to stay physically and mentally healthy. He said Khalsa College had been encouraging students towards sports from the very beginning and many students of the college made a mark at national and international-level sports and athletics competitions. Bindra said the main aim of Punjab Youth Development Board was to encourage youth towards sports so that they could get rid of drugs and contribute towards sports. He said the government was making special efforts to provide employment to the youth besides sports.Under this series, district bureaus of employment and business have been set up in every district, where students could access and apply for the job of their choice. He said in these bureaus, the big companies themselves select the youth for the job and the youth do not have to wander around. Responding to questions from students, he said he would talk to the government to give due respect to any player who gets injured during the games.He said state government was giving jobs as well as cash prizes to medal-winning athletes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sports-kits-distributed-351699
18-12-2021||---||80 Amritsar government schools get tablets||Amritsar, December 17In an attempt to strengthen e-learning and infrastructure across the government schools, the Education Department received 80 tablets from the state government on Friday. These tablets will be used to create digital libraries in senior secondary schools and enable online access to books and other literature.District Education Officer (Secondary) Jugraj Singh said the initial distribution of tablets would cover only senior secondary schools. “The project will initially cover all secondary schools, with an average of five tablets per school. These tablets will have learning and sharing applications for accessing e-content by students, once the implementation is complete.”Also, the Education Department would also set up computer labs in primary schools. This would be the first time that computer education would be introduced at primary level in government schools. The move is to make students digitally literate at an early age, said the DEO.According to the letter issued by the department to schools, computer labs would also be used to train teachers in digital applications and methods of learning; facilitate e-learning for teachers; develop teacher competence and computer-aided learning network.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/80-amritsar-government-schools-get-tablets-351697
18-12-2021||---||Three held for stealing bikes in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 17The Division B police have nabbed three persons for allegedly stealing a bike from near the railway station area. They were identified as Mangal Singh, Gursewak Singh and Jagmohan Singh of Nikka Ibban village here.They were intercepted by a police party near 100-feet road at the T-point side.The police have registered a case under Sections 379 and 411 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against them.According to the police, they were coming from Sultanwind side.When the police team stopped them, they could not produce any documents of the bike and later admitted that they had stolen it from near the railway station.In a similar case, the Chheharta police have also arrested one Sandeep Singh of Naraingarh Chheharta with a stolen bike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-for-stealing-bikes-in-amritsar-351695
18-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Para-medical staff protest stopping of allowances||Tarn Taran, December 17It was a day of protests by different employees of government departments in the town here on Friday.The suspending of a number of allowances to state government employees was opposed by en masse, affecting the functioning in government offices.A section of the employees was already sitting on an agitation demanding the regularisation of their services. Nurses are already on the agitation path demanding removal of anomalies in pay scales and other demands.Most of the para-medical staff of the Health Department abstained from their duties and organised a rally in the local Civil Hospital. Employees across the district participated in the protest against stopping of their allowances. While addressing on the occasion, Virsa Singh Pannu, Lakhwinder Kaur Johal, Kulwant Kaur, Rajwant Singh Bagrian and other leaders said their night duty, uniform, rural area, handicap allowance and others allowances had been suspended as per the pay commission report.The protesting employees took out a march in the town and burnt an effigy of the state government at Chaunk Bohri in the heart of the town. The leaders warned the government that in case the suspended allowances were not reinstated, they would go on an indefinite strike and the functioning of the department would be greatly hit. National Health Mission (NHM) employees, who are on an indefinite strike, too marched through the town. Jasbir Singh Ghariala, district president of the NHM Employees’ Association, said their employees pasted posters, reading ‘jhooth’, ‘jhooth’, ‘jhooth’ (untruth), on the hoardings installed in the town claiming to regularise the services of 36,000 employees.Nurses of the Health Department too had been on an indefinite strike for the last 13 days, demanding the removal of anomalies in their pay scales. The district unit of the PCMS Association extended support to various paramedical associations. Dr Jaspreet Singh, district chief, PCMS Association, said instead of rewarding the selfless services rendered by the staff, the government had paid no heed to their just demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-para-medical-staff-protest-stopping-of-allowances-351692
18-12-2021||---||Special Task Force seizes huge quantity of tramadol, arrests Ajnala resident||Amritsar, December 17Acting on a tip-off, a Special Task Force team arrested Suresh Kumar of Ajnala for allegedly possessing a huge quantity of banned tramadol tablets here this evening.Confirming the development, Arun Sharma, DSP, STF, said an FIR was being filed in the case. The accused would be produced in a local court tomorrow.According to information, the STF confiscated as many as 52,000 tablets of tramadol from Suresh’s possession. He was travelling in a car when the police raided and arrested him. The accused was earlier also booked by Amritsar rural police for the similar offence.The STF said they were getting the details of the previous case and its current status from the Ajnala police station.A fresh case under Section 22 of the NDPS Act was being registered at the same police station, Sharma told.He said the STF got a specific input that after coming out of jail, he was again indulging in the peddling of drugs. Following this, a trap was laid and when he came out of his house in a car, he was arrested and during search, the police seized 52,000 tablets of tramadol.As per a preliminary probe, he used to procure the same from Ludhiana and Jalandhar and sell the same in different parts here. However, investigation was on to ascertain the source of tramadol.Meanwhile, CIA staff arrested two persons — Hardeep Singh of Sohal village in Tarn Taran and Sukhpal Singh of Chitti village in Gurdaspur — for allegedly possessing sedative pills and heroin.Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in-charge, CIA staff, said Hardeep was held from near Teli Mohalla. The police recovered 2,400 intoxicating capsules and 2,520 intoxicating tablets from his possession. Similarly, Sukhpal Singh was arrested for possessing 10 gm of heroin. The police also impounded his car (PB-06-V-5258).In another seizure, Sultanwind police arrested Sukhdev Singh of Patti Bhainiwal in Sultanwind village with 110 intoxicating tablets. Separate cases under the NDPS act were registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/special-task-force-seizes-huge-quantity-of-tramadol-351689
18-12-2021||---||Amritsar district reports two Covid +ve cases||Amritsar, December 17With two Covid positive cases reported on Friday, the district tally increased to 47,445.The health authorities found one recovery case after which the recovery count reached 45,841.At present, the district has a total of five active cases. No casualty attributed to the coronavirus was reported in the district in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-two-covid-ve-cases-351687
18-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar: Flight operations resume but CAT-III yet to become functional||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 17With improvement in visibility, flight operations resumed at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here on Friday. However, the runway visibility range (RVR) equipment was yet to start functioning properly.The airport authorities claimed that no flight has been cancelled or diverted as category of instrument landing (CAT)-II system got functional. “The Met Department arranged requisite equipment on Friday and the operation resumed with visibility of 350 metre. Yesterday, the CAT-I got operational after 3 pm and we were able to operate flights with 800-meter visibility. On Friday evening, CAT-III also got functional, but it is under observation. By tomorrow, it will start functioning on 50-meter visibility,” said VK Seth, director, Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport Amritsar.Due to technical snag in RVR equipment, 24 international and domestic flights from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport were cancelled and nine flights were diverted on Thursday as CAT-III was not functioning during heavy fog in the region. A large number of passengers faced inconvenience at the airport. The activists concerned with the airport criticised the authorities for not making prior preparations for foggy weather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-flight-operations-resume-but-cat-iii-yet-to-become-functional-351683
18-12-2021||---||Ministerial staff burn Punjab government's effigy||Amritsar, December 17Members of the ministerial staff held a dharna in front of Deputy Commissioner’s office in support of their demands and burnt an effigy of the state government here on Friday.The protesters demanded that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi should immediately implement the pending demands of the ministerial cadre and give time to state leaders to meet him and amend the report of the Sixth Pay Commission and merge 125 per cent DA in the basic salary received on December 31, 2015, and give 20 per cent benefit on it.On the lines of the Central Government employees, DA instalment should be hiked from 28 per cent to 31 per cent from July 1 this year and pending DA instalment should be released soon. They demanded that the employees recruited after April 1, 2004, should be covered under the old pension scheme, computer course should be replaced by type test for employees recruited on compassionate grounds, Sixth Pay Commission benefit given with 2.72 per cent hike.The pending DA of 119 per cent from July 1, 2015, to December 31, 2015, and 125 per cent DA from January 1, 2016, to October 31, 2016, should be issued as soon as possible. They sought restoration of all those allowances which were available as per the Fifth Pay Commission.Manjinder Singh Sandhu, district president of the union, and Jagdish Thakur, district general secretary, Mandeep Singh Chouhan, district finance secretary, Tajinder Singh Dhillon, district chief spokesperson for the local unit, Asunil Sharma, district chief adviser, Gurwel Singh Sekhon, Additional General Secretary, Aman Thriewal, Amandeep Singh Sekhon and Munish Kumar Sood, senior vice-president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ministerial-staff-burn-punjab-governments-effigy-351675
18-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Resident doctors at GMC strike medical services||Amritsar, December 17Postgraduate students-cum-junior resident doctors of Government Medical College (GMC) observed strike on Friday seeking early counselling of NEET PG 2021.They are irked over repeated delays in holding the counselling session.Consequently, they boycotted routine services such as out-patient department (OPD), IPD, elective OT, MLR, PMR. Even as the national body of the junior resident doctors had given a call for boycott of emergency and Covid services, they remained non-effected on Friday.Sawinder Kaur, a resident of Nangali village, said private clinics, hospitals and laboratories were already out of common man’s reach yet the government does not give due importance to its healthcare units to provide quality health services to residents.Another patient Harpreet Singh said: “The government must settle the matter at the earliest to avoid hassles to its JRD and the general public.”Dr Amrit S Parmar, president of the association, said the strike was in response to the nationwide protest call given against repeated delays in NEET PG 2021 counselling. He said its objective was to protest indifferent attitude of the Union government towards the plight of resident doctors. He said initially the NEET-PG examination, which was normally conducted during the months of January-February, was extremely delayed. He alleged that the court case regarding economically weaker sections (EWS) quota was one more factor holding back the counselling. The PG students who discharge duty of JRs, form the backbone in delivering medical services at the medical college and hospital. Generally, the new batch joins the medical colleges by May-June. Six months’ delay was not allowing PG final-year students to focus on the academics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-resident-doctors-at-gmc-strike-medical-services-351670
18-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||UAVs make 3 sorties in Tarn Taran, Amritsar border areas||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 17Owing to dense fog that engulfed the border region for the second consecutive day on Friday, the intelligence and security agencies fear that the frequency of drone movements from across the international border may increase.An unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) made around three sorties in Amritsar and Tarn Taran border area late on Thursday evening. As per details, the drone made around three sorties inside the Indian territory which was duly countered by the Border Security Force jawans. However, it returned to Pakistan.Alarmed over this, BSF jawans and heavy police force from Amritsar Rural Police and Tarn Taran area searched the entire border belt, where drone movements were noticed. Though nothing was recovered by the search teams.“Drone sorties were noticed from 11pm to 3am by the BSF, who fired at directions from where the humming sound of drones were coming, but it returned,” informed Rakesh Kaushal, SSP, Amritsar Rural.These (drone sorties) were noticed in the areas between Sarai Amanat Khan in Tarn Taran and Rajatal border village falling under the jurisdiction of Amritsar rural police. The search teams of BSF, Tarn Taran and Amritsar rural police combed around 3km area along the border to find if the drones dropped something, including contraband, firearms or explosives such as hand grenades that has been recovered during the previous search operations following drone sorties.Kaushal said the area comprises dense wild growth. The BSF and police teams of two districts searched every inch of the border belt though nothing was recovered. The search operation continued till late Friday evening, he said.When asked about the challenge posed during the fog season, as it may push the frequency of drone sorties, he said the BSF and Punjab Police were working in tandem.“Joint patrolling parties of the BSF and police have been deputed at the border, while independent teams were also there for patrolling and search,” he said, adding that close eyes were being kept at notorious elements and history-sheeters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uavs-make-3-sorties-in-tarn-taran-amritsar-border-areas-351668
