19-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Abduction Case after two weeks||Accused sent to police CustodyAmritsar: Suresh Kumar, a resident of Ajnala, was sent to police remand by the local court. He was arrested by the STF for allegedly possessing banned tramadol tablets on Friday evening. The STF had confiscated as many as 52,000 tablets of tramadol tablets from him. He was travelling in a car, when the police arrested him. Officials said investigations were under progress to ascertain the source of the contraband. A case under Section 22 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was being registered at Ajnala police station. TNSCovid: Two test +ve in districtAmritsar: With two positive cases reported on Saturday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,447. The district has a total of seven active cases. Meanwhile, 5,601 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive today. Of these, 1,957 beneficiaries received their first dose, while 3,644 their received second dose. TNSBSF arrests Pak nationalAmritsar: The Border Security Force jawans nabbed a Pakistan national while he was entering into the Indian territory near Pul Moran border outpost. He was identified as Shaukat Ali of Gulbarg in Lahore. He was handed over to the Gharinda police for further interrogation. Though he said he had crossed into India erroneously, the BSF said he did not possess any documents. The police have registered a case under Sections 3, 34 and 20 of the Indian Passport Act against him and further investigations were under progress. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/abduction-case-after-two-weeks-352076
19-12-2021||Amritsar||Human chain on voter awareness||Students try to make a RecordStudents of Shri Ram Ashram School, along with students of other schools, tried to create a world record for largest ever online and offline event on rainwater on Saturday. The attempt was made by the joint efforts of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India and the Government of Goa, which was recorded in the Guinness book. In the record, 3,500 students attended the venue physically and over 6,000 students from all over the country appeared in the virtual form conducted simultaneously on Zoom and offline. Principal Vinodita Sankhyan congratulated the students for their efforts.Schools remember Guru Gobind SinghChief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Nirmal Singh said CKD schools will dedicated religious and cultural programsme to unique sacrifice of Dasam Patshah Guru Gobind Singh. Guidelines have been given for conducting poems, lectures and other related competitions so that the students are apprised about their sacrifices and their contribution to the history. “Martyrdom of the Sahibzada will inspire generation to come,” he said. Chief Nirmal Singh said special efforts are being made by the CKD to intensify the Sikh dharm prachar and unite the children with their religion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/human-chain-on-voter-awareness-352075
19-12-2021||Amritsar||Dhand elected ABA chief for fifth time||Senior Advocate Vipin Kumar Dhand has been elected as a president of the Amritsar Bar Association, results of which was declared on late night Friday. Dhand defeated Kanwar Mubarak Singh and Prashant Kumar.As per results, Advocate Vicky Mehra has been elected as secretary of the ABA. He defeated Shashiveer Sharma, Raman Chaudhary and Manoj Mahendru.The margin between Mehra and Sharma was of only 13 votes. Sunpreet Singh Mann has been elected as a vice- president of the ABA. Dhand created a record of sorts by winning the post of the president of the ABA for the fifth time.The ABA is the second oldest bar in the country, elections for which were contested hotly. Over 2,000 members of the ABA participated in the election process. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dhand-elected-aba-chief-for-fifth-time-352074
19-12-2021||---||Entrepreneurs' cafe: A hub for youth to exchange ideas||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18The Amritsar Founders, which represents local start-ups organised an ‘Entrepreneurs’ Cafe’ for young entrepreneurs to celebrate the landmark success of their ventures. The event provided an opportunity to participants to connect with the best and brightest minds to explore how to fuel their business growth. Sukhjit Singh Pasrciha, chief, Group CHRD; Simarpreet Singh, director, Hartek Group, and Rishab Arora, founder, Aptitude Baba, were key note speakers.The trio spoke on the topic as what do employees except from entrepreneurs and professional managers, importance of execution and marketing an ED-tech start- up.Amritsar Founders chief Mandeep Kaur Tangra said they aim to bring a categorical change in business work ethics while promoting international work culture.Gaganpreet Singh, group director, Amritsar Founders, said youngsters were getting more and more inclined towards moving out to study or work abroad. “Amritsar Founders is determined to build a platform to make provide opportunities to youngsters in the city,” he said.Rajwinder Pal, secretary, Amritsar Founders, said the event provided chance to hundreds of entrepreneurs to exchange ideas. Anurag Byla, Raghav Khanna, Rajat Sigh, Namit Kapoor, Abhinav Thukral, Rouble Tuli, Kanav Kapoor, Guneet Singh, Karan Sidhu and Dhruv Sekri, among others (entrepreneurs), were present on this occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/entrepreneurs-cafe-a-hub-for-youth-to-exchange-ideas-352073
19-12-2021||---||Animal lovers to launch 'no vote' campaign||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18Perturbed over the indifferent attitude of the Punjab Government towards stray animals, especially cows, and pitiable condition of the Municipal Corporation’s cow shelter at Chheharta, the Anti-Crime and Animal Protection organisation has decided to launch a “No Vote” campaign in view of the upcoming Assembly elections.Dr Rohan Mehra, chief of the association, said his organisation along with animal lovers would hold a protest march from Khalsa College for Women to Putlighar Chowk, where they would protest and raise awareness among the public about the issue.He said though the Punjab Government had been collecting funds in the name of cow cess from different departments, the condition of stray cows remains the same. He said the government opened ‘modern cow shelter’ in Chheharta, but pitiable conditions were prevailing over there leading to the death of bovines on a daily basis. He pointed out that if MC could not properly upkeep it, the authorities should hand it over in private hands.He said: “We have decided to raise awareness among people as no political leader has raised his voice over the issue. Every political leadership has failed to ensure that funds are used properly and cow shelters run smoothly.”He said his organisation would appeal to the people to raise the question before political leaders approaching them for votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/animal-lovers-to-launch-no-vote-campaign-352072
19-12-2021||---||Illegal temple to have permanent structure||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18An illegal makeshift temple, constructed on a park land in Landa Bazaar locality decades ago, is now going to have a proper building. Residents of Guru Nanak Nagar locality, which is the official name of Landa Bazaar, say that traders were using the temple to cover up their encroachments on the prime land. Even the park is not properly visible from the road.NS Gabarhia, a resident of the locality, displaying a reply sought under the RTI Act, said the then Municipal Town Planner (MTP) in a communiqué to then Deputy Commissioner on October 7, 2010, had advocated razing the illegal structure after the department was provided adequate security. He feared occurrence of an untoward incident and a law and order problem during the anti-encroachment drive.Even after a lapse of 11 years, the district administration could not spare force and a duty magistrate.He said after migrating from Pakistan, his family had procured the land in Abadi Bawa Ishar Das.Later, the Amritsar Improvement Trust took over the Abadi in 1964 and named it Guru Nanak Nagar. They allotted plots and carved out three parks and roads. At that time there was no temple there and later a makeshift temple was raised there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-temple-to-have-permanent-structure-352071
19-12-2021||---||Ahead of Channi's visit, Congress workers lack zeal||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 18Enthusiasm was found missing before the proposed visit of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to the border town of Patti on Sunday. It shows that he may not be given a rousing welcome on his arrival here. There were no hoardings, banners, arch gates, etc, found on most roads leading to Patti town.There was not even a single welcome gate, banner, hoarding, etc, on the 60-km Amritsar Road-Harike stretch. So was case in nearby constituencies — Khemkaran and Khadoor Sahib — where there was no welcome hoardings on the roads.Even in Patti areas, enthusiasm among party workers was missing which was not so on previous occasions. Earlier, there used to be seen arch gates, welcome flags, etc, in large numbers along the roads in every village.Satnam Singh Manochahal, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, said farmers of Sakhira village had invited Satnam Singh Pannu, state president of the KMSC, and other leaders to be honoured in the village gurdwara. He said Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill too visited the village, but he was not invited by the farmers in the gurdwara.The farmers’ leader said KMSC leaders were invited by the farmers of Lauhuka village to honour them. He said both villages had a large population and were situated on the Tarn Taran-Patti road where not even a single hoarding, banner, etc, was seen.The farmer leader claimed that their activities were being watched closely by agencies due to the CM’s proposed Sunday visit to Patti.The KMSC was going to hold a two-day protest by way of ‘Rail Roko’ agitation against the state government demanding waiver of the whole debt as was promised by the party in the 2017 election manifesto. The ‘Rail Roko’ agitation would begin on December 20.The activities of the leaders of the agitating employees, including the National Health Mission (NHM), nurses and employees whose certain allowances had been stopped were being watched closely by government agencies. Even in Patti town, only posters were pasted on the walls and no other method to welcome the CM was adopted.Harminder Singh Gill, MLA, Patti, and Dr Dharambir Agnihotri, MLA, Tarn Taran, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Top leadership of the Congress was seen busy in Tarn Taran where the party’s district president Kiranjit Singh Mitha and acting president Rajbir Singh Bhullar assumed their charges here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ahead-of-channis-visit-cong-workers-lack-zeal-352070
19-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Locals grapple with traffic chaos, cops look other way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18Even as the city has been grappling with traffic chaos, cops deputed for streamlining the same, look the other way.Instead of regulating traffic, the police personnel can be seen standing on the roadsides as mute spectators, while commuters can be seen struggling to find their way from the mess. Sometimes, it leads to unruly scenes and arguments among commuters.Manoj Kumar, a resident, said, “This is a common sight whether you visit Putlighar Chowk, Lohgarh Chowk, Hall Gate, Albert Road Chowk or other intersections. Cops get active only when some VIPs are on the move.”Another resident, Manmohan Singh, said, instead of regulating traffic, cops prefer to issue challans to ‘violators’. “Commuters hardly follow signals, thus leading to traffic jams,” he said and added that signals often remain dysfunctional at various intersections.If the police and the district administration strictly enforce the law, traffic chaos can be sorted out to great extent, he said.Due to extension work of Bhandari Bridge (known as lifeline of the holy city), one side has been closed for traffic movement. This has led to chaos on other stretches, especially near Hall Gate.Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal said plans were being chalked out to make the city free of traffic bottlenecks. Construction and development projects under way at various parts of the city also lead to traffic chaos.He said traffic education programmes were being conducted to create awareness among the masses.“Residents should behave like responsible citizens and abide by the traffic rules while commuting,” said Bhandal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/locals-grapple-with-traffic-chaos-cops-look-other-way-352069
19-12-2021||---||No decision in Cabinet meetings, teachers to continue protests||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18College and university teachers on Saturday announced to continue with their stir as the government failed to arrive at a decision regarding their demands in its Cabinet Meetings. Teachers working in universities, government and private colleges in state have been following the mandate given by the PFUCTO and PCCTU to suspend all type of teaching and academic work in their respective institutions and the call for education bandh has now in its third week. Today, the district units of the PFUCTO and other teacher unions, raised questions on the intention of the government on the issue. “Despite assurances and two Cabinet meeting held in previous week, the government has failed to reach a decision on the issue of implementation of the 7th Pay Commission,” said Dr BB Yadav, area secretary, GNDU.“If the Cabinet meetings are turning to be fruitless, despite formation of a committee and long discussions held with the government representatives, this shows that the government is least concerned about the teachers and status of higher education in the state. Even after several assurances, no outcome has been achieved. For the past 14 days, we are staging protest against government policies, but of no use,” he added.District president, PFUCTO, Dr Gurdas Singh Sekhon, said the teachers are in no mood to back down. “The issue of delinking of UGC is of grave importance and can set a dangerous precedent for higher education in the state. This attitude of the state government is extremely irresponsible. The CM has been on an announcement-making marathon and only concerned about vote bank politics. We will consider lobbying for another round of meetings scheduled for Wednesday, after which we will move to Delhi if our demands are not considered,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-decision-in-cabinet-meetings-teachers-to-continue-protests-352068
19-12-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, 4 held||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 18A team of local CIA staff has busted a five-member gang of robbers responsible for a number of incidents.While four members of the gang had been arrested, one of them managed to escape from the spot.SSP Harwinder Singh Virk told mediapersons here on Saturday that the arrested robbers were identified as Gurpreet Singh of Dhandiala (Batala), Manpreet Singh of Ghasitpur Kalan (Batala) and Labhu and Gurjant Singh, both of Goindwal Sahib.The absconding robber had been identified as Sajan Singh of Dhaidiala. The SSP said two pistols with two cartridges and two “datars” (sharp-edged weapons) were recovered from the robbers. Virk said the robbers were planning to commit some crime in the area and the police on a tip-off raided the spot and four of them were arrested from the spot.The district police chief said Gurpreet Singh, Manpreet Singh and Labhu were history-sheeters, who were involved in a number of criminal cases registered against them over the years. The accused were produced in a court, which remanded them in two-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-4-held-352067
19-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Qatar Airways suspends Doha-Amritsar flights||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18Bad news for international fliers, as Qatar Airways suspended Doha-Amritsar flights till March 31, 2022. Local residents and activists claimed that it was a major setback to the international connectivity of Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar, as it was the only foreign international airline carrier providing convenient connectivity with Europe, North America and other destinations around the world.Passengers prefer flying directly from Amritsar to international destinations via Doha due to many factors. Now, they have no other choice left for them except to fly to Delhi.  — Sameep Singh Gumtala, convener, FlyAmritsar Initiative, local NGOWhile the operation of scheduled international flights to India remains suspended until January 31, 2022, the airline was operating 3-weekly flights under air bubble agreements, now signed by India with over 33 countries.The frequency was reduced to only two weekly flights for November and December. Now, all of a sudden, thousands of passengers got cancellation notices for all flights after December 18. Many of them who booked directly with the airline after contacting them are given the option to fly from Delhi or get a refund for their tickets. They are being told that due to air-bubble limitations, the airline is suspending its flights from Amritsar.Sameep Singh Gumtala, convener of FlyAmritsar Initiative, a local NGO, said the never-ending air bubble agreements was hurting the international connectivity and causing great inconvenience to travellers from the region, as they also limit foreign airlines to transit passengers via its hubs. Qatar Airways has been serving Amritsar for more than 12 years now with the airline providing shorter connection timings in Doha to connect with the world as compared to flights via Delhi.“Passengers prefer flying directly from Amritsar to international destinations via Doha due to many factors including convenience of getting immigration, luggage drop-off/pick-up, customs all being done at Amritsar. Now, they have no other choice left for them except to fly to Delhi. Also, these are geographical direct routes to the west and the airline also provides them with shorter connection timings at Doha as compared to flights via Delhi,” Gumtala said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/qatar-airways-suspends-doha-amritsar-flights-352066
19-12-2021||---||Aided colleges hail decision to withdraw SC/ST exam fee order||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18The Non-Government Aided Private Colleges’ Management Federation on Saturday welcomed the state government’s decision to withdraw orders related to the SC/ST exam fee. The federation had strongly taken up the matter with the Department of Higher Education, objecting to the letter issued by Guru Nanak Dev University, asking the affiliated colleges to deposit examination fee of students belonging to the SC/Free Ship Card Holders.We welcome the decision to withdraw the orders issued by the VC of GNDU. We are happy that the matter is resolved. We hope that other issues confronting the DPI and the Education Department also are settled amicably. —  Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, Chief of Non-Government Aided Private Colleges' Management FederationThe orders of the university followed the letter issued by DPI Colleges regarding fee to be charged from students. The guidelines were, however, contradictory to the directions of the Government of India on the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for SC/Free Ship Card Holders for the period 2020-21 to 2025-26. The Centre had clearly stated that no advance fee can be charged from students belonging to the families of SC/Free Ship Card Holders.“We welcome the decision to withdraw the orders issued by the VC of GNDU,” said Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, chief of the federation. He appealed to the state government to take decisions to safeguard the interests of colleges and provide an olive branch to the higher education sector.The federation had issued directions to managing committees of aided colleges to direct their principals not to deposit examination fee till the issue gets resolved.“We are happy that the matter is resolved. We hope that other issues confronting the DPI and the Education Department also are settled amicably,” said Chinna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aided-colleges-hail-decision-to-withdraw-sc-st-exam-fee-order-352065
19-12-2021||---||MC nod to development works in F&CC meeting||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18To expedite the development works of Amritsar city, a meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee of the Municipal Corporation (MC) was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Karamjit Singh, where nod was given to several development projects.Development works costing crores of rupees were presented for consideration, which were approved unanimously. These are works of the civil wing and operation & maintenance (O&M) cell, recarpeting of roads, laying of interlocking tiles in streets, CC flooring works, construction of roadside chambers, installation of tubewells to provide drinking water supply, laying of water supply lines and prevention of leakage of supply lines among other things. —  Karamjit Singh Rintu, MayorMC Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, Deputy Mayor Younas Kumar, councillor Vikas Soni, councillor Gurjit Kaur and other MC officials were also present in the meeting.Development works costing crores of rupees were presented for consideration, which were approved unanimously, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said. He said: “The works of construction of manhole chambers as well as their repair work, replacement of sewerage lines, include cleaning of sewerage line with super-sucker machines, installation of new mini-high mast lights in different parts of the city, installation of new street lights, purchase of cattle catching vehicle were approved in the meeting.” The Mayor said development works worth crores of rupees have been approved so far for the development of the holy city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-nod-to-development-works-in-fcc-meeting-352064
19-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||'Supari killers' hired to kill man||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 18If the police sources are to be believed, iron trader Vishesh Gupta’s murder was a handiwork of supari killers. He was shot at by two unidentified bike-borne persons in East Mohan Nagar area seven days ago and succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Noida two days ago.Actual target was Shivam, deceased’s cousinThe investigations carried out so far reveal that the perpetrators’ actual target was Shivam Gupta, the cousin of the deceased. Shivam was engaged to a girl in Pathankot area, who allegedly had an affair with accused Karandeep Singh. Karandeep had approached Shivam's family and asked them to reject the marriage proposal, while issuing threats.Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni had to face the ire of the family members, who accused the city police of inaction in the case. Soni gave two days to the police asking them to nab the culprits or face action. He had gone to pay homage and express condolences to the family during the ‘chautha’ of the deceased.The police had booked Karandeep Singh of Khat Khokhar area in Gurdaspur and his unidentified accomplices for murder bid and under the Arms Act following the incident. Now, section of murder has also been added in the FIR, the police said.The investigations carried out so far revealed that the perpetrators’ actual target was Shivam Gupta, the cousin of the deceased. Shivam was engaged to a girl in Pathankot area, who allegedly had an affair with accused Karandeep Singh. Karandeep had approached Shivam’s family and asked them to reject the marriage proposal, while issuing threats.Shivam’s family had informed the girl’s family, who lodged a complaint with the Pathankot police against Karandeep. He later apologised before the police and assured that he won’t indulge in such acts again.A relative of the family told that Vishesh and Shivam used to work together and both resembled each other. On December 11, Shivam left the shop an hour earlier. The shooters reportedly mistook Vishesh as Shivam and shot him. He said the police informed that Karan allegedly hired some contract killers, who entered Punjab on December 10. Vishesh had just went inside his car, when the accused shot at him in East Mohan Nagar area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/supari-killers-hired-to-kill-man-352063
