20-12-2021||Tarn Taran||One held with 1-gm heroin||Expo centre in city soon: SoniAmritsar: Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni said roads inside industrial focal points would be recarpeted to ensure timely and hassle-free transportation of raw material and industrial goods. In a press release issued on Sunday, Soni said Rs147 crore would be spent on repairing roads in industrial areas. He said a digital single-window platform would be launched soon, so that all works required by the industry sector are completed without wasting any time. He said the digital platform would also increase transparency. He said the state government had withdrawn around 40,000 VAT cases against traders and removed the condition of CLU for industrial units. Soni claimed that a state-of-the-art convention centre would be constructed in Amritsar on 10 acres, which would enable the industrialists and traders to exhibit their products under one roof. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-1-gm-heroin-352363
20-12-2021||Amritsar||'Apply light irrigation to counter frost'||With frosty and cold days ahead, the agriculture experts have advised farmers to take good care of their crops, especially mustard, fodder and vegetable nurseries. As the minimum temperature has already reached 3°C, the area may expect frost during the next few days.The agriculture experts said to lessen the damage caused by frost, farmers should apply light irrigation during early morning hours. Light irrigation helps in dissolving frost. As the area under mustard crop has increased substantially this year, most of the farmers have no prior experience of the crop.“Frost and pests are two major enemies of the mustard crop. The farmers should consult field officers in their areas to get information about the crop care,” said an agriculture officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/apply-light-irrigation-to-counter-frost-352362
20-12-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Hoarding war among political parties deface cityscape||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 19Ahead of Assembly elections, a large number of posters, hoardings, buntings, flex and display boards have sprung up in various nooks and corners of the holy city. They have left a bad impression on the cityscape while compromising its city’s aesthetic beauty.Undoubtedly, it brought out prevailing political scenario in the state where political parties and its leaders are engaged in a bitter fight to outdo one other. The recent political developments led to complete defacement of the city. Supporters and political outfits throughout the city are not leaving no stone unturned.Amidst all these publicity advertisement materials, display boards highlighting promises and achievements of CM Charanjit Singh Channi stood out. They are of mammoth size and made of fine material. Onlookers are tempted to have a look at them. Most of these boards inform of those steps undertaken by Channi after becoming CM. Like a board proclaims that government jobs were given to the families of farmers who died during the stir of farmers against farm laws, balance power tariff of consumers with 2kW power connections was waived, pro-farmer state government, ‘Har Warg Di Madadgar, Twadi Apni Punjab Sarkar’ (Helpful for all sections, your own state government).Lakshmi Kanta Chawla, a senior BJP leader, said the CM seemed to be focusing on his publicity campaign by giving advertisements in his name, putting up hoardings with his photo in the cities and getting his photo installed on the state run buses. She asked the government to make public as to how much money was spent on getting the CM's photo on hoardings besides what cost the state exchequer incurred on CM's chopper flights.“By the way, the CM is doing injustice to the state employees. A month ago it was announced that 36,000 employees would be confirmed and now they have been waiting for the government’s notification which will eligible them to regularise”, she said. She claimed that CM Channi and his government are waiting for the election code of conduct to come into force to give an excuse not to confirm these employees. She recalled that erstwhile SAD government had announced to regularise 50,000 employees but the promise evaporated with the implementation of the code of conduct.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoarding-war-among-political-parties-deface-cityscape-352361
20-12-2021||Chalk out strategy to curb spread||Open House: What steps should be taken to prevent the spread of omicron?||The third wave in the form of Omicron seems to have arrived in the country. Although majority of our population is vaccinated still we need to be careful. There are apprehensions about the Omicron strain because countries have suffered a lot due to second wave. Strategies to curb down the spread and to screen must started at grassroots to tertiary care hospitals. There must be screenings tests, furthermore there must be vaccine passports for entry into any indoor space where others gather such as places of worship and public transport. Though vaccines don’t guarantee the safety but it reduces transmission modestly. There must be arrangements in advance for extra supplies of medicines, extra health care workers i.e. doctors, nurses and paramedic staffs. The respective governments must remember ‘A stitch in time saves nine’.Sparsh AthwalBan all sorts of rallies, roadshowIn case of threat of any pandemic, local administration or general public can’t do anything at their own level; they are simply to follow the instructions issued by central or state governments. Therefore, it is for central and state governments to take effective steps in view of the impending threat of Omicron in the early 2022. First of all, the Election Commission of India should issue strict instructions to ban all sorts of rallies and road shows during the election campaign in the forthcoming state assembly elections in five states in the early 2022. Election campaigning should be strictly confined through door-to-door canvassing, hoarding, banners, nukkad meetings and electronic media. Secondly, all genuine demands of government or private sector employees should be attended to on priority basis so that they don’t assemble and agitate thereby create a situation for spread of pandemic. It should not be like recently concluded farmer’s agitation where central government took more than one year to accept their demand thereby compelled them to gather at Delhi border for such a long time. Thirdly, it should be made mandatory to attach copy of corona vaccination certificate with IT return, GST return etc.Naresh JoharPrevention is better than cureWhen we say prevention is better than cure than the immediate solution for this deadly virus comes to mind is vaccination. The central and state governments have taken all effective steps to vaccinate the general public but public response in this regard is very poor. If we take example of Amritsar, total population of 18+ is 15,20,000. Out of this only 6,72,821 individuals got double dose vaccination till December 12 which comes out to be 44.26 per cent of total adult population. This gives a very poor reflection of our participation to effectively control the spread of this deadly disease. So the only solution to this problem is to completely vaccinate the whole population and then take a further step for a booster dose because this virus is going to stay for a longer time.Nityanshi ChopraGet fully vaccinated at the earliestWith the passage of time we have become complacent about the danger of Covid. The threat of Omicron is looming large on our heads, so we must take prompt and effective steps to at least fully vaccinate ourselves. On December 12, only 2,260 turned up for vaccination in Amritsar whereas over 8 lakh people of 18+ group are yet to take the second doze. Such a poor response for vaccination reminds us of horrifying days of Covid second wave. To avoid such repetition people of the city should come forward and get vaccinated at the earliest.Harsh JoharRamp up heath infrastructureAccording to WHO, Omicron reduces vaccine efficacy and spreads faster than the Delta variant. Do we have a reason, other than a wishful optimism, to take casually the views of the experts regarding the possibility of the third Covid wave hitting our country by early 2022? Learning from the horrible lessons of the first and second waves we must not lower our guard. Discarding masks and ignoring social distancing could be disastrous. People should voluntarily adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour. If not, the administration should enforce it. Vaccination must pick up pace despite the reports of even fully-vaccinated persons contacting Omicron. If a booster dose is decided by the concerned authorities there should be no delay in giving to all who are eligible. Despite the world’s strictest and most sudden lockdown, India could not be saved from the disastrous spread of the first Covid wave because international flights were not stopped in time. Even now we are found wanting. Even flights from African countries have not been stopped. Perhaps we don’t believe that a stitch in time saves nine. A few deterrent steps could spare us from bringing the entire country and its economy to a grinding halt. How can our memory be that short? Certainly, none would want to go back to the days of helpless migrants on the roads, choked hospitals, crowded cremation grounds and crying demand for ventilators and oxygen. The public healthcare system is still in bad shape. Even a recurring scourge of dengue is not properly taken care of. The governments, rather than criticising private hospitals for exploiting the patients, must ensure an adequate number of well-equipped government hospitals/dispensaries to cater to the needs of the people.HL SharmaVaccination should be the top priorityIn view of the possibility of the third wave onslaught in the next year, the government and administration has to be well-prepared to face any surge in cases of Omicron. The INSACOG, an India Genomics Consortium conducting sequencing has rightly recommended a booster dose for those over 40, first targeting high-risk and high-exposure individuals against Omicron. The advice needs to be heeded by the government and there shouldn’t be any vaccine supply problem. Obviously, jabbing the unvaccinated and partially vaccinated is the highest priority. Given, India’s production capacity, completing double-dosing of adults and giving booster shots can happen simultaneously. The science of boosters is clear, every country that has mandated boosters has done so on the basis of scientific advice and in each of those countries the arrival of Omicron has heightened the urgency. The same urgency should be shown by our government too. Since we have the infrastructure to produce adequate supplies, there shouldn’t be any delay in giving booster shots against Omicron to boost immunity. But the most effective and well tested and tried precaution against any variant like Omicron is the usage of mask, especially in the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections, which will provide fertile conditions for crowding. While vaccination has been proven to reduce disease severity, there is no viable method other than masking to curb breakthrough infections. We need to model our Covid-appropriate behaviour on East Asian nations such as Japan and South Korea where over 90 per cent citizens adhere to masking norms. State government can seriously think of levying fines and filing cases under Section 188 of the IPC against unmasked persons. With boosters getting delayed, it makes more sense to adopt mask mandates. It has to be borne in mind that we are still in the midst of a pandemic, so public behaviour that put everyone at risk need a very strong response from the authorities.LJ SinghLeave no room for any complacencyEarlier too the experts predicted third Covid wave in September to be peaked in October but people heaved a sigh of relief that their predictions did not turn out to be true. Now, again they project third Covid wave to hit India by early 2022 amid surge in Omicron cases globally. One fails to understand why do they want to keep the general public under constant fear, stress, strain and anxiety as one or the other variant of the Covid is bound to surface from time to time? However, now that a new variant of Covid Omicron has emerged globally, it becomes imperative to take it seriously leaving no room for any complacency. Although the anticipated wave is said to be milder than the harsh and severe second one, a proper risk management plan is required to avoid the shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, medicines etc. The district administration should initiate various appropriate measures to halt the fast spreading Omicron in its tracks. Since the elections are round the corner, a blanket ban should be imposed on rallies and mass gatherings, be they government or private. It should focus on enhancing vaccination drive as vaccinations and boosters are said to be the best and essential defence against Omicron. The emergence of the variant should spur the people to get vaccinated or get the booster shots. They should fully co-operate with the administration by religiously following Covid protocols. It becomes all the more important to maintain social distancing, wearing masks, using sanitizers and following all the necessary guidelines issued by the district health authorities to protect themselves from getting infected. They should shrug off complacency that has of late crept into them to follow Covid appropriate behaviour for their own good and for the others too. Non-essential travel should be put off. With the Omicron cases crossing 60 in the country and the Covid ‘variant of concern’ rapidly spreading across countries, the district administration should prepare itself for the formidable challenge that the Omicron may pose. The threat of a possible third wave looms large and is projected to hit by February. Nothing should be left to chance and the people flouting Covid norms with impunity should be dealt with strictly.Tarsem S BumrahWear masks at all times, sanitise handsThe foremost thing which all must do to prevent spread of virus is to wear masks at all times and all places while going out from home. Secondly, the district administration must encourage and enforce social distancing at all places. Thirdly, awareness about bane effects of virus should be created. Last, but not the least the district administration should try to prevent massive gatherings in rallies by any one.Sanjay ChawlaBe optimistic but ready for hard times as weLlThough the media is not very vocal about the third Covid wave hitting our country early next year, common sense cautions us to be prepared for it. It is not a mistake to be too cautious. Hope for the best, yes, but be prepared for the worst. The government instructions in this regard as issued periodically over the radio and television must be monitored. To check passengers arriving from infected countries at the international airports, the formula should be ‘test, trace and isolate’. Fortunately for the population, a majority of us now have, unlike last year, the shield of protection against the virus in the form of full vaccination. The same is also expected to provide immunity against the new variant Omicron but it is only a guess. The exact position will be clear after a credible data emerges. Those who are not jabbed yet must be convinced to get vaccinated as soon as possible. The good part is that Omicron is not so deadly and its mode of spreading is also not different, i.e. it spreads through the mouth or nose and targets the respiratory system like Covid19 but its symptoms are mild fever, headache, runny nose etc. Hence, precautionary measure must be taken. The administration should order organisers of processions and ‘prabhat pheris’ to skip the same altogether or maintain Covid appropriate behaviour wherever such gatherings are planned. Moreover, it is time to take a call on the booster dose for the fully vaccinated.Mohan SinghKeep tab on bad elementsSince the early 2020, the whole world is battling against Covid and its repercussions in the form of death and fear of death all over. Economy suffered, international relations lost mutual respect. Medical fraternity though did a lot but fleecing on the part of hospitals and pharmaceutical companies is also known to everyone. A new generation of students came up who never went to school in person for at least one and a half year. When there is no chance of escaping the blues of pandemic, so why not face it boldly and with due caution. It becomes the duty of everyone to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour. Vaccination is must for those who have been avoiding it for reasons known only to them. There is no reason to panic. Only the experts should be consulted, not the quacks. Healthy diet, positive attitude and family support are the trident to counter the virus attack. The administration must have learnt a lot from its earlier experience. It needs to handle the situation in rather more humane way. There is also a need to keep a vigil on unscrupulous element all-around. Make sure that the needy should not be left high and dry. Wherever necessary the mild use of force can help to handle the situation successfully.Madhu SharmaTake healthy diet to boost immunityContemporary era is so unpredictable as every coming year bring new disease that engulfed major proportion of population. Last year due to the pandemic life came to a halt and now it is projected that Omicron will peak at beginning of the next year. However, there are many people who don’t care to wear masks, came outside during the lockdown and involved in get together with their relatives and friends. Residents should contemplate the significant reasons behind hike in cases and take all mandatory precautions to save themselves. Some people get infected even after taking all necessary precautions just because of low immunity. The prominent reason behind this is adultrated food items. In addition to this, physical activities have reduced alot due to modern comforts. The first and foremost step should towards good health is to consume a healthy diet.Sukhmeet KaurRaise awareness among massesThe Omicron variant of Covid-19 is slowly picking up its pace globally, leading to many restrictions worldwide. The district administration must now act strict than before and ensure that proper rules and regulations are followed. Awareness campaigns need to be increased so that maximum number of people are informed about the variant. Individuals must be made aware to not get complacent about the pandemic as it proved deadly during the second wave of Covid-19. They should obey the orders of the authorities so that maximum safety can be ensured. With the elections just around the corner, it must be ensured that large gatherings are avoided and people follow the necessary precautions.Jatinderpal Singh BatthQUESTIONWith minimum temperature dipping to 1°C to 2°C in many cities of Punjab, what steps should the administration and residents take to protect the homeless from the biting cold and related health risks?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 23)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-what-steps-should-be-taken-to-prevent-the-spread-of-omicron-352360
20-12-2021||---||2 carjacking cases in 2 days, cops clueless||Amritsar, December 19Unidentified robbers snatched two cars from the Manawala area in the last two days. Though the police authorities have registered cases in this connection, the police are still clueless about the perpetrators.Gurinderjit Singh, a resident of Manawala Kalan, told the police that he had gone to Manawala bus stop in his car (PB-53-B-3456) for some work. He said he stopped his car near Anjali Dhaba, when a Verna car stopped behind his car and two unidentified persons with faces covered came and pointed a pistol at him.He said they pulled him out of his car and fled with it towards the Tarn Taran side. He said their third accomplice, who remained seated in the Verna car, also followed them.He said he had his mobile phone and Rs5,000 cash in the car. The Chatiwind police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against three unidentified persons in this regard.Similarly, unidentified persons snatched a car from a Jalandhar resident, identified as Vijay Jassal, on Friday evening.He had come to pick up his friend from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here.He said he stopped the car near True Value showroom, when the accused pushed him and sped with his car.ASI Sandeep Singh, investigating officer, said CCTV cameras in the area were being scrutinised to find some clues. So far, there has been no breakthrough in these two cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-carjacking-cases-in-2-days-cops-clueless-352352
20-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Nurses' dharna on for 14th day in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, December 19Dr GB Singh, Director, Health and Family Welfare Department, had to face the protesting nursing staff in the local Civil Hospital here on Sunday.Dr GB Singh was on his way to Patti to participate in a rally organised by the Congress in which Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was to address a gathering.The Director stopped to supervise work on an oxygen plant in the Civil Hospital complex. On seeing the Director, the agitating nurses started raising slogans against the state government and the department for not fulfilling their demands.Despite being a holiday due to Sunday, the nurses working under the state Health Department staged a dharna in the hospital complex. Owing to their protest, the normal functioning of the department and emergency services were greatly affected, creating problems for patients and those accompanying them.They had been holding a state-level strike under the banner of Joint Action Nursing Committee, Punjab and UT. The strike had entered its 14th day.While addressing on the occasion, Kulwant Kaur, district president of the Joint Action Nursing Committee, Punjab and UT, said the union had been demanding the removal of the Sixth Pay Commission, besides fulfilling other demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nurses-dharna-on-for-14th-day-in-tarn-taran-352321
20-12-2021||---||Multipurpose health workers protest at Kathunangal toll plaza||Amritsar, December 19Even as a large number of contractual multipurpose women health workers have been staging a protest at Kathunangal toll plaza here for the last couple of days, the rural police have booked hundreds of workers of the association, including its president, for blocking the national highway.The agitating association members on the other hand alleged that a truck driver, too, tried running over them late on Saturday evening. They alleged that the incident occurred at the behest of the local cops, who were threatening them to lift the dharna.Multipurpose health workers have been agitating against the Punjab Government demanding regularisations of their jobs.Among those booked include state president Ninder Kaur, Kiranjit Kaur, Sarabjit Kaur, Paramjit Kaur, Chanchal Bala, Krishna Sharma and Satwinder Kaur besides around 300 unidentified health workers.Condemning registration of FIR against health workers, the association members alleged that instead of taking action against the truck driver, who tried running over the peacefully protesting health workers for their genuine demands, the police have registered a case against them, which is totally wrong on the part of the government.Karuna Sharma, joint secretary of the association, said several farmers who were at the spot came between the truck and the agitating association members in order to save them. She alleged that the SHO went away from the spot just before the incident. They sought registration of case against the truck driver as well.Meanwhile, the Kathunangal police have registered a case against the protesting contractual health workers under Sections 283 (obstruction of public way), 341 (wrongful restrain), 431 (injury to public road, bridge, river or channel), 188 (violating government order) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 8-B of National Highways Act and Section 4/5 of the Noise Pollution Act.The case was registered on the complaint of Taranjit Singh Chugh, owner of Chugh Transport. In his complaint, he said his trucks move from Amritsar to Pathankot and vice-versa.He alleged that as the health workers had blocked the national highway at the toll plaza, this led to harassment to common man going to hospitals or Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport. Trucks were stranded at the toll plaza. He said the health condition of the truck driver suddenly deteriorated, but they did not allow him to move.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/multipurpose-health-workers-protest-at-kathunangal-toll-plaza-352319
20-12-2021||---||Golden Temple Sacrilege: Amritsar hoteliers face the brunt as bookings cancelled||Amritsar, December 19The alleged killing of a man who was held for trying to commit blasphemy in the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple led to panic among tourists. Many of those who had booked rooms in advance, cancelled their visit or put off their plans.Surinder Singh, president of the Federation of Hotels, Guest Houses Association, said hoteliers were receiving panic calls from tourists and trying to convince them that it was a single incident of its kind. “Largely, the city is peaceful and there is no need to panic,” he said. Even then he anticipated that there would be 5 to 10 per cent shortfall in room occupancy this week.Piyush Kapoor, manager of a hotel, said at present, the tourist season was at its peak and room occupancy was 100 per cent this weekend. He ruled out that there would be any significant impact on room occupancy in city hotels.Meanwhile, leaders of various political parties and Sikh organisations condemned the attempt of sacrilege inside the holiest shrine of the Sikhs. Harnam Singh Khalsa, head of Damdami Taksal, condemning the sacrilege attempt in the Golden Temple held governments responsible for not giving punishment to those committing blasphemy.The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) strongly condemned the attempt to desecrate the Guru Granth Sahib. CKD president Nirmal Singh lamented that the perpetrator tried to commit blasphemy in Sri Darbar Sahib, which was a shameful and unforgivable act. It caused outrage among members of the Sikh community all over the world. He said there was a big conspiracy behind this unfortunate incident which needed to be exposed.Sikh Students’ Federation and Shiromani Committee members Bhai Gurcharan Singh Grewal and Bhai Gurbakhsh Singh Khalsa while praising the vigilant role played by the Shiromani Committee, termed the action of sangat and the committee as a matter of urgency. They also met SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami in this regard.The Jathedar Hawara Committee stated that the unfortunate incident drew the attention of the sangat to the useless management of the SGPC. Its leaders stated that it did not learn any lesson from the smoking incident at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, throwing of Gutka Sahib in the Amrit Sarovar of Sri Darbar Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoteliers-face-the-brunt-as-bookings-cancelled-352318
20-12-2021||Amritsar||One Covid case surfaces in Amritsar district||With one positive case reported on Sunday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,448.The district health authorities have reported the recovery of one patient with which the tally of those cured has risen to 45,842. At present, the district has a total of seven active cases.Meanwhile, 1,233 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive here on Sunday. Of these, 433 received the first dose of the vaccine while 800 received the second dose.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-covid-case-surfaces-in-district-352317
20-12-2021||---||Amritsar Mayor condemns desecration incident||Amritsar, December 19Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu strongly condemned the attempt made by a person to desecrate the Guru Granth Sahib at the Golden Temple on Saturday. He said this shocking incident had hurt the sentiments of all followers of Guru Nanak.Such unfortunate incidents have been happening continuously for the last few years. There is an urgent need to take appropriate action. With this incident, a conspiracy has been hatched to spoil the prosperous atmosphere of Punjab, but people of the state are sensible and took this unbearable incident patiently and seek action from the police to bring the truth to light. —Karamjit Singh Rintu, MayorMayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said such unfortunate incidents have been happening continuously for the last few years. There is an urgent need to take appropriate action. He said with this incident, a conspiracy had been hatched to spoil the prosperous atmosphere of Punjab but people of the state are sensible and take this unbearable incident very patiently and demand action from the police to bring the truth to light.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-condemns-desecration-incident-352300
20-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||After sacrilege attempts, Punjab Police on high alert||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 19Back-to-back instances of alleged sacrilege attempts – first at Golden Temple on Saturday and then at Kapurthala on Sunday, in which two unidentified persons were lynched by the unruly crowd, has put the Punjab Police on high alert.The police have been approaching the management of various religious shrines and requesting them to take appropriate security measures to avoid such incidents. They were also checking the CCTV cameras there ensuring that they were operational.The IG, Border Range, has passed instructions to the SSPs of the police districts to take appropriate measures so that nobody vitiates the atmosphere in the region in view of the two incidents.SSP, Amritsar Rural, Rakesh Kaushal also held a meeting with Station House Officers of all police stations in his jurisdiction besides other gazetted officers. They were asked to remain present in the field and patrol areas in their jurisdictions to ensure peace.“Patrolling has been increased in villages and every precaution is being taken in order to avoid recurrence of such incidents,” the SSP said. He pointed out that it was practically not possible to deploy cops in every religious shrine. Therefore, SHO and officials were directed to meet managements of religious shrines in their areas and ask them to make security arrangements.“We are taking precautionary measures so that nothing goes wrong. We are taking every step to maintain the law and order,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-sacrilege-attempts-police-on-high-alert-352296
20-12-2021||GS Paul||SIT report on Golden Temple sacrilege bid in 2 days: Deputy CM||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 19A day after a man was allegedly beaten to death for trying to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple, the Punjab Government on Sunday set up a special investigation team that will file a report within two days.Dead Suspect booked for murder attemptSecurity beefed up at Golden TemplePlot to create unrestIt’s a deep-rooted conspiracy by central agencies to vitiate atmosphere in Punjab by creating communal conflict. — SS Randhawa, Deputy CMDeputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the SIT would be headed by DCP (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal. “The suspect is yet to be identified,” Randhawa, who holds the Home portfolio, said.The Deputy Chief Minister met senior officers, including IG (Border Range) Mohnish Chawla, Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira and SSP (Rural) Rakesh Kaushal, as well as SGPC officials Rajinder Singh Mehta, Harjap Singh and Sukhdev Singh Bhurakona to discuss additional security measures in the vicinity of the Golden Temple.The police have, meanwhile, filed a case under Section 307 for murder bid (Guru Granth Sahib is considered a living entity) and Section 295-A for hurting religious sentiments. Randhawa pitched for severe punishment for acts of sacrilege, pointing out that the Punjab Assembly had passed Bills in 2018 proposing amendments to the IPC and CrPC to make desecration of religious texts punishable with life imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-report-on-sacrilege-bid-in-2-days-deputy-cm-352271
