21-12-2021||Amritsar||Bike-borne youth targets woman||Two lose cash to online cheatersAmritsar: Local residents continue to loss their money to online fraudsters with two more cases of online frauds reported with the city police on Sunday. In both cases, the police have booked five persons, including two persons from Bihar and one each from West Bengal, Jharkhand and Delhi. Those booked were identified as Suman Kumar and Kanyanand from Bihar, Asadur Rehman from West Bengal, Vishal Kumar of Jharkhand and Bharatvir Singh Pun from Delhi. Sumit Arora, a local resident, told the police that unidentified fraudsters withdrew Rs 76,500 from his bank on different occasions. Following a probe, the police booked Asadur Rehman, Vishal, Suman and Kanyanand. It registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B, IPC, and Sections 66-C and 66-D, IT Act against them. Similarly, Mandeep Sharma told the police that an unidentified person withdrew Rs 1.29 lakh from his account. The police booked Bharatvir of Delhi for the fraud. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bike-borne-youth-targets-woman-352772
21-12-2021||Amritsar||Cancellation of trains leaves commuters hassled||Thousands of passengers were inconvenienced as large number of trains were cancelled and short-terminated due to the rail blockade here on Monday. Passengers reaching the Amritsar Railway station were shocked to find the train services stalled. As a result, they flocked the enquiry window for trains update but the staff was unable to give any final time for restoration of trains. A local Pardeep Kumar said his family was to attend the post death ceremony of his father in law in Delhi. However, due to non-availability of trains they had to use costly taxi.Similarly, several inbound passengers had to catch taxis and buses from Beas, where several trains short terminated their operations. A large section of passengers were tourists whose tickets were reserved. Many of them had to catch connecting trains from other stations. Taxi and private bus operators hiked their rates after finding a surge in the number of passengers— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cancellation-of-trains-leaves-commuters-hassled-352771
21-12-2021||Tarn Taran||One held with illicit liquor||The Sarai Amanat Khan police conducted a raid at the residence of a Mianpur village resident and recovered a working still, 20 kg of lahan and 1680 ml Illicit liquor.The police party led by ASI Narinder Singh had conducted raid in this regards. The accused Channdeep Singh Chann was arested on the spot. A case has been registered. The accused was arrested by the police on the spot. — OC1 case reportedAmritsar: With one positive case reported on Monday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,449. The health department has also reported recovery of one patient, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,843. The district at present has a total of seven active cases. Meanwhile, 6,042 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-illicit-liquor-352770
21-12-2021||Aparna Banerji||Those who kept the hearths burning at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 20Organisers of one of the biggest langars at Singhu were accorded a warm welcome on their return to Doaba. A convoy of 100 vehicles arrived at Phagwara to receive them on December 13.Led by Bharti Kisan Union (BKU), Doaba, president, Manjit Singh Rai along with Tony Sandhu, Mangi Bagga, Nanni Gopalpur and other sportspersons, sports promoters and associates, village gram panchayats, these organisers contributed to the peasant movement and organised the “Maa dharti de warisan da langar” at Singhu.For the past one year, at least 4,000 members of the sangat partook of langar near the KFC Mall, a farmers’ protest landmark. At the same time, accommodation was also arranged for more than 3,000 sangats in the building.Kabaddi players from Punjab and Doaba also played a vital role in organising the main stage at the border. The historic Delhi Morcha Kabaddi League was also organised in collaboration with sportspersons and NRIs.To welcome the back these peasant movement supporters, a convoy of over a hundred tractors and other vehicles from Rurka Kalan village reached Ladhowal Toll Plaza from where Manjit Singh Rai, Satnam Singh Sahni, Tony Sandhu, Sonu Doji, Claire Randhawa, Manjot Machhiwara, Bhinda Mindu, Nimma Cheema, Kuljit Rai, Aman Hothi, Gopi Mudh, Nek Malupur, Gurmukh Dhakowal, Gogi Sandhwan, among other colleagues were warmly welcomed back to their villages.One of the orgainsers, Tony Sandhu, said, “Sangats contributed wholeheartedly to the langar. On our way back, we donated our rations worth around Rs2.5 lakh to Darbar Sahib. Donations were also made to the Jalandhar branch of the Pingalwara, Amritsar. Donations will also be made to the families of martyrs in Amritsar. All rations or things left over will also go to various sports or social welfare NGOs.”Not just rations but blankets, goods, coolers, fans, utensils etc. were also brought back from the Delhi border after the protests were wrapped up.Sandhu quipped, “The protest site became our home. While coming back we fell like migrants going away from home. Singhu had been our home for a year. We have brought back memories, kindness and a sense of relief at having organised everything peacefully and successfully for a year by the grace of God.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/those-who-kept-the-hearths-burning-at-singhu-352769
21-12-2021||---||Residents divided over installing gym at Katra Moti Ram Park||Amritsar, December 20The installation of an open gym in a park led to tussle between two groups of residents of a locality in Katra Moti Ram area. The open gym, which was earlier approved by the MC, is hanging in fire as residents are divided over it.According to information, the residents of area had written the MC Commissioner for the installation of open gym in a park near Arya Smaj School in Katra Moti Ram in 2019.Apart from area councillor Meetanjali Sharma the managements of two schools in area recommended for the gym. The Civil Wing of MC had prepared an estimate of Rs 1.4 lakh for the work. All formalities had been completed to install the gym in 2020.When the MC was about to install the gym, a group of area residents raised objection that park is not an appropriate place for the gym as some mischievous elements may visit park and tease the girls of locality. Some other claimed that with the installation of gym, the residents would not able to conduct function in the park.Anil Khanna, a local activist from Katra Moti Ram argued that public parks are not meant for the marriages and other such functions. The concerned residents should demand to construct the community halls for this and allow installation the gym.“Some influential politicians have verbally asked the MC officials not to install the gym as they need votes from that particular group. The MC is not installing the gym under political pressure,” added Khanna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-divided-over-installing-gym-at-katra-moti-ram-park-352768
21-12-2021||Neeraj Bagga||One-time settlement: Low budget hotels, homestays resent new regularisation policy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20Unauthorised low budget lodges and stay homes have resented government’s newly released the government’s proposed One-Time Settlement (OTS) of non-compoundable violations in residential houses, commercial shops and institutional buildings, constructed in contravention of by-laws for its high compounding fee of Rs 385 per square feet.While the policy overlooks the by-laws crucial in case of manmade and natural disasters. They reasoned that a majority of these violators were small budget stay homes being run by people with humble resources.The Punjab One-time Voluntary Disclosure and Settlement of Building constructed in violations of the Building by-laws Bill, 2021 offers unauthorised hotels and lodges a window to go for one-time settlement for non-compoundable building violations made in respect of buildings constructed in the Municipal Corporations, municipal councils and Nagar Panchayats.The act will cease to operate on the expiry of one year from the date of its commencement. It states that ‘non-compoundable violation’ means construction made in violation of the sanctioned plan or without getting the plan sanctioned from the competent authority, whole or part of which is non-compoundable under the provisions of the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 or the Punjab Town Improvement Act, 1922.According to Surinder Singh, president of Federation of Hotels, Guest Houses Association, a majority of the small lodges and stay homes were situated in the walled city. “High compounding fee of Rs 385 per square feet will not be affordable for budgetary hotels.As per it, if a lodge on 100 square yard has three storeys, it would have a covered area of 2,700. On multiplying 2,700 with Rs 385, the compounding fee would be Rs 10,39,500. It will be exorbitant for lodges running in houses. Previous MC by-laws say that those buildings which have extended front on the roadside can never be authorised.There are about 400 hotels and lodges inside the walled city and only six of them have been approved. In addition, there are around 50 unauthorised properties under the hospitality category which are situated outside the walled city.The proposed One-Time Settlement (OTS) of non-compoundable violations, constructed in contravention of by-laws ignored the role of MTP officials and did not fix their responsibility in timely pointing out the violation.It also fixed its maximum height at 50 feet. Surjit Sharma, a disaster expert, stated that this height may not be conducive for the serpentine, narrow winding lanes of the walled city. As in case of a disaster, it would be difficult to carry out the rescue operations. He reminded that the losses in the 2017 Ludhiana fire tragedy could have been curtailed if it would have complied with the (Floor Area Ratio) FAR norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-time-settlement-low-budget-hotels-homestays-resent-new-regularisation-policy-352767
21-12-2021||Amritsar||Course on Gender Sensitisation||IIM hosts Sankshetra’21Indian Institute of Management, Amritsar, successfully conducted the fifth edition of their annual Operations and Strategy Conclave, Sankshetra’21. The main highlight of this conclave was the fact that this was the first offline conclave which took place in IIM Amritsar, since the pandemic. Sankshetra’21 provided a dais where the veterans from the industry interacted and reflected with the budding managers on the recent trends and developments in the domains of operations and strategy. Director of the Institute Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy shed light on the various industry trends taking place in the operations and strategy domains and enumerated the various learnings the industries had in the past two years. During the event, speakers discussed various disruptions which took place in the recent times; the semiconductor shortage, fuel shortage in the UK, and antibiotic shortage in Kenya to name a few.Intra-departmental ActivitiesElite Club of Applied Sciences and Humanities Department of the Global Group of Institutes organised a series of events to encourage students to take part in Intra-departmental activities, like, dumb Charades, ‘Quiz’, ‘JAM’, ‘Treasure Hunt’ and poster making etc. with an aim to develop their overall personality by laying stress on their individual traits which may vary from student to student. All these activities are organised to hone their skills for future professional challenges and to spur them to react instantly to any situation or query which may confront them all of a sudden to assess their readiness and understanding of a subject.Bhajan Sandhya at Bhavans SchoolA bhajan sandhya at Bhavans SL School 278th Chinmaya Swaranjali was celebrated on the occasion of Geeta Jayanti Mahotasav at Bhavan’s SL Public School. The chanting of Geeta Shalokas by 28 students of class 5 spell bounded everyone. Devotional Bhajans recited by school music team mesmerised the audience. Avinash Mohindru, director, Bhavans SL and Dr. Anita Bhalla, principal, appreciated their efforts of contributing for the noble cause . She explained the importance of many characters of Bhagavad Geeta symbolically. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/course-on-gender-sensitisation-352766
21-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||BSF spots another drone in Ajnala, Ramdass; fires at it||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20Another drone movement was noticed between Ajnala and Ramdass, following which the Border Security Force jawans fired at it, but it returned to Pakistan and did not intrude into Indian Territory, the police officials informed.Talking to The Tribune Rakesh Kaushal, SSP Amritsar Rural confirmed the incident while adding that the police and the BSF officials searched the area but found nothing.According to information, the alert BSF jawans heard the humming sound of the drone while patrolling in the Ajnala- Ramdass area. They fired several shots at the direction from where the movement was suspected.“As BSF jawans fired at it, the drone did not intrude and returned to Pakistani territory. Though the BSF jawans and local police in a joint search operation combed the entire stretch,” he said. Station House Officers of Ajnala and Ramdass police stations also accompanied the search teams.He said the Punjab police was working as second line of defence after Border Security Force. Due to dense fog in the entire region during winters, the frequency of drone movements by anti-national forces across the international border is likely to increase and we are fully prepared for it.The Assembly polls are also round the corner, the Pakistan-based terrorist groups supported by Pak ISI have been trying to push in drugs, weapons and explosives to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in Punjab, said the police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-spots-another-drone-in-ajnala-ramdass-fires-at-it-352765
21-12-2021||---||7th Pay Commission: Teachers to take out 'maha rally' today||Amritsar, December 20The college and university teachers strikes being carried out under the banner of PFUCTO and PCCTU today received support from student organisations as the academic session gets further delayed, becoming a cause of concern for students.The dharna being staged at all major city colleges today saw students coming to support teachers and urging government to end the tussle keeping in mind academic interests. The teachers will hold maha rally tomorrow to intensify their stir.In today’s rally at DAV College, students called for implementation of the wages. “The government must not deny teachers of their rights, also, keep in mind that the strike is causing sever loss of academics and precious time to students.Internal exams have already been postponed and even semester exams now will get delayed further extending to January 2022. This is not good for students,” said Gurbir Singh, a student of BSc ComputerScience.Several colleges, including BBKDAV College, have postponed their internal examinations due to teachers strike. The semester examinations that usually used to begin by December 24-25 stand delayed as the GNDU is yet to announce the date sheet and is waiting for any decision to be reached regarding teachers’ demands. The winter break would also be affected due to this delay. “Most of the colleges’ winter break is announced near 10-15 January. With the delay now, examinations might be conducted in January, which means no break or limited holidays, which is again an issue of concern for students, who stay as PGs as they will have to now spend extra on living expenses,” said Shruti Khanduja, a student of BSc IT.Meanwhile, the failure of government to come up with a decision on the matter, the district unit of PFUCTO and PCCTU today announced a maha rally on Tuesday (December 21). District President, PFUCTO, Dr Gurdas Singh Sekhon said despite the promise made by the Minister of Higher Education to implement the Seventh Pay Scale of the UGC and not to add grade of teachers, no concrete development has taken place in this regard so far. “A grand rally will be held from the university to the Putlighar Chowk tomorrow. We will protest on the streets to convey our message to government. We make our point clear to masses,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7th-pay-commission-teachers-to-take-out-maha-rally-today-352764
21-12-2021||---||Another car snatching incident rocks holy city||Amritsar, December 20Five armed persons snatched a car from a Jammu and Kashmir resident when he was going from Amritsar to Uttar Pradesh for some work. The accused hit his car from the rear and attacked him before snatching the car.The victim was identified as Anees Mohammad. He told the police that on Sunday morning, he was going from Amritsar to UP in his car (Hyundai i-10) when the accused hit his car from in the Khilchian area.He said he came out of his car to have a look at it. In the meantime, the five accused also came out their car. He said before he could understand, one of the suspects attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon on his arm and fired a couple of gunshots in the air.The victim said after snatching his car, they fled the spot. He said his mobile phone was also there in the car. The police have registered a case under Sections 323, 379-B, 336 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against unidentified persons.This is third such incident in the past three days. Earlier, unidentified robbers snatched a car from Gurinderjit Singh, a resident of Manawala Kalan, when he had gone to the Manawala bus stop in his car (PB-53-B-3456) for some work.He said he stopped his car near Anjali dhaba. He said suddenly a Verna car stopped behind his car and two unidentified persons with covered faced came and pointed a pistol at him. He said they pulled him out of his car and took it towards the Tarn Taran side. He said their third accomplice who remained seated in their Verna car also followed them.In another instance, miscreants snatched a car from a Jalandhar resident, identified as Vijay Jassal, on Friday evening. He had come to pick up his friend from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here. He said he had stopped the car near True Value showroom when the accused pushed him and fled in his car.Modus OperandiThe victim said he stopped his car near Anjali dhaba. He said suddenly a Verna car stopped behind his car and two unidentified persons with covered faced came and pointed a pistol at him. He said they pulled him out of his car and took it towards the Tarn Taran side. He said their third accomplice who remained seated in their Verna car also followed them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-car-snatching-incident-rocks-holy-city-352763
21-12-2021||---||Poor condition of street in Deputy CM's constituency irks residents||Amritsar, December 20In Deputy CM Om Parkash Soni’s constituency, residents are irked over the non-carpeting of the street for last three years.Residents, including Naveen Kumar, Charanjit, Sudesh Rani, Jasbir Kaur, Chandrakant, Montu, Pradeep, who live in Mehriyan Gali of Bazaar Kaseriyan in Ward No. 60, alleged that even in the constituency of Deputy CM OP Soni, no development works were being conducted.“The ruling party makes tall claims regarding development work. The street in our locality is lying broken for the last three years. The sewerage has completely collapsed, due to which sewer water overflows in the street and with the accumulation of dirty water, there is fear of diseases,” said Sudesh Rani, a resident.Residents in the area said the construction work of the street had started around a month ago, but it has not been completed so far. After breaking the street, the contractor demanded one sack of cement and 10 sacks of sand from each household to complete the work. A verbal complaint was made with area councillor Mahesh Khanna and Congress leader Vikas Soni about this. But still, the work hasn’t resumed,” said Naveen Kumar.Residents demanded to complete the construction work of the street on priority, so residents don’t face any inconvenience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poor-condition-of-street-in-deputy-cms-constituency-irks-residents-352762
21-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Guv Banwarilal Purohit pays obeisance at Golden Temple||Tarn Taran, December 20Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit paid obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Monday. He was given a picture of the Darbar Sahib by Dharwinder Singh, manager of Darbar Sahib.He was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, SSP Harwinder Singh Virk, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Paramjit Kaur and SDM Rajneesh Arora. The Governor also partook of langar with the sangat in the langar hall. He held a meeting with the DC, the SSP and other officials and collected information regarding the economics, geographical and social equations of the district, besides gathering information regarding different social welfare schemes.The Governor instructed the officials to be pro-human while performing their duties under the jurisdiction of law. He instructed them to work fearlessly and with full dedication. He instructed them to ensure the best use of sources of the Central and state governments while giving top priority to their social responsibilities.It was the first time when the Governor had held a direct meeting with district-level officials to instruct them their style of working. The Governor was to come here on Saturday but he preponed his visit.Meanwhile, the Governor visited Bhavans Ashray, a shelter home in the city. He interacted with the staff there. Aashray — a home for senior citizens, abandoned girls and vocational centre for PWDs — will provide rehabilitation to its inmates. Purohit, who was on a brief visit in the city, was accompanied by Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Improvement Trust Chairman Damandeep Singh and councillor Rajesh Madan.He called Ashray a ray of hope for those in need of help and support. He kept interacted limited and lauded the efforts being made by the Ashray management towards community welfare. He also honoured the CBSE teacher awardees for this year from Bhavans’ SL School. The Governor then proceeded to the Wagah border and enjoyed the Retreat Ceremony. He also interacted with BSF personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guv-banwarilal-purohit-pays-obeisance-at-golden-temple-352761
21-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Patients feel the brunt as health staff's stir continues||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20With the state government adopting indifferent attitude towards the demands of the Health Department employees, patients are the worst sufferers as ANMs, multipurpose health workers, nursing staff, junior resident doctors, ministerial workers and pharmacists are on protest path.Of all these cadres, ANMs, nursing staff and resident doctors are on an indefinite strike till their demands are accepted. While some employees are holding protests demanding regular jobs, others are holding dharnas to get back the allowances which were withdrawn recently. Besides, junior resident doctors-cum-post graduate students are fighting for early joining of the new batch of PG students so that they can get the much-awaited relaxation from their clinical duties and focus on the academic aspect of their degrees.Dr Brijesh Singla, general secretary, Resident Doctors’ Association of Punjab, said, “The new batch should have ideally joined at the start of this year, but it has not joined till date.” He said second-year and final-year junior residents (JRs) are overburdened. The JRs boycotted all services except emergency and Covid-relatives services.As JRs and senior residents are the major medical service providers at government medical colleges, their absence from crucial duties have greatly hit poor patients who are admitted at IPDs.To make matters worse, staff nurses at Government Medical College and other government hospitals, including CHCs and PHCs, are agitating to get special professional allowance and other issues. The protest by the nurses at GMC and JRs have crippled medical services.Most cadres in the health and medical education department, except for PCMS doctors and faculty members, are holding protest. Punjab Pharmacist Officers’ Association leader Ashok Kumar said, “The Health Department is one of the largest departments in the state, but the core issues of its employees have always been neglected.” He added that apart from issues concerning contractual workers, various allowances earlier available to regular employees, including uniform allowance, travel allowance and others had been withdrawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patients-feel-the-brunt-as-health-staffs-stir-continues-352760
21-12-2021||---||Farmers go on indefinite 'rail roko' protest over demands||Amritsar, December 20Farmers, supported by women, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Monday started their ‘rail roko’ protest on the railway tracks near Devidaspura village demanding complete loan waiver of farm community and fulfilment of other demands.The committee leaders stated that the protest on the railway tracks would continue till their demands were accepted by the government. The protesters have started organizing langars and pitched their tents near the railway tracks.KMSC president Satnam Singh Pannu and general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said in a meeting with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on September 29, he had promised to resolve all issues related to agriculture.They stated that the protest was initiated as the state government had failed to honour the promises made to them. The KMSC leadership stated that if the government failed to listen to them, protests would be initiated at three more places.Pandher said in the last 50 years, the prices of agriculture produce had increased by 80 per cent, but at the same time the input costs have increased by more than 300 per cent. “Farmers are unable to repay their loans taken from banks as farming is no more a profitable venture,” he added.The farmer leaders stated that the Swaminathan Commission had recommended 50 per cent over the input costs of the farmers, but the subsequent governments have failed to implement the guidelines of the commission set up under the Constitution.The KMSC is also demanding a compensation for crop damaged by hailstorm, jobs for kin of those who died during the protest at Delhi borders and Rs 5 lakh as compensation, payment of arrears of sugarcane crop, increase of sugarcane prices to Rs 360 per quintal, withdrawal of cases against farmers during the farmers’ agitation, filling of vacant posts in government departments, ownership rights to the cultivators and repeal of agreements with power companies.Farmers start ‘pakkamorcha’ in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Farmers and mazdoors under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, started their ‘pakka morcha’ by staging a dharna on the railway tracks here on Monday.The farmers were on agitation path against the state government demanding the fulfilment of the promises made to the people of the state in the run-up to the 2017 election.While addressing on the occasion, Sukhdev Singh Dubli and Tarsem Singh Dhaliwal and others said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had categorically denied waiver of the whole loan of the farmers, which was at top of the Congress’ 2017 election manifesto. The leaders said the state government had not given even a single penny to the unemployed youth who had been denied jobs while the unemployment allowance too was one of the promises in the manifesto.They said similarly many other promises were not fulfilled so far and the KMSC would them to the notice of the state government, particularly Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi who was telling a bundle of lies to fool the residents and the farmers that he had fulfilled all the demands of the farmers and other sections of society.The protesting farmers would remain at the dharna site in the night.OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-go-on-indefinite-rail-roko-protest-over-demands-352759
21-12-2021||Amritsar||Biometrics fail to identify Golden Temple sacrilege suspect||Two days after the alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple, the police are clueless about the identity of the deceased suspect. In a setback for the special investigation team probing the incident, the fingerprints of the deceased didn’t match with any biometric record on the Aadhaar database or the police record.Also read: Golden Temple sacrilege suspect's photo released, booked for murder bidThe police are now tracking the route taken by the suspect to reach the shrine by scanning CCTV footage from the ISBT, railway station and other places. Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill confirmed that the deceased’s identity was still a mystery. He said it was difficult to track the suspect’s movement since multiple narrow lanes led to the shrine. “The biometric methodology failed to yield any result. We have appealed to the public to share any information they have about the man whose photograph has been circulated. The identity of the informer will not be revealed,” he said. Sources said the suspect, who was in his mid-twenties, seemed to be from outside Punjab, possibly from Uttar Pradesh, but there was no confirmation yet. Questions unansweredSGPC claims suspect was intercepted by staff multiple times. Why then was the matter not taken seriously?Suspect was taken into custody by staff for questioning minutes after the ‘sacrilege’. Why were cops not called?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/biometrics-fail-to-identify-amritsar-sacrilege-suspect-352650
