22-12-2021||Poetry recitation competition held||Poetry recitation competition held||Tarn Taran: Poetry recitation competition was conducted by the local Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School on Tuesday dedicated to the martyrdom of four Sahibzadas and Mata Gujri Kaur. The students of four houses of the school participated in the competition. They recited poems related to martyrdom of four sahibzadas and Mata Gujari Kaur and shed lights on their lives. The students of Ranjit house won the first place, Attari House bagged the second place and Banda Bahadur house scored third place. Pandeep Singh, teacher of the school, appealed to follow the path shown by Sahibzadas and Mata Gujjar Kaur. Harjit Singh and Gurinder Singh, members of the managing committee, lauded the students and said we should take guidance from the life of sarbansdani Sri Guru Gobind Singh. Principal Ranjit Bhatia said the students must take part in religious competitions so that they could learn to follow the path shown by Guru Sahib.A meeting with old-age home inmatesThe students of the local Universal Academy paid their visit to the local Bhai Veer Singh Birdh Ghar under the ‘Social Responsibility Initiatives’ on Tuesday. Nandini Malhotra, principal of the academy, said, the students in their interaction with the inmates realised their agony and pain at this sensitive age, which were living away from their dear ones since years. The principal said the students also learnt a lesson how to interact with their elders. The inmates enjoyed the visit and appreciated the cultural show and thanked the students for offering them gifts. OCAdvertising contest organisedSenior Study II organised TSS ORATOIRE, an inter-class advertisement competition for the students of Class VI. It was an initiative to provide a platform to the students to enhance their oratory skills. A speaking activity, given the shape of a competition, enables the children to further enhance their confidence and sets a yardstick for the other students to emulate. Vijay Mehra, director of the school, and Upasana Mehra, the principal of the school, were ecstatic to experience such an enjoyable event. They praised the participants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poetry-recitation-competition-held-353075
22-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Lifestyle changes can help prevent many diseases: Tarn Taran Civil Surgeon||The district Health Department today organised an event to create awareness about the non-communicable diseases. Speaking on the occasion, Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehra said many of the non-communicable diseases such as cancer, diabetics and hypertension were avoidable with little effort. Dr Mehra said tobacco usage was a cause for many types of cancer.He added that diabetics and hypertension too are avoidable diseases which could be prevented with a few positive changes in the lifestyle. He said one should exercise daily and reduce the intake of salt and fat to avoid increase to maintain body weight. He added that one should also keep a check on the blood pressure. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lifestyle-changes-can-help-prevent-many-diseases-353076
22-12-2021||Amritsar||Students make rangoli at Sri Guru Ramdas International airport||As part of a series of activities related to voter education and electoral participation (SVEEP) to increase voter turnout in the forthcoming Assembly elections, students of various schools today made rangoli at the Sri Guru Ramdas International airport. As per the program outlined by District Education Officer (AS) Rajesh Kumar Sharma, the rangolis made gave out message of voter registration and exercising the right to vote.The main objective of making this rangoli is to make the visitors coming to the International airport aware about the Assembly Election- 2022 . The electoral officials said young people should come forward to cast their votes and in this age of information technology for the convenience of voters a very useful National Voter Service Portal ( www.nvsp.in ) and Voter Helpline App has been launched by the Election Commission of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/art-awareness-353079
22-12-2021||---||California-based poet Major Bhupinder Singh Daler’s collection of ghazals released||Amritsar, December 21A collection of ghazals by eminent California-based poet Major Bhupinder Singh Daler was released at Punjab Natshala. The literary event was hosted by the Alfaz Theatre Organisation. Vishal Beas, editor of Akhar, while giving information about Daler, said that before this, two books of ghazals, hymns and songs, ‘Bhinni-Bhinni Khushboo’ and ‘Sochan De Sirnave’ have also been published.He said Daler had made significant contribution in the Indo-Pak war of 1971 for which he was awarded the Sangram Medal.Chief guest Shiromani Natakkar Jatinder Singh Brar congratulated Major Bhupinder Singh Daler and said that his poetry carves a picture for readers, that +of flowers peeking out from the point of a gun. Leading critic of Punjabi language, Hira Singh said Major Daler has a talent of bringing together ghazal and nazm, a subtle play with the words that adds multiple dimensions to simple words. “That is the reason most of his ghazals sound as nazms. Not only this, the recitation of his ghazals guides the reader on the path of contemplation and evokes feelings,” said Hira singh.Mandeep Ghai and Jaswant Mintoo from Alfaz Theatre said more such literary programmes would be held in the near future. The programme was attended by eminent writers and artists, including Dr. Vikramjit, Indreshmeet, Dr Seema Grewal, general secretary of the Art Gallery Arvinder Chamak and many other theatre artistes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lines-of-thought-353077
22-12-2021||---||Day 22 of protest: GNDU teachers hold maha rally, over 8 lakh students hit||Amritsar, December 21Teachers from Guru Nanak Dev University and affiliated colleges today took to road as they took out a rally against the state government. The long-pending demand of implementation of the 7th Pay Commission wages and rollback of delinking from UGC is yet to be determined by the government and the teachers have been on strike for the past three weeks. Today, the members of Guru Nanak Dev University Teachers’ Association (GNDUTA), along with the district unit of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU), marched from GNDU main gate to Putlighar.All nine colleges of the district participated in the rally and raised the ant- government slogans. More than 500 teachers were the part of this ‘maha rally’. The protest began on September 5 this year in a scattered manner.“The teachers were hoping that the government would listen to their demands, and that it wouldn’t go this far. It has been three months, and the government hasn’t taken any action yet. So, we launched a total education bandh from 1 December. This is the 22nd day of our protest. Despite all our efforts, the state government hasn’t given us any positive outcome. Every state invests in higher education for its prosperity, but we are seeing the opposite of that happening in Punjab,” said Dr G S Sekhon, District president, PFUCTO.The state-wide protests are being organised under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisation (PFUCTO). The protest has affected the education of more than 8 lakh students. Sekhon said the Punjab Government assured the members of the organisation that teacher’s concerns would be raised in the Cabinet meeting scheduled in the months of December. “But nothing has happened for the teachers so far. In fact, the demands of the teachers were not a part of the agenda of the Cabinet meeting that was held a few days ago.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-22-of-protest-teachers-hold-maha-rally-over-8l-students-hit-353078
22-12-2021||Tarn Taran||AAP leader booked in Goindwal Sahib firing case||Farmers’ protest: trains cancelledAmritsar: With the farmers’ ‘rail roko’ protest entering the second day on Tuesday, train services were greatly affected as only two trains departed from the Amritsar railway station. Before the protest, the station would see departure/arrival of nearly 30 pairs of train before the start of the rail blockade. Only two trains — one from Amritsar to Pathankot and the other from Amritsar to Qadian — operated from the railway station. Thousands of passengers were inconvenienced as most of other trains were cancelled and short-terminated due to the rail blockade here. Meanwhile, the railway authorities refunded Rs 5,33,235 to 1,084 train passengers. TNSTwo more test positive in distAmritsar: With two positive cases reported on Tuesday, the total count of Covid-19 cases increased to 47,451 in the district. With recovery of one patient, the total number of those who cured also rose to 45,844. At present, the district has a total of eight active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 4,424 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Saturday. Of these, 1,296 received the first dose of the vaccine and 3,128 the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-case-aap-leader-booked-353080
22-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Nurses burn Charanjit Singh Channi's effigy||On the 16th day of their indefinite strike, nurses on Tuesday organised a dharna in the Civil Hospital complex and took out a march in the town. The agitating nurses burnt an effigy of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and raised slogans against the state government.Kulwant Kaur, district president of the Joint Action Nursing Committee, Punjab, Sheela Patti, Baljit Kaur and Prabhdeep Singh, among others, addressed on the occasion. Condemning the state government, the leaders said the Chief Minister was not interested in resolving their grievances though the normal functioning of health services crippled.Their current demands included removal of anomalies in the Sixth Pay Commission, regularisation of the services of nurses working on an ad hoc basis and restoring of the stopped allowances and other incentives. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nurses-burn-charanjit-singh-channis-effigy-353081
22-12-2021||---||Vendors at Amritsar railway station count losses||Amritsar, December 21Vendors at the railway station have been counting losses since the introduction of the Covid-19 lockdown on March 23, 2020. On the other hand, hoteliers resent the ‘rail roko’ blockade, causing a dent in the footfall of tourists in the peak season.Once again commercial establishments at the Amritsar railway station have started experiencing lean season. This time they are facing losses due to the farmers’ blockade on railway tracks. Already a limited number of trains were being operated offering them limited business opportunity. In this scenario, they are seeking relaxation in the annual licence fee.Seeking anonymity they said all commercial establishments at the station had remained shut for the past nearly 10 months in 2020. Earlier, it was due to the Covid-induced lockdown and later, travel restrictions were imposed to ensure social distancing and then the farmers’ railway blockade took place which hit their income badly.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) had lifted its 169-day rail traffic blockade on March 11. As if it was not enough, the second wave of Covid-19 struck prompting the state government to put restrictions in early summer. It took months for the train services to resume.All these reasons combine aggravated the financial losses to vendors carrying out their businesses at the railway station. They rued each vendor pays a monthly rent between a minimum of Rs 15,000 to a maximum of Rs 20,000 to the railways and 18 percent GST over it. Apart from this, their other standing expenditure include Rs 10.84 per unit commercial power tariff, salaries to sales man, maintainance charges and others.Hoteliers say sudden stoppage of trains had discontinued arrival of long destination tourists to the city. They said they had been waiting for the winter season which records peak during the holidays in the educational institutes starting from December 21. When approached, Chetan Taneja, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Northern Railway’s Ferozepur division, said the plea of vendors for relaxation in the annual fee would be considered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vendors-at-amritsar-railway-station-count-losses-353082
22-12-2021||---||Philanthropy: Two Amritsar teachers nominated for Erasmus Causa||Amritsar, December 21Two educators from city have been nominated in the list of Erasmus Causa for 2021. These awards are conferred by the Erasmus International Education Programme that runs joint collaborations into the field of academics and philanthropy across the world. The Erasmus programme operates from the UK and annually hosts the Erasmus Causa awards in various categories. City-based teachers Dilpreet Singh and Ravi have been nominated in the category of social work.Dilpreet Singh, who is currently an assistant professor at the ISF College of Pharmacy in Moga, said their social initiatives during pandemic got them nominated for the awards. “We came in contact with the Erasmus team through our education programmes and this organisation works to encourage and motivate scholars, academicians working in different fields. We had gathered a network of volunteers during pandemic to work in providing relief and medical aid to needy. It’s a matter of pride for us that we have been nominated for such an prestigious award,” said Dilpreet. The two had been friends since their student days in GNDU and have completed their Phds here as well. “Our association goes back to our college days, we had always been keen on giving back to society and working to uplift the needy,” said Dilpreet.Ravi has done his PhD in the field of biological sciences. The two have also helped in rescue and rehabilitation of two girls who were victim of prostitution.Dilpreet has also has contributed 16 books to the academic literature and shared that he looks forward to results that will be declared in a month’s time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/philanthropy-two-city-teachers-nominated-for-erasmus-causa-353083
22-12-2021||---||People can't be divided along communal lines, says Navjot Singh Sidhu||Amritsar, December 21Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu visited ward No.43 to review development works here on Tuesday. In his address, he asked the residents not to distract from the core issues of Punjab and vote wisely.“People don’t have faith in the justice system. People have got fed up with sacrilege cases. Similarly, in the case of drug trade in Punjab. I have nothing to do with Majithia’s FIR issue, but the law will take its own course,” said Sidhu.Navjot Singh Sidhu advocated strong punishment in the sacrilege cases. “The person who is found guilty of desecration, he should not be released from the jail till his death. Stricter punishment should be given to stop sacrilege cases in Punjab.”He said those who were trying to divide the people of the state on communal lines, they would be defeated. The people of the state could not be divided with such efforts as despite being from different religions they believed in unity and brotherhood.Targeting Kejriwal, Navjot Singh Sidhu said the AAP supremo was unaware of the issues of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-cant-be-divided-along-communal-lines-says-navjot-singh-sidhu-353084
22-12-2021||---||Amritsar MC fails to achieve recovery targets, says AAP||Amritsar, December 21The Amritsar Municipal Corporation has failed to achieve its recovery targets in the last four years. RTI activist and Aam Aadmi Party leader Suresh Sharma got official data under the RTI Act and claimed that the MC missed the mark to recover 180 crore as tax, bills and fee of various departments.The MC had targeted to recover 74.39 crore in the budget of 2017-18 and recovered Rs 43.76 crore against it. In 2018-19, the MCA had targeted to recover Rs 93.51 crore, but recovered only 45.41 crore till the end of fiscal. Similarly in 2019-20, the MC collected Rs 52.52 crore against a target of Rs 99.59 crore. In the budget of 2020-21, the MC had targeted Rs 96.30, but recovered Rs 41.39 crore only. Suresh Sharma, AAP leaderThe MC had targeted to recover 74.39 crore in the budget of 2017-18 and recovered Rs 43.76 crore against it. In 2018-19, the MCA had targeted to recover Rs 93.51 crore, but recovered only 45.41 crore till the end of fiscal. Similarly in 2019-20, the MC collected Rs 52.52 crore against a target of Rs 99.59 crore. In the budget of 2020-21, the MC had targeted Rs 96.30, but recovered Rs 41.39 crore only.The AAP leader claimed that expenses of the civic body had been increasing, but the revenue failed to rise. “It is the failure of the MC house and officials, who are responsible for the poor financial condition of the MC. The development of the city is suffering as the MC don’t have the funds for development works,” stated the AAP leader.The property tax wing of the MC is major contributor to the revenue of the civic body. The wing collected Rs 88.98 crore against a target of Rs 131 crore during the last four years. The MC used to collect Rs 20 crore as house tax from the city every year till 2014. The MCA had initiated a sealing drive to collect the pending property tax, but after Diwali it hasn’t resumed it so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-fails-to-achieve-recovery-targets-says-aap-353085
22-12-2021||---||ASHA workers protest outside Punjab Deputy CM's house in Amritsar for hike in wages||Amritsar, December 21Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers and facilitators staged a massive protest outside the residence of Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Om Parkash Soni on Tuesday to get the government to increase their honorarium and provide better working conditions.Raising slogans against the state government, especially the Health Minister, the ASHA workers stated that they had been working for over a decade, but the governments had failed to acknowledge the hard work put in by them to help people get medical services.Saroj Bala, state president of the ASHA Workers and Facilitators Union, said, “We demand that ASHA workers and facilitators are brought under the ambit of the Minimum Wages Act and are paid at least Rs 18,000 per month.” She said until their salaries were increased, they should be paid Rs 4,000 per month over the normal incentives.Unhappy with the way, the government has shown indifference to their protest. The agitators stated that when they met state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, he had assured them that as he had talked to Health Minister Soni and their demand would be accepted. They further added that when they met Soni, he assured them that he had talked to the Chief Minister and their demands would be accepted.“It seems that they are waiting for the employees to get tired and end protest,” said a protester. However, Sukhjit Kaur, general secretary of ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union, said they would continue their protest till their demands were accepted.The agitating employees are holding regular dharnas outside the residence of Navjot Singh Sidhu and at the Kathunangal toll plaza. Many of the farmer unions had pledged support to the protesting employees and were helping them with logistics.Addressing the protesters, Maha Singh Rori, state president of the Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU), said ministers had failed to get a notification issued even as they had accepted the demands during the meetings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asha-workers-protest-outside-deputy-cms-house-for-hike-in-wages-353086
