23-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Tributes paid to Chaar Sahibzade in Tarn Taran schools||Remembering the great sacrifice of Chaar Sahibzade, different educational institutions organised congregations and pledged to follow their truthful path while facing the challenges of life.Guru Amar Das Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, commemorated the martyrdom of the Chaar Sahibzaade with reverence. Shabad gayan, kavishari and choreography were performed by students. A film was also shown to the students to acquaint them with the sacrifice of the four Sahibzaade.Students of Shah Harbans Singh International Public School, Rani Walah, presented a religious programme dedicated to the martyrs. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-chaar-sahibzade-353421
23-12-2021||---||Rs 13,524-cr NABARD loan scheme released||Amritsar, December 22The district Administration has released the NABARD contingent loan linked scheme of Rs 13,524 crore for the district for fiscal 2022-23.Ranbir Singh Moodhal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development), on Wednesday released Probable Debt Linked Plan (PLP) 2022-23. This document prepared by NABARD for a total contingent loan of Rs 13,524 crore for the border district is prepared for potential credit areas under priority sector. He emphasised on diversification of credit portfolio by banks to encourage new avenues in agriculture and allied sectors. Bankers were guided to focus on the sector and to encourage new entrepreneurs under various government schemes as it plays a vital role in the welfare of the district.Jaskirat Singh, District Development Manager, NABARD said under the investment loan, the agricultural credit should be increased so that capital could be created in the agriculture sector. Banks need to implement various schemes of the government to increase investment credit.The total estimates of PLP for 2022-23 are estimated at Rs 13,524 crore which includes Rs 5,301 crore for farm credit, Rs 521 crore for agricultural infrastructure and Rs 608 crore for agriculture allied activities. The Rs 4,310 crore for micro, small and medium enterprises, Rs 609 crore for export credit, Rs 522 crore for education, Rs 1457 crore for housing, Rs 32 crore for renewable energy, Rs 83 crore for others (SHG /JLG /small loans) and represents an increase of 1.20 percent over 2021-22 estimates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-13-524-cr-nabard-loan-scheme-released-353422
23-12-2021||---||Virat Devgan stakes claim to ticket from North seat||Amritsar, December 22Virat Devgan, son of a Congress councillor Usha Devgan, who is also secretary of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, has staked claim for the party ticket from the North assembly constituency. In a press conference held here on Wednesday he stated that he had applied to the party for a ticket.Amritsar’s North Assembly segment is being represented by sitting congress MLA Sunil Dutti, who had defeated the then BJP candidate Anil Joshi in the 2017 election. After being expelled by BJP, Joshi is now a candidate of the SAD from the north. Similarly, the AAP evaluating it a formidable seat has fielded retired IPS Kunwar Vijay Pratap.On the strong point of his candidature Virat Devgan said he has been involved in social service in the constituency. He pressed in his vehicle that sometimes became an ambulance and sometimes used to deliver books to the needy. During the Covid-19 crisis he ensured delivering door to door ration, solemnized marriages of brides from impoverished families, planted saplings house to house. “With the assistance of MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, I was instrumental in bringing the electricity to Indira Colony.”He said being a sincere party worker it was his right to seek the ticket. Answering a query he said though his mother was elected from a ward situated in the West Vidhan Sabha constituency but he is running a college in the North segment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virat-devgan-stakes-claim-to-ticket-from-north-seat-353423
23-12-2021||---||Smart classrooms for kids with special needs||Amritsar, December 22Pushing for digital transformation of learning for children with special needs, the Pehal Resource Centre, the only government-run school for children with disabilities, has now begun smart classes for its students. The school in Karampura has been working on reforming its faculty and infrastructure since one year and has recently set up smart classrooms on its premises.The school has 127 students in its current session and runs academic as well as vocational courses. Running its smart classes equipped with projectors, listening labs, computer labs, tablets and smartphones, the school had also organised a workshop for faculty training in digital learning softwares for CWSN. “The reforms began during the pandemic, when we had to face challenges in imparting online learning for our students, given their limitations. We have now set up a smart classroom, distributed smartphones to our students through a Centre-State collaboration project where we developed smartphones with speaking and recording softwares for students with visual impairment. We have also trained our faculty in preparing lesson plans in sign language, who record them and share it with students with hearing disability. Our students have been using these smartphones and tablets for learning,” informed Dharminder Gill, coordinator, Pehal Resource Centre.The school also received funds for more infrastructural upgrades. “The department grants up to Rs6 lakh for upgrading smart classes in schools. We have received 25,000 for customised furniture and other equipment alone. Now, we are looking to add to our library,” he said. The school has also been sharing recorded lectures for students with intellectual disabilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-classrooms-for-kids-with-special-needs-353424
23-12-2021||Partap Singh Kairon||Tarn Taran diary: Partap Singh Kairon still alive in politics||A physics enthusiast and role model for studentsZenvir Singh (23), a student of Sewa Devi SD College of Education, Tarn Taran, who is doing his B.Ed, dons many hats. Apart from being a student, he teaches school students, helps his father financially and brother in studies, making him a role model for students. Zenvir is of the view that time had come for students to earn while studying to become independent. He did his masters in physics from Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. His younger brother too is studying in the same university. His father is an employee in the Health Department and mother is a home maker. Zenvir started giving coaching to the school students in physics when he was doing his B.Sc and helped his father financially. He guided his brother too in study. He believes in group discussion to understand different concepts of physics. He is of the view that science can be learnt through practice in real life. His interests are electronic circuits and physical working models in Physics (like stroboscopic effect, gas sensors, audio circuits). He had formed a number of models and did a research project in Gas sensing at GNDU and made working models for their sensor and nanogenerator, that was highly appreciated by all lab members and professors. While participating in university science competitions and he managed to get a spot in top 3 position most of times. After his college hours, he runs coaching academy to earn his expenses for study and research hobby by himself. He really gives strong message to the students to follow. His urges his students to look at the environment from the perspective of science. He wants to set up a physics-cum-chemistry lab in his academy with his earnings.Misuse of power?With Vidhan Sabha elections just round the corner, political parties are leaving no stone unturned in their election campaigns. Leading the pack is the ruling Congress party. The party workers have installed a poster at the main gate of Sri Guru Arjan Dev Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Tarn Taran. The poster carries the photo of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Education Minister Pargat Singh and Tarn Taran MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri. School Principal Ravinder Kaur also managed to find a place in the hoarding. Locals claim that the hoarding is removed after school hours and again hanged at the gate of the school in the morning. Certain rivals of the ruling parties allege that it is the misuse of the power which was favouring a single political party.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partap-singh-kairon-still-alive-in-politics-353425
23-12-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: Sitting out in cold, female health workers are anticipating cozy days ahead||Tribune News serviceAmritsar, December 22It’s been the toughest seven days of life for around 250 female contractual multipurpose health workers (MPHWs) protesting at the toll plaza near Kathunangal on the Amritsar-Pathankot road for better wages and working conditions.The ‘do-or-die’ spirit, the pain of being not recognised for their services and the success of farmers, who have recently returned from Delhi borders after a year of agitation, has helped these workers in continuing with their protest despite the harsh weather conditions.Some of them are accompanied by their husbands and even children. Local farmers have been helping them with logistics, but even then it is not easy to stay out in the open. For protection against the harsh weather, they only have the shed over the toll booths.Amarjit, an agitator, said: “The local farmers and unions have been of immense help. They treat us like we are their family. At least they are not indifferent like other officials and politicians.”She said the local units of farmers’ associations had provided them with quilts and mattresses. The requirement for food and tea are also being taken care of by them.Another protester Suman said: “We will fight till our last breath. We have no other option.” She said she was not ready to return home until her dignity was restored. She said it was unbearable for the first two-three days, but now she feels she was becoming accustomed to the cold and harsh conditions.Sukhbir Kaur, vice-president of the Contractual Multipurpose Health Workers’ Union, said: “The department already has enough regular posts vacant, where contractual workers can be adjusted. Moreover, the 50 per cent financial burden has to be shared by the Central government.” She said the government was just indifferent.The union had a meeting with the Health Minister on Tuesday. “They only have assurances. We have held many such meetings, but nothing comes out of these,” said Sukhbir Kaur, adding that now they have made up their mind and decided to fight to the finish.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fight-to-the-finish-sitting-out-in-cold-they-are-anticipating-cozy-days-ahead-353426
23-12-2021||Tarn Taran||One held with 4 stolen bikes in Tarn Taran||No Covid +ve case reported in distAmritsar: No Covid positive case was reported from the district on Wednesday. The health authorities have reported the recovery of two patients with which the recovery count increased to 45,846. The district at present has a total of five active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-4-stolen-bikes-in-tarn-taran-353427
23-12-2021||---||'EWS quota seats being sold'||Amritsar, December 22Satnam Singh Gill, president, Minorities Welfare Organisation, has written to Santokh Singh Bhalaipura, Baba Bakala MLA, regarding the demand of waiving the fee charged by private, un-aided schools from parents and restoring the quota seats for EWS students.He brought to the attention, the schools who were violating the guidelines under Right to Education Act, 2009.“Director of education had given directions in accordance with the RTE Act that 25 per cent seats in private, un-aided recognised schools will be reserved for students from economically weaker sections (EWS). But there are several schools, who are filling up reserved seats through paid admissions, violating the RTE. I have written to the MLA to take cognizance of the matter and also appealed to direct the administration to file a case against the principals and management of private schools listed in the complaint submitted by the Minority Public Welfare Organisation with regards to the offense of selling quota seats,” Gill said. He said a copy of the complaint letter has also been handed over to the DSP, Baba Bakala.The RTE Act clearly mandates that private unaided schools will have to reserve 25 per cent quota for children from the EWS at entry level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ews-quota-seats-being-sold-353428
23-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar: Bidding on, Rs 46-cr road repair works likely to begin from April||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 22After two unsuccessful tendering efforts, the Municipal Corporation again initiated the e-tendering process of the Rs 46-crore road recarpeting project, for the third time.The senior officials of MC stated that the technical examination is going on and the tendering committee would send the case to the Local Bodies Department for vetting. Earlier, the Local Bodies Department had rejected the case as some conditions of bidding were not followed. With this delay in the announced project the residents have to wait for more than six months, if the Department of Local Bodies give nod to the tendering process after vetting.The Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, (MCA) had initiated the e-tendering process in April this year. The case had sent to the Department of Local Bodies twice but failed to succeed.Sandeep Singh, Executive Engineer, Civil Wing, said, “The bidding process is going on. We will complete the technical examination of bids within week. Then it would be sent for the vetting. The construction of roads may start in April next year”.The MC is spending this amount from its own sources. The residents were expecting that roads would be recarpeted before the elections as the incumbent Congress government would get its credit in the elections. However, it would not be possible to start the road carpeting before the elections.Some of these roads are in a poor condition and some have not been built for the last several years. The roads, including New Kot Mit Singh Road, Temple Colony road , Dairy Complex road, Gobindgarh Fort road, Civil Hospital Road, Guru Harkishan School Road, Janata Colony road, Khazana Gate to Hakima, Bhagtawala to Gilwali, Gilwali to Chattiwind, Sultanwind to Hansli, Hansli to Ghee Mandi, Gilwali to Chattiwind, Bari Gate to Lahori Gate, Court Road , Kachari Chowk to Hartej Hospital, Gumtala Bypass, Race Course Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Guru Gobind Singh Chowk to Power Colony Majitha Road, SSSS Chowk to Hussain Pura, Maqbool Road, Rani Ka Bagh, Sadar Police Station both sides, Bhandari Bridge to Kachari Chowk, Queens Road, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bidding-on-rs-46-cr-road-repair-works-likely-to-begin-from-april-353429
23-12-2021||---||Missing grills along Amritsar's BRTS corridor a cause for concern||Amritsar, December 22The Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor along the GT Road was developed to ease traffic flow and provide easy commute.Five years after its development, the stretch along GT Road remains as chaotic and prone to accidents as ever. One of the many reasons for this is the broken iron grills along the demarcation of BRTS lane hence paving way for trespassing, inter-lane driving and accidents.The bus service here has been restored after the lifting of the lockdown, but with it, the trespassers and misuse of BRTS lane by vehicles other than Metro buses has become a major cause for accidents.The open space left by broken or missing iron grills give freeway to traffic rule violators, who drive inside the BRTS lane at high speed. The probability of accidents increases during the winter season, when visibility is compromised due to fog. Encroachments along the BRTS route and dysfunctional streetlights at several points, too, adds to the problem.The stretch from Chheharta to Pultighar has earlier, too, seen several cases of freak accidents due to missing iron grills and inter-lane driving.An RTI activist from the city had alleged that iron grills worth Rs30 lakh were stolen along the BRTS corridor on this route due to negligence of authorities in the past four years.Yet, the missing grills have not been re-installed. With heavy fog now becoming an everyday occurrence, commuters along the BRTS corridor on GT Road remain vulnerable to more such accidents, in the absence of any check on inter-lane driving.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-grills-along-amritsars-brts-corridor-a-cause-for-concern-353430
23-12-2021||---||Rail roko stir: 24 trains cancelled, passengers a harried lot in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 22As both Amritsar-Delhi and Amritsar-Tarn Taran routes were blocked by farmers, the railway authorities plied some trains on the Amritsar-Jammu railway line track.Most of the group members were women and children. It's a long journey and we will undergo tremendous difficulty if we do not get a train from Jalandhar, where we are headed to by road. Shila Buhir, a member of the group from MaharashtraOn this route, trains were plied from Amritsar to Qadian, Batala, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Kathua and Jammu. Officials of the Ferozepur division said in all, 128 trains suffered on account of the agitation. Of these, 35 mail/express and 24 passenger trains were cancelled and others were either diverted, short-terminated or short-originated.At the local railway station, too, passengers faced harassment due to the cancellation of most trains. Among them was a group of tourists from Maharashtra. A tourist Ramakant said there were 55 persons in the group. After touring Jammu and Kashmir, they had come to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. However, on returning to the station, they were shocked to find that the trains were not plying.Shila Buhir, another member of the group, said: “Most of the group members were women and children. It’s a long journey and we will undergo tremendous difficulty if we do not get a train from Jalandhar, where we are headed to by road.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rail-roko-stir-24-trains-cancelled-passengers-a-harried-lot-in-amritsar-353431
23-12-2021||---||Farmers' rail-roko stir enters Day 3 in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 22Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) continued with their ‘rail roko’ stir near Devidaspura on the third consecutive day on Wednesday.The agitators observed the martyrdom day of two eldest Sahibzadas of 10th Sikh Master — Guru Gobind Singh.KMSC leaders Satnam Singh Pannu and Sarwan Singh Pandher said apart from the ongoing protest sites in Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur, the road block was also set up at Moga and Fazilka railway stations on Wednesday.The KMSC leaders also held a meeting with IG border range, DC Amritsar and SP Amritsar Rural. The farmer leaders said the meeting did not yield any result due to the adamant attitude of the officials.They said the state government under Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was running away from providing jobs and compensations to the kin of farmers, who have died during the agitation at Delhi borders. They also sought ensuring payment of sugarcane dues, increase of sugarcane prices to Rs360 per quintal and complete loan waiver of agriculture sector.Pandher said the agitation would continue till the demands of the farmers and labourers were accepted.Protest on in Tarn Taran tooThe dharnas by farmers associated with two different organisations entered the third day on Wednesday. Two organisations have been fighting against the state government to waive the entire loan of farmers.The workers of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, who were sitting on the rail track at the local railways station arranged kirtan darbar by remembering the martyrdom of Chaar Sahibzadas and performed ardas for the success of the farmers’ agitation. The farmers remained at the dharna sites at night too.Harjinder Singh Shakari, KMSC leader, condemned Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for denying to waive off the loan of farmers. He said the state government had totally failed to fulfil the promises made with farmers and the general masses which include employment to all, unemployment allowance and others at the time of 2017 elections in their manifesto.Meanwhile, workers of Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) staged a dharna in front of the district administration complex (DAC). The agitating farmers locked the doors of the complex on Tuesday.Gurbaj Singh Sidhwan, district president of the organisation, said they have been demanding compensation on the loss of paddy and cotton crop to the farmers and labourers, increasing of sugarcane rate and others demands including roll back of increasing rates on the toll plazas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-rail-roko-stir-enters-day-3-in-amritsar-353432
23-12-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Golden Temple sacrilege suspect cremated||The suspect, who was “beaten to death” allegedly for attempting sacrilege at the Golden Temple on December 18 evening, was cremated after the post-mortem was conducted at the Civil Hospital today.Nonetheless, the DNA of the suspect was preserved for matching if anyone from the deceased’s family approached the authorities. Similarly, the viscera has been collected and will be sent to the Kharar forensic lab. The hospital management had constituted a five-member board which conducted the autopsy. The report will be sent to Government Medical College, Amritsar, and the Kharar lab for further investigation. The whole process was videographed.With no claimant of the body emerging within 72 hours and the biometric technique failing to provide any lead to the police, mystery still shrouds about the identity of the accused. The SIT that was entrusted the task to identify the accused has so far not succeeded to establish the whereabouts of the accused, despite the lapse of two days as assured by Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on December 19. — TNSK’thala case: three days on, no autopsyKapurthala: Three days after the incident of lynching, the autopsy of the body is yet to be conducted. Hence, an FIR on murder charge has not been registered yet as the cause of death is not known. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-sacrilege-suspect-cremated-353400
