24-12-2021||Amritsar||District reports 1 positive case||Gold, cash stolen from templeAmritsar: Some unidentified thieves struck at a temple in Ajnala town and decamped with gold, cash and goods from the temple. The priest at Lakshmi Narain temple claimed that thieves also desecrated the idols of gods and goddess. Several Hindu organisations gathered on the spot and staged protest against the desecration incident. The thieves entered the temple premises by breaking open the doors. They stole two earrings, cash box of gaushala, a motorcycle of the priest and sound system from the temple. Ashwani Kumar Mehta, president of the gaushala said: “We have requested the police to arrest the thieves within two days. We will call for a shutdown of Ajnala Town.” The police officials said they must be some drug addicts who stole the gold and cash. The police have registered a case and initiated the investigation. TNSPolice search bishop’s houseAmritsar: A team of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Delhi Police on Thursday searched the house of a self-styled bishop who was arrested by the wing earlier in a fraud case. Rochus B Sandhu was held for allegedly attempting to fraudulently sell land worth crores of rupees owned by the Delhi Development Authority. The Diocese of Amritsar (DoA) and the Church of North India had hailed his arrest. After procuring his production warrant, the Delhi Police team today brought him and searched his residence in Bishop Compound located on Taylor Road, said Daniel B Das, property manager, DoA, CNI. The EOW team had arrested Sandhu last Friday from the Connaught Place area in Delhi. It said Sandhu had allegedly received Rs3.19 crore as advance for the sale of Rs45 crore property owned by the DDA. He was arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged by Timpy Sabharwal, who alleged that Sandhu and SP Garg had contacted her for selling her the property in question. The complainant later came to know that the duo had no authority to sell the same, he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-reports-1-positive-case-353952
24-12-2021||Amritsar||Shwait Malik condemns blast||Demanding the resignation of CM Charanjit Singh Channi for his poor handling of the law and order situation, Rajya Sabha MP and former BJP state president Shwait Malik on Thursday condemned the blast that took place in the Ludhiana Court Complex claiming one life and leaving several persons injured.“The government has miserably failed to protect the people of the state,” he said, adding that terrorism in Punjab was once again raising its ugly head in the border state. He said the Channi government was solely responsible for the deteriorating law and order situation in Punjab and CM Charanjit Singh Channi should resign on moral grounds. He said criminal elements were shooting people, robbing banks and homes of people.He said the government had failed on every front due to which Punjab was being looted by sand mafia, drug mafia, oil mafia and land mafia. He said traders were being targeted daily. “Punjab had suffered the dark phase of terrorism and the Congress government was repeating the same mistakes,” he said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shwait-malik-condemns-blast-353951
24-12-2021||Amritsar||Martyrdom Day of Char Sahibzaade observed at Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary School, Amritsar||Student gets placedAkash Patial, a pass out student of B.Sc. (IT) of 2021 batch of DAV College has been selected for the post of System and Application Service Associate with a salary package of 3.35 LPA by the reputed IT company Accenture. Congratulating the faculty, Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar extended best wishes to the selected student and further stated that he cleared various online rounds such as aptitude, reasoning and communication skills conducted by the company. Adding to it, he also stated that Akash had also been selected by BYJU for the post of Business Development Associate with salary package of 3 LPA. Principal congratulated Ayush and Kusum Prajapati of the same batch for getting selected in ConQsys IT and HCL respectively. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/martyrdom-day-of-char-sahibzaade-353950
24-12-2021||Amritsar||Beauty with brains: Amritsar's Dr Jaspreet Kaur Sobti bags second runner-up title of Mrs India Earth 2021||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beauty-with-brains-353949
24-12-2021||---||'Women carving niche in today's entrepreneurial ecosystem'||Amritsar, December 23Actor Swara Bhaskar was in Amritsar to present the FICCI FLO Food Awards 2021, by the city chapter of FICCI FLO. Sharing her love for food and her inability to still cook food, Swara said she always looked forward to gorge on the ever-famous Amritsari cuisine, especially the street food.“I have heard a lot about the street food here and this is my third visit to city, although I could never really get an opportunity to stay longer and enjoy all things Amritsari. The first two times I was here were in 2005 and then in 2015 when I crossed through Wagah to go to Lahore to visit a dear friend of mine. And this time I really look forward to try those famous kulchas,” she said.She also said how she was open to the idea of working in a Punjabi film. “I would really love to if someone offers me a Punjabi film.” A big lover of comfort food, she shared how her childhood was mostly about eating homecooked food by her mother.“My mother is an amazing cook, though I am yet to acquire some culinary skills, I really love to gorge on boiled white rice mixed with salt and ghee. That’s my go-to comfort food,” she shared. As she presented the food awards in various categories to winners, she also lauded the efforts of women foodpreneurs, who have managed to grow amid challanges thrown by the pandemic.“My grandmother, who was a homemaker, was an inspiration for us as she had excellent management skills. If given a chance, she would have made a great entrepreneur as managing a large household is not an easy task. She also managed to make money during a difficult phase when my grandfather was not earning. She did that at a time when there was no social media, no marketing platforms, no technological support and when small businesses were not considered good. I believe that women are really changing the entrepreneurial ecosystem.”Manjot Dhillon, chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar, said these food awards were a way to encourage the efforts of home-grown small food businesses that have managed to make their mark. “Among the winners were food entrepreneurs from Ludhiana, Jallandhar and Amritsar. The food and hospitality industry has really gone through a tough time during pandemic and we wanted to laud the efforts of these niche, small yet significant food brands that have not only done well business wise but also offer unique food experience for customers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-carving-niche-in-todays-entrepreneurial-ecosystem-353948
24-12-2021||---||Nurses threaten permanent morcha||Amritsar, December 23Even as the nursing association called off its scheduled protest in Kharar earlier this week after a meeting with CM Charanjit Singh Channi, it has warned of holding an indefinite morcha from December 27 (Monday) if their demands were not accepted.The association said in the meeting with the CM, he had asked senior officials to look into the issue. Raj Bedi Anand, convener of the Punjab Nursing Association, said, “Everybody from the state government was there in the meeting and we had explained our case.” Bedi said the government might try to dilly-dally on the matter, but they were ready to start morcha from Monday. The nurses at Government Medical Colleges, the Civil Hospital, sub-divisional hospitals, PHCs and CHCs across the state had already been on strike since December 7. They boycotted all medical services, causing a great inconvenience to poor people and patients.The major issue of the nurses is that their salaries were decreased as per the new pay commission report. They were also demanded renaming of the cadre, and a special professional allowance.Lakhwinder Kaur, another leader of the association, said, “The employees are getting restless. We have been protesting peacefully and have given notices to the administration prior to each protest.” She said their future course of action would be conducted without giving any notices.Bedi said the government was cheating its employees. “The newly recruited nurses were promised a salary of around Rs 42,000. Now, citing technicalities, they are being paid around Rs 29,000 per month.” She said the employees were not even ready to speak as they were still on probation and could be sacked if they tried to raise the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurses-threaten-permanent-morcha-353947
24-12-2021||Our Correspondent||ASHA workers present memo to DC||Tarn Taran, December 23Leaders of the Joint Front of Asha Workers and Facilitators on the first day of their week-long strike against the state government presented a memorandum of demands to Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh here on Thursday.Seema Sohal, one of the leaders of the front, said the union had been demanding the regularisation of their services, remuneration as per the DC rates, contribution on the lines of Haryana and other states. The front warned that in case their demands were not met they would stage a dharna in front of the residence of Health Minister OP Soni on December 31. The leader said the workers were working on a meagre remuneration for years and the government was not taking it seriously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asha-workers-present-memo-to-dc-353946
24-12-2021||---||Conjoined twins Sohna-Mohna excited to get jobs in PSPCL||Amritsar, December 23Conjoined twins Sohna- Mohna have officially joined their jobs at Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). They have joined as Regular T Mate (RTM) and will be posted in city. The two today shared their excitement on working at PSPCL and finally achieving the dream of becoming self-reliant. “We are grateful to our family at Pingalwara that helped us live a life of dignity. We are looking forward to do well at our new job,” said Sohna. The twins are ward of Pingalwara and were approached by PSPCL officials, who wanted to recruit them given their qualifications. They have passed 10th from Bhagat Puran Singh Adarsh School and later did a diploma in electrician from ITI. They are currently also pursuing diploma from Government Polytechnic College. “Their job at PSPCL will further boost their confidence and hone their skills,” informed Dr Inderjit Kaur, director, Pingalwara. They will be getting a salary of Rs 20k initially.Recently, the two have also registered as separate voters by the Election Commission and also declared as an icon for young voters.Sohna and Mohna were brought to Pingalwara in 2003 after they were abandoned by their biological parents and the institution has ever since took care of their education and well-being. They thanked Pingalwara for everything that they have achieved together.Meanwhile, Dr Inderjit also shared that Pingalwara has raised the issue of orphaned children during pandemic and providing for them. “Many children have been orphaned in India due Covid 19, and they require care and education that must be arranged on priority by the respective governments. They should get admission in schools through special arrangement and reservation in job. The issue of providing for orphaned children was also raised by the Pingalwara in the last elections but no political leaders paid any attention to it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/twins-sohna-mohna-excited-to-get-jobs-353945
24-12-2021||Long heavy coats and gumboots are out of the closet as it has become a fad for young people and party goers. Piles of dry logs are back on streets and bonfires are already lit to beat the cold. It’s winter time and people seem to be enjoying the weather. For those who cannot afford to stay indoors||WINTER  HAS COME!||For daily wage earners — rickshaw pullers, vegetable sellers, manual workers — there is no rest despite the bone-chilling cold and a free-for-all roadside bonfire lit during the early day is a blessing in disguise. The intense cold has surely helped hosiery traders, as the sale of warm clothing has increased. Special weekly bazaars are being set up alongside roads to sell winter clothes.Faith beats coldThe cold wave has failed to beat the faith of believers, as is evident from devotees taking a dip in cold water at Darbar Sahib early morning every day even though the mercury is dipping with each passing day. The hazy look caused by fog not only impacts visibility but also adds a layer of mysticism, especially if you are at a spiritual place.Chal DhannoThis horse cart owner is out on the road early in the morning with a warm scarf wrapped around his face to keep the cold at bay.Adding warmthA bonfire surely offers more comfort than room heaters. In the old city areas, bonfires in localities are a common site.Sunbathing a luxurySitting or lying in the sun is a luxury not many can afford in this fast-paced life. On a sunny day, parks and grounds at religious places are replete with such scenes where people are lazily basking in the winter warmth.Agriculture cannot waitWhile the temperature is too low to even venture out, farmers cannot ignore irrigating their crops. Interestingly, irrigation helps saplings in fighting the ill-effects of frost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/winter-has-come-353943
24-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Cong flayed for booking Bikram Majithia in drug case||The district SAD leadership on Thursday condemned the registration of a criminal case against the party’s senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia. SAD leaders warned the Congress-led state government and the officials involved in registering a false case against Majithia to face legal action.Former MLAs Prof Virsa Singh Valtoha and MLA Harmit Singh Sandhu and other leaders said as the state government itself was stating that during the last four-and-a-half-year rule of Capt Amarinder Singh the state government failed to resolve public issues. “The Congress government had registered the case just to divert the attention of the people from the real issues and cover its lapses,” alleged the SAD leaders.They said the Congress-led state government had violated the norms in registering the case. They said SAD had the chalked out a programme to stage a dharna in the district headquarters here on Friday against the move of the Congress government.The leaders called it a political vendetta of the Congress, including Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu. The leaders said SAD would challenge the case in court. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-flayed-for-booking-majithia-in-drug-case-353933
24-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||ECHS scam: SIT raids pvt hospital, seizes records||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 23Members of Special Investigating team probing the ECHS scam sealed the records of a prominent private hospital located on the main GT Road here on Thursday while taking the owner of the hospital into custody for investigation.It has been learnt that the team took him to hospital’s Pathankot branch.A week ago, considering the seriousness and magnitude of the incident, in which signatures of Army officials were forged under Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme along with fake stamps and seals on fabricated prescription slips and documents, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had entrusted the probe of SIT headed by Special DGP Prabodh Kumar.It was alleged that the huge amounts of government funds of Army and Ministry of Defence were transferred under the scheme by forging documents and fake patients.The High Court also directed him to investigate two FIRs registered at Amritsar Cantonment police station registered on the complaint of a senior Army official in October 2020 and Shahpur Kandi police in Pathankot in April this year. While fixing January 17, 2022, as the next date of hearing, the court asked the SIT to submit its state report within a month. Several hospitals were de-empanelled by the government following two cheating cases.The matter reached the court after Narinder Kumar filed an anticipatory bail plea in fraud and forgery case in Shahpur Kandi, Pathankot in April this year. The case was registered after hospital authorities had filed a complaint alleging that they got a complaint from Army authorities regarding forging of signatures of Army officials on treatment documents of certain patients under the ECHS scheme. The hospital pointed finger at Narinder Kumar and another employee Abhinandan Thakur.But Narinder, the petitioner, alleged that investigating agency worked under the influence of hospital authorities due to its deep pockets. However, hospital authorities blamed two employees.On Thursday, SIT members raided the hospital premises and remained there for over an hour and seized computers and files regarding treatment of ex-servicemen from Amritsar hospital and from its branch in Pathankot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/echs-scam-sit-raids-pvt-hospital-seizes-records-353932
24-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||High alert in Amritsar city post blast in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 23Following the blast at the District Courts Complex in Ludhiana, which claimed one life and left several persons injured, the city police on Thursday carried out a search operation in the entire court complex area here, besides strengthening security.The police also carried out search operations at different sensitive points, including the railway station, inter-state bus terminus, shopping malls, etc.In the court complex, the police team was led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) Jugraj Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Sarabjit Singh Bajwa and other cops led the search operation. A dog squad was also pressed into service to comb the area.Later, they held a meeting with members of the Amritsar Bar Association headed by advocate Vipin Dhand, which pointed out at certain shortcomings in security provided at the highly sensitive court complex. They pointed out that unidentified civilians whose kin were facing cases also entered the court complex with vehicles which were parked outside the court complex. There were several entry and exit points leading to the court complex, which remains unguarded. The association urged no civilian vehicles barring lawyers should be allowed to enter the complex.They also checked the security equipment, including metal detectors, installed at different entry and exit points of the court complex.The ADCP assured them of addressing all the shortcomings immediately and take appropriate measures to ensure a fool-proof security system at the complex. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said the police were already on alert following the Ludhiana court complex blast and a red alert had been sounded. “Besides the court complex, search operations were also carried out at other sensitive points, including the railway station, the interstate bus terminus, different shopping mall, etc,” he said, adding that officials would remain in the field to ensure property security in the holy city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/high-alert-in-city-post-blast-in-ludhiana-353931
24-12-2021||GS Paul||Golden Temple sacrilege attempt: SIT on job to trace identity of accused||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 23The identity of the slain accused who attempted sacrilege in the Golden Temple on December 18 could not be ascertained yet.The SIT constituted by the state government under DCP (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal has regularly been scrutinising the movement of the accused through CCTV footage and interrogating local residents around the Golden Temple.A nightwatchman of Dharam Singh Market has recognised the accused and told the police that he slept in the varandah of the market on December 17 night with stray dogs and took an abandoned blanket over him.In one of the CCTV footage of December 17, he was spotted loitering in the streets near the Golden Temple and covered himself apparently with the same blanket.The same morning, he visited the Golden Temple and remained inside the complex all day long. The next day, he committed the sacrilege attempt at the shrine.Police officials said the CCTV footage of December 15 was also being procured from the ISBT and railway station to know the mode of transport he used to land here.The accused was cremated yesterday after the post-mortem was conducted under the supervision of a panel of doctors. Since his fingerprints did not match the biometric database, his DNA was procured to know about his genetic instructions, or any claimant approaches.He never carried any identification document, when he was caught and later was beaten to death allegedly by the sangat on the shrine complex. On the other hand, the SGPC has appealed the electronic media to refrain from the telecast of the video clip pertaining to the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple that occurred on December 18 evening.Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, additional secretary, SGPC, said the sentiments of the Sikh sangat (community) were being hurt every time after seeing the clips of the viral videos by the television channels during their debates related to the unfortunate incident of the sacrilege.“The repeat playing of clips by TV channels is hurting the minds of the Sikh community. The SGPC has no objection to the channels discussing this issue, but it is not appropriate to play the clips over and over again, as it is related to the sentiments of the sangat,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sit-on-job-to-trace-identity-of-accused-353930
24-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Region's double connect with Bollywood movie '83||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 23As the much-awaited Bollywood movie ’83 is set to be screened in cinema halls tomorrow, Jalandhar residents recall that at least two cricketers who were a part of the historic event when the Indian Cricket Team won the World Cup for the first time in 1983 had a connection with this region.Among the squad was Balwinder Sandhu, a native of Mattewal village of Amritsar, and Mohinder Amarnath, who hails from Gopipur village of Kapurthala. While Sandhu’s role will be played by actor Ammy Virk, Amarnath’s portrayal will be brought forth by actor Saqib Saleem.Sandhu still has the regional connect as his sister Paramjit Kaur Cheema resides in the Ladhewali area here. Elated over the release of the movie on Friday, Cheema said: “I wish I could have watched the movie tomorrow but owing to certain engagements, I will be away. But I will definitely go to the theatre this weekend to revive those old memories when my brother had come home winning the cup 38 years ago and the whole country acknowledged him as the hero of the triumph, especially when he bowled Gorden Greenidge in the finals.”Cheema said: “Our paternal house was situated in Amritsar, but our maternal grandmother hailed from Patti. Our father was a writer and he had moved to Mumbai, where we all were raised. But my marriage brought me to back to Punjab. My brother, too, is set to have a new connect with the region with his younger daughter who will soon get married to a family from Jalandhar.”Sandhu’s brother-in-law Sajjan Singh Cheema, who was the Captain of the Indian basketball team, retired as SSP and is currently AAP leader from Sultanpur Lodhi, too, shared his excitement: “I, too, intend to spare some time from my political engagements to watch Sandhu’s film.”He said: “Other than Sandhu, even Mohinder Amarnath who was in the squad hails from Kapurthala. His grandfather Nanak Chand ran a shop in the village and is no more. I met Mohinder twice. His Gopipur village was just adjoining my native village — Dabulian. Both villages earlier had a common panchayat and gave three cricketers (Lala Amarnath, his sons Mohinder Amarnath and Surinder Amarnath) and four-five international cagers, including me, my brother Balkar Cheema and cousin Kuldeep Cheema.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/regions-double-connect-with-83-353903
