25-12-2021||Amritsar||One more tests positive in Amritsar district||Teen gang-raped, Six nominatedTarn Taran: A school-going girl was gang-raped three days ago for which six persons have been nominated. The three accused include two brothers and the rest of them are yet to be identified. The accused have been identified as Akashdeep Singh, his brother Karanbir Singh and Gurdas Singh of Shahbazpur village. The victim recorded her statement with Sub-Inspector Baljit Kaur at the Sadar police station. The victim said she was on her way to the school on December 22 (Wednesday) when the accused took her to an abandoned kothi at some undisclosed destination. The six accused committed the crime and deserted her midway. Sub-Inspector Baljit Kaur said the victim was being medically examined. She said she was unaware of the arrest of the accused as she was on leave on Friday. The accused has been been booked under Sections 376-D, 342 of the IPC and the POCSO Act. OCTwo held for harassing minorAmritsar: The city police have arrested a man identified as Sukhwinder Singh and his friend Jobanjit Singh for allegedly harassing his minor niece sexually. The accused also allegedly tried to throw acid on the victim. Her mother, a paralysis patient, raised an alarm following which people arrived there and rescued the duo while catching the two accused who were later handed over to the police. The police have registered a case under Sectiond 354, 506 of the IPC against them. The complainant told the police that after her husband’s death, the accused started harassing them. She said she suffered a paralytic attack due to this. She alleged that the Sukhwinder used to abuse them and harass her daughter. The police said he was allegedly an addict. The accused was produced in the court. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-more-tests-positive-in-dist-354332
25-12-2021||---||1 held with country-made pistol||Amritsar, December 24The Amritsar rural police have arrested one person with illegal weapon, while his accomplice managed to escape while firing in the air from Rampura Chowk village here on Thursday.The accused who was arrested has been identified as Harwinder Singh of Ekalgadda village, while his accomplices who absconded from the spot was identified as Manpreet Singh of Vairowal village in Tarn Taran.ASI Sandeep Singh, investigating officer, said the police team had put a checkpoint at Rampura village, when it signalled an I-20 car to stop. The car driver instead of stopping it, reversed the vehicle which got stuck.While Manpreet fled away after firing, the police arrested Harwinder from the spot. He said the police confiscated a country-made pistol and two bullets from him. Investigations revealed that Manpreet was also wanted in a firing case registered in Ranjit Avenue police station area in July this year. He was yet to be arrested in the case.Sandeep Singh said raids were on to nab Manpreet, while a case under Section 336 of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act was registered against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-held-with-country-made-pistol-354331
25-12-2021||Amritsar||Katoch Shield: Amritsar score 188 on Day 2||Patiala spinners bowled Amritsar out for 188 on the second day of the Katoch Shield Cricket Tournament. Aryaman took five wickets for 67 runs while Mayank took four wickets off 25 runs. Riding on the knocks by Abhishek Sharma (65) and Vinay Chaudhry (35), Amritsar posted a score of 188 runs. Patiala had amassed 360 runs in first innings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asr-score-188-on-day-2-354330
25-12-2021||---||Amid teachers' strike, GNDU postpones B Ed (sem II) exams||Amritsar, December 24The examinations of BEd semester II (Theory) scheduled to be held from January 3 to January 17 now stand postponed until further orders.GNDU has announced the decision to postpone all scheduled examinations indefinitely, due to the ongoing strike by college and university teachers against the non-implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission.With no immediate suspension of the strike by teachers, all academic classes have been called off for the last three weeks.The teachers are not available for exam duties and conduct of the examination is only likely after any resolution is found between teachers and state government. The entire situation of education bandh has put the students in a fix as delay in semester examinations, especially for the seventh semester students would impact their practical training and process to apply for further studies.Meanwhile, GNDU authorities remain hopeful that the matter would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-teachers-strike-gndu-postpones-b-ed-sem-ii-exams-354329
25-12-2021||---||Baby show enthrals audience||Amritsar, December 24Shri Ram Ashram Public School organised ‘A Baby Show’ on on its campus with a lot of zeal and enthusiasm. Principal Vinodita Sankhyan extended a warm welcome to parents and introduced the guests.The event commenced with the chanting of mantras. Around 200 parents with their tiny tots aging between 1 to 6 participated in the show and showcased their talent.There were many exciting and fun loving competitions for the babies. The most interesting contest of the show was Baby Ramp Walk in which beautifully dressed, lovely and innocent children grabbed the attention of audience and left them spellbound.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baby-show-enthrals-audience-354328
25-12-2021||---||CME dwells on radiation therapy in cancer treatment||Amritsar, December 24As many as 30 doctors from the city attended a CME (Continuing Medical Education) on Radiation therapy in cancer treatment at a hotel here on Thursday. The CME was organised by Max Hospital, Mohali in association with Manav Adhikar Sangharsh Committee.Speaking during the Continuing Medical Education, Dr Sajal Kakkar, associate director of radiation oncology at Max said that cancer is a growing disease burden in India and worldwide and one of the leading causes of mortality in the country.At present, there are more than a million cancer cases in India and 25.3 lakh new cases of cancer are estimated to occur by 2025, he informed.However, numerous advancements in cancer care and early detection can significantly improve the outcome of the disease. Majority of our population is not able to avail the benefits of these advancements due to lack of knowledge and myths associated with the disease, he said.He further said the radiation therapy plays a pivotal role in the treatment of cancer. Approximately, two-third of cancer patients need radiation therapy during the course of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cme-dwells-on-radiation-therapy-354327
25-12-2021||Amritsar||Farmers’ blockade: Amritsar railway station wears deserted look||With the railway blockade of the farmers entering fifth day on Friday, the Amritsar Railway station wore a deserted look as most of the trains were off track. The station saw some activity for brief moments when four pairs of trains were plied on the Amritsar-Jammu railway line. One of these trains was between Amritsar and Katra, and three were between Amritsar and Pathankot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-rly-station-wears-deserted-look-354326
25-12-2021||Amritsar||Motorcycle rally of  BRO jawans reaches city||A motorcycle rally organised by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) reached Amritsar on the occasion of ‘75th Independence Amrit Ka Mahotsav ‘being celebrated to mark 75 years of independence of the country.The rally started from Delhi and reached the Golden Gate Amritsar via Rajasthan and various places. The bike rally at Golden Gate was warmly welcomed by Indian Army and GREF personnel. Leading the rally, Major Subhash and Vijay Chopra said that the main objective of the rally was to spread the message of integrity, unity and peace in the country.He said that 75 bike riders would cover 20,000 km in about 75 days. He said wherever they were going, they were also educating the children about Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Road Safety Campaign etc. with the institutions of the city. Young people are also being encouraged to join the army and serve the country.He said they were paying homage to to the martyrs wherever there were memorials. The rally then reached Sachkhand Sri Harmandir Sahib and after paying obeisance left for Attari Border. He said they would leave for Delhi via Attari border on Saturday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/motorcycle-rally-of-bro-jawans-reaches-city-354325
25-12-2021||Jalandhar||X'Mas celebrated at Senior Study II||havan at Bhavans SL Public SchoolBhavans SL Public School organised a Gayatri havan on the 19th death anniversary of PD Kumar, Founder Chairman of Bhavans Amritsar Kendra on Friday. Chairman of school Avinash Mohindru and Director, Principal Dr Anita Bhalla along with other members of the Management graced the ceremonial event. All students and teachers attended havan with religious fervor. After Ganesh Vandana, ‘Om’ and ‘Shanti Mantras’ were chanted in the assembly for 108 times. Chairman Avinash Mohindru, in his address, paid tribute to the gracious soul and underlined his sense of generosity for the upliftment of the mankind. He also threw light on his distinguished character and motivated students to imbibe ‘Spiritual thoughts’ in their lives to get the fruits of their karmas.Urdu training classesDepartment of Languages, Punjab, has introduced new Urdu classes that will be taught free of cost by the district Languages Department. The admission for these classes is open for all age groups and the classes will be held at the District Language Office, situated at SSSS School building at Majitha Road. Starting January 2022, this course is of six months duration. Classes for this course will be held on official working days from 5.15 pm to 6.15 pm. Admission to the new class will continue till January 10, 2022. Admission forms for this course can be obtained from district language office on all working days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/xmas-celebrated-at-senior-study-ii-354324
25-12-2021||---||Adhere to Election Commission guidelines, political parties told||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 24The district election office has directed political parties to adhere to the Election Commission guidelines during the election process.District Electoral Officer Gurpreet Singh Khaira directed the representatives of all political parties contesting the Assembly elections to ensure strict adherence to the instructions issued by the Election Commission.In a meeting with the representatives of all parties on Friday, he clarified that it was imperative for political parties to keep in touch with the District Election Office during elections so that the instructions given by the Commission could be strictly implemented.He suggested that for this purpose, rightly qualified persons should be posted in their offices who can inform the contestants about every instruction of the commission and can send any information requested by the commission immediately.There was no delay in the work of the Commission so appointing a suitable person in the office was urgent. He directed the officers of the polling staff to interact with the district heads of all parties and get their names, posts, phone numbers, email-ids and postal addresses concerned from them so that the election office could maintain direct contact with each party.Khaira said keeping in view the increasing number of corona positive cases, enough open spaces should be earmarked for election rallies, so that if there was any instruction regarding Covid, it would be easier to implement.He strictly asked political parties not to indulge in putting up posters in public places without permission. He assured full cooperation of the local election office, but be in accordance with the instructions of the Commission.Among others additional district electoral officer Ruhi Dugg, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh, election tehsildar Rajinder Singh were present during the meeting.Meanwhile, Rajan Mehra, Amritsar North’s Electoral Registration Officer-cum-Assistant Commissioner State Tax, flagged off the Sweep Rath, a mobile van to create awareness among voters at prominent places in different areas of the district. The general electorates will be made aware about the operation of this voting machine through various apps.Facilities for senior citizens, voters with special needsTo give every citizen equal opportunity to vote in the forthcoming Assembly election, special arrangements for senior citizens, differently abled to reach the polling booths would be made, said District Election Officer Gurpreet Singh Khaira in a special meeting with the polling staff held here on Friday. There are about 14,000 voters with special needs and about 40,000 elderly voters in the district. They would be offered to and fro service from the polling booths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adhere-to-election-commission-guidelines-political-parties-told-354323
25-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar: No headway in Vishesh Gupta murder case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 24Karandeep Singh, the prime accused in Vishesh Gupta murder case, has a criminal case of car theft registered against him at local Cantonment police station here. The case was registered against him two years ago.Besides Karandeep, Kashi, a resident of Kashmir, was among four persons booked in the case. The duo was arrested and a stolen car was recovered from them at that time, the police said.The police have failed to make any arrest in the murder so far though teams were raiding different parts in Himanchal Pradesh after getting a tip-off that he was hiding there.The police have issued a look-out circular against Karandeep to ensure that he does not escape to a foreign country.According to information, Gupta’s murder was the handiwork of supari killers. He was shot at by two unidentified bike-borne persons 10 days ago and he succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Noida.The police had booked Karandeep Singh of Khat Khokhar area in Gurdaspur and his unidentified accomplices in this regard. The investigations carried out so far reveal that the perpetrators’ actual target was Shivam Gupta, cousin of the deceased. Shivam was engaged to a girl in Pathankot area, who allegedly had an affair with Karandeep. Karandeep had approached Shivam’s family and asked them to reject the proposal, while issuing threats. He later apologised before the police and assured not to indulge in such acts again.The case in a nutshellThe perpetrators’ actual target was Shivam Gupta, cousin of the deceased. Shivam was engaged to a girl in Pathankot area, who allegedly had an affair with Karandeep. Karandeep had approached Shivam’s family and asked them to reject the proposal, while issuing threats. He later apologised before the police and assured not to indulge in such acts again. However, on December 11, Shivam left the shop an hour earlier. The shooters reportedly, mistook Vishesh as Shivam and shot at him. He said the police informed that Karan allegedly hired some contract killers who entered in Punjab on December 10. They were provided weapon and bike for the crime here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-headway-in-vishesh-murder-case-354322
25-12-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Region's double connect with '83||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 24As the much-awaited Bollywood movie ’83 screened in cinema halls on Friday, residents recall how at least two cricketers, who were a part of the historic event when the Indian Cricket Team won the World Cup for the first time in 1983, had a connection with this region.Among the squad was Balwinder Sandhu, a native of Mattewal village of Amritsar, and Mohinder Amarnath, who hails from Gopipur village of Kapurthala. While Sandhu’s role will be played by actor Ammy Virk, Amarnath’s portrayal will be brought forth by actor Saqib Saleem.Sandhu still has the regional connect as his sister Paramjit Kaur Cheema resides in the Ladhewali area in Jalandhar. Elated over the release of the movie on Friday, Cheema said: “I wish I could have watched the movie on Friday as owing to certain engagements, I will be away. But I will definitely go to the theatre this weekend to revive those old memories when my brother had come home winning the cup 38 years ago and the whole country acknowledged him as the hero of the triumph, especially when he bowled Gordon Greenidge in the finals.”Cheema said: “Our paternal house was situated in Amritsar, but our maternal grandmother hailed from Patti. Our father was a writer and he had moved to Mumbai, where we all were raised. But my marriage brought me to back to Punjab. My brother, too, is set to have a new connect with the region with his younger daughter who will soon get married to a family from Jalandhar.”Sandhu’s brother-in-law Sajjan Singh Cheema, who was the Captain of the Indian basketball team, retired as SSP and is currently AAP leader from Sultanpur Lodhi, too, shared his excitement: “I, too, intend to spare some time from my political engagements to watch Sandhu’s film.”He said: “Other than Sandhu, even Mohinder Amarnath who was in the squad hails from Kapurthala. His grandfather Nanak Chand ran a shop in the village and is no more. I met Mohinder twice. His Gopipur village was just adjoining my native village — Dabulian. Both villages earlier had a common panchayat and gave three cricketers (Lala Amarnath, his sons Mohinder Amarnath and Surinder Amarnath) and four-five international cagers, including me, my brother Balkar Cheema and cousin Kuldeep Cheema.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/regions-double-connect-with-83-354321
25-12-2021||---||Amritsar Improvement Trust auction turns flop show, date extended||Amritsar, December 24In a major embarrassment to the AIT, the much-hyped auction of 110 commercial and residential sites by the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) turned into a flop show as the online tendering site went down during the last hour here on Thursday evening.On the other hand, AIT Chairman Damandeep Singh claimed that land mafia managed to disrupt the government site to pool the properties.A large number of applicants, who participated in bidding, complained of non-functional “tender-wizard”, tendering site. Late evening, Damandeep Singh, Chairman called that those faced any issue file their written complaint at his office.Today around 33 applicants filed their complaints regarding the disruption of tendering site. The office of the AIT Chairman sends all the complaints to the Secretary, Local Bodies.“After receiving the complaint, the report was sent to the head office in Chandigarh. They took an immediate decision on this. Now, the bidding time has been extended by three days. Online bidding is rescheduled on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. It would be started from where the bid was closed after the site went down. It will be started again from there,” he said. Owing to the loss of connectivity with the bidding site due to server breakdown, revenue of the AIT witnessed a sharp decline as the trust officials were expecting a revenue of Rs 150 crore from the sale of properties. But it was reduced to Rs 70 crore.Now, with the extension in bidding time there is hope that the AIT would collect more than Rs 100 crore.Meanwhile, RTI activist Suresh Sharma wrote to the Chief Minister demanding a probe into what led to disruption and file a case under the IT Act for disruption of the bidding portal against officials concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ait-auction-turns-flop-show-date-extended-354320
25-12-2021||---||Aided-college managements say no to help in managing affairs||Amritsar, December 24The office-bearers of the Non-Government Colleges Management Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh (GCMF) are at loggerheads with the state government’s higher education department and the DPI over the working of the aided colleges.They decided in principle not to call the government nominees in the meeting of managing committees as proposed by the department. A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting held by management of aided colleges of Amritsar and Jalandhar.“The new proposals are highly condemnable and the decisions are being announced by the DPI and the Education Department without any consultation with the stakeholders, which are the managements of these colleges,” said RMS Chhina, president, GCMF. The private aided colleges are acting as an extended arm of the state government imparting education to more than 80 per cent students of the state, he added.Terming the decision as an unnecessary interference, he said in no case an appointee who is much junior in status would be tolerated with voting rights and veto powers. The members opined that already three government agencies audited the accounts of the colleges, besides their own internal as well as external audit by the qualified chartered accountants (CAs).The GCMF stated that they did not want any confrontation with the authorities of higher education, but if need be they would not shy from taking extreme steps, including closure of the colleges and responsibility for the loss of education of the students would lie with the department of higher education.The GCMF said if the Secretary, Higher Education, and the DPI Department are hell bent on changing the procedure of selection. It must issue the appointments and bear the burden of the salaries and the retrial benefits of the teachers of the colleges.Demanding a timely release of pending grants by the DPI, they said the government was contributing only 95 per cent of the deficit of the salary grants and not total budgetary provisions of the colleges. They sought immediate release of the pending post matric scholarship amounts of the colleges for SC students in one instalment and restoration of 95 per cent grant-in-aid scheme as at present the government was contributing only 75 per cent of the salary grants of aided posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aided-college-mgmts-say-no-to-help-in-managing-affairs-354319
25-12-2021||Amritsar||FIR against Bikram Majithia: SAD, BSP demonstrate outside top cop's office||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-bsp-demonstrate-outside-top-cops-office-354311
25-12-2021||---||Narrow escape for transporter's four security guards as miscreants open fire at Jandiala Guru grain market||Amritsar, December 24Four unidentified persons opened fired at security guards deputed at a transporter’s office at the Jandiala Guru grain market in Gehri Mandi village here on the intervening night of December 22 and 23.The police have registered a case of murder bid and under the Arms Act against unidentified assailants, while further probe was on to identify the suspects.Partap Singh, one of the security guards, said he works at Malli Road Carrier/ MK Road Carrier office at Jandiala Guru grain market. He said he and other security guards including Sardara Singh, Amarjit Singh and Amrik Singh were on duty, when four unidentified persons with faces covered came around 1.30am. He said two of them had pistols and they fired at them. He said he narrowly escaped. They ran and hid themselves behind the shops. He said the accused came near the office and started calling out the name of the owner Navtej Singh, alias Malli. He said they were using abusive language against him. They threatened to kill him challenging them to approach any police official, as they did not care. Later, they fled away in the car.SI Davinder Singh, investigating officer, said following the statement of Partap Singh, a case under Section 307, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Section 25/27/54/59 of the Arms Act was registered against four unidentified assailants. He said personal enmity could be the reason behind the incident, but further investigations were under progress to identify the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/narrow-escape-for-transporters-four-security-guards-as-miscreants-open-fire-354310
25-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Postal Dept fined for stealing electronic gadgets after 7 yrs||Amritsar, December 24Seven years after an e-commerce trader suffered huge losses after electronic goods parcelled through Speed Post were stolen, the court has decided in his favour and asked the Postal Department to either return the electronics goods or pay the amount to the petitioner.Complainant Randeep Singh Arora, director of Ever Onwards Private Limited, had alleged that around 60 per cent of the parcels that he had sent to customers were stolen on the way thereby causing huge loss to the company. The parcels were sent through Speed Post service of the Department of Posts. The incident had not only caused financial losses to the company, but also brought a bad name to him, he had pointed out.He said his company had sent around 55 parcels consisting of mobile phones, electronic gadgets and accessories, including power banks and CCTV security system. He said 32 of these returned empty thereby causing a loss of Rs2.5 lakh to the company.Vishav Gupta, Civil Judge junior division, in the orders passed on November 26, said no rebuttal evidence despite many opportunities. Hence, the case stands closed by order. He ordered that the plaintiff was entitled to recover Rs2.69 lakh plus Rs9,770 besides delivery charges of the lost 32 articles along with 6 per cent interest per annum from the date of return of empty parcels till its realisation. Arora got the copy of the orders two days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/postal-dept-fined-for-stealing-electronic-gadgets-after-7-yrs-354309
25-12-2021||Amritsar/Gurdaspur||Punjab's Channi govt weak, unstable: Arvind Kejriwal||AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal today said the Ludhiana bomb blast and the recent ‘sacrilege’ attempts at the Golden Temple and Kapurthala could be executed as the Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government was weak and unstable.Lashing out at the government, he said, “If the conspirators and masterminds of the 2015 sacrilege incident were brought to book, no one would have dared to do the same at one of the holiest places. Similarly, exemplary action in the Maur bomb blast would have averted incidents like the bomb blast in Ludhiana.”Taking a dig at CM Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on the Majithia issue, he said, “They’ve filed one FIR against one person in the last five years. But they are glorifying it like they have destroyed the whole drug network in Punjab. It is just an election stunt.” In Gurdaspur, Kejriwal said he would take out mediocrity that at present was deeply embedded in the Punjab Police and instead bring in meritocracy. He addressed a gathering in favour of Raman Bahl, the party candidate from the Gurdaspur seat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-govt-weak-unstable-kejriwal-354097
