26-12-2021||Amritsar||Iron trader robbed of Rs22L||Ration depot holder bookedAmritsar: Ajnala police have booked a ration depot holder, identified as Wazir Singh of Dalla Rajputa village, for allegedly bungling government wheat. He was booked by the police following a tip-off though he along with the driver of the truck in which the bungled government wheat was laden fled the spot when the police team headed by ASI Sukhjit Singh raided. The ASI said a case under Section 409 of the IPC (criminal breach of trust) was registered against Wazir Singh. He said the wheat laden in the truck was yet to be weighed. It is apparently around 25 quintals, but the exact weight would be ascertained after weighing it. He said the police got specific information that he was misappropriating the government wheat meant to be distributed under the atta-dal scheme. TNS52-yr-old ASI dies of heart attackAmritsar: Tarn Taran: Baldeep Singh (52), an ASI posted at the local bus adda police post, died of a cardiac attack here on Saturday. ASI Gajjan Singh, in-charge of the bus adda police post, said the victim deceased ASI Baldeep Singh after performing his duty at a farmers’ dharna site on railways track in the morning was returning home when he complained of chest pain. He was admitted to private hospital and later was shifted to a hospital in Amritsar when he died. The police have lodged a report under Section 174 of the CrPC. The post-mortem was conducted at the local civil hospital on Saturday. TNSTwo more test positive in distAmritsar: With two positive cases reported on Saturday, the total count of cases reached 47,455 in the district which also reported recovery of one patient with which the recovery count has reached 45,848. The district at present has a total of seven active cases. Meanwhile, 2,178 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Saturday. Of these, 589 received the first dose of the vaccine and 1,589 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iron-trader-robbed-of-22l-354622
26-12-2021||---||4 robbers nabbed, one absconding||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 25Acting on a tip-off, Chatiwind police arrested four robbers while one of their accomplices managed to escape from the spot here on Friday.Those arrested were identified Gulsher Singh of Wadali Dogra village, Vicky of Rakh Jheeta village, Jashanpreet Singh of Manawala Kalan and Germanjit Singh of Guruwali. Their accomplice Jugraj Singh of Rajewal village had fled away from the scene after dodging the raiding police party.ASI Gurbaksh Singh said during patrolling, the police team got a tip-off that the accused had formed a gang and used to snatch and rob people, besides indulging in drug peddling. They were also hooked to drugs. The informer told that equipped with sharp-edged and blunt weapons, they were hiding near Jheeta Kalan village drain and would plan to commit some crime. During a raid, the police recovered an axe, a sword, a baseball and a bike from their possession.Gurbaksh Singh said they were produced in a court, which remanded them in police custody. Raids were on to nab absconding Jugraj Singh. ASI said probe was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-robbers-nabbed-one-absconding-354620
26-12-2021||---||Dy CM opens ayurveda de-addiction centre in city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 25The state’s first ayurvedic yoga and de-addiction centre was inaugurated at Verka here on Saturday. Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni who attended the inaugural event said the centre would help addicts shun drugs using ayurvedic techniques and medicines.Soni said the government was committed to providing better health facilities to people. He said beside the use of allopathic medicines, it was making efforts for the promotion of ayurveda.He added that 24 ayurvedic dispensaries, besides an ayurveda health clinic in the Civil Hospital, were providing services to public.Earlier in the day, Soni flagged off five awareness vans to create awareness about Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana. He said under this scheme, 30,98,873 people from all over the state had been covered and an amount of Rs 1,201 crore spent.He added that the Central Government had included 14,76,924 beneficiaries in the scheme, but the Punjab Government had included 30,98,873 more beneficiaries in this scheme so that maximum number of people could benefit from it.He said that over 900 government and private hospitals across the state had been registered under this scheme and this scheme had a total of 1,392 packages for various diseases, out of which 115 packages were reserved for government hospitals.He said under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana, 113 hospitals had been registered in the district out of which 10 were government and 103 private hospitals. He added that so far 86,929 patients in the district had availed the benefit of this scheme, out of which 19,968 patients had been treated free of cost at government hospitals and 66,961 patients were treated at private hospitals.He said Rs 103 crore had already been released to the hospitals and the remaining claims would be settled expeditiously.Soni stated that out of 3,71,485 families in the district, 2,71,320 families were eligible to get the benefit of the scheme. He said the awareness vans would educate people on the procedure to avail the benefits of the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dy-cm-opens-ayurveda-de-addiction-centre-in-city-354619
26-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Rare barn owl new victim of  'killer' Chinese string||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 25The deadly Chinese string is not only proving dangerous for people, but also for birds who get entangled in the dangling kite strings.A barn owl was on Saturday rescued after vigilant residents of Officers Colony on Taylor Road informed employees of the SPCA. After putting in a lot of efforts, it was finally saved.“The owl was first located late last evening. We searched for the employees of the SPCA and informed them about the dangling owl. Today, a team reached and rescued it a lot of efforts,” said a resident of the colony.Ashok Joshi of the SPCA said he got information this morning and reached the spot. The owl was hanging due to being stuck in the string dangling on a tall tree and it was difficult to get it released from the entangled plastic string and we are happy that we finally succeeded in saving its life. He said the synthetic string had been playing havoc with the life of birds. “Every month we save on an average eight to 10 birds, including pigeon and crows,” he said.This is not the first instance, last year also an owl was saved by noted environmentalist PS Bhatty and his team from Ranjit Avenue area.Despite tall claims of the district administration and the police department, they were unable to curb the sale and purchase of the synthetic string in the region. With Lohri and Basant festivals drawing near, the Chinese string would be easily available at marketplaces.“Besides legal action, the people should come forward and refrain from using the deadly string as it was taking its toll on the lives of people and birds. Recently, several incidents came to light when commuters suffered serious injuries due to loosely hanging string,” said local resident and animal lover Dr Rohan Mehra.On December 15, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira directed Police Commissioner Dr Sukchain Singh Gill and SSP, Amritsar Rural, Rakesh Kaushal to take stern action against the offenders and inform him in this regard. But nothing in concrete was done so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rare-barn-owl-new-victim-of-killer-chinese-string-354617
26-12-2021||---||Teacher unions call on Kejriwal, demand resolution of issues||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 25Teachers from colleges and universities across the city organised a peaceful demonstration against the state government at GNDU here on Saturday. Around 200 teachers from different colleges and universities participated in the protest, expressing shock at the non-inclusion of teachers’ agenda in the Punjab Cabinet meeting.Faculty members from all higher educational institutes joined the protest, hoping for the announcement of the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission and withdrawal of the order of delinking teachers’ pay scales from the University Grants Commission.The protests, being organised under the aegis of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) and the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU), also entered the 25th day. Despite the mercury plummeting, teachers have been sitting on a dharna outside the GNDU main gate and the university’s administrative block.In order to push for the implementation of their demands, a delegation of the PCCTU from the district, led by Prof HS Walia, former president, PCCTU, Dr BB Yadav, area secretary, Guru Nanak Dev University, Dr Gurdas Singh Sekhon, district president (PFUCTO), and several others met AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal to discuss the various demands of teachers.Dr Sekhon informed that Kejriwal assured the delegation that if the next government was formed by AAP in Punjab, they would implement the 7th Pay Commission on a priority basis and would not delink the scales of the university and college teachers from the UGC scales.Arvind Kejriwal assured them of provision of pension for teachers and improving the higher education system in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teacher-unions-call-on-kejri-demand-resolution-of-issues-354616
26-12-2021||Amritsar||Rs 5 lakh reward for info on Golden Temple 'sacrilege' suspect: SGPC||The SGPC has announced Rs 5-lakh reward to the person who discloses the identity of the person who tried to commit “sacrilege” at the Golden Temple on December 18.Harjinder Singh Dhami, SGPC president, said the religious sentiments of the “sangat” were hurt by the attempt of the person to cross the fence at the Golden Temple. He said the SGPC would pay Rs 5 lakh to anyone who provides any information about the accused and his family. “The identification of the culprit is crucial to get to the bottom of the conspiracy. Any person giving information related to the identity of the accused will be given a reward and his identity will be kept confidential,” he said. — TNSStep up security, Panthic bodies toldExpressing concern over incidents of blasphemy, the five Sikh high priests directed all Panthic organisations and management committees to put credible security apparatus at gurdwaras||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5l-reward-for-info-on-sacrilege-suspect-sgpc-354515
