27-12-2021||Amritsar||Punjab Deputy CM OP Soni promises to help industry||Cops seize 620-kg lahan in villagesTarn Taran: Sarhali police in a search operation conducted at Shakri village recovered 620 kg of lahan here on Friday. The police informed here on Saturday that teams of the police recovered 320 kg lahan from the residence of Arashdeep Singh and 300 kg from the residence of Resham Singh. The accused absconded from the spot. Both have been booked under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act. OCMan held with weapon, bulletsAmritsar: The police have arrested Rajbir Singh, alias Rajan, of Kot Bhagat Singh area on Sultanwind Road for allegedly possessing an Italy-made weapon. He could not produce any documents regarding the weapon when the police team intercepted him at a checkpoint. ASI Lakhwinder Singh, investigating officer of the case, said the police recovered the weapon along with three live bullets and an empty shell. When asked to show the licence, he could not produce it. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against him and further investigation was under progress. TNSOne fresh case recorded in distAmritsar: With one positive case reported on Sunday, the total count of cases has increased to 47,456 in the district. Health authorities have also reported the recovery of one patient, with which the number of those cured has increased to 45,849. The district, at present, has a total of seven active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 1,037 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Sunday. Of these, 314 received the first dose of the vaccine and 723 the second dose. TNSVoter helpline app launchedAmritsar: The Electoral Registration Office has stated that now residents can download the voter helpline app to apply for the new voter. Election Kanugo Inderjit Singh said people could also apply for any change in their details with the help of the application. He said the present generation was tech-savvy and could easily use the application to register for enrolment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/op-soni-promises-to-help-industry-355033
27-12-2021||Philanthropists should come forward||Open House:  What steps should be taken to protect the homeless from biting cold?||During the late ’60s and early ’70s, Garibi Hatao and Roti, Kapada aur Makaan were very popular slogans in our country. But these were overlapped by economic liberalisation policy of 1991. The previous culture of establishing dharamshalas, clinics and hospitals and educational institutions for the deprived has gone to the winds. There used to be one or more dharamshala near every railway station and religious place in our country being established and run by local philanthropists. Near Amritsar railway station, two dharamshalas, an ENT hospital and a family ward of VJ hospital were established by local business houses. Similarly, they contributed liberally in the sphere of education. Lala Har Sahai Mal contributed for establishing Sri Durgiana Temple. But with the passage of time, that spirit of coming forward to uplift the poor has evaporated. Now, they make mandatory contribution under Corporate Social Responsibility only. A charitable hospital at Mall Road charges Rs150 per patient per visit as consultation charges without giving any medicine. Similarly, many old-age homes are running with exorbitant charges. So, the only solution is the revival of old spirit of donation as governments, which don’t have money to pay monthly salary to their staff, can hardly do anything. The poor state of affairs at two shelter homes — one near Goal Bagh and another near Hukam Singh Road established by local administration are a proof of it.Naresh JoharQUESTIONGiven the spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases , should the state government allow the opening of schools and colleges after the winter vacation? Shouldn’t the govt switch back to online classes for the safety of students?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 30)Time for authorities to contemplateUnequal distribution of wealth is a matter of concern. Some people have too much, while others too little. The latter has to confront multifarious troubles due to absence of resources. They can’t even have access to basic necessities. In bitter cold, slum dwellers are always seen lying outside on roads and covering themselves with mere piece of cloth. Commuters see and ignore them. However, some people take out time from their busy schedule to help the needy and offer a blanket or so to protect them from cold. Predominantly, the administration should contemplate and set aside some resources to provide shelter and food to slum dwellers. Instead of spending money extravagantly on hoardings of political faces, government should provide basic amenities to those below poverty line. Campaigns and seminars should be conducted in order to inculcate a sense of empathy and humanity in residents and also seek their suggestions. Secondly, residents who are blessed with everything and have enough money, should go for charity to help the needy in this cold weather. It is not possible to provide help to all, but every individual can sacrifice a little something and divert this towards the welfare of the homeless.Sukhmeet KaurWhere is Nat’l Urban Livelihoods Mission?The city temperature dropped to -0.5°C a day before. If the well-off people, who have all resources, were shivering in their cosy bedrooms, just imagine the fate of those homeless facing the cold wave out in the open. This scenario is common in all cities. Centre’s National Urban Livelihoods Mission, aimed at providing shelter for the urban homeless, is lost in the files. This plan is a legal guarantee to provide shelter to the homeless. Even the Supreme Court has issued guidelines to the state governments to build shelters for the homeless. But no one is extending a sympathetic ear to the needs of the poor, it seems.Harsh JoharBuild shelters with requisite facilitiesThe administration can protect the homeless from biting cold and related health risks by making separate shelters with requisite facilities, whereby warm rooms should be provided. Residents can also help the homeless people by giving them warm clothes, blankets and quilts.Sanjay ChawlaDepute outreach teams on streetsThe piercingly cold poses a tough survival challenge to those who don’t have a roof over their heads and sufficient woollen clothing. Undoubtedly, providing shelter to the homelessness is a major issue. Although there are shelters in the state, yet their number is insufficient. Most shelters get filled by 8pm and many don’t know about other nearest shelters that are crying for occupancy. Consequently, the homeless remain a neglected lot. Under the Supreme Court guidelines, all state governments are legally bound to build dignified permanent shelters for the homeless, but nobody cares. Resultantly, there is not much change visible on the ground because of lack of initiative on the part of the state and local governments. The state administration should follow the SC guidelines in letter and spirit to alleviate the homeless from biting cold. The supply of housing units for people with low incomes should be increased considerably. It is obligatory for it to provide treatment, rehabilitation and residential placement. The harsh weather brings with it health risks such as hypothermia as many destitute live in unsheltered locations leaving them vulnerable to the weather vagaries. The administration should depute outreach teams on the streets to offer services and shelter. Residents should donate warm clothes, gloves, socks, blankets, extra pair of shoes, toothpaste and other items. If possible, they should buy them something hot food or beverages. It is an individual’s choice whether to offer monetary aid or not, but the administration and public’s cooperation can certainly go a long way in protecting the homeless from the biting cold and related health risks.Tarsem S BumrahDire need for night sheltersTheMet Department has warned of a cold to sever cold wave in northern India, including Punjab. Such severe cold conditions pose a tough survival challenge for those who do not have a roof over their head and adequate winter clothes. The administration should always be prepared and have a plan to protect the homeless from cold. There is a dire need for shelters for the homeless, which should be equipped with mattresses, blankets, lockers, bathing and toilet facilities. Under the SC guidelines, the state and the city need to follow the central policy and state guidelines in letter and spirit. Residents, too, should come forward to help the homeless in whatever way they can. Once, the SC had admonished UP’s Chief Secretary for directing the need for an ID to avail the night shelter facility. When the destitute need food or shelter, their helplessness should not be put to further shame.MS KhokharIt’s a collective responsibilityShort-term goals like temporary shelters in the cold must be provided by local village panchayats, municipal commissions and district administration. The possible way is to use the government places as temporary places for residence for the homeless. One possible way seems to set up donation agencies, where people can donate old clothes for the homeless, awareness could be raised through media to help the poor and the homeless out in the winter. It’s not the government’s duty alone but a collective responsibility. ‘Poverty’ and ‘hunger’ seems to be barriers in development. Though the government has long-term goals, it must take vital short-term goals. Voluntary agencies and govt agencies can both work together to meet this goal.Sparsh AthwalPeople’s participation can play pivotal roleThe homeless are vulnerable to the cold weather, as they have limited means to protect themselves and their loved ones. The administration can open up places like the ‘Wall of Kindness’ at Cantonment Area, where people can donate clothes for the needy. ‘Voice of Amritsar’ is a famous Facebook page that organises ‘Joy of Giving’ campaigns every year, where interested people can participate for donations. The administration must run awareness campaigns to promote such initiatives among the masses, so that more participation of people is ensured. Moreover, people should select the items they don’t need anymore and donate to help the poor because as famous Greek author Aesop said: “No act of kindness, no matter how small, is ever wasted.”Jatinderpal Singh BatthNeed to set up weather countersCities like Chicago are dotted with weather counters meant to provide protection to pedestrians or morning walkers from sudden downpour or snowfall. Amritsar is not as advanced, yet. It is exposed to the extremes of temperatures — too hot in summer and too cold in winter — and these extremes are getting more unrelenting. No one should be surprised if the city has snowfall some day, as predicted by climatologists. Such extremes of cold are too harsh to be taken lightly as they pose a tough survival challenge for the homeless or the inadequately clothed. Philanthropists offer new blankets and shoes to mendicants including many children. Used garments and beddings can also be distributed. Each family can contribute something or the other. There is no dearth of food and clothing but providing shelter against the December cold requires some imaginative approach. You already see the homeless living under flyovers. Some plastic sheets, flexes, could be given to such pavement dwellers to enable them to make their own arrangement till proper shelters for them come up from the government. It’s the third element after ‘roti’ and ‘kapada’. After all, they form a huge chunk of our electorate.Mohan SinghProvide night shelters to the needyAs of now, Amritsar is the coldest place in Punjab. North India usually experiences biting cold every winter. As a result, most people prefer to stay indoors and venture out incase of emergency. Most of the well-heeled people wear warm clothes to protect themselves from severe cold, but there are many unfortunate people (mostly poor and migrants) who cannot afford warm garments. So, it is the responsibility of masses and the government to provide night shelters to the needy. No doubt some NGOs are playing the roles of good Samaritans and provide food and shelter to those in urgent need. Still a lot more needs to be done.Only shelter from cold is not the issue as there are other issues, especially for elderly and children. Acute and chronic bronchitis and bronchial asthma are most prevalent during winter because of cold wind, which causes bronchospasm and breathlessness. The government, residents and NGOs, should provide homeless with blankets, food and shelter, so that precious lives can be saved.Dr JS WadhwaDraft a policy for homeless personsEvery year the temperature dips during winter. This season the temperature has dipped below 0 degrees celsius in Rajasthan. Snowfall in hilly areas has decreased the mercury and rain will further make life difficult of the masses. Demand of heaters and warm clothes has increased manifold. Homeless people either take shelter below a tree or sleep in the market corridors to keep them safe from ther biting cold. The homeless people use bonfire to keep themselves from cold wave. The administration should draft a policy for the homeless people and esure to provide them accommodation during winter. Warm clothes and good quality blankets, socks and gloves, should be given to them so that they can protect themselves from the cold wave. Earlier, the administration used to lit fire at various points on its own expenses, for “alaap and homeless”. Despite witnessing all around development in various segments, many people are still homeless and the administration should provide them free night shelters. Schools have already announced holidays due to the cold wave and dense fog, which will only get worse in the coming days. It is our moral duty to keep every resident warm and safe.Rajat Kumar MohindruNew challenge for the needyDipping mercury and smog throws a new challenege for homeless persons. Beggars and labourers are facing extreme difficulties in tackling the bone chilling cold in the open. The government has made some shelter homes for their stay, but the homeless prefer to stay outdoors. Moreover, most of these shelter homes are not properly utilised because of the unsanitary conditions. There is no place to keep their belongings. Rag pickers, richshaw-pullers, vendors need some space to keep their bags. Sometimes they are picked up forcibly and pushed in shelter homes to show action on the ground. Disrespectful behaviour of the staff is forcing them to sleep in the open. The government and the NGOs should provide them bankets and mattresses. A doctor should be appointed for their regular medical check-up.Shashi KiranCentralised agency should be roped inDuring winter when mercury plummets, life becomes a hell for those without shelter. Though homelessness is a challenge for every civilised society, it becomes a humanitarian issue, especially during night for beggars, construction workers and migrants. In the absence of any reliable data of such persons, relief operation is not an easy task. The administration must come forward to provide temporary shelters in case there are no permanent provisions. At district headquarters, a centralised agency overlooking and coordinating efforts of the NGOs must be established with a toll-free number. It is generally observed that some individuals, NGOs and religious institutions engage themselves to provide blankets, clothes and food to homeless persons, but their such noble activities are required to be synthesized with concentrated action of the district administration, which can be solely entrusted with major task of providing shelters, including temporary ones. Both the administration and the willing entities in unison can surely provide adequate and timely relief to our distressed companions.Jagdish ChanderMoral duty to help othersAs severe cold wave is sweeping the entire north India, there is possibility of dense fog and rain in the coming days ahead. While a majority of people can tackle the chilly winter, it’s the homeless persons who are unable to escape the vagaries of weather. Some of them suffer from starvation, mental illness or have physical disabilities. It is the moral duty of the community to come to their rescue. The need of the hour is to recognise the power within us and provide them bedding and financial support to ensure they recover from a life of desperation. The governments should allocate funds liberally for the purpose. The administration should build enough shelter homes with essential amenities. People should be made aware of the miseries of homeless persons. This will induce a feeling of love, sympathy and kindness for them. A timely help ranging from woollen clothes, eatables, warm drinks, hygiene products and monetary donation to homeless shelter or service organisations will enable the less fortunate to face the winter challenge.Simran & Tajpreet S KangResidents should work in cohesionWith the minimum temperatures droping to low levels, many cities of Punjab are reeling under the biting-cold conditions. For elites, winter is a bit of a rollercoaster. While the haves venture out of home for hilly destinations (celebrating Christmas and New Year), the have-nots struggle to wear cosy clothes and eat hot meals. We should shed indifference and spare a thought for homeless persons, which undergoes nightmarish experiences during bone-chilling winter. Their search for food is severely impacted and they starve endlessly. They are also vulnerable to many cold-related diseases. The administration, NGOs and philanthropists, should work in cohesion and help the needy persons move towards a meaningful future. They should open more night shelters and provide facilities, including beds, blankets, drinking water, food, medicines, electricity and toilets. More and more people should be educated about the pitiable plight of such persons and exhorted to make a difference in their life. There are umpteen ways we can render our bit. We can donate warm clothing, socks and gloves, fruits and grocery, contact the police or a shelter house to save a life, raise funds for or make individual financial contribution to a homeless-serving institution and approach local residents to come forward.D S Kang||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-what-steps-should-be-taken-to-protect-the-homeless-from-biting-cold-355032
27-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Drug addict found dead, four booked in Tarn Taran village||Tarn Taran, December 26The police have booked four alleged drug suppliers of Fatehbad village in connection with the death of a drug-addict of the same village.The deceased, identified as Varinder Kumar (20), was found dead in his house on Friday morning.The police informed on Sunday that the accused had been identified as Bittu Budha, Kaka, Chaaku and Laddoo who had been booked under Sections 304, 148 and 149 of the IPC by Goindwal Sahib police on Saturday.Ram Lubhaia, father of the victim, in his compliant to the police alleged that the accused had been supplying drugs to innocent youths of the area and about six months ago they initiated his son into the bad habit of taking drugs.After getting addicted to drugs, his son started purchasing drugs from the accused. He alleged the accused had been mixing synthetic drugs in spurious drugs and supplying to addicts.His son injected drugs into his left leg six months ago, which created a big wound. The wound could not be cured despite his best efforts.He said the condition of his son was getting serious day by day. On Thursday, his son went to the accused, who gave him some spurious drug. After taking the drug, he went unconscious on his bed and was found to be dead on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-addict-found-dead-four-booked-in-tarn-taran-village-355031
27-12-2021||---||Five booked for firing, stealing gold & cash in Ajnala||Amritsar, December 26Three unidentified armed persons barged into a house and fired indiscriminately injuring two persons in Ajnala on late Friday evening.The accused took away cash and a gold ring, besides mobile phones from the house. Though the police have registered a case of murder bid and under the Arms Act against five persons, the miscreants were yet to be identified. Investigation was under progress, the police said.Sandeep Singh, a resident of Sarai village in Ajnala, told the police that around 11.30pm on Friday, there was repeated knocks at the gate. He as said they switched on the light, the accused broke open the gate and entered the house.He said before they could understand, the accused attacked his father Ranjha Singh with sharp-edged weapons. He said as they tried to save him, one of the accused having a pistol started firing indiscriminately. He said three bullets hit his father and one his brother Rahul.He said as they shouted for help, people started gathering and the accused fled away from the scene. He said the accused also took away two mobile phones, gold jewellery and Rs35,000 from the house.The accused fled in a car in which two occupants were already there. He said they rushed the injured to hospital. ASI Sukhjit Singh said a case under Sections 307, 323, 324 and 380 of the IPC and under the Arms Act against five unidentified persons.He said the injured were out of danger and efforts were on to identify the suspects. Personal enmity could be the reason behind the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-for-firing-stealing-gold-cash-in-ajnala-355030
27-12-2021||---||Road mishaps snuff out 3 lives in Amritsar district||Amritsar, December 26Three persons lost their lives in separate road mishaps in rural areas here in the past two days. One person was arrested in a case who was released on bail.The deceased have been identified as Balkar Singh of Dhaul Kalan village, Harpreet Singh of Kohatwind Hindua village and Rajinder Masih of Shekhwan village in Gurdaspur.Rajinder Masih along with his wife Rajwinder Kaur had come to visit his in-laws’ house in Dhariwal village on Sunday. He was returning to his native village on a bike when he collided with a scooter being driven by Jasbir Singh of Vanjawala village. Jasbir was going to Chak Sikander village.Rajinder fell on the road and a truck ran him over. He was killed on the spot while his wife Rajwinder sustained injuries. She was rushed to a hospital in Amritsar. Police authorities said investigation was under progress and a case has been being registered.Meanwhile, Balkar Singh of Dhaul Kalan village was killed after he was hit by a goods carrier near Ram Tirath on Saturday. His son Harpal Singh told the police that his father used to work as a security guard at a FCI godown at Khasa.He said he was returning home on a cycle and he was waiting for him near Ram Tirath. He said a goods carrier coming from the Amritsar side hit his father. He said he rushed him to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead. Lopoke police registered a case against Manjit Singh of Brar village. He was driving the vehicle. He was released on bail.In the third incident, Hapreet Singh of Kohatwind Hindua village was killed when a tractor trolley hit his bike on Thursday. He was critically injured and succumbed to his injuries on late Friday evening.Kuldeep Kaur, wife of the victim, told the police that they were returning from Mehta town on bike when the rashly driven tractor trolley hit their bike.The police booked Jagroop Singh of the same village. He fled the spot after the incident.One person held, released on bail laterIn the three accidents that took place in the last two days in rural areas of the district, deceased have been identified as Balkar Singh of Dhaul Kalan village, Harpreet Singh of Kohatwind Hindua village and Rajinder Masih of Shekhwan village in Gurdaspur. One person was arrested in a case who was released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-mishaps-snuff-out-3-lives-in-amritsar-district-355029
27-12-2021||---||Proposal to hire firm to remove encroachments in Amritsar cancelled||Amritsar, December 26The municipal corporation dropped the idea to outsource a firm for removing encroachments in the North constituency in November. Despite the state government’s nod, former MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi did not present it in the finance and contract committee meeting during his tenure.The MC House had passed the proposal to outsource a private agency to remove illegal encroachments and shift the street vendors to the street vending zones on the revenue-sharing basis on September 6, 2019.The House had proposed that the firm would use its machinery and staff to remove the illegal vends, seize the goods and conduct auction. The roadside vends were to be shifted in the vending zones as per street vending policy and the firm were to collect the fee from the vendors and deposit it into the MC’s account. The firm was to have tow-away vehicles, collect the penalty and deposit it in the MC’s account.The state government had approved the proposal with a remark that the provisions of the Street Vendors Act should be followed while implementing the proposal.Malwinder Singh Jaggi was not convinced with the request for proposal (RFP) of the contractor and cancelled the contract on November 12. Jaggi said the RFP didn’t mention about the sharing of revenue. There was no mention of the maintenance of vending zones, scope of work, fee of contractor, etc. While cancelling the proposal, the then MC Commissioner claimed that the proposal of hiring a private firm for removal of encroachments would lead to the exploitation of poor vendors.Dharminderjit Singh, Estate Officer, said, “The proposal was only for the North constituency. Senior officials had raised objections to some conditions. In case such a proposal for hiring a private firm would come again, we will keep in mind the objection raised in the previous proposal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/proposal-to-hire-firm-to-remove-encroachments-in-amritsar-cancelled-355028
27-12-2021||---||Rs 5-lakh relief given to kin of Amritsar farmers died in protest at Delhi borders||Amritsar, December 26The district administration on Sunday presented cheques for Rs 5 lakh to the families of eight farmers who lost their lives during the protest held against the three farm laws at Delhi borders.The compensation amount was paid to the families by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate at Devidaspura village. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has been protesting on the rail tracks at Devidaspura for the last eight days on the issue of compensation and jobs to kin of the deceased farmers.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said one member of the family would also be given jobs as per their educational qualifications.SDM, Amritsar-I, T Benith said the compensation was given to the families of Mangal Singh of Nangli, Manjit Singh Khandwala, Narinder Kaur and Simranjit Kaur of Vallah, Kulwant Singh of Mehsampur Kalan Mehta, Narinder Kaur wife of Jaspal Singh of Vallah, Harjinder Singh of Sangam near Patti and Joginder Singh of Dhal near Patti. The DC said as the government had accepted all the demands of the KMSC, it should lift the protest so that rail traffic could be resumed. He said the government was committed to the welfare of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-lakh-relief-given-to-kin-of-farmers-died-in-protest-355027
27-12-2021||---||Shehnaaz Gill's father shot at, escapes unhurt||Amritsar, December 26Some unidentified armed persons allegedly shot at Santokh Singh, alias Sukh, near Jandiala Guru area here on late Saturday evening. Sukh is father of Big Boss fame and Punjabi film actor Shehnaaz Gill.Sukh was going from Amritsar to Beas and stopped at a dhaba in Jandiala Guru to answer the call of nature when the incident took place. In his statement to the police, he alleged his gunmen wanted to go to washroom and therefore, he stopped his car near Gurdaspuria dhaba.He said two bike-borne persons stopped near his car and fired at him. Four gunshots hit his car. He said the accused fled when his gunmen hurled bricks at them after hearing gunshots. He immediately informed Jandiala Guru police and a team of cops reached the spot.He alleged though the police were informed timely about the incident, a case was yet to be registered.Harpreet Singh, Station House Officer, Jandiala Guru police station, said the police recovered four empty shells from the spot.“Following a preliminary probe, the matter was found to be suspicious and therefore further investigation was under progress,” he said. He said recently his security was withdrawn as there were several criminal cases registered against him. He said the police were probing the matter and working on different theories and appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shehnaaz-gills-father-shot-at-escapes-unhurt-355025
27-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Eye on poll, Amritsar MC not to seal tax defaulters' properties||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 26The coming Assembly elections may prove to be a major hurdle in the recovery of property tax from defaulters by the Amritsar Municipal Corporation till the end of this fiscal.During the first six months of the fiscal, the MC had collected property tax and sealed around 200 properties to press the defaulters to deposit the pending tax amount. The civic body had suspended the sealing drive in the wake of the festival season and then MC commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi had claimed that the sealing drive would be resumed.Meanwhile, the state government introduced the one-time settlement (OTS) policy for defaulters and tax payers to pay the tax without penalty till March 31. The MC was giving a 10 per cent rebate on paying the tax till November 30.Daljit Singh, Nodal Officer for Property Tax, said, “Now, we are collecting the tax without any penalty. The rebate offered by the state government had ended on November 30. The property owners can pay tax till March 31 without any penalty.”The MC has collected around 22 crore in property tax till date. It is around Rs 8 crore more than the collection of last year till December end. However, the collection was hardly hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic last year. Rather the MC had collected around Rs 2 crore more than average of previous years till December end.The MC has set a property tax collection target of Rs 42.5 crore till December 31. Owing to the ongoing OTS scheme and the coming Assembly elections, the MC would not be able to seal any property. Without strictness, the target may not be achieved as a large number of property owners do not pay tax willingly. Observing the election year, the MCA officials have planned to issue maximum scrutiny notices.“A large number of property owners pay less tax by submitting inaccurate self-assessment. We will send notices, physically verify the property and collect the pending tax. Our focus would be on scrutiny of cases,” said Daljit Singh, Nodal Officer for Property Tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eye-on-poll-amritsar-mc-not-to-seal-tax-defaulters-properties-355024
27-12-2021||---||Ashwani Sekhri to contest from Batala: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Gurdaspur, December 26PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu today surprised his party colleagues by publicly announcing the candidature of three-time MLA Ashwani Sekhri from the Batala Assembly seat even as the process of identifying and finalising the candidates by the Punjab Congress is on. Sidhu was in the city to attend a rally organised by Sekhri.Takes Swipe at TriptSome outsiders are trying to poach what is rightfully Sekhri’s due. However, their ill-conceived plans will not be allowed to materialise. Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefSidhu’s declaration warmed the political temperatures on a cold day when rain threatened to play spoilsport. He made it clear “outsiders would not be entertained when it came to selecting the candidate”. This was apparently a reference to Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.It is well-known in political circles that Bajwa is eyeing this segment. He is the sitting MLA of the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian. With this, the chances of Tript being fielded from Batala have virtually been nipped in the bud. “As far as Batala is concerned, there is only one candidate and he is Ashwani Sekhri. There is not even an iota of doubt to it. I know some outsiders are trying to poach what is rightfully Sekhri’s due. However, their ill-conceived plans will not be allowed to materialise,” said Sidhu, amid a roar from the crowd.Observers say the onus is now on the PCC chief to ensure Sekhri actually gets the ticket. “Sidhu has made the announcement at a public rally. From now onwards, at every party forum, the PCC chief will have to strongly back Sekhri if he has to keep his word and reputation,” said a sitting Congress MLA.Apart from the latest push made by the PCC chief, Sekhri is known to enjoy good ties with the party high command and certain AICC bigwigs.Some trade unions holding black flags tried to make their way into the venue but were their attempts were thwarted by the police force led by DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mandate-2022-sekhri-to-contest-from-batala-navjot-singh-sidhu-354869
