28-12-2021||Amritsar||Omicron threat: Hospitals checked||Train services remain suspendedAmritsar: Unrelenting farmers continued with the blockade of railway lines, leading to most of trains remaining off track. They also burnt the effigy of Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, who called upon them to vacate the railway line for the convenience of people and tourists. The railway station wore a deserted look as both the Amritsar-Delhi and Amritsar-Tarn Taran routes were blocked. Some plied trains on the Amritsar-Jammu rail line track. Trains also plied between Amritsar to Qadian, Batala, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Kathua and Jammu. TNSVoters learn how to use EVMsAmritsar: Voters of Amritsar West Constituency were made aware of the working of the VVPAT and EVM machines here on Monday. A team of officials visited different areas for the purpose. Members of the SWEEP team said people showed an interest in getting to know about the VVPAT and EVM machines. Besides, it seemed that people’s participation in the Assembly elections would increase this time. TNSMazdoors take out a dharnaTarn Taran: The local unit of the Kul Hind Mazdoor Union stressed on the current demands of the labourers and organised a dharna here on Monday. The mazdoors staged a dharna at the local Gandhi Municipal Park and presented a demand charter to MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri in the name of the state government. Sukhdev Singh, leader of the organisation, while addressing on the occasion, said, their current demands included waiving the debt of the mazdoors, a daily wage of Rs 600 for the MGNREGA workers, Rs 10,000 to each of them, compensation for the Covid-19 period and due share to the mazdoors from the common land in the villages. Other leaders also spoke on the occasion. OCNo Covid-19 case reported in distAmritsar: The district reported no new case of Covid-19 during the last 24 hours. The health administration has reported the recovery of two patients taking the tally of those recuperated to 45,851. At present, the district has a total of five active cases. Meanwhile, a total of 6458 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive. Of these, 2012 received the first dose of the vaccine and 4,446 the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/omicron-threat-hospitals-checked-355427
28-12-2021||Amritsar||Tourist among two robbed by snatchers||The city witnessed two snatching instances in the last two days. Sahil Agarwal, a local resident, said he left Subway located on Airport Road to meet his friend, Rishi Abrol, a resident of Shastri Nagar located on Lawrence Road, on his scooter.As he was about to turn towards the Race Course road in Basant Avenue, three unidentified persons came on a bike. They were carrying a sword and stopped him. They asked him to leave his scooter. He said he got afraid and get aside. However, the accused pushed him and snatched his purse, an expensive mobile phone and fled away. The police registered a case under Section 379-B (2) and 34, IPC, in this regard. The police said CCTVs were being analysed in the area to find some clues about the perpetrators.In another incident, Amarjit Bhatia, a woman tourist, was robbed by unidentified bike-borne persons in the Hall Gate area on Sunday evening. She said the police that she along with her brother Parminder Singh, a friend (a Monika) and nephew Namanjit Singh were walking near RS Tower, shopping complex when unidentified biker snatched her purse. She said it contained Rs 7,000, a mobile phone and identity card. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tourist-among-two-robbed-by-snatchers-355426
28-12-2021||---||Progressive forces must unite to defeat divisive ones: RMPI||Amritsar, December 27A conference to mark the 29th death anniversary of freedom fighter and farmer leader Comrade Daleep Singh Tapiala was organised at his native Tapiala village.Speaking during the conference dedicated to success of farmers’ agitation for repeal of three agriculture laws, Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) National General Secretary Mangat Ram Pasla said there was a need to intensify the fight against the corporate in the future.He also criticised the BJP and RSS for its divisive politics. He said in a recent event at Haridwa that BJP and RSS leaders had made their intentions clear regarding the minorities which was a cause for concern to the civil society. Pasla also appealed to the public to ensure victory of the Samayukat Samaj Morcha constituted by the farmers organisations.Tapiala’s close associates Fauza Singh Bhullar, Surjan Singh Chogawan, Channan Singh Bhittewadh, Hazara Singh Jassar, Gurdial Singh Tapiala, Rajeshwar Singh Chamiari and other martyrs were also remembered on this occasion.Dr Swaiman Singh, a prominent figure of the kisan agitation, also exhorted the youth to fight for their rights and betterment of Punjab. He added that youth would have to play a larger role in the cleansing of the political system.Jamhoori Kisan Sabha president Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala and Border Area Sangarsh committee leader Rattan Singh Randhawa said people were hoping for a better political system which could provide them a better life, social security and a just political system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/progressive-forces-must-unite-to-defeat-divisive-ones-rmpi-355425
28-12-2021||Amritsar||Bid to rob finance company in Beas||Several armed persons barged into the office of a finance company in Padde village falling under Beas police station here on Saturday. But since there was no cash in the office, they fled. Soni Singh, a resident of Padde village said he was in his office when the accused, who were equipped with pistols, and sharp weapons barged into the office at around 1.30 pm and pointed the same at him, demanding whatever the cash he had in the office.Modus operandiSoni Singh, a resident of Padde village, said,Modus operandi he was in his office when the accused, who were equipped with pistols, and sharp weapons barged into the office at around 1.30 pm and pointed the same at him, demanding whatever the cash he had in the office.He said since there was no cash, they fled from the spot. However, he lodged a complaint with the police, who have registered a case against unknown robbers under Sections 395 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. Further investigations are under progress, the police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bid-to-rob-finance-company-in-beas-355424
28-12-2021||Amritsar||ESI employees, lab technicians go on strike||The Employees State Insurance (ESI) employees and laboratory technicians from the district began an indefinite strike to protest against the state government seeking fulfillment of their demands.The ESI Employees Federation president Ashok Sharma said the allowances such as fixed travel allowance, diet allowance and uniform allowance earlier given to the employees have been withdrawn. He said the protest would continue till these were restored. Medical Laboratory Association leader Jatin Sharma said they had boycotted all services till their demands were accepted. He said lab technicians had many long-pending issues which have not been resolved for long. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/esi-employees-lab-technicians-go-on-strike-355423
28-12-2021||---||Frequent protests by Metro employees erode passengers' faith in bus service||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 27The frequent protests by Metro bus service employees demanding better salaries and working conditions has eroded the faith of the general public in the public transport as they often feel betrayed.At present, the stir by the agitating employees has entered seventh day. Earlier, the employees had protested and the buses remained off the roads for 13 days. The services resumed on December 1. Daily passengers, a majority of who are students, private and government employees, are perturbed due to frequent protests and the uncertainty over plying of buses. “Every morning before leaving for the office, I am doubtful if buses would run today. In case employees are holding a protest, it means I would be late,” said Jatinder Singh, a private bank employee travelling from Verka to the bus stand daily.While the employees are justified in raising their issues and demanding better pay and working conditions, the indifference of the local administration and the company managing the bus service in ensuring a good public transport is a cause of concern. The employees claimed that they were promised regularisation of service and a minimum of 12 per cent of increment every year and none of the promises have been fulfilled.Davinder Singh, a leader of the protesting employees, said, “The management after the previous protest had assured to increase the salary of the drivers to Rs 17, 430 per month from Rs 12,000 per month.”He said that as they were the get the enhanced salary, the management again backtracked after which they had to initiate protest again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/frequent-protests-by-metro-employees-erode-passengers-faith-in-bus-service-355422
28-12-2021||---||Vishesh Gupta murder: Prime suspect arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 27The police arrested Karandeep Singh, the prime suspect in the Vishesh Gupta murder case, from Gurdaspur area on Monday. The police have launched a hunt to arrest him as he was evading the arrest since the incident.Interrogation were under progress to ascertain the identities of those who shot Gupta dead, said Manjit Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police, East. He said that Karandeep was arrested from Gurdaspur following a tip-off. He said his accomplices who had shot Gupta belonged to Gurdaspur area.“We have identified his accomplices and they would be arrested soon,” he said, During a preliminary probe, the police found that Gupta’s murder was the handiwork of Supari killers. He was shot at by two unknown bike borne persons on December 11 outside his shop when sat in his car after closing down the shop. He succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Noida.The police had booked Karandeep Singh of Khat Khokhar area in Gurdaspur and his unidentified accomplices in this regard. The perpetrators’ actual target was Shivam Gupta, cousin of the deceased.Shivam was engaged to a girl in Pathankot area who allegedly had an affair with the accused Karandeep Singh. Karandeep had approached Shivam’s family and asked them to reject the marriage proposal while issuing threats. He later apologized before the police and assured not to indulge in such act again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vishesh-gupta-murder-prime-suspect-arrested-355421
28-12-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, 8 held||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 27With the arrest of eight persons the city police on Monday busted a gang of robbers who used to commit crimes and rob people on the directions of notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi.With their arrest the police claimed to have solved as many as five criminal cases occurred in outer areas of Batala police district. They were produced in a court, which remanded them in police custody.Those arrested have been identified as Amanpreet Singh, alias Anda of Jharidya village, Ajay, Sarabjit Singh and Lovepreet Singh of Dalam Nangal village in Batala, Deepak Singh, alias Deepu, Rahul and Sukhsahibjit Singh of Kotli Surat Mallia village in Batala and Malkeet Singh, alias Billa, of Wadala village.The police also seized two pistols, four magazines, five live cartridges, besides sharp-edged and blunt weapons. A case under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jugraj Singh said the accused were held from Pears Garden in the Kapatgarh area where they were planning to commit a dacoity. He said the accused had been absconding in the last one month. They were wanted in many criminal cases registered against them by Batala police. He said around a month ago they had fired several gunshots at Rangar Nangal village in Batala over a dispute in a college. One person was injured in the assault.Similarly, they had fired outside a hospital on Jalandhar Road in Batala around 20 days ago. According to the police, 25 days ago they had robbed a car from near VMS College and about 15 days ago they had looted a liquor vend at gunpoint located on the Ramdass-Dera Baba Nanak road. Ten days ago, they had looted Rs 16,000 from a doctor.ADCP Jugrat Singh said Amanpreet had brought two pistols from Delhi on the directions of Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Rawal Singh of Bhagwanpur village. More cases are likely to be cracked during further interrogation of the robbers, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-8-held-355420
28-12-2021||---||Blockage puts farmers in spot; face urea shortage||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 27Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Jatinder Singh Gill and district administration called upon the agitating farmers to lift the rail line blockade to replenish dwindling urea stocks and normalise the lives of people from different walks of life.Dr Gill said due to the dharna staged by the farmers on the railway tracks, the supply of urea fertiliser in the district had stopped. If the supply is not restored this week, the farmers will face shortage of urea fertiliser. He appealed farmers associations to vacate the railway tracks so that the supply of urea in the district could be restored. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has been blocking sit-in since December 20 at Devidaspura Railway crossing. As a result, trains are not operating on this route. The dharna is also going on at other places in Punjab like Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Tanda, Jalandhar etc.District administration is of the view that the common man is suffering on account of the agitation in many ways. Firstly, state farmers were not getting urea, pesticides and other agriculture related goods, tourism in Punjab has come to halt due to that auto rikshaw, taxis, hotels and restaurants lost their business, medical tourism was hit, competitive exams are not being held in the state so youths are not getting jobs.Gurpreet Singh Khaira, DC and Rakesh Kaushal, SSP (R) wondered when most of the demands of agitating were met and rest are assured then why are continuing with the agitation. They appealed farmer leaders spearheading agitation to call off the agitation.The KMSC put forth several demands to the state government. In this regard, the police and district administration collectively held several rounds of meeting with protesting farmers. These demands include compensation of Rs five lakh each to the next of kin of martyred farmers, government job for one member of the family of deceased, compensation of Rs 12,000 per acre to the farmers who sustained loss of their crops due to hailstorms in Ajnala and pink worm in Malwa region, cancellation of cases registered by police department, railway police and GRP during the course of farmer agitation. District administration has given compensation worth Rs 40 lakhs to the next of kin of six farmers of this district and two families of Tarn Taran district. One beneficiary has also been given job appointment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blockage-puts-farmers-in-spot-face-urea-shortage-355419
28-12-2021||Amritsar||Firing at Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla's office, 2 booked||Two persons allegedly barged into the office of Amritsar Member Parliament Gurjit Singh Aujla and took away an Apple iPad and Rs 50,000 in cash late last evening.On the statement of Saurav Sharma, an employee, the police have booked Joginder Singh of Gumtala and his son Love. No arrests have been made so far.Saurav claimed the suspects entered Aujla’s estate and Love opened fire at him. They allegedly took away the iPad and cash from the office before fleeing.The police have registered a case under the IPC and the Arms Act. Raids were on to nab them. The police officials said investigations were under progress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firing-at-mps-office-2-booked-355224
