29-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Religious programme organised in remembrance of Sahibzadas and mother of Guru Gobind Singh||Doon School Best in cityDoon International School has been recognised as the best school of the year 2021-22 by the International Education Awards. The award was received by chairman, Doon School, Amritsar. Rajeev Sharma and Managing Director Meghna Sharma, at a ceremony held at New Delhi. The ceremony served as a platform to showcase the best teaching-learning practices, promoting the overall educational standards. The event was attended by several well-known personalities which included Maya Hanoomanjee High Commissioner of Mauritius to India, Christine Mukharji, Director Austrian National Tourist Office, Hervé D Coulibaly, Head of Consular Affairs, Embassy of Burkina Faso, Delhi India, Dr Munish Jindal. Founder & CEO - Hover Robotix, Founding President - MENTORx, Mentor of Change - NITI Aayog, Government of India, and many more.B.Ed Semester (II) theory exams put offGuru Nanak Dev University postponed the theory examinations of B Ed Semester (II) being held from January 3 to January 17. The new dates of examinations will be announced later, said Prof Dr Manoj Kumar, Professor Incharge Examinations. The revised date sheet will be uploaded on the university website. For more information, students can contact principal of the concerned college, and the university website.GNDU to host sports eventsGNDU will host the All India Inter-University Fencing (M&W) Championship from January 7 to 10, 2022, Selection trails of the World University Fencing (M&W) will be held from from January 11 to 12, 2022 and that of North Zone Inter-University Hockey (M) from January 14 to 19, 2022. Dr Sukhdev Singh, Director, Sports, said more than 60 (M&W) teams comprising about 500 players from different Universities of all over the country will participate in these championships.Martyrdom fortnight celebratedCKD held several religious and cultural events at Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Bhagat Wala, to mark the Martyrdom Fortnight dedicated to Guru Gobind Singh and his four Sahibzadas. Competitions were conducted for school students, who participated in poetry, anecdotes, hymn singing, painting, drawing and speech competitions on the martyrdom of the Sahibzadas. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/religious-programme-organised-355777
29-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa inaugurates Goindwal Sahib Jail||Tarn Taran, December 28Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa sought the cooperation of people to make the state drug free, which he said was need of the hour. The Deputy Chief Minister was in Goindwal Sahib to inaugurate Central Jail, Goindwal Sahib on Monday.The Ultra Modern Jail had been constructed with a cost of Rs 191 cr in an area of 85 acres and had the capacity to adjust 2,780 inmates in it.While addressing a public gathering on the occasion, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said there was a proposal to install factories and petrol pumps in jails to make the jails self sufficient.He also interacted with the jail inmates and redressed their grievances. The entrepreneurs of the Goindwal Sahib focal point too apprised the Deputy Chief Minister of their problems and demanded for the waiving the electricity fine imposed on them due to Covid-19. Ramanjit Singh Sikki, MLA, Khadoor Sahib, highlighted the problems being faced by the mand area farmers due to river water.The jail inmates too brought their problems to the notice of the Deputy Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deputy-chief-minister-inaugurates-goindwal-sahib-jail-355775
29-12-2021||---||GNDU remembers scholar, writer Dr Karnail Singh Thind||Amritsar, December 28Former Registrar of Guru Nanak Dev University and Head of the School of Punjabi Studies (retd) Dr Karnail Singh Thind was paid rich tributes at the school.Dr Thind was a renowned scholar of Punjabi Lokyan Adhiyan and Pakistani Punjabi Sahitya Adhiyan. He had held important posts like Head of Punjabi Studies Department of Khalsa College, Head of School of Punjabi Studies at Guru Nanak Dev University, Registrar of Guru Nanak Dev University, Head of Punjab State University Text Book Board.Dr Manjinder Singh, Head of the Department, said prof Thind demise is being mourned by the literary fraternity across the state. He shared views with teachers and research students on Dr. Thind’s invaluable contribution in the field of Punjabi language, literature, culture and folklore. “He was a committed researcher and a devoted teacher with humanitarian concerns. He is one of the foremost pioneers in the field of Punjabi literary thought,” said Dr Singh.He was born in Lyallpur, in Pakistan and did his higher studies from Khalsa College, Amritsar in 1953. He then became a lecturer of Punjabi at Khalsa College in 1955. He did his PhD in 1971 from Panjab University, Chandigarh. Punjabi folklore and culture were his field of specialisation and his three original books related to this field were ‘Lokyan and Medieval Punjabi Literature’, ‘Punjab’s Folk Heritage Part-1’ and ‘Punjab’s Folk Heritage Part-2’. ‘Lokyan Adhiyan’ and “Sabhyachar Darpan’ are his edited books. Similarly, one of his important books on historical evaluation of Pakistani Punjabi literature is ‘A Brief Survey of Pakistani Punjabi Literature’. This book is one of the earliest written books on the history of Pakistani Punjabi literature. In recognition of his glorious contribution, he has been honoured from time to time by governmental and non-governmental organisations at the state, national and international levels. He has received Fellowships from International Punjabi Sahitya Sabha, London, Senior Fellowships from the Department of Culture, Government of India, Baba Farid Sahit Award for his historical work in the study of Pakistani Punjabi literature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-remembers-scholar-writer-dr-thind-355773
29-12-2021||---||MC’s estate wing removes encroachment in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 28A team of estate wing led by Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh removed an encroachment in front of Narang Hospital at Naiyanwala Mor in Nawan Kot area where a person was occupying government land and building a shop. The estate wing officials got the information about the encroachment in the morning and the department with the help of the police department has removed the illegal construction till afternoon. All the goods available on the constriction site have been taken in possession and deposited in the store of the Municipal Corporation, stated Estate officer.Apart from this, the action has been taken on against the shopkeepers, who had illegally occupied footpath outside their shops by displaying their goods outside their shops in the areas of Railway Link Road, Rialto Chowk, Durgiana Temple and Hall Bazaar. The goods have been confiscated and deposited in the store.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mcs-estate-wing-removes-encroachment-in-amritsar-355772
29-12-2021||---||Teachers warn of march to Delhi if demands not met||Amritsar, December 28As the university and college teachers' strike entered the 25th day, the district unit president of the PFUCTO said they would move the protest to Delhi in case the incumbent state government fails to implement 7th Pay Commission wages.We are in shock at the non-inclusion of teachers’ demand at various platforms and the matter was no even taken up in previous Cabinet meetings. Examinations have been postponed and if this continues longer, there will be more academic loss of students. Prof GS Sekhon, president, district unit of PFUCTOThe teachers of all prominent city colleges, including DAV College, BBKDAV College, Khalsa College, Hindu College and others, have been boycotting all teaching and non-teaching activities in protests. Today, 100 teachers from city colleges organised a peaceful demonstration against the state government at the GNDU main gate. "We are in shock at the non-inclusion of teachers' demand at various platforms and the matter was no even taken up in previous Cabinet meetings held. Higher education is been suffering from almost a month and teachers are sitting outside their respective colleges in protest, braving cold weather and fog. Examinations have been postponed, and if this continues longer, there will be more academic loss to the higher education in state. Yet the government doesn't consider our legitimate demand. It's unfortunate and tragic," said Prof GS Sekhon, president, district unit of the PFUCTO.Since most colleges have declared winter break due to postponement of examinations, the teachers are now sitting on dharna in front of the university's administrative block and main gate. Sekhon said that they had met PPCC head Navjot Singh Sidhu to discuss the matter. "We met him and submitted our demands. But we did not get a positive response from him. We even met Arvind Kejriwal and we are willing to meet Rahul Gandhi, if need be, to raise our demand."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-warn-of-march-to-delhi-if-demands-not-met-355771
29-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Teen abducted, one booked||‘Raise activities under SVEEP’Amritsar: Additional District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Dr Ruhi Tugg on Tuesday held a meeting with the nodal officers of the SVEEP campaign. In a bid to accelerate SVEEP activities, Dr Tugg asked the nodal officers to hold awareness campaigns in popular public places and through interactive media. “The main objective of the SVEEP activities is to make people aware of VVPAT and EVMs so that people can exercise their right to vote properly. We have been conducting voter registration activities and have held demonstrations on how to vote using EVMS and VVPATs,” she informed. In the meeting, she asked all the nodal officers to carry out large-scale SVEEP campaign activities in their constituency every week and to make as many people as possible aware of it. Maximum activities will be carried out at popular spots like Heritage Street, Jallianwala Bagh, Wagah border and engaging methods will be employed like conducting street plays in public places. TNS500-gm heroin seized, 1 heldAmritsar: The police have arrested a drug peddler, identified as Harpreet Singh of Gwal Mandi here, for allegedly possessing 500 gm of heroin. The police on Tuesday said the accused was arrested from Love Kush Nagar in Putlighar area. During the search, the police confiscated the contraband. He was currently out on bail. The police said the accused was produced in a court which sent him to police custody and source of the contraband was being ascertained. OCDist logs four Covid-19 casesAmritsar: With four positive cases reported on Tuesday, the total count of cases in the district increased to 47,459. Health authorities found one recovery case so the recovery count stood at 45,852. At present, the district has a total of eight active cases and 8,502 persons were jabbed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-abducted-one-booked-355768
29-12-2021||Tarn Taran||Medicine shortage at OOAT centres||The shortage of medicines at OOAT centres in the district has been causing resentment among drug addicts.It is learnt that the supply of tablet buprenorphine (primarily used for treatment of drug patients) has been erratic for last one month across 16 such centres of the district.Patients complain that their dose has already been reduced forcefully regardless of their condition and requirement. For the last month, even that has not been provided properly. For the last few days, medicine has been stopped or halved due to the dire shortage of medicines at OOAT centres in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/medicine-shortage-at-ooat-centres-355767
29-12-2021||---||Farmers’ ‘rail roko’ agitation suspended till January 6||AMRITSAR, DECEMBER 28Farmers announced to suspend the ‘rail roko’ agitation till January 6 and lifted the blockade on the railway tracks at 5.10 pm paving the way for resumption of train movements on Tuesday.The Amritsar Express (2925) became the first train to arrive at 8.15 pm here. Passengers came to the railway station to get to know the status of their trains. They were seen talking to railway officials to get answers for their queries.While most of the trains will resume plying from tomorrow, the local railway station has at least five rakes standing in its yards. Railway line blockade had caused the trains to stop at different places. For example a rake was standing at Tangra, it will be brought at the station tomorrow and put into operation.While most of the trains will resume plying from tomorrow, the local railway station has at least five rakes standing in its yards. Railway line blockade had caused the trains to stop at different places. For example a rake was standing at Tangra, it will be brought at the station tomorrow and put into operation.After assurance from CM Charanjit Singh Channi about resolving their demands, the farmers agitating under the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee lifted the rail rook from Devidaspura, on the city outskirts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-rail-roko-agitation-suspended-till-january-6-355765
29-12-2021||---||5 mobiles seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, December 28In yet another seizure, the Amritsar Central jail authorities have confiscated five cell phones from the high security jail complex during a search operation yesterday. Four of them were seized from as many prisoners while one was found abandoned.Following a complaint by Ajmer Singh, assistant superintendent jail, the Islamabad police have booked four prisoners. They were identified as Rakesh Kumar aka Aarya, Davinder Singh alias Laadu of Butari village, Jatinder Singh alias Tindu of Lohgarh village and Jagjit Singh of Sultanwind Road here.Ajmer stated to police that during the checking of the room number of five of isolation wards, the jail staff seized four keypad phones from the four jail inmates while one was found hidden the bathroom area. A case has been registered against them under the Prisons Act.1 held with 5 cellphonesThe city police have arrested Jagjit Singh of Vallah village and seized five mobile phones of different brands from his possession. According to police, he was habitual of stealing mobile phones of the truck drivers who came to Vallah vegetable market for selling their produce. He used to sell the same to others on lesser price. The police have registered a case under section 379, 411 IPC at Maqboolpura police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-mobiles-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-355764
29-12-2021||---||Resentment among cops over Navjot Sidhu, Sukhbir Badal's remarks||Amritsar, December 28The controversial remarks by two political leaders during their public rallies has not only left a bad impression among people about them but also infuriated the police force. Videos of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu and SAD (Badal) president Sukhbir Singh Badal against the police have evoked condemnation not only from the police force but other quarters also.Sidhu’s remarks have left me disappointed. I am not afraid of any political leader, but it does not behove his stature to make such controversial remarks against the brave police force. The history of Punjab Police is full of valour and sacrifices. So many bravehearts of the state police laid down their lives to end terrorism from Punjab. -- Sandeep Singh, head constableSandeep Singh, a head constable, a resident of the Amritsar (East) constituency, circulated a video on social media expressing that his remarks had left him disappointed. “I am not afraid of any political leader,” he said, adding that “it does not behove his stature to make such controversial remarks against the brave police force”.“The history of Punjab Police is full of valour and sacrifices. So many bravehearts of the state police laid down their lives to end terrorism from the pious land of Punjab. You should not put a blot on the force as it would lower the morale of the force,” he said. Besides, policemen not only put their lives at risk but also those of their family members.He said he had family relations with around 20 families in his area. He said as a citizen of the holy city he would request them not to vote in Sidhu’s favour during the upcoming Assembly elections.A senior police official wishing not to be named said political leaders should desist from making such remarks publicly. Punjab Police had made supreme sacrifices during heyday of militancy in the border state. They doubled up as relief providers during the unprecedented health crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.Another cop said, “Political leaders should be ashamed of making such remarks. There has been resentment among the police force and they should abstain from doing this. Sidhu and Sukhbir Badal should apologise publicly for their irresponsible statements.Tarun Chugh, national secretary, BJP, in his video message condemned the statement made by Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resentment-among-cops-over-sidhu-sukhbirs-remarks-355763
29-12-2021||---||Police carry out search drives at major places in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 28Following an alert in the holy city in view of the New Year celebrations, recent incidents of sacrilege and the Ludhiana bomb blast incident, the city police carried out search operations in different parts of the city, including the inter-state bus terminus, IDH market, Mahan Singh Gate and Chheharta area.The Punjab Police have been on alert following the bomb explosion in a Ludhiana court with the assembly elections two months away. With investigations hinting at the involvement of anti-national forces in Pakistan having a nexus with drug peddlers and criminal elements, the police have intensified searchoperations to thwart any untoward incident in the city. The police said anti-nationalelements were hell bent on vitiating the peaceful atmosphere in Punjab.Police teams headed by ACP Manjit Singh carried out search operation in Bus Stand and IDH Market. He interacted with the shopkeepers and asked them to remain vigilant. He asked them to inform the police in case they found the movement of suspicious elements in the busy market. He also asked them to take the mobile number of concerned police officer of their area and create a whatsapp group for sharing information.Parminder Singh Bhandal, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, informed that police teams comprises of black commandoes searched the buses and the scanned the entire complex. The aimlessly wondering youth were searched. “These are very testing times and people should help the police in thwarting any untoward incident by remaining vigilant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-carry-out-search-drives-at-major-places-in-amritsar-355761
29-12-2021||---||Will continue stir, say ASHA workers||Amritsar, December 28Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers and facilitators staged a massive protest here on Tuesday. They announced that they would continue to hold protests rallies and demonstrations against the state government until the minimum wage law was enacted.The ASHA workers have been protesting since December 23, demanding that workers and facilitators were brought under the ambit of the Minimum Wages Act and government to increase their honorarium and provide better working conditions. The protesting members said they would continue with their protests till December 30 or until the government fulfilled their demands.Members of various unions supporting the protests also burnt effigies of CM Charanjit Singh Channi and called for the implementation of fixed salaries, free insurance of up to Rs 5 lakh, provision of pension for the workers on retirement. The leaders announced that if their demands were not met, they would join the massive protest to be held on December 31 outside the residence of Deputy CM Om Prakash Soni.The ASHA workers earlier too held dharnas outside Soni’s residence and at the Kathunangal toll plaza. They had boycott their duties and sat on dharnas at various community health centres based at Manawala, Baba Bakala, Tarsikka, Lopoke, Verka and Ramdas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-continue-stir-say-asha-workers-355759
29-12-2021||---||Ophthalmic staff’s protest hits services in Amritsar Civil Hospital||Amritsar, December 28On the strike call given by the Punjab Ophthalmic Officers’ Association, doctors held a protest at the Civil Hospital here on Tuesday.Barring emergency, all other health services were affected at the hospital. Besides, the strike of postgraduate students-cum-junior resident doctors of Government Medical College (GMC) was already on in the hospital. Patients were the inconvenienced lot who had to return disappointed.Office-bearers of the Punjab Ophthalmic Officers’ Association said despite holding a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister-cum-Health Minister Om Prakash Soni and the Principal Secretary, Health, in Chandigarh on December 14, their accepted demands remained unmet.Their demands include creation of promotion channel, implementation of actual duty rest, accept graduation educational qualification and filling vacancies.Jaswinderpal Singh, member secretary of the association, said despite the recommendations of the Director (Health) to create a promotion channel, it was not implemented. Even the High Court had in 2014 directed the department and the government that no employee should retire without promotion. Despite that, no action had been taken by the government regarding the promotion and many employees retired without promotion.“Every cadre has a promotion channel but it is great injustice to us that ophthalmic officers retire without any promotion despite working hard and diligently during their service,” he said.Rakesh Kumar, convener of the association, stated that the department was running “Chief Minister Cataract Free Punjab Campaign” in which ophthalmic officers were playing a leading role. But the cataract-free campaign would be boycotted by them until the legitimate demands of the association are implemented in writing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ophthalmic-staffs-protest-hits-services-in-amritsar-civil-hospital-355757
29-12-2021||---||No magic bullet to knee health, staying active key||Jalandhar, December 28In this fast-paced world, juggling between personal and professional life can be painstaking, leaving little to no room for self-care. While the onset of lifestyle diseases at an early age is a major concern, knee pain is also becoming a growing concern among people.Typically osteoarthritis affects knees, hips, neck, lower back and hands – including the base of the thumb – and numbers of people with the condition are expected to rise.Dr Shubhang Aggarwal, Director and Orthopedic & Robotic Joint Replacement Surgeon, NHS Hospital, Jalandhar, explains all about knee pain, its causes, symptoms and remedies.Is all knee pain arthritis?In the elderly, knee pain is commonly Osteoarthritis but in the young, especially women, it is mostly chondromalacia which means softening of the cartilage but not flaking off. Other causes may be torn ligaments/meniscii, mostly due to injury.Is arthritis hereditary?Some are clearly inherited, but most are not. Commonly, arthritis of the spine (ankylosing spondylitis) and gouty arthritis are inherited, but osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis show a weak tendency to be inherited. Gout also usually skips a generation, so a grandson may be affected but not the son.Are physically active people more prone to knee pain?Some occupations predispose to arthritis, in particular osteoarthritis. Footballers develop arthritis of knees & ankles due to repeated injuries to these parts received while playing. There is no evidence that someone who is physically active but not exposed to injury, is any more prone to develop arthritis than an individual who does not exercise.Does climate affects pain?Living in a cold damp climate may make you feel your arthritis more than living in a hot, dry one. Change of weather, such as a rise in humidity and a fall in barometric pressure may also make the joints worse temporarily. Climate does not otherwise have an effect on the arthritis and it will not make its course any worse in the long term.Why medical treatment only help some people?This is usually because among the people who improve are those with different sorts of arthritis, some of which get better without treatment. Moreover, certain chronic types of arthritis may vary in their severity from time to time and appear to be cured. In pregnancy and jaundice, arthritis may spontaneously improve for months together.What is ESR?ESR stands for erythrocyte sedimentation rate. It measures amount of inflammation in the body when arthritis is present. A high ESR means a high amount of inflammation. ESR is useful as a guide to the doctor for checking activity of arthritis and monitoring progress.Steroid injections yes or no?Steroids are generally to be avoided except in rheumatoid flare-ups. The most common type – Osteoarthritis does not need any steroids at all.How do I manage pain?“Don’t let arthritis beat you, take control” But how? Treatment of severe pain due to arthritis needs a combination of strategies. We must understand that reason for pain is survival/ safety. Pain protects us from danger. Arthritis medication is only one part of the total plan that will help you reduce your pain, improve joint function and daily-living activities.Arthritis no excuse to workoutArthritis could be the perfect excuse, not to exercise. But research shows quite the opposite. Cartilage – which covers and protects the ends of bones - depends on joint movement to absorb nutrients and remove waste. Movement is actually giving it nutrition.Exercises reduces joint pain and stiffness, builds strong muscle increasing flexibility and endurance. It helps you sleep better, controls weight, decreases depression and gives you more self-esteem. It also prevents osteoporosis & heart disease.Joint Replacement Surgery?If your arthritis is at a stage where it needs surgery to give you relief or the side effects of pain killers is predicted, then you undergo a total or half joint replacement surgery. With the new robotic technology and high quality implants, most people are up and walking on a new hip or knee within a few hours of surgery.How to Fight Actively with Arthritis?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-magic-bullet-to-knee-health-staying-active-key-355749
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD fields Ranjit Singh Brahmpura from Khadoor Sahib segment||The SAD today named veteran leader Ranjit Singh Brahmpura as the party’s candidate from Khadoor Sahib. Party spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema said Brahmpura was the 93rd candidate announced by the party out of its quota of 97 seats as per the alliance with the BSP.Brahmpura had recently left the Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt) over its alliance with the BJP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-fields-brahmpura-from-khadoor-sahib-segment-355738
29-12-2021||Amritsar||Farmers meet Punjab CM Channi,  suspend 'rail roko'||Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) today suspended its ‘rail roko’ agitation following their representatives’ meeting with CM Charanjit Singh Channi.For the past nine days, the farmers had blocked the rail track in support of their demands at Jandiala in Amritsar, Tarn Taran railway station, Tanda in Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar Cantt, Moga and Fazilka railway stations and at Basti Tenka Wali in Ferozepur, leading to disruption of over 90 trains. Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, KMSC said seven rail tracks were vacated from 4 pm onwards following an assurance by the CM that their demands would be addressed.The next meeting with the CM has been scheduled for January 8. He said the assurance was given on the hike in relief for basmati crop that was damaged due to hailstorm would be enhanced from Rs 12,000 an acre to Rs 17,000, jobs and compensation to the family members of farmers who lost lives during the course of farm agitation at Delhi borders within a week, and cancellation of the cases registered against farmers after discussion with the Centre. “Besides, the CM responded positively to the loan waiver for marginal farmers,” Pandher said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-meet-punjab-cm-suspend-rail-roko-355737
29-12-2021||PK Jaiswar||Tramadol seizure: Clean chit to Kala Amb pharma firm owner raises eyebrows||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 28A clean chit by the police to the pharmaceutical firm owner, who was booked following a probe in connection with the seizure of banned Tramadol tablets in May this year, has raised eyebrows.A probe by then Majitha ASP Abhimanyu Rana found Rakesh Goyal, the owner of Orison Pharma International, Kala Amb, as one of the prime suspects in the drug racket.Rana submitted his report with the Amritsar Rural SSP on September 27.Though the ASP’s probe was underway, Goyal moved an application before the Amritsar Rural SSP on September 9, claiming to be innocent. The SSP marked a probe to SP (Detective) Manoj Thakur, who gave Goyal a clean chit.The SP (D) concluded that the phrama firm owner was nominated on the basis of “false facts”. The report was submitted to the SSP in November.Thakur said he was unaware of any other probe. “The case was investigated impartially,” he said, adding “it was Ashish Chaudhry (one of the suspects) who procured Tramadol from Orison Pharma and later smuggled it into Punjab. He was yet to be arrested. Goyal delivered him Tramadol as per government norms”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tramadol-seizure-clean-chit-to-pharma-firm-owner-raises-eyebrows-355723
29-12-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Partap Bajwa-Fateh Jung rift out in the open||Tribune News ServiceQadian, December 28The defection of Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa was very much on the cards ever since his elder brother Partap Singh Bajwa, a two-time MP and three-time MLA, made his intentions clear of contesting from the family seat.Also read: Fearing denial of ticket, Cong MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa, Balwinder Singh Laddi join BJPThis was a clear signal to Fateh to either shift loyalties to another party or find another seat for himself. As things stand, he has chosen to exercise the first option.Incidentally, the brothers stay in the same house in Qadian. The Congress flag flutters on the roof of their house. It remains to be seen if Fateh now matches it with the BJP flag or not.Sources say the Qadian MLA has been inducted into the party with the assurance that he would be fielded either from Qadian or Batala.Fateh’s son Arjun Partap Bajwa won the Gurdaspur zila parishad polls on a Congress ticket. It remains in the realms of speculation whether he follows in his father’s footsteps or not.The Qadian melodrama was becoming one big headache for the party as Partap was not willing to forgo his claim, while Fateh had been insisting “nobody had the guts and gumption to snatch Qadian away from me”. With today’s development, the rift in the Bajwa family is out in the open. Earlier, whenever Fateh and Partap would be on a collision course, and such occasions used to happen regularly, senior members of the family used to intervene.When Partap made it clear in the first week of December he would fight from Qadian, Fateh was taken aback. There were many who thought he would join the SAD and contest from the Batala seat. However, this speculation was nipped in the bud the moment the Akalis announced Sucha Singh Chhotepur as their candidate.In 2012, Fateh was adamant on contesting from Qadian but his sister-in-law and Partap’s wife, Charanjit Kaur Bajwa, rocked the family boat and insisted she be made the candidate. She had pulled out all the stops to make sure Fateh stayed out of contention. Finally, Partap played the peacemaker and Fateh withdrew, but with the rider that he would be the candidate in the 2017 elections.Partap remained true to his word and in 2017, Fateh won by a comfortable margin. He was given the ticket but not before Charanjit had staged a revolt of sorts by insisting she be given a second chance to contest.When Charanjit contested from Qadian in 2012, a livid Fateh had left his hometown and campaigned around the clock for his friend and Congress candidate Balwinder Laddi in the neighbouring Sri Hargobindpur seat.Laddi, a Fateh’s protégé, was expected to follow in his master’s footsteps and that is what he has done. “He has joined the BJP on the assurance that he will be the BJP candidate from Sri Hargobindpur,” said a BJP leader.BJP May field MLA from Qadian or Batala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partap-fateh-rift-out-in-the-open-355706
29-12-2021||---||Fearing denial of ticket, Cong MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa, Balwinder Singh Laddi join BJP||Chandigarh, December 28Ahead of the Punjab Assembly poll early next year, Congress MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa (Qadian) and Balwinder Singh Laddi (Sri Hargobindpur) joined the BJP today. Sources said since they were unlikely to be given ticket by the Congress, they switched over to the saffron party. The Congress is learnt to have identified at least 10-12 MLAs who performed poorly in surveys conducted by it to work out the merit of prospective candidates.Also read: Partap Bajwa-Fateh Jung rift out in the openGuruharsahai MLA Rana Gumit Sodhi, who recently joined the BJP, was also among those who were likely to be denied the ticket.A senior party leader said, “We won’t be surprised if a few more MLAs, who are not in a winning position, join the BJP or other party in the coming days. The BJP is poaching Congress MLAs to create a false impression of its consolidating position.” The sources said since the Congress had already conveyed to Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa to contest from Qadian, his younger brother Fateh Jung quit the party. It is yet to be seen whether the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) fields him against his brother from Qadian or gives him ticket from Batala.Fearing “attempts by the BJP to poach more MLAs”, leaders from Majha Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Kulbir Singh Zira, Barindermeet Singh Pahra are reported to have met Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary on the issue of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu hitting out at Tript Bajwa while extending support to former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri.On the other hand, some Doaba MLAs have been targeting Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh. The Majha leaders had played a big role in teaming with Sidhu to oust former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Cricketer Mongia in BJP fold tooFormer cricketer Dinesh Mongia joined the BJP in presence of party’s state in-charge and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday. Shekhawat claimed the party was gaining ground in Punjab.Ticket to Bajwa Sr?Sources say since the Congress had already conveyed to Partap Singh Bajwa to contest from Qadian, his younger brother Fateh Jung quit the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fearing-denial-of-ticket-cong-mlas-fateh-jung-bajwa-balwinder-singh-laddi-join-bjp-355631
