30-12-2021||Amritsar||Life sciences museum inaugurated||Pensioners’ Day celebratedGNDU Pensioners Association at its annual general meeting held here today and honored eight pensioners. The General Assembly unanimously approved the decision that retired employees who have not received their pensions would also be made members of the association. The issue was also raised that the pensioners are allowed by the university administration to take a free morning and evening walk in the university but their spouse has to pay for the pass and get a pass. The administration was demanded that the spouse be given the right to enter university premise without any pass or fee. Prof Amarjit Singh Sidhu, president of the association, said the association should be recognised by the university. He said the pensioners have served in the university for a long time and it is their right to form an association.CKD mourns death of office-bearerChief Khalsa Diwan office-bearers expressed deep sorrow over the demise of Colonel Narsher Singh, member of CKD executive committee and in-charge of SGHPS, Kapurthala. He was also CKD, Jalandhar, president, local committee, and during his tenure he has been instrumental in the development of the school. He said Colonel Narsher Singh has been a member of Gurdwara Sri Singh Sabha, Model Town, Jalandhar, and was associated with the benevolent heart.Cash prizes distributedOrganisers of the ‘Mere Mape, Mera Ishat Foundation‘ (My Parents, my Faith) distributed a cash prize worth Rs 42,300 among 19 students of the rural area different schools. Jaswinder Singh Manochahal, Chairman of the foundation, said students were selected with their performance in the test organised by the foundation in which 74 students of class VIII and X from different 12 schools of the rural area schools participated. The eligible 19 cash prize winners students were the toppers in their respective classes. The cash prize varied from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 for the class X and Rs 800 to Rs 3,000 for the class VIII. The function to distribute the cash prizes was organised at Baba Deep Singh Public School, Begepur on Wednesday. The winners of the cash prizes were honoured with certificates and shields. The students of the host school presented a religious program on the occasion dedicated to the martyrdom of four Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh. Manpreet Singh Teacher conducted the stage. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/life-sciences-museum-inaugurated-356049
30-12-2021||---||Gas pipeline catches fire||Amritsar, December 29A major fire broke out on the gas pipeline near railway line at Verka village here this evening. No causality or financial loss has been reported. The fire broke out around 7 pm. Fire tenders and firemen ofThe Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, reached the spot and made initiatives to douse the fire. Officials of Gujarat gas pipe line firm also reached the spot.The fire fighters were struggling to douse the fire. It is worth mentioning here that the Gujarat gas pipe line firm has installed the gas pipeline in various localities of the city. However, it is first fire reported on the gas pipeline in the city but if it occurs in some congested area the human as well as financial loss may reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gas-pipeline-catches-fire-356050
30-12-2021||Amritsar||Dal Khalsa slams arrest of activists||Dal Khalsa today came down heavily on Punjab Police for framing and arresting Jasveer Kaur, her son Jagmeet Singh and another youth in a case under 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion) and 120-B. The organisation demanded CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s intervention and cancellation of the FIR.The Patiala police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested three persons allegedly campaigning for SFJ (Sikhs for Justice) against the unity and integrity of India along with propaganda material. Party spokesperson Paramjit Mand said the charges against three were frivolous based on flimsy grounds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dal-khalsa-slams-arrest-of-activists-356051
30-12-2021||---||Heritage Status: Colonial art locked in a time warp||Amritsar, December 29The two oldest tower clocks that have been part of city’s heritage are the clock mounted on top of the Khalsa College main building and the clock on the Hall Gate. While the clock at Khalsa College has been restored and is being maintained by the Khalsa College management, the one at the Hall Gate has been lying defunct for many years, with an attempt to repair it made a year ago. With broken glass, shabby façade the clock, stuck in its past glory, is the first thing that one sees while entering Hall Gate.The gate, named after the then deputy commissioner CH Hall, was constructed by the British (according to most historians) in 1885 in addition to the famous 12 gates built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh while fortifying the city thus giving the old city its name, the walled city. The gate got its name after the then deputy commissioner CH Hall, and a wall clock, along with a large alarm bell designed by then executive engineer John Gordon, was installed on it. The clock, since then has been a symbol of colonial heritage, though it stopped working decades back.It was renamed as Gandhi Gate after attaining freedom from the British rule but it is still is popularly called as Hall Gate. Old timers say that the bell rang after every hour and people usually kept a count of the hourly bells to keep a record of the time. During the development of Heritage Street and HRIDAY project, the clock’s repair work was ignored while the entire stretch from Hall Gate leading to Heritage Street was renovated. The authorities could not get consulting mechanics to do the restoration as the clock has parts that are not found anywhere, anymore.While popular opinion from locals and shop owners from Hall Gate suggests that the clock be removed and displayed in a museum, the clock seems to stuck in its own time.History||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/colonial-art-locked-in-a-time-warp-356052
30-12-2021||Amritsar||Two immigration agents booked||Abduction case filed after 2 mthsTarn Taran: A resident (a labourer) of Khemkaran had to move from pillar to post for two months to lodge a complaint against the accused responsible for abducting his teenage daughter. The accused had been nominated as Gurlal Singh of Mehmoodpur village. He abducted the victim on October 25. The victims’ parents, who worked as labourers, had gone to work when the incident occurred. When they returned home, they were informed by the minor son that Gurlal Singh had abducted the girl. The victim’s father approached Khemkaran police who were not ready to listen to him. ASI Sunil Dutt , investigating officer of the case, said the accused had been booked under Section 346 of the IPC on December 28 (Tuesday). The ASI said the victim delayed reporting the matter to the police while the victim’s father alleged that the police harassed him. OCYouth shot in Mianpur villageTarn Taran: One person was shot dead over some dispute by his rival at Mianpur village here. The deceased has been identified as 23-year-old Shamsher Singh. He was returning home from Adda village when Amritpal Singh, son of the village sarpanch, shot him dead. DSP Barjinder Singh said after committing the crime, the accused fled the spot. The DSP said the victim was willing to contest elections for the post of the village sarpanch while the accused being son of the sarpanch was taking it a challenge for him. A case under Section 302 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered by Sarai Ananat Khan police. OC7 more contract Covid-19 in distAmritsar: The district reported seven fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday with which the total count of cases increased to 47,466. Of the seven cases, three were reported from Army Hospital and one from the air force station. The Health Department also reported the recovery of two patients taking the tally of those cured to 45,854. At present, the district has a total of 13 active cases. Meanwhile, 10,268 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Wednesday. Of these, 4051 received the first dose of the vaccine and 6,217 the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-immigration-agents-booked-356053
30-12-2021||---||Robbers loot Rs 3.5L from bank||Batala, December 29In broad daylight, four unidentified persons looted Rs 3.5 lakh from the branch of Punjab and Sind Bank at Bahadur Hussian village here on Wednesday.SSP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar and a team of senior officers reached the bank and were conducting inquiries. The entire incident has been captured on CCTVs installed on the bank premises.The SSP said an FIR had been registered at the Rangar Nangal police station.A police officer said initially two people entered the bank and snatched the rifle from the lone security guard stationed at the main gate. Within seconds, on receiving a hint from their accomplices who were already in the bank, two more robbers standing outside entered the premises.“The two robbers who entered first posed as customers and to ensure that nobody get even an inkling of their intentions they carried bank pass books with them. All the four had come in an i-20 car,” said SSP Bhullar.The robbers threatened to shoot anybody who moved.An officer said it was a well-planned robbery. “We are checking the footage procured from the CCTVs cameras. We have come across some clues and would nab the robbers soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-loot-rs-3-5l-from-bank-356054
30-12-2021||---||Stay on auction of AIT properties||Amritsar, December 29The Punjab and Haryana High court on Wednesday issued stay orders on the ongoing auction of three commercial and one residential properties by the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT).The the Amritsar Improvement Trust had rescheduled the auction as the auction was disrupted due to some technical issue on December 23.Advocate Ravi Mahajan, who was the highest bidder of four properties on December 23, had challenged the auction in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The court issued notices to the Local Bodies Department and the the Amritsar Improvement Trust in this regard.“Today, the court has issued a stay on the auction of these four properties. I have paid 16 per cent of the advance amount for these properties too,” said Ravi Mahajan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stay-on-auction-of-ait-properties-356055
30-12-2021||---||Missing safety railings on bridges a threat to commuters||Amritsar, December 29The safety railings on bridges constructed over the defence drain running alongside the international border with Pakistan are either rusted, broken or stolen as a result of which commuters run the risk of meeting with a mishap.Hundreds of villages across the defence drain, towards the border side, are connected by more than 40 bridges in the border belt. However, not even a single one could be found in perfect shape as far as safety of the commuters is concerned.Owing to the absence of safety railings, crossing bridges is fraught with risks for commuters, especially at night and on foggy days or nights. Residents say that rusty railings on bridges can be a danger for people coming from outside. “Local residents know about the condition and as such take precautions but those coming from other places do not know this,” said Sukhwinder Singh of Attari.The defence drain was dug up decades ago to serve the twin purposes — a strategic military barrier in case of infiltration and to get rid of excess rainwater. Apart from minor accidents on these bridges, in 2016, seven school children had been killed after their school bus fell into the defence drain near Mahawa village.Residents demand that the government should take notice of the problems faced by them. “As our villages are along the border, there is a big gap as far as development is concerned between villages and cities,” said another Mandeep Singh of Cheema village.They complain iron railings of many bridges were stolen by thieves or drug addicts in the past. At places, the safety railings have not been repaired even after the occurrence of accidents and they are still dangling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-safety-railings-on-bridges-a-threat-to-commuters-356056
30-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Regular traffic jams near Hall Gate in Amritsar, a nuisance||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 29The walled city has been facing heavy traffic congestions in the absence of proper parking space. Regular traffic jams also disrupt normal life and businesses of residents.The only major parking for visitors to the Golden Temple is the Saragarhi parking lot. It is a five-storey parking lot, which remains overcrowded at all times. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has provided a few small parking lots for two-wheelers near the Golden Temple and a major parking lot is near Gurdwara Shaheedan Sahib. Giving a large number of devotees visiting shrines in the city on a daily basis, these facilities seem to be inadequate. They have no option but to park on the roadside.The authorities concerned have failed to provide spacious and more parking lots, leading to congestion or parking problems in most markets. Residents are perturbed as it takes quite a while to find a place for parking their vehicles.The 447-year-old city has narrow lanes in its interior markets. Some major commercial centres such as Hall Bazaar, Katra Jaimal Singh, Telephone Exchange, Karmo Deohri, Guru Bazaar Shastari Market, Raja Market, Katra Ahluwalia, Majith Mandi, Loon Mandi, Daal Mandi, etc, have only small parking lots at Kairon Market, Kesri Bagh and Telephone Exchange. Thousands of traders from Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of the region visit these areas daily. Over 1 lakh tourists and devotees visit the city daily.There are more than 300 hotels, which do not have a parking lot inside the walled city. As per the building bylaws, the hotels cannot operate without in-built parking spaces, but most hotels have no parking space and they are still open.The authorities had proposed a 32-crore multi-level automated car parking to be built at the Kairon Market to address the parking issue in interior areas of the city under the Smart City project. Even five years after the announcement, there is no development or progress on the ground. The MC authorities had proposed to use the old Sabji Mandi as the parking lot, but the MC failed to implement the plan. There will be no relief for residents for many years to come as even if the construction work of parking lot starts, it will take several years to complete.Traffic experts claim that authorities have to make the vehicle free zones in the walled city and construct a major multilevel parking lot outside Hall Gate to tackle the issue. Sandip Rishi, CEO, Smart City-cum-MC Commissioner, stated that authorities were well aware of the traffic issue and working on several proposals to address the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/regular-traffic-jams-near-hall-gate-in-amritsar-a-nuisance-356057
30-12-2021||---||Omicron fear to cast a shadow on New Year celebrations in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 29Given the rising number of Omicron cases in neighbouring states, the Punjab Government has also issued fresh guidelines and imposed restrictions, making Covid-19 vaccination mandatory for all access to public places, several New Year events have been called off.The restrictions will be imposed from January 1 onwards. Anticipating an Omicron surge, several clubs and hotels are already following the double-vaccination policy mandatory on New Year eve.Among the oldest clubs in the city, the Amritsar Club has called off its New Year event due to health safety concerns. “We have decided not to hold any party, gathering or event on New Year’s as we do not want large gatherings posing health threat, when Omicron infections are being reported from elsewhere. We will only allow private gatherings with families with restricted number of people,” informed Lalit Mohan Chandok, founding secretary, Amritsar Club. Other clubs, including Service Club, too are not organizing any New Year event. City hotels too are taking precautions while taking bookings and reservations for New Year.“We are asking for vaccination certificates to ensure double vaccination before we take any bookings for private parties and events at our hotel. As far as our in-house event is concerned, we are keeping a tab on the number of guests and their vaccination status,” informed Manisha Singh Gupta, assistant marketing manager, Holiday Inn.Despite reports of a surge in Omicron surge and Covid-19 cases still debatable, citizens seem to have avoided wearing masks in public places. The markets and commercial places working in full swing, no one can be seen wearing masks, despite health experts and doctors suggesting to wear one even if you are double-vaccinated. Call it ignorance or complete lack of regard for one’s own life, masks are off at a time when Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana have put in fresh covid restrictions and Punjab is about to follow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/omicron-fear-to-cast-a-shadow-on-new-year-celebrations-in-amritsar-356058
30-12-2021||---||Protests galore: Nurses to ASHA workers all on strike in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 29Medical services at government hospitals have been severely hit as most of the employees are on strike and refused to resume the work until their demands are accepted.Health department employees such as nurses, laboratory technicians and junior resident doctors, and outsourced employees, ASHA workers and ministerial staff are on the warpath.Though the senior doctors are trying to fill the void in the services created by the protesting employees, the absence of support staff is a big hurdle in the delivery of medical services.The services were affected at the three major hospitals — Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital and Employees State Insurance (ESI) Hospital — on Wednesday.At Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, the junior residents, nurses, laboratory technicians, outsourced employees from PWD and the Electricity Department boycotted all the services. The junior resident doctors who earlier had not boycotted the emergency services went out on strike. The outsourced employees associated with the PWD and Electricity Departments have also announced to stop maintenance works.Employees at ESI Hospital took out a protest march. “We have been invited for a meeting on Thursday, but we want to make it clear that the strike would not be called off till the notification regarding demands is issued,” said Ashok Sharma, president, ESI Employees’ Federation.The nurses at the government hospitals had went out on strike around three weeks ago. The employees stated that they would not end the protest till the government accepts their demands.Meanwhile, ministerial staff held a rally outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office. The workers have been observing no pen day strike for the last eight days. As the official work related to the Health Department is also done by ministerial staff, it has greatly affected the system.A visitor to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital said, “It seems that everyone is on strike. The patients are suffering and the government is not pay attention to their demands.” He said the government should not let the services suffer and if the demands of the employees were unjustified it must take action against them and ask them to resume services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protests-galore-nurses-to-asha-workers-all-on-strike-in-amritsar-356059
