31-12-2021||Amritsar||One positive case reported in Amritsar||Police Elders’ Day celebratedAmritsar: The Punjab police pensioners’ Welfare Association today celebrated Police Elders Day at Police Lines here on Thursday. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill was the chief guest while Joint Commissioner of Police Gaurav Toora was also present on the occasion. Dr Gill listened the grievances of the retired police officials and policemen. He said the retired policemen were like a family to the city police and we got to learn from their past experiences. He said the city police was always ready to address their grievances on priority basis. Sukhdev Singh Chhina, president of the association, said, the association helped and guide the retired employees in their difficult times besides informing them about the new policies and notifications issued by the government. TNSRoad safety workshopAmritsar: Traffic education cell of the traffic wing of the city police today organised a workshop for the drivers of the school vehicles at GD Goenka Public School here on Thursday. ASI Arwinder Singh asked the bus drivers to follow the traffic norms and instructions issued by the government under the Safe School Vahan policy. He asked them to drive vehicles slowly in view of the foggy season. The police officials also asked them to stay away from drinking and other narcotic substances. Mahavir Singh, chairman of the school, along with Madhu Gandhi, principal, were also present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-positive-case-reported-356541
31-12-2021||The food capital of Punjab||Tour down the lanes of Amritsar to capture sumptuous winter delicacies||A city where food is celebrated and relished to the core, Amritsar, has a lot of offer in terms of seasonal delicacies. If you are not the one to count calories and are happy to add some layers to your body during winter, the city has along list of comfort food that will definitely titillate your taste buds. From munchies to street food and desserts, some of these foods are exclusively made in the city during winter.Beginning with the most popular and exclusive winter staple, Khajoor is a traditional Amritsari sweet, which is particularly prepared near the festival of Lohri. The sweet is available in the local markets from the last week of December till Lohri, making it a novelty for the local residents and tourists. It is made of flour which is fried in ghee. The product is then kept in a cool place for selling it and can last for a week.Another exclusively made winter sweet is til bhugga, the best ones found near the Durgiana Temple. Some of the sweet shops in the city have only been making til bhugga since the past 75 years and supply it worldwide.Amritsari fish is another example of why the city enjoys the status of being a foodies paradise. The two popular varieties found here are Sol and Singhara.While the wholesome meals like sarson ka saag and makki ki roti can be relished anywhere, the quick bites and sweets featured here make winter food platter more tempting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/winter-culinary-indulgence-356540
31-12-2021||---||Amritsar: Corruption in transport office causing loss to state exchequer||Amritsar, December 30Local RTI activist Varun Sareen has alleged the Regional Transport Authority office of indulging in corrupt practices while disposing of the challans issued to violators at Gwal Mandi area near Putlighar. Sareen alleged that with the collusion of RTA staff and agents, the challans were being disposed under the table, therefore causing huge losses to the state exchequer. Talking to the media, he claimed that he was approached by a number of people regarding the alleged corrupt practices adopted by the RTA Department. They handed over the challans issued to them by traffic police for violations. But when they went to the RTA Office at Gwal Mandi, agents got their work done in half of the amount challaned. He alleged the staff removed the challan documents from the office after taking the bribe. He said the staff gets their commission from the agents.  Sareen said he went office and sought the challans. However, the staff there failed to produce the challans. “This clearly substantiated the allegations against the department,” he said while adding that this is a direct loss of over Rs 2 lakhs to the state exchequer daily. Ironically the authorities concerned have turned a blind eye to the rampant corruption in the department. He approached RTA secretary Arshdeep Singh Lubana and sought a probe and action against the concerned staff of the department. Lubana said he had asked him to file a written complaint and he would get the matter investigated. “These are serious charges and whoever is found guilty, would be dealt with strictly,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/corruption-in-transport-office-causing-loss-to-state-exchequer-356539
31-12-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Gas pipeline leak gives jitters to Amritsar residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 30The leakage in Gujarat Gas Pipeline, which led to a massive fire in an open area outside Verka Milk Plant on Wednesday night, has given locals the jitters. Residents, who watched the video of the incident, panicked and remained concerned related to the safety of the gas pipeline installed in most of the localities in the city. The leakage and fire was reported around 6.50 pm outside Verka Milk Plant. As the area was open, there was no casualty.Additional Divisional Fire Officer Lovejeet Singh claimed that they cannot douse flames without shutting down the supply. “In case we douse flames and gas continues to leak, things will get very serious. A spark can cause a blast if gas is leaking. So, the only solution is that we get in touch with the gas pipeline authorities, and ask them to turn off their safety valves.” Satyam Trivedi, manger, Gujarat Gas Pipeline, said, “Our team reached the spot within 20 minutes and took precautionary steps. Such incidents are very rare and there is no need to panick. Our technical team will visit the spot soon and a detailed inquiry will be conducted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gas-pipeline-leak-gives-jitters-to-city-residents-356538
31-12-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar Health Dept gears up to jab 1.2 lakh in 15-18 age group||The district Health Department is gearing up to start Covid-19 vaccination for children aged between 15 to 18 years as the government plans to start immunisation from the first week of January.The district health officials stated that 1.20 lakh children in the age group have been identified. The officials stated that separate queues for the children coming to vaccination would be arranged.Till now, only 18-year plus residents were eligible for the vaccination. As per the figures procured from the Health Department, till date, a total of 14,41,622 residents have been partially vaccinated while 7,49,483 have been completely vaccinated. The district officials stated that the PM had announced to start vaccination of the children from January 3 and as such all preparations are being made at the district level. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-dept-gears-up-to-jab-1-2-lakh-in15-18-age-group-356537
31-12-2021||Amritsar||Man mows down father-in-law in Jandiala, booked||A man was allegedly killed by his son-in-law by running him over with his car in Jandiala. The deceased’s daughter had matrimonial dispute and was living with her parents for the past seven months.The accused has been identified as Jagjivan Singh of Mallia village in Tarn Taran. The deceased has been identified as Amrik Singh, a resident of Model Town in Jandiala. Balwinder Kaur, wife of the deceased, told the police that his elder daughter Balraj Kaur was married to Jagjivan around seven years ago. She said due to some dispute, Balraj has been living with them for the past seven months.She said around 7am on Wednesday, his son Surinder Singh, was going to Vallah for some work. She said he was waiting on GT Road when Jagjivan hit him with his car. She said Surinder narrowly escaped and came back home to narrate the entire incident.Balwinder said she along with her husband and Balraj Kaur reached the spot where the accused rammed his car (resgitration number PB-10-ED-9291) into them. She said Amrik was left critically hurt and they also suffered injuries. She said they admitted Amrik to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.The police have registered a case under IPC against Jagjivan. The police said raids were on to nab him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-mows-down-father-in-law-booked-356536
31-12-2021||---||'RAAHI Project to improve air quality index of Amritsar city'||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 30To improve the city’s public transport and to reduce pollution level, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu has launched “RAAHI” (Rejuvenation of Auto-Rickshaw in Amritsar through Holistic Intervention) in the presence of CEO, Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL)  and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Sandeep Rishi. The video trailer and web portal of RAAHI Project were also launched by the Mayor.CEO, ASCL Sandeep Rishi said the RAAHI project was a part of the City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain (CITIIS) programme being run by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, French Development Agency (AFD), European Union and National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA). The ASCL team had been working on the project for the past two years and today it has been started. He said Mahindra and Piaggio, two e-auto manufacturers are currently empanelled under the RAAHI Project and any auto driver who wants to replace his old diesel auto can apply by visiting the dealership of the empanelled companies. He said first of all, an opportunity will be given to the oldest diesel auto owners to replace their auto with e-auto.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the RAAHI project would not only improve the air quality index of the city, but also improve the daily earnings of auto-rickshaw drivers after the adoption of e-autos.As the cost of running the auto has gone up to more than Rs 4 per km, but it is around only 0.68 paise per km in the e-auto. He said under the RAAHI project, a subsidy of Rs 75,000 would be given to each beneficiary. Apart from this, buyers of e-autos will also be able to take loans at easy rates from State Bank of India. He said under the RAAHI project, free skill development courses have also been started for the women family members of the auto-rickshaw drivers, where courses such as cutting and tailoring, beauty parlour, computer operator and food and fruit preservation can be done.Pranjali Deshpande, mentor, appointed for the RAAHI project by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, said, Amritsar was the first city in the country where e-autos were being made part of the public transport system on such a large scale through this project.She said auto-rickshaws are an important part of the public transport system and only a better public transport system motivates people to use public transport instead of their private vehicles. Pranjali Deshpande said the environment would also be greatly benefited by the RAAHI project. Because a diesel auto (Bharat III standard) emits 0.64 grams of carbon monoxide per km. Accordingly, a diesel auto in Amritsar emits 45 grams per day (in terms of distance of 70 km per day) and 165-kg carbon monoxide per year, but in e-auto it will be zero.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raahi-project-to-improve-air-quality-index-of-city-356535
31-12-2021||---||Strike of Amritsar BRTS employees enters Day 11||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 30The strike of the BRTS employees, demanding hike in their salaries, entered the eleventh day, here on Thursday. The employees are sitting on a dharna at the gate of BRTS bus stand on Vallah-Verka bypass.The Municipal Corporation Amritsar and Punjab Metro Bus Society that runs the Bus Rapid Transit System has asked the private firm to resolve the issue and resume the service. Meanwhile, the office bearers of employees union alleged that the firm had promised to revise the salaries but didn’t fulfill its promise.Last month, the protesting staff of metro bus had resumed the services as the operating company had promised to increase the salaries from Rs 14,000 per month to 17,000 per month.Davinder Singh, president, Bus Rapid Transit System Employees Welfare Association said, “We had resumed the work on their assurance but they didn’t fulfill the promises. We don’t have any option. We have been working on minimal salaries. The firm had promised to give annual hike but didn’t increase the salary for the last four years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/strike-of-brts-employees-enters-day-11-356534
31-12-2021||---||2 held for demanding Rs 5-cr extortion in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 30The city police have arrested two persons for allegedly demanding extortion from a prominent industrialist owing an aluminum factory at the Maqboolpura focal point here. They had demanded Rs 5 crore from Rohit Sabharwal as the protection money.This is the second such case that has come to light in the past two months, indicating that the extortion rackets run by notorious criminals allegedly being sheltered by their political bosses are running with impunity.Those arrested in the case included Charanjit Singh, alias Chan of Kharar in Mohali, and Gajinderjit Singh, aka Rajbir of RB Estate on Loharaka road here. They were brought on the police remand for further interrogation and exposed the entire the nexus, said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective) Jugraj Singh.Giving details, he said the police recovered a car used in the crime, four mobile phones, a country-made pistol with three live cartridges of .32 bore and folding spring knife from their possession.As per details, Rohit Sabharwal, who had gone to Panchkula for meeting his relative two weeks ago, got a call from unknown persons, who demanded extortion while threatening of dire consequences, if he failed to meet their demand. He immediately informed the Panchkula police about this. Jugraj said two days ago, they again got a call from unknown persons for the same. He said on the statement of Rohit’s father Rajiv Sabharwal, an FIR has been registered with Majitha road police. He said Rajiv stated that they ran an aluminium factory at Maqboolpura focal point which is handled by Rohit. He said Rohit returned on Sunday and again he got a call for extortion. The caller said they had arrived in Amritsar and be ready with Rs 5 crore.ADCP said the matter was investigated technically and the accused were arrested after laying a trap. He said interrogation was underway to expose the entire racket. It is learnt that the accused carried out the recce of the entire family and knew that the family had procured new vehicles recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-demanding-5-cr-extortion-356533
