01-12-2021||Ludhiana||Buddha Nullah project reviewed||Youth dies in hit-and-runLudhiana: Vimal Kumar (18), a daily wager in Dana Mandi in Salem Tabri, died on the spot after being hit by a speeding vehicle opposite Sekhewal Gate here on main GT Road on Monday night. The vehicle left the spot after the mishap. On a complaint lodged by Aman Kumar, elder brother of the deceased, the police have registered a case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC. ocMan booked for killing nilgaiLudhiana: The police have booked Jassi, a resident of Pawat village, for allegedly killing a nilgai (blue bull), a protected animal under Sections 3, 31 and 39 of the Wildlife Protection Act. On the complaint of residents of Kalewal under the Koom Kalan police station, a team of forest officials had visited the spot where it found a dead blue bull with a bullet injury. When enquired, forest officials learnt that a poacher, who was driving a white Gypsy, had killed the animal. On the complaint lodged by the DFO (Wildlife Range), Shaminder Singh, the police have registered a case. oc2 motorcycles stolen from cityLudhiana: A Bajaj CT100 motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 10D 3658) was reportedly stolen from the vegetable market in Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar. Owner of the vehicle, Satnam Singh, filed a complaint with the police that stating that he parked the motorcycle in front of the market. When he returned, it was missing. In another incident, a Hero Splendor motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 10EF 1009) was stolen from Factory Street in the Kapil Park area. Amritpal Singh reported to the police that he had parked his motorcyle near the Y block Chowk in Maharishi Valmiki Nagar and had gone to purchase a jacket from a shop. “When I returned after some time, it was not there,” he said. Cases have been registered in both incidents. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/buddha-nullah-project-reviewed-345006
01-12-2021||Ludhiana||DAV School girls corner glory in athletics championship||Girl students of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, made their presence felt, finishing among position holders in the 93rd Open District Athletics Championship held here at Guru Nanak Stadium from November 25 to 27.Trio of Harshika Dhammi, Khushi Tyagi and Vaidehi competed in track events in their respective age groups and finished at the victory podium in the championship.Harshika, also a national level cricketer, won two silver medals. In the U-16 year age group, she secured second position in 100m sprint and 1,000m race. Khushi won gold medal in 50m flat race in the U-12 age group and Vaidehi clinched bronze medal in ball throw event in the same age group. Principal Jaswinder Kaur Sidhu congratulated girls and their coach and sports teacher Amandeep Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dav-school-girls-corner-glory-in-athletics-championship-345005
01-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Administration ropes in schools, colleges to register students as voters||Ahmedgarh, November 30The administration has received a warm response to a drive launched to increase participation of youth in the electoral process by facilitating registration of maximum number of students as voters.The authorities at educational institutes are all out to ensure registration of their students above 18 years as voters for their respective constituencies.Students too, are enthusiastic to be eligible for their active participation in the electioneering process for electing government democratically.Madhvi Kataria, Deputy Commissioner, Malerkotla, has advised the authorities of all government, private aided and private schools and colleges falling under the jurisdiction of Ahmedgarh, Amargarh and Malerkotla subdivisions to ensure that all students above 18 years are registered as voters so that they can exercise their right to vote in the forthcoming Assembly elections.Heads of educational institutes have been asked to submit reports about completion of the process for the registration of all eligible students of their schools or colleges as voters.Having received instructions through the District Education Office, heads of various educational institutes have focused their attention on helping their eligible students get registered as voters before deadline. While majority of students prefer to use prescribed mobile Apps for submitting their claims, there are others, who approach cafés for availing professional services in the matter.Viney Goyal, Principal, MGMN Senior Secondary School, said in-charges of senior classes had been advised to ensure that no eligible student was left unregistered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/administration-ropes-in-schools-colleges-to-register-students-as-voters-345004
01-12-2021||Legal Correspondent||Sessions Judge pays surprise visit to Central Jail in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 30The District and Sessions Judge-cum-District Legal Services Authority Chairman, Munish Singal, paid a surprise visit to the Central and Women’s Jail here today. He inspected barracks, along with DLSA secretary PS Kaleka and CJM Sumit Makkar, and enquired about problems faced by prisoners and undertrials.After hearing their grievances, he passed necessary instructions to the jail authorities to resolve the same within short time. He also instructed the jail authorities to submit a report in this regard shortly.Thereafter, he went to the jail hospital and interacted with patients undergoing treatment there. He asked them about difficulties faced by them during treatment. He issued instructions to doctors to solve problems of patients admitted in the hospital.He also took stock of the jail langar hall and checked food being prepared there for inmates. He interacted with women prisoners and undertrials. On the occasion, Sessions Judge told undertrials that those, who were unable to pay the lawyer fee for defending their cases, could avail free legal aid with the help of the District Legal Services Authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sessions-judge-pays-surprise-visit-to-central-jail-in-ludhiana-345003
01-12-2021||Raikot||250 examined at eye care camp||Major eye ailments, including myopia and hypermetropia, are caused due to lack of concern among residents of the rural and suburban areas about eye healthcare and nutrition.The observation was made by a team of ophthalmologists led by Dr Tejinder Kaur after examining around 250 persons at an eye camp, organised by the local unit of Lions Club and Shankra Eye Hospital. Fifty patients were shortlisted for the implantation of intraocular lenses, which would be done under hygienic conditions at the eye hospital.Club president Pawan Kumar Verma inaugurated the camp and director of Muskan Feed Heera Lal Bansal was the chief guest on the occasion.Project convener Amit Passi said volunteers of the club led by secretary Ramnik Deol had constituted special teams for shifting patients for intraocular implantation of lenses to the hospital. Free glasses and medicines were distributed among participants according to medical advice at the camp. Dr Tejinder Kaur said a majority of patients examined during the camp were found to be oblivious of eye care. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/250-examined-at-eye-care-camp-345002
01-12-2021||Ludhiana||New MSME panel convener||SB Singh, CEO of Taaran Industries, who is also regional consultant, has been appointed convener of the MSME Committee of the Punjab state chapter of the PHD Chamber.RS Sachdeva, chair, Punjab state chapter, PHD Chamber, while appointing Singh as convener, said, “I hope that with his contribution and value addition the PHD Chamber will more effectively meet expectations of the MSMEs in the region.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/new-msme-panel-convener-345001
01-12-2021||Ludhiana||AAP demands ban on sale of public land in Ludhiana||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today demanded a complete ban on the sale of the public land in the city. In a joint statement, AAP city Lok Sabha in-charge Amandeep Singh Mohi and state spokesperson Ahbaab Singh Grewal demanded that the sale of the public land should be stopped in the wake of recent developments.Grewal alleged, “As the tenure of the present Congress government is coming to an end ruling party politicians are busy selling public property to their own associates for personal gains. This ban on the sale will help the common people as they invest their hard earned money in such projects, which eventually never see the light of day and end up losing their savings.”Mohi and Grewal said the loot of public property would not be allowed. AAP would ensure that the people don’t lose their savings to the ‘greed of some corrupt politicians’, they added. They said any such questionable sale would be investigated. Anyone guilty of wrongdoings would not be spared once AAP formed government in Punjab, they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-demands-ban-on-sale-of-public-land-in-ludhiana-345000
01-12-2021||---||Brace up for frequent power cuts as engineers threaten to intensify stir||Our CorrespondentAhmedgarh, November 30Already cautioned against frequent power interruptions in the coming days, consumers may not be able to seek intervention of senior technical officials of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) as mobile phones of office-bearers and activists of the PSEB Engineers Association might be switched off from morning.The protesting outfit has also threatened to discontinue gestures to share and undertake responsibilities of their juniors, cautioning that any blackout in the power sector would be the sole responsibility of the PSPCL management.Acknowledging apprehensions, engineers led by Additional Superintending Engineer Amandeep Singh Khangura said the executive committee had also taken notice of the fact that the period, which was to be exploited for planning, upgrading and preparing the power system for the coming peak consumption season, was being wasted due to the alleged adamant attitude of the management towards resolution of their long-pending demands.“Billing and collection work has also been severely affected and tenders for material procurement are getting delayed. Consequently, we apprehend that the deadlock between the protesting association and the management will result in material shortages during 2022, which will be worse than that of the present year,” said Khangura while alleging that the lackadaisical attitude of the management might compromise the energy security of the state.Meanwhile, protesting engineers threatened to intensify the stir in case their genuine demands were not accepted and implemented without further delay.Compensation for family of deceased engineer Ajay Kumar, grant of Rs5,500 to all eligible AE’s from 01/01/16 as decided earlier and provision of basic amenities, besides medical facilities and proper sleeping conditions during emergency duties were cited among other demands.Protesters also threatened to shun duties of subordinates from tomorrow and switch off their mobiles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/brace-up-for-frequent-power-cuts-as-engineers-threaten-to-intensify-stir-344999
01-12-2021||---||1,650 saplings planted under ?sacred forest? project at Kohara||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 30TK Steels, a firm, in collaboration with EcoSikh, a charitable society, has planted a ‘sacred forest’ comprising 1,650 saplings of 38 native species of the state at Kohara.Lokesh Jain of TK Steels said the ‘sacred forest’ was created in the memory of his father Late Dharam Pal Jain.Members of EcoSikh on Tuesday said, “This sacred forest has been created under EcoSikh’s Guru Nanak Sacred Forest Project, which utilises Miyawaki methodology to create native dense forest. EcoSikh has planted 360 sacred forests in five states and three union territories.”“These forests are created without any use of chemicals or fertilisers. They are 30 times dense and grow 10 times faster than traditional plantations and can become habitat of thousands of birds and worms and help in rejuvenating the biodiversity”, they added.Lokesh Jain said, “My father had always inspired me to give back to the nature. So, we collaborated with EcoSikh to create a forest as we think it is the best way to serve nature and curb pollution.”Pavneet Singh, head (Operations), Guru Nanak Sacred Forest Project, EcoSikh, said, “These forests are natural solutions to the problem of climate change. We are open to work with any industry, which wants to create such forest in their factories and other work places.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-650-saplings-planted-under-sacred-forest-project-at-kohara-344998
01-12-2021||Ludhiana||Guest faculty teachers protest for job security||To mark their protest against the Punjab Government, protesting guest faculty teachers at Government College for Girls placed ‘lollipops’ on pictures of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Education Minister Pargat Singh.Members of the Government Colleges Guest Faculty Assistant Professors Association, Punjab, also distributed lollipops among people.Demanding security of their jobs, protesting teachers alleged that Channi and Pargat were distributing ‘lollipops’ among people. Teachers said protests had been going on across Punjab for the last 29 days due to the ‘deadly’ policies adopted by the state government against assistant professors working in government colleges for the last 15 to 20 years on guest-faculty, part-time or contract basis.“The Punjab Government is just wasting time by distributing lollipops among teachers every time instead of giving us in written to protect our jobs. This has forced us to adopt the path of agitation,” said protesters. Falwinder Verma from Government College for Girls said, “We demand that the government must secure jobs of guest-faculty, part-time and contractual assistant professors working in government colleges. Prior to recruitment, the Punjab quota should be fixed for the youth of state.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/guest-faculty-teachers-protest-for-job-security-344997
01-12-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||New Class X, XII board exam pattern evokes mixed response||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 30Students of the CBSE Class X and XII have started appearing for their first term exams, based on new pattern and introduced by the board recently. They have already appeared for exams of minor subjects. Major exams of Class XII will start from December 3.The new pattern of examination has drawn mixed response from students and parents. While many students feel that multiple choice questions (MCQs) introduced for the first time is a new concept, but they are not aware of how much their score would be.Parents feel that one word questions will lessen the burden and their wards will not bear unnecessary stress.Muskaan, of Class XII student said, “Since it is a new concept, there is a lot of confusion among students about how would the question paper be and how much would they score. For this term, marks will be disclosed to students by the board and only after the final exams total will be tallied.”“Some students find subjective paper better while many others like the concept of one word answer. We have appeared for our minor subject papers of 15 marks, which was easy. Board should not prepare difficult question papers as the concept has been introduced for the first time and we are all unaware about it,” Muskaan added.At the same time, parents feel that MCQs was a good concept as students would be given choice of four answers and they were supposed to tick the correct answer.“But still we do not know how they will perform. Secondly, they will now remain busy till final exams. After the first term, classes will be held and schools will start conducting back to back exams to prepare students for the next term. The new concept introduced by the board has kept students busy throughout the year,” said Nandini, a parent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/new-class-x-xii-board-exam-pattern-evokes-mixed-response-344996
01-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Two members of auto gang, three snatchers arrested in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, November 30The police have arrested two members of an auto gang and three snatchers from the city in separate incidents while around 15 persons, including 12 unidentified men, were booked for assaulting a businessman yesterday.The police said two nabbed members of an auto gang were involved in looting and snatching valuables from their passengers. The accused were identified as Mangat Singh, a resident of Seerha Road, Meharband, and Rajpal, a resident of Ravindra Colony, Chimney Road. One of their accomplices – Gagandeep, a resident of Gobindsar, Chimny Road, was absconding. During preliminary interrogation, the accused confessed to have looted several passengers who had travelled in their auto-rickshaws (PB 10FF 8240) for local transportation. The police had recovered Rs 12,000 from the accused. The police had booked the accused under Sections 379 and 34 of the IPC on Tuesday.The three arrested snatchers were overpowered by the victim with the help of the crowd that had gathered at the spot near Ashiana Paarak on 33 Feet Road here on Monday after their motorcycle developed a snag. The trio were identified as Saurabh, Sahil and Mukesh, residents of Tajpur Road. Rohit Pal, a resident of Ganesh Nagar, said he was accosted by three TVS motorcycle-borne youths near the main market. The accused snatched his mobile phone and purse. However, their two- wheeler developed a snag after which they were caught by him and the crowd. He had been charged under Sections 379-B of the IPC and investigation was on.In the assault case, three persons identified as Ranbir Singh, Karanbir Singh, residents of New Subhash Nagar, and Gagan of Kuldip Nagar and their around 12 unidentified accomplices were booked by the police under Sections 379-B, 342, 323, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC on the complaint of Naresh Pash, a resident of Ganpati Colony on Noorwala Road here.The victim reported to the police that the accused called him to a factory on the rear side of King Palace on the pretext of purchasing some machinery where he was assaulted and threatened with a sharp weapon.“The accused and their accomplices made me sign some blank papers, cheques under duress and also forcibly took away some machines from my godown. They took out a signed cheque for Rs 2.54 lakh, Rs 48,500 in cash and some other documents from my pocket,” the complainant said. The police had launched an investigation in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-members-of-auto-gang-three-snatchers-arrested-in-ludhiana-344995
01-12-2021||Ludhiana||Aspirants protest at Bharat Nagar Chowk||Alleging embezzlement in the Punjab Police constable recruitment scam, aspirants who had appeared in the written examination around two months ago staged a protest by blocking traffic for around two hours at Bharat Nagar Chowk on Tuesday. The protesters wanted to meet PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu but the police stopped them from moving ahead.The aspirants alleged that fraud was being committed in the recruitment process due to which they were forced to hold protests. They raised questions over the shortlisted candidates for the next stage of the recruitment process.The aspirants had also staged a protest on Monday, demanding justice for them. They had alleged that the names of those candidates, who obtained lesser marks than them, had been shortlisted for the second phase of the recruitment process. In the second phase, scrutiny of documents physical measurement test and physical screening test have to be conducted.A group of candidates will also submit a memorandum to the district administration on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aspirants-protest-at-bharat-nagar-chowk-344994
01-12-2021||---||Two test +ve for Covid in district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 30Two fresh cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the district on Monday. At present, there are 16 active cases of the virus.The Health Department has confirmed 87,664 positive cases from Ludhiana district and 11,741 cases from other districts or states till date. Besides, the department has confirmed that 2,110 patients of Ludhiana district and 1,060 of other districts or states have died of the virus till date. A total of 5,311 samples for the Covid-19 test were collected today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-test-ve-for-covid-in-district-344993
01-12-2021||---||Over 7.9L people yet to get 2nd dose of vaccine in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, November 30As a large number of residents are yet to receive their second jab of Covid-19 vaccination, the district administration have evolved a multi-pronged strategy wherein 35 permanent vaccination centres have been set up in the district, besides SDMs have been directed to set up call centres through which they would call such persons and motivate them to get fully vaccinated.While providing information, ADC (Jagraon)-cum-Nodal Officer Vaccination Dr Nayan Jassal said a total of 7,90,263 persons were yet to receive their second jab of Covid vaccination. She said sadly, people believe that the Covid had become a thing of the past, which was not true.She said everyone knows that with the new variant ‘Omicron’, people should not take Covid lightly and should get fully vaccinated by visiting their nearest centre.She said in the interest of public, 35 permanent vaccination centres had been set up in the district, where people could visit on any working day for vaccination.Dr Nayan said 3,36,979 persons were yet to receive their second jab of Covid vaccine in Ludhiana Urban, 8,589 in Samrala, 97,305 in Koom Kalan, 6,259 in Jagraon, 24,585 in Hathur, 16,685 in Machhiwara, 24,278 in Malaud (Dehlon), 29,030 in Pakhowal, 24,278 in Mannupur (Khanna), 27,671 in Payal, 7,024 in Raikot, 88,473 in Sahnewal, 25,109 in Sidhwan Bet and 48,999 persons in the Sudhar area were yet to get their second jab.She said some people still have misconceptions that Covid vaccine was not safe and due to the same, they were not coming forward. “Such people should understand that if anyone wants to travel to any part of the globe, they require a vaccine passport certificate, that they would get only when they are fully vaccinated,” she said while adding that even for visiting the gurdwara at Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan, they need to be fully vaccinated.The ADC (Jagraon) herself made 30-40 calls to such persons today and urged them to get fully vaccinated at the earliest. She said SDMs had been directed to set up call centres in their respective sub- divisions through which they would call such people and motivate them to get fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/over-7-9l-people-yet-to-get-2nd-dose-of-vaccine-in-ludhiana-district-344992
01-12-2021||Raikot||Six nabbed with drugs, illicit liquor||The Ludhiana rural police claimed to have arrested six persons who had been involved in illegal trafficking of drugs and illicit liquor.Five cases of illicit liquor containing 12 bottles each, 6 gm of heroin and two two-wheelers used in crime were seized from the accused arrested from separate places on Monday.The accused were identified as Ranjit Singh of Rachhin village, now staying at Lohatbaddi, Manjit Singh, alias Momna, of Lohatbaddi village, Navjot Singh Jyoti and Chamkaur Singh of Rachhin, Deepu Singh and Manga of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony, Ludhiana.SSP, Ludhiana (Rural), said police officials, supervised by Raikot DSP Rajwinder Singh Randhawa, had apprehended Ranjit, Manjit, Navjot and Chamkaur after registering a case under the NDPS Act at the Raikot Sadar police station against them on Monday evening. A motorcycle used in crime and 6 gm of heroin were recovered from them.Deepu and Manga were arrested by the Jodhan police, led by Gurmit Singh, during a naka at Dolon Kalan Link Road on Monday evening. The duo was earlier booked under the Excise Act on the basis of a tip-off and were found carrying five cases of illicit liquor. Probe revealed that the duo had been involved in selling smuggled liquor to farm workers staying at colonies near brick-kilns of nearby areas. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/six-nabbed-with-drugs-illicit-liquor-344991
01-12-2021||---||Ludhiana MC, cops remove encroachments||Ludhiana, November 30A joint team of the police and the Municipal Corporation (MC) removed temporary encroachments from Field Ganj, Subhani Building area and Shahpur road in Ludhiana on Tuesday.Roadside stalls were removed during the drive. An official of the civic body said it was a joint drive by police and MC officials against the temporary encroachments. Articles kept on the road portion were removed during the drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-mc-cops-remove-encroachments-344990
01-12-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district tops Punjab in providing jobs, self-employment to youngsters||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, November 30The district has topped the state in providing jobs and self-employment opportunities to deserving educated unemployed youth, the administration has claimed.With over 67,000 placements and almost 10,000 loans to needy and eligible candidates, the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) here has become the best performing centre since its inception in November 2018, the officials have said.Sharing details on the completion of its three years, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma, who is also the DBEE Chairman, told The Tribune, here, on Tuesday, that as many as 67,437 unemployed youth had been provided jobs in various sectors through mega job fairs and placement camps held since its opening on November 21, 2018. These included 65,766 placements through fairs and camps while 1,671 candidates were placed under the Compulsory Notification of Vacancies (CNV) Act.The youth given jobs at the DBEE also included 315 drug addicts, who were provided employment opportunities after being rehabilitated at drug de-addiction centres under the ‘Mission Red Sky’.Under the self-employment loan schemes, as many as 10,045 candidates had so far applied for loan of which 9,574 cases had already been sanctioned while the remaining were being processed by various banks, the DC said.Sharing the report card of the DBEE, ADC (Development), Amit Kumar Panchal, who is the DBEE CEO, said mostly rural area candidates availed benefits of jobs and self-employment opportunities offered at the DBEE by taking part in various activities with the help of the helpline call facility and social media platforms.He said besides offering jobs and loans for self-employment, the DBEE also provides free internet facility, library, line department facilities and coaching classes to the needy as well. The Ludhiana DBEE bagged the first position with highest placements in the state during the fourth and seventh state-level mega job fairs by offering 7,450 and 28,588 placements, respectively.Panchal said various skill development programmes were available under the MSDC, PMKVY, DDUGKY, DRDA computer centres and PSDM schemes to train eligible candidates under various courses and make them job ready at the DBEE.Providing special treatment to persons with disabilities (PWDs), the DBEE motivates them to participate in various activities and encourages them to work in the private sector. Besides, they were imparted training by various agencies.The ADC revealed that during the Covid-19 pandemic, various efforts were made to rehabilitate Covid-hit families by imparting them counselling through career counsellors and offering them job and self-employment opportunities.Offering uplift of transgenders, the DBEE held special awareness and counselling sessions for them wherein they were made aware by experts about various facilities offered by the government.Mission Red SkyThe mission aims at providing employment opportunities to addicts rehabilitated at drug de-addiction centres. They were motivated and encouraged to participate in job fairs and placement camps. Of the total 656 candidates identified under the mission so far, 315 were facilitated with jobs in the private sector, skill training and self-employment.Facilities offeredFree-of-cost coaching was provided to candidates to crack various competitive and recruitment exams conducted by various government agencies; experts hold classes of candidates in batches of 40-50. A large number of students were availing the facility; and talent hunt, quiz and debate activities were regularly organised to promote general knowledge of candidates on various issues such as unemployment and performances of new DBEEs.How to registerInterested candidates can register on PGRKAM — a government-run portal to provide career counselling and mass awareness for upcoming job opportunities in different sectors and skill courses through career counsellors by visiting various institutions. A total of 29,934 candidates have participated in different career counselling sessions and career talks so far.About the DBEEDistrict Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) is a single-window platform to cater various needs of job-seekers, employers and those looking for self-employment opportunities, under one roof. After the new structure of employment exchange transformed into the DBEE, the educated unemployed youth have started thronging the DBEE to avail the job and self-employment opportunities while industrialists and others looking for workforce also get themselves registered here for hiring suitable candidates enrolled. It was inaugurated on November 21, 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-tops-punjab-in-providing-jobs-self-employment-to-youngsters-344989
