03-12-2021||---||Vendor attempts to rape 4-year-old||Ludhiana, December 2A ‘golgappa’ vendor attempted to rape a four- year-old girl child at Gandhi Nagar here on Thursday evening.The cops of the Division number 4 took the suspect to the police station for questioning.Sources said the suspect had forcibly taken the girl, who was roaming outside her home, to his room where he attempted to rape her.When the girl raised an alarm, nearby people entered suspect’s room and saved the girl. The girl was taken to the Civil Hospital for treatment.The people also handed over the suspect to the police.The police said suspect was being questioned and allegations levelled by the family were being verified.The police was yet to register a case against suspect in this connection. said officials concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/vendor-attempts-to-rape-4-year-old-345810
03-12-2021||---||After  students protest at GNDEC, probe initiated||Ludhiana, December 2A day after students of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) protested over an unidentified man allegedly barging into a room of girls’ hostel at night, the police have started investigation into the matter. However, an FIR is yet to be registered in the case.According to students, a man had allegedly barged into the room of a student in the girls’ hostel around 2 am on Wednesday. As per the information, a girl was sleeping when the man allegedly entered her room. The man allegedly ‘pressed girl’s mouth and threatened to keep her quiet’. When the girl raised an alarm, the man managed to flee from the room.When the college authorities did not take any concrete action, students staged a protest on Wednesday, demanding registration of an FIR in this regard. They raised questions over the security of girl students in the hostel. Following their protest, a complaint was given to the police. Students did not protest on Thursday, but they want an FIR to be registered in the case. A student said, “The police have started investigation.”A college professor said the matter was under police investigation. Students attended classes on Thursday, he added. An ASI Hardev Singh, posted at the Marado police post said, “Students have complained that an unidentified man entered the girls’ hostel. As per the complaint, the man had entered a hostel room and touched a girl. When the girl raised an alarm, the suspect managed to flee. He is yet to be identified. Our team is checking CCTV camera footage. Once the matter is verified, an FIR will be registered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-students-protest-at-gndec-probe-initiated-345809
03-12-2021||Sports Correspondent||BCM School student wins two gold medals||Ludhiana, December 2Seema Purohit, a student of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, Model Town, gave an impressive performance and won two gold medals in the Open Ludhiana District Athletics Championship. The championship was organised by the District Athletics Association here at Guru Nanak Stadium from November 25 to 27.Seema, is an established cricketer. She has participated in many inter-district tournaments, organised by the Punjab Cricket Association, besides taking part in cricket competitions, conducted by the School Games Federation of India (SGFI) wherein she made her presence felt. She competed in the district athletics meet for the first time and proved here credentials by finishing at the victory podium. Seema stamped her superiority in this championship clinching top honours in the 800m and 1,500m race.Her coach Amandeep Singh praised the all-round player and termed this success a stepping stone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bcm-school-student-wins-two-gold-medals-345808
03-12-2021||---||Seminar dwells on police, govt, legal fraternity coordination||Ludhiana, December 2The Punjab Lawyer’s Forum organised a seminar on the topic “Proper coordination between police, government and legal fraternity for just and fair justice to the common man” here today. Amardeep Singh Rai, ADGP, Punjab Police, was the guest of honour on the occasion.The interactive programme was attended by legal luminaries, eminent personalities and social organisations of the city. Also, Green Ludhiana Campaign was launched by the ADGP by planting green saplings during the seminar.Various speakers emphasised on shortcomings in the present system and ways to remove these during the programme.Meanwhile, Rai listened to suggestions given by the legal fraternity and other eminent personalities, who were present at the seminar and promised to look into them.Advocates suggested timely presentation of challans before the court, more transparency in registration of FIRs, adequate protection to lawyers and witnesses as to make sure delivery of fair justice and speedy trial with the cooperation of legal fraternity. Justice delayed was justice denied, they added.Gurkirpal Singh Gill, president, DBA, Ludhiana, also attended the seminar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seminar-dwells-on-police-govt-legal-fraternity-coordination-345806
03-12-2021||Ludhiana||City to host senior basketball championship from December 6||The 71st edition of the North-Zone Senior Basketball Championship for Men and Women will be organised by the Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) under the aegis of the Basketball Federation of India from December 6 to 10 here at Guru Nanak Stadium.Giving this information, Rajdeep Singh Gill, former DGP, Punjab, and president, PBA said six teams (Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh besides Jammu and Kashmir) each in the men and women sections would be vying for top honours during the five-day championship.“International fame players, Jagdeep Bains, besides NBA stars Amyjot Singh, Amrit Pal Singh and Prince Pal Singh, will be seen in action during the championship,” he said. Teja Singh Dhaliwal, honorary general secretary, PBA, said top three teams would qualify for the 71st Senior National Basketball Championship slated to be held in Chennai from January 23 to 30 next year.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/city-to-host-senior-basketball-cship-from-december-6-345805
03-12-2021||Ludhiana||Resident raises questions over MC demolition drive||Raising questions over MC’s demolition drive held at Raghunath Enclave on Thursday morning, a man claimed that it was his ancestral property, not any encroachment. He said the MC today demolished the residential building and damaged articles inside it. He also alleged that it seems the MC wants to benefit some land mafia by taking this action.MC officials in the presence of a heavy police force carried out the demolition drive. The civic body officials, however, denied the allegations.ATP MS Bedi said as per the layout plan of Raghunath Enclave, the land was marked as a park. He said residents had complained to the civic body against the ‘encroachment’ after which the MC took action today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/resident-raises-questions-over-mc-demolition-drive-345804
03-12-2021||Ludhiana||Clerk complains against official for slapping him||A clerk and an officer of the MC, Ludhiana, had entered into heated arguments while on duty. The clerk has given a complaint to the MC Commissioner on Wednesday, alleging that a health officer has slapped him. It is learnt that the Additional Commissioner visited the office to probe the matter on Thursday. A member of employees’ union said efforts were on to resolve the issue. Additional Commissioner Aadiya Dachalwal said he was inquiring the matter. The health officer said she did not slap the clerk. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/clerk-complains-against-official-for-slapping-him-345803
03-12-2021||---||Man accuses cops of releasing stolen vehicle||Ludhiana, December 2A man levelled allegations against the Haibowal police for releasing his stolen car, which was supposed to be a case property, without initiating any legal proceedings.The complainant has now reached the Punjab and Haryana High Court to file a petition against the police.Complainant Narinder Kumar Sharma of Mahrishi Valmiki Nagar said in April 2018, he, along with his friends, had gone to Haridwar and had parked his Hyndai Accent car outside a hotel. The next morning when they woke up, the car was found missing.On April 28, he got registered a car theft case at the Haridwar police station.“On November 25, I saw my car lying parked outside the DMCH here. I clicked photographs of the vehicle. Before I could inform the police, a man came and left the place in the car. I started chasing the vehicle. He parked the car at an empty plot in Rajan Estate. Afterwards, I informed theHaibowal police and the police took the car to the police station,” the complainant alleged.The complainant said on November 29, when he went to the police station, he was surprised to see that his car was not there. When he asked the Station House Officer why his car, which was supposed to be a case property, was released, the police official did not give any satisfactory reply.Sharma said he would file a petition in the high court against the police for releasing the car.However, the Haibowal Station House Officer (SHO), Neeraj Chaudhary, said a city-based person who is possessing the car at present claimed that he had bought the vehicle and he also had all related documents. Even some documents had signatures of Narinder.“We are verifying all persons involved in the sale and purchase of the car. Let the investigation completes, things can be cleared only then,” the Station House Officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-accuses-cops-of-releasing-stolen-vehicle-345802
03-12-2021||Ludhiana||Man booked  for violating daughter-in-law||The Jamalpur police have registered a rape case against Ravinder Kumar of Garden City, Bhamian road, for sexually exploiting his daughter-in-law.The complainant told the police that she got married in 2017 and a few months after the wedding, her father-in-law had started asking her for sexual favours. “Since my husband was an auto-rickshaw driver I used to remain alone at home. I had been facing sexual exploitation at the hands of the accused for a long time and he had also threatened to kill me and my family members if I reveal anything to the police,” the woman alleged.Yesterday, she told her mother-in-law about the sexual exploitation, after which the latter went along with her to the police station to lodge a complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-booked-for-violating-daughter-in-law-345801
03-12-2021||---||Man shoots himself dead||Ludhiana, December 2A man shot himself dead on 33 Feet Road, Srichand Colony, on Wednesday night.Deceased’s father Iqbal Singh along with his son’s friend took the victim, Amardeep, alias Boney (30), to a private hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead.As soon as the information reached the police, officials from the Jamalpur police station reached the spot.On the statement of his father, the police initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPc.As per information, Amardeep was working as a manager at a vehicle showroom near Aarti Chowk. On Wednesday night, he went to attend a friend’s birthday party. From there he came home late. His friend was also with him.When the deceased’s friend was leaving the house, a gunshot was heard from the room. Hearing this, his friend and father ran upstairs.They saw that Amardeep had shot himself in the head with his own licenced pistol.Family members of the deceased said they were in shock as he was living a happy life. “The deceased has left behind a four-year-old daughter and a 11-month-old son. He was the only son of his parents. He was even planning to give a grand party on the first birthday of his son,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-shoots-himself-dead-345800
03-12-2021||---||Protesting NHM employees to return appreciation certificates||Ludhiana, December 2Protesting employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) will be returning appreciation certificates they received for working during the Covid-19 pandemic.The protesting employees are demanding regularisation of their jobs and hike in salaries. They are sitting on strike at the Civil Surgeon’s office.One of the employees said tomorrow they would be returning appreciation certificates to the Deputy Commissioner. “What is the need of these certificates when the government does not recognise our problems and continues to ignore our genuine demands,” he said.He further added that they had never let the government down and worked hard during the pandemic. The government was showing indifferent attitude due to which they were forced to sit on strike, he said. The protesting employees said they would further intensify their struggle if the government did not accept their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/protesting-nhm-employees-to-return-appreciation-certificates-345799
03-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Fog derails rail traffic, 20 trains cancelled||Ludhiana, December 2Dense fog, which is engulfing the region for past two days, has hit the rail traffic hard with Railways announcing cancellation of 20 trains and truncating the scheduled run of a couple others for a period of two months.Northern Railway officials said train Nos 02053/54 Haridwar-Amritsar-Haridwar Janshatabdi Express and 04537/38 Amritsar-Nangal Dam-Amritsar Express, 03307/08 Dhanbad-Ferozepur-Dhanbad Ganga Sutlej Express and 05733/34 Katihar-Amritsar-Katihar Amrapali Express would remain cancelled till February 28.Further, several weekly, bi-weekly and other trains, including 04505/06 Rishikesh-Jammu Tawi Hemkunt Weekly Express, 04673/74 Jaynagar-Amritsar-Jaynagar (four days a week) Shaheed Express, 04923/24 Gorakhpur-Amritsar-Gorakhpur Weekly Express, 08103/04 Tatanagar-Amritsar-Tatanagar Biweekly Express, 02357/58 Kolkata-Amritsar-Kolkata Biweekly Express and 09611/14 Ajmer-Amritsar-Ajmer Biweekly Express would also remain cancelled till February 28.According to Railway officials, the 04681/82 New Delhi-Jalandhar City-New Delhi Intercity Express would operate between New Delhi and Ambala Cantt with immediate effect till February 28.It was also stated that operations of other trains could also remain affected during the adverse weather conditions due to low visibility. Safety of trains and passengers was foremost important for the Railways and could not be compromised at any cost.Record collection from passengers travelling without ticketMeanwhile, during an intensive drive against ticketless travelling, ticket checking teams of the Ferozepur Division of the Northern Railway checked more than 54,000 passengers during November and recovered a penalty of Rs3.75 crore from them, which was a record collection in a single month till date. Similarly, A TTE (travelling ticket examiner), Pramod Dhir, posted at the Jalandhar Cantt headquarters, recovered Rs16 lakh from ticketless travellers, which again was a record individual collection in the division.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fog-derails-rail-traffic-20-trains-cancelled-345798
03-12-2021||Harshraj Singh||Overcharging goes unabated  at Mini-Secretariat parking lot||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 2As the authorities concerned have failed to take any concrete action, the staff of the private contractor overcharge fee from visitors at the multi-storey parking lot, under the district administration, at the Mini-Secretariat on the Ferozepur road without any fear of the law.Against the fixed parking fee of Rs10 for scooter/motorcycle and Rs20 for car, the contractor’s staff is charging Rs30 for parking two-wheelers and Rs50 for four-wheelers during the normal working hours (8.30 am to 5:30 pm).As per the agreement conditions, the contractor can charge a three times fee after 5:30 pm, but visitors are forced to pay Rs60 or even more as the parking charges for two-wheeler after 5:30 pm.A city resident Mukesh Arora said, “Recently, I parked my motorcycle at the multi-storey parking and paidRs30 during normal working hours. When I objected to overcharging, five to seven men deployed by the contractor came and stood around me. They forced me to pay Rs30. The authorities concerned should act to stop this kind of harassment of visitors.”As per the norms, the contractor is supposed to display a parking fee list at the lot. Moreover, the contractor has to issue tickets using a token machine, but manual tickets san parking fee are given to visitors. Besides, the complete vehicle number is not mentioned on tickets.Ahbaab Singh Grewal, AAP Punjab spokesperson, said, “Despite raising the issue many times, no action is being taken against overcharging at various parking lots by departments concerned. It shows ongoing nexus between contractors and officials.”Earlier, a road safety activist Rahul Verma had accused the staff of the multi-storey parking lot at the Mini Secretariat of overcharging and manhandling him. Verma had raised voice against overcharging ‘when the staff asked him to pay Rs50 for car parking’.He had also given a complaint to the police in this regard but still, there is no check on fleecing of visitors at the multi-storey parking lot.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said he would take a strict action against contractor for overcharging at the parking lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/overcharging-goes-unabated-at-mini-secretariat-parking-lot-345797
03-12-2021||---||Govt's decision to hike minimum wages from back date draws flak||Ludhiana, December 2The state government has decided to increase minimum wages of workers. The decision, however, has not gone down well with the industry, which feels that wage enhancement should be from the current period and not from the back date of March 1, 2020.Upkar Singh, president, CICU, said, “As per the state government’s decision, minimum wages have been hiked by Rs415.89, which is based on the CPI due on March 1, 2020. As a result, minimum wages have now gone up from Rs8,776.83 to Rs9192.72.”“The industry is passing through tough time and is not in a position to bear hike in minimum wages. Also, the industry is trying to recover from losses incurred due to the pandemic. Moreover, to survive, the industry is selling products at a very competitive rates by cutting costs at all levels,” said Upkar.“The hike in minimum wages will raise burden on the industry. This will have a negative impact on the employment ratio. The state government is sprinkling salt on wounds,” rued Upkar.Pankaj Sharma, president, Focal Point Industries Association, said they had requested the government to enhance salaries from the present date as minimum wages were already on the higher side. This way, the industry could survive in the competitive era, Sharma added.At the same time, workers feel that during the pandemic both industries and employees suffered. Owners refused to give wages or food to employees as industries were not functional, they said. “The industry is trying to make up for the losses. If the government feels that workers should also be compensated then there should be no problem to industry,” said Afsar Alam, a worker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/govts-decision-to-hike-minimum-wages-from-back-date-draws-flak-345796
03-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Jagera level crossing to remain closed for 2 days||Ahmedgarh, December 2The authorities in the Railway Department have once again announced to close the Jagera level crossing on the Ludhiana-Dhuri line for Friday and Saturday. The administration has been asked to manage vehicular traffic on alternative routes for two days.Residents of the town and surrounding villages situated on eastern end, who commute between various localities, are already a harried lot as work on the construction of the Pohir overbridge is moving at a snail’s speed.While those travelling in four-wheelers are left with no choice except to take longer alternative routes through the Ludhiana-Malerkotla highway, two-wheeler riders do not hesitate in taking risk by commuting on unsafe railway line crossings.Frequent closure of the Jagera road level crossing, the only route passing through the town, has been compounding problems of residents and the administration as well.Acknowledging receiving instructions from SDM Harbans Singh on the issue, Kulwant Singh, Ahmedgarh subdivision traffic in-charge, said special nakas would be laid to divert traffic through the Khera level crossing and Jandali underbridge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jagera-level-crossing-to-remain-closed-for-2-days-345795
03-12-2021||Ludhiana||Authorities act tough, demolish illegal colony in Ladian Kalan||Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) Sandeep Kumar today warned of strict action against any person indulging in developing of any illegal residential or commercial colony in the district.He also called upon developers to adopt a legal way and get licences from the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) to carry out their businesses of property development in a hassle-free manner.The ADC (UD) said on his directions, an under-construction residential colony, Shiv Shakti Enclave, in Ladian Kalan was demolished today. Works of roads, streets and other works were going on and the developer was issued a warning not to continue any further work in the colony without getting permission from the competent authority and a licence as prescribed under the prevailing law.He said those intending to carve out colonies could submit their applications for obtaining licence with GLADA and assured that their cases would be processed expeditiously and without any hassles.“No development in the form of colonies would be permitted without valid licences and non-compliance would be sternly dealt with,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/authorities-act-tough-demolish-illegal-colony-in-ladian-kalan-345794
03-12-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana district administration launches  I Vote, I Lead Campaign||The district administration launched three-month long ‘I Vote, I Lead Campaign’ in collaboration with city-based youth empowerment organisation ‘Initiators of Change’ at the DC Office complex today to ensure maximum participation of voters in the state Assembly poll.The drive was launched by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, and Jagraon ADC-cum-SVEEP nodal officer, Ludhiana, Nayan Jassal.A team of over 200 young volunteers from the city will be a part of the campaign. They will conduct several activities in a phased manner. The organisation has been working on voting rights and voter awareness with the district administration since 2015 and has been awarded with the National Youth Award by the same as well. Chairman of ‘Initiators of Change’ Gauravdeep Singh, president Arshia Lekhi and vice-president Neeraj Jolly and Raikot SDM Gurbir Kohli were among those others present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/district-administration-launches-i-vote-i-lead-campaign-345793
03-12-2021||---||Four fresh Covid cases in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, December 2Four persons tested positive for Covid and no person lost his life due to the virus in the district today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.57 per cent and at present, there are 18 active cases in the district. Twelve persons were sent for home isolation today.Twelve patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals and of these, three belong to the district and nine are from other districts.Till date, a total of 28,98,950 samples have been taken, of which 27,99,539 were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,668 while 11,743 belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives includes 2,110 persons from Ludhiana and 1,060 from other districts.As many as 5,061 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-fresh-covid-cases-ludhiana-district-345791
03-12-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana: Digital District drive trains 30K girls, 800 still on rolls||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 2In a first, over 30,000 girl students, mainly from economically weaker sections (EWS) of society, have been training in various diploma certificate courses of Information Technology (IT) while almost 800 such candidates were still on the rolls, undergoing the computer courses, ranging three, six and 12-month duration, in Ludhiana district, the administration has claimed.It was done under the ‘Digital District’ campaign, which Ludhiana was the lone district in the state to launch way back in 2001 through the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), officials have said.Salient FeaturesSharing details on the completion of 20 years of the one-of-its-type drive, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma told The Tribune here on Thursday that the ‘Digital District’ was a flagship programme of the district administration with a vision to transform Ludhiana into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy.He said to address the on-hand situation and help youngsters achieve the idea of digital empowered India, the administration through the DRDA had in April 2001 launched a noble initiative by opening DRDA computer education centres across the district.Under the initiative, 11 centres were operational at present with the support of 12 master trainers at different locations.Divulging the outcome of the campaign, the ADC (Development), Amit Kumar Panchal, said two sets of courses — Diploma in Computer Applications and Accounts (Tally and Manual Accounting) were offered to students.While short-term courses on offer were of three and six-month duration, a long-term course spans one year on a number of topics, including a 120-hour certificate course, which was essential for a government job.“Now, these centres are imparting training to nearly 800 students at a nominal cost and free of cost to EWS students. The courses aim at furthering the skill sets of students and making them more equipped for future employability,” said Panchal, while adding that the centres were able to impart training to over 30,000 students so far.The centres were located at Ludhiana, Jagraon, Samrala, Payal, Dehlon, Doraha, Machhiwara, Sidhwan Bet, Raikot, Sudhaar and Khanna.Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said: “Access to technology, internet and information technology, helps people to rise above and beyond the general idea of living. It enables citizens across the state, country and nations to connect, discuss and deliberate on the idea of inclusive development. Digital divide in the 21st Century is nothing but a harsh step back towards progressiveness.""It means a clear and visible gap between the ones, who are able to access technology, but not limited to the internet, personal computers and laptops, and those who are far away from even imagining the access. The initiative will help broaden the gap of digital equality, which comes at the cost of economic and social inequality,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/digital-district-drive-trains-30k-girls-800-still-on-rolls-345789
