06-12-2021||Ludhiana||7 Mobile phones recovered from Observation Home in Shimlapuri||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/7-mobile-phones-recovered-from-observation-home-346836
06-12-2021||Sports Correspondent||Double delight for Sanjeev, Onkarjit||Ludhiana, December 5Former national player Sanjeev Vohra and Onkarjit Singh Birdi hogged limelight by winning two titles each in the Ludhiana District Masters Badminton Championship that concluded at Shastri Hall near Guru Nanak Stadium here on Sunday.Sanjeev clinched titles in the singles and doubles categories in the plus 50 years category while Onkarjit annexed titles in the plus 45 years’ group.In the singles category (plus 50 years), Sanjeev overcame stiff resistance from Upkar Singh whom he edged out 21-14, 15-21 and 21-8 to lift the title whereas in the doubles final, he along with Rajesh Grover defeated Kulwant Singh and Vijay Sharma in straight sets 21-7, 21-10 to walk away with the title.In the plus 45 group, Onkarjit warded off strong challenge from Amrik Singh before coming out triumphant 24-22, 18-21 and 22-20 to win the title. Later, he paired with Amrik Singh to outperform Sandeep Sharma and Aman Dhanda 21-10, 21-6 to clinch his second title.Final resultsPlus 35 (singles): Lakhwinder Singh bt Gurjot Singh 21-11, 21-12.Plus 35 (doubles): Raghav Aggarwal and Rubal Arora bt Lakhwinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh 21-19, 12-21, 21-19.Plus 40 (doubles): Suru Sood and Naveen bt Sunil Goyal and Kuumar Punit 22-20, 21-14.Plus 45 (doubles): Onkarjit Singh Birdi and Amrik Singh bt Sandeep Sharma and Aman Dhanda 21-10, 21-6.Plus 45 (singles): Onkarjit Singh Birdi bt Amrik Singh 24-22, 18-21, 22-20.Plus 50 (doubles): Sanjeev Vohra and Rajesh Grover bt Kulwant Singh and Vijay Sharma 21-7, 21-10.Plus 50 (singles): Sanjeev Vohra bt Upkar Singh 21-14, 15-21, 21-8.Plus 55 (doubles): Rajkumar Arora and Rakesh Batra bt Balwinder Singh and Jagdeep Singh 21-15, 21-11.Plus 55 (singles): K D S Bhalla bt Raj Kumar Arora 21-5, 21-13. Plus 65 (singles): Jai Parkash Dhand bt Balwinder Singh 22-21, 21-11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/double-delight-for-sanjeev-onkarjit-346831
06-12-2021||Sports Correspondent||Senior basketball championship begins today||Ludhiana, December 5With the arrival of teams, the ball has been set rolling for the 71st North-Zone Senior Basketball Championship for Men and Women which will begin at Guru Nanak Stadium here on Monday.Six teams (Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Jammu and Kashmir) each in the men and women sections will be vying for top honours during the five-day championship that will conclude on December 10.Six matches will be played daily. Though the matches will start at 8 am, the formal inauguration will be held at 3 pm by Punjab Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.Hosts and the defending national champions Punjab (men) will begin their campaign with a match against Jammu and Kashmir at 3 pm while their counterparts (women) will take on Himachal Pradesh at 9.30 am.Meanwhile, Teja Singh Dhaliwal, honorary general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association, this evening released the list of Punjab players who would represent the state in the championship.Men’s teamAmritpal Singh, Amyjot Singh, Gurbaz Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Arvinder Singh, Sukhdeep Pal Singh, Manjot Singh, Aakash Sharma, Mannatpreet Singh, Tejinder Pal Singh, Navkarman Singh and Tarunpreet Singh. Rajinder Singh has been appointed chief coach while Gurkirpal Singh and Davinder Pal Singh Dhindsa have been named assistant coaches.Women’s teamSamriti, Kamal, Gagandeep, Ritika, Priyanka, Kavya, Sapna, Radha, Kuldeep, Shabnam, Manmeet and Kanishka. Ravinder Singh and Saloni will be the coaches for the team and Davinder Dhindsa has been named manager.There will be no entry fee for the meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/senior-basketball-championship-begins-today-346830
06-12-2021||Sports Correspondent||LDCA selects U-14, 16, 19 players for its coaching centre||Ludhiana, December 5The Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) held trials to select and register players with its new regional coaching centre (RCC) at the SCD Government College grounds here on Sunday.A large number of aspirants attended the trials in the age groups of U-14, 16 and 19. The selection panel of the association watched the players and selected a total of 102 players for the centre. They have been asked to report at the college ground on December 8 at 3.30 pm.Selected players will be given coaching/training by game experts, appointed by the association to prepare them for the next session.The list of selected players, released by Satish Mangal, president of the LDCA includes — U-14: Vansh Vaid, Himanshu Sharma, Anshul Gupta, Dev Dutt, Arshpreet, Paramveer Singh, Sairaj Walia, Tejas Sharma, Jawed Elahi, Abhav Dua, Medhansh Sethi, Manmeet Singh, Nirvair Nirwinderjit Singh Sidhu, Paras Bassi, Mantra Bhatnagar, Sushil Kumar, Arnav Arora, Ryaan Sehgal, Aditya Gupta, Manav Shaudhary, Anubhav Singh, Raghav Chawla, Sagar, Oblesh Saini and Harkaran Singh.U-16: Sanidh Kumar, Harmanjeet Singh, Harshit Sangar, Prikshit Behal, Sukh Sehaj Singh, Arnaan Ansari, Dron Goel, Rajvir Singh, Sargun Veer Singh, Shivansh Arora, Rajveer Singh, Gursharan Singh, Jarnail Singh, Vanshdeep, Pakshaj, Dharmveer Singh, Sidhart Behal, Yuvraj Bawa, Lakshay Dogra, Nikhil Chauhan, Ayush Yadav, Sabad Sehgal, Navjot, Yaksh, Doran, Rahul Kumar, Amrit Pal Singh, Abhishek Raj, Kunal Jha, Pargun Dhingra, Gurkirat Singh, Sachin, Vaibhav Arora, Midul Jain, Ravi, Simranjot, Dev Bassi and Ayaan Rajput.U-19: Khushdil Tiwari, Abhishek Malhotra, Sagar Kumar, Priyank Puri, Soham Vij, Shobhit Khullar, Aryaman Virk, Vansh, Ayush Gupta, Pranav Sharma, Parkash, Daanvir, Sudhir, Tejeshwar, Rudra Bhagat, Sahil Verma, Piyush Kumar Garcha, Yashas Dua, Navdeep Singh, Paras Mehta, Krishna Singh, Pyush Sharma, Karan Yadav, Himanshu, Bharat Pathania, Vikramjit Singh, Rohan Chauhan, Sagarpreet, Namish Chaudhary, Kamal Kumar, Anmol, Gurdeep and Har Prabhjit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ldca-selects-u-14-16-19-players-for-its-coaching-centre-346828
06-12-2021||---||Dr Manoj Sobti appointed as PMC member||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 5Dr Manoj K Sobti, renowned neurosurgeon, has been appointed as member, Punjab Medical Council (PMC), by the state government.He has been already serving as the member, Punjab Medical Council (Chairman, Ethical Committee), since the past five years. During this period, many important decisions were taken by the council. Senior doctors above 60 years of age were allowed renewal of their registration with the council without credit hours as it was difficult for seniors doctors to attend conferences.The whole medical fraternity has hailed the decision of the state government.Dr Saroj Agarwal, president, IMA, Ludhiana, thanked the state government for appointing honest and hardworking person for the post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dr-manoj-sobti-appointed-as-pmc-member-346824
06-12-2021||---||Man attacked 10 days ago in Jagraon dies, 5 booked||Ludhiana, December 5The Jagraon police registered a murder case against the five persons who had brutally attacked a man at Gandhi Nagar in Jagraon about 10 days back. Victim Shonki Nath had been undergoing treatment at a hospital and succumbed to his injuries on Saturday.The booked persons are Tinu, Nimo, Sanjay, Hansa and one unknown person. A case of murder was registered yesterday.Complainant Meshi Nath told the police that on November 23 the accused had attacked his brother as the latter had been stopping them from selling illicit liquor.Initially his brother was rushed to Civil Hospital, Jagraon, from where he was referred to Guru Govind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, for treatment.About two days back, his brother was taken to home from hospital but yesterday again his condition deteriorated and he was rushed to Civil Hospital, Jagraon, where he succumbed.The SHO, Jagraon police station, Arshpreet Kaur said raids are being conducted to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-attacked-10-days-ago-dies-5-booked-346821
06-12-2021||---||Six nabbed for firing at family in Meharban||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 5The Meharban police today arrested six persons who had fired gunshots at a family in Meharban. The assailants had also hurled bricks at the house in which a woman had suffered head injuries.The incident occurred late last night. The family manages a mosque and they also own a large chunk of land which the accused want to occupy.Complainant Naushad Ali told the police that on Saturday night all family members were sleeping in their rooms when the accused entered their house and attacked them. They also fired several gunshots but luckily no one suffered any bullet injury.When the accused hurled bricks, his mother suffered a head injury as a brick hit her head, said the complainant.Additional DCP Rupinder Kaur Sra said after receiving information on Saturday night, a police party was immediately dispatched and raids were conducted on the whereabouts of the accused.Six accused, who were identified, have been arrested. Some unknowns assailants were also there and they were being identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/six-nabbed-for-firing-at-family-in-meharban-346820
06-12-2021||---||25-yr-old woman commits suicide, husband arrested||Ludhiana, December 5The Basti Jodhewal police on Saturday registered an abetment to suicide case against a man, his mother and sister after his wife committed suicide due to alleged dowry harassment at Shimla Colony.The deceased has been identified as Rajwinder Kaur (25). The accused are Kuldeep Singh (deceased’s husband), his mother Surinder Kaur and his sister Sonia. Kuldeep was arrested by the police on Sunday.Complainant Mohan Singh of Kabir Nagar told the police that his daughter Rajwinder got married to Kuldeep in 2019 and immediately after marriage, the accused started torturing his daughter for dowry.“Many a times we had urged the in-laws of our daughter not to harass her for dowry but they didn’t budge. We had also been giving desired gifts, including cash, to the accused time to time, but their greed remained. On Saturday, the accused had mentally and physically harassed my daughter due to which she committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan in a room,” revealed the deceased’s father.Earlier on many occasions, the accused had also beaten up his daughter.Investigation officer ASI Surinder Kumar said when a police party reached the house on Saturday, all the accused had already left the house but on Sunday one accused was arrested.No suicide note was recovered from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/25-yr-old-woman-commits-suicide-husband-arrested-346819
06-12-2021||Penalise encroachers||Open house: What needs to be done to ensure smooth flow of vehicular traffic in Ludhiana city?||Taking advantage of the poor vigil and lack of corrective measures by the Municipal Corporation against road encroachments, many residents and commercial establishments have extended their structures and occupied roads. As a result of which, at some points roads have become so narrow that plying through such areas is next to impossible. Keeping in view that encroachment of roads leads to congestion of traffic, offenders should be penalised without exception and encroachments be removed.Novin ChristopherAllot place to vendors, rehriwalasTo resolve the problem of traffic jam, the police have been regularly launching campaigns to remove encroachments by roadside vendors and rehriwalas and registering cases against erring shopkeepers. The issue can’t be resolved as such unless an alternative place or ground is allotted on a reasonable lease basis to such persons, who can’t afford to buy or take on rent shops to earn livelihood. The smart city needs to extend parking areas across major markets of the town and improve cycling infrastructure to promote people using bicycles instead of motorised vehicles.Sagar GambhirMake auto drivers, vendors awareThe careless attitude of vendors and shopkeepers, especially auto-rickshaw drivers, are creating hindrance in the smooth flow of vehicular traffic. The police and NGOs must hold seminars or campaigns to make them aware of traffic rules. Auto-rickshaw drivers randomly stop their vehicles anywhere on roads without giving any signal, risking other commuters. Heavy fine should be levied on them to ensure safety of commuters.Swati GargHire pvt agencies to check encroachmentsRoads, pavements, streets and markets in the city are encroached upon by shopkeepers, hawkers and people for social or religious functions. It leads to traffic jams and inconvenience to commuters. Prime locations are encroached upon by offenders under the nose of the local authorities. Sometimes, government officials have to stop encroachment drives due to political interference. The authorities should allocate separate space for hawkers. There must be regular visits of officials to all areas to check any encroachment. The charge must be given to private agencies to avoid political interference as it is done in the case of towing away of vehicles by the traffic police. Heavy fines should be imposed on encroachers. People should cooperate with the local authorities in this mission.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiPeople should act sensiblyIt is commendable on the part of the administration to carry out drives for the smooth flow of traffic in the city. But the ultimate onus lies primarily upon residents. We people forget about rules and regulations and many a times even take pride in flouting the same. This type of attitude requires an immediate change. As responsible citizens, we must obey traffic rules and avoid encroaching upon roads which leads to hindrance in the smooth flow of traffic. Above all, we must develop a sense to park our vehicles in a proper manner to help regulate the traffic. The administration too should continue its efforts of easing the traffic flow in the city.Bir Devinder Singh BediCheck violations on a regular basisEveryday we see encroachments by the roadsides at various places in the city, which create problems for commuters whofail to reach their destinations on time. Hence, the authorities should provide proper space for parking, vends, rickshaw stands, etc. There must be regular checks on violations and proper fine should be imposed on repeat violators.Shine RawalProvide space to vendors in every localityEncroachments by roadside vendors have always been a matter of concern. These create hindrance in smooth flow of traffic. The vendors are also forced to take such steps due to lack of proper space for their vends. They are doing the same for earning livelihood for them and their families. The government must provide proper space for them in every locality. The vendors should form unions for cleanliness and maintenance of space provided to them. There are vacant plots and unused buildings in the city which could be utilised for the same.Ritu PriyaPrepare traffic mgmt plan for cityTraffic congestion is now a major problem in the city. The number of vehicles on roads has seen a drastic rise in the city but the police with their existing manpower have failed in regulating the traffic. More traffic police personnel are needed. Traffic chaos is more during morning and late hours. At night, heavy vehicles create traffic snarls at many points. Traffic congestion has also increased due to the ongoing development projects under the Smart City. The Municipal Corporation and the police should prepare a traffic management plan for the city. The tehbazari wing of the MC should clear encroachments on roads. It should be ensured that CCTVs installed in the city are in working condition to keep a check on traffic violations. PCR personnel should be deployed at points witnessing frequent traffic congestion. Commuters should be made aware of traffic rules through rallies and seminars. Traffic signals should be installed at busy chowks. When politicians visit the city, the police should divert traffic in a planned manner to avoid any traffic snarls.RS SembhiCreate better parking facilities in cityIllegal parking eats road space, leading to long traffic jams. To ensure that people are following traffic as well as parking norms, there should be strict implementation of rules. Also, there is a need to create better parking facilities to reduce traffic jams. Corruption is one of the reasons of non-implementation of traffic and parking rules. The administration should form teams to regularly check illegal parking in markets and on roads.Adish SoodImplement rules strictlyRules and regulations can’t yield results till they are implemented strictly and the public at large fully cooperate. The MC deserves praise for taking bold steps in past years for clearing encroachments and widening roads. People should change their mindset. When the MC teams visit city areas, encroachers disappear and when the former leave, they return to their spots. To let such people change their attitude; the authorities should make them aware and provide strict punishment to habitual defaulters.Dr Sunil ChopraCops should continue their efforts“Roadside encroachments by shopkeepers and vendors and wrong parking of three-wheelers and other vehicles block roads and make it difficult for pedestrians even to walk. The police have done a commendable work in removing encroachments on roads by shopkeepers in some shopping centres such as Chaura Bazaar but the menace continues to exist in many other such places and on roads in internal parts of the city. The police must take it as their responsibility to check encroachments by shopkeepers and roadside sellers and traffic jams by three wheelers and cars in all markets and roads in the city. People must also be reminded time and again not to add to this menace as the issue is in their own interest and convenience. People staying and doing business in such areas must also participate in the cause. The police must be strict and defaulters must be punished with fines.”Gautam DevStringent laws neededIn big city of Ludhiana you cannot find any road without encroachments. Every shopkeeper in the industrial city feels that public place is a free land for him or her to use for personnel purposes. They ignore orders of the district administration. People have started big businesses of selling garments and other items at places which they have illegally occupied. Parking by the roadside becomes a major hurdle for the smooth vehicular traffic. Thousands of auto-rickshaws have become the major cause of traffic jams. The government must show courage to stop violations. Stringent laws should be made to curb it.JBS NandaTake new measures to check traffic woesRoads are flooded with vehicles. Wrong parking of vehicles is a major cause of traffic congestion. Awareness campaigns should be organised to educate people. If we become sincere towards traffic rules and park our vehicles at parking lots, the traffic problem will be solved to a great extent. To avoid hardships, advance planning and a few precautionary steps can be helpful in regulating the smooth flow of traffic near busy shopping centres. It will provide relief to residents living in adjoining localities. Launching car-free days, mending driving behaviour, fixing speed limits, restricting minors and those without licences to drive vehicles are some helpful measures.Varun ChauhanSellers should act responsiblyTraffic chaos is a big issue that everybody is facing nowadays, especially in Ludhiana. It is happening mainly because of two reasons. Firstly, shopkeepers encroach upon space in front of their shops and on roads to sell their goods, which is also visited by buyers due to which commuters face inconvenience. Secondly, people park their vehicles on roads in front of such points and food stalls to buy various items. It is the responsibility of both residents and vendors to think about commuters who got stuck in traffic jams due to the menace. Shopkeepers should take the responsibility of parking of customers’ vehicles so that the commuters could not face any problem on roads. Through such steps, traffic can be controlled on roads.Anu JoshiPoliticians should not interfere in MC drivesHassle-free traffic movement in Ludhiana is a dream for motorists commuting in the city. Almost all shops have either encroached upon public space for commercial purposes or parking. It can be improved with the help of councillors concerned. In a democracy, consultation and consensus are a tool to solve any problem. They can persuade traders to fall in line. The police should play their role evenly to remove encroachments. Local politicians should stop their interference in Municipal Corporation-led drives to clear encroachments. Traders should be made aware about benefits of free movement of traffic in the city.Dr Sukhdev SharmaQUESTIONAs the Punjab Assembly elections are approaching near, various sections of society are up in arms against the present dispensation and are resorting to protests, mainly by blocking roads and highways. The impunity with which the public is held to ransom by such protesters has put a question mark on law enforcement agencies, which usually turn mute spectators, allowing even a handful of protesters to block the public passages. What should be done to avoid public harassment due to protests?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-needs-to-be-done-to-ensure-smooth-flow-of-vehicular-traffic-in-city-346818
06-12-2021||---||40 get free artificial limbs at camp in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, December 5The Bharat Vikas Parishad Charitable Trust, Punjab, observed International Day of Persons with Disabilities by organising a free artificial limbs distribution camp at Viklang Sahayta Kender.Artificial limbs, calipers, crutches and hearing aids were given to 40 persons with disabilities.Narinder Mittal, president of the Ludhiana unit of the Bharat Vikas Parishad Charitable Trust, Punjab, presided over the function. He said the trust has organised 1,494 camps in which more than 61,305 persons with disabilities have benefitted in various ways. As many as 2,855 operations have been done till date, which were 100 per cent successful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/40-get-free-artificial-limbs-at-camp-346816
06-12-2021||---||Nine test positive for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, December 5Nine persons tested positive for Covid, while no death was reported in the district today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached at 97.56 per cent and there are 28 active cases in the district at present. Twenty-four patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.A total of 10 patients — four belonging to Ludhiana and six to other districts — are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals.Till date, a total of 29,14,515 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 28,15,091 samples were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,680, while 11,744 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of patients who lost their lives to Covid is 2,111 from Ludhiana and 1,060 from other districts.Samples of 5,018 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/nine-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-346815
06-12-2021||Manav Mander||Despite Omicron fear, residents throng Sunday bazaars in Ludhiana city||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 5Despite the Omicron scare, city residents were seen shopping as usual at old Sunday bazaars by putting aside their safety gears. People were seen roaming freely in the bazaars without any fear, no social distancing was maintained and none of the shoppers were seen wearing masks, the essential protective gear against Covid.Shoppers were seen jostling with each other to strike the best possible deal while caring little about the Covid protocol. Neither shopkeepers nor customers were seen following norms. Symptoms of new Covid variant“I came here for winter shopping,” said a shopper, and when asked why he was not wearing mask, he said he is vaccinated and now there is no fear of Covid and he has stopped wearing masks these days.Shambhu, who has a makeshift shop at Chaura Bazar said earlier he use to wear mask but now everyone is without mask so he has also ditched his mask. “If government makes it mandatory again, I will also start wearing it,” he said, ignorant of the fact that mask is still essential to wear.Ashu, who had gone to a Sunday bazaar at Chaura Bazar for some quick winter shopping, said he was taken aback to see a huge sea of people at the bazaar. “I was wearing a mask but it was impossible to maintain social distance. I tried to buy some stuff quickly and came back as soon as possible,” he said.Civil Surgeon, Dr SP Singh said despite cases starting to ebb, there is a greater need to be vigilant as the virus in a new variant is among us and everyone has to be very cautious.He asked the people to continue to observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/despite-omicron-fear-residents-throng-sunday-bazaars-in-city-346814
06-12-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana: Choked sewers overflow on road in Focal Point area||Ludhiana, December 5Hundreds of shopkeepers, residents, labourers and owners of industrial units located on the road from Dhandari Bridge to Station Road in the Focal Point area have been virtually living in hell-like conditions for the last more than one year due to choked sewer lines and overflowing sewage stagnating all across the road emitting stench and also exposing the people to serious health risks.To make the matters worse, the road has been damaged due to stagnation of water for a long time giving rise to road accidents.Factory owners, shopkeepers and industrial workers residing in the area say despite repeated complaints to the officials concerned of the Municipal Corporation, no action has been taken to address the issue and it seems that the suffering area residents have been left to fend for themselves.The affected residents strongly feel that not only the Focal Point but also most of the industrial pockets in the city suffer due to poor urban infrastructure and lack of basic amenities.“On the one side, Ludhiana is being touted as being developed as a ‘smart city’ but on the other the industrial belts (including Focal Point), which make a sizeable contribution to civic revenue by way of taxes and user charges, remain a neglected lot. Are we not a part of the city?” wonders Anil Kataria, running a welding material shop on the road.Ram Singh, who owns two industrial sheds on the road, also resents step-motherly treatment being given by the MC authorities to the area. “It sounds unbelievable but sewer lines are choked and have been overflowing for the last more than one year. Due to permanent stagnant water, the road has eroded and developed deep cracks and become accident prone,” he said adding that MC officials have failed to respond to repeated pleas of the suffering residents, shopkeepers and owners of industrial units.Another trader Akash Bali said at certain places in the area, sewerage discharge is getting mixed with drinking water which is another serious health hazard as industrial workers residing in labour quarters have often complained of dirty and foul-smelling water coming out of taps. “Even customers and other visitors to our shops mock us for living in such bad conditions but we are left with no other choice,” he said.Superintending Engineer (O&M), MC, Rajinder Singh, however, said he has not received any complaint on the issue. “I shall seek a spot report from the field staff and remedial action for clearing/cleaning sewer lines would be taken up immediately,” he added. OfficialspeakI have not received any complaint on the issue. I shall seek a spot report from the field staff and remedial action for clearing/cleaning sewer lines will be taken up immediately. —Rajinder Singh, Superintending Engineer (O&M), MC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/choked-sewers-overflow-on-road-in-focal-point-area-346812
