12-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Police torture victim dies after 16 yrs; DSP, SI among 4 booked||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 11Justice delayed is justice denied. This turned true in the case of a 37-year-old woman, a police torture victim of Rasulpur village in Jagraon, who breathed her last on Friday.The Jagraon police today registered a case under Section 304 (culpable homicide) and 342 (illegal detention) of the IPC, Section 3 and 4 of the SC/ST against the then SHO, Gurinder Singh Bal (now DSP, Bhawanigarh), then ASI Rajvir Singh (now SI, Faridkot), sarpanch Harjit Singh and panch Dhyan Singh.The woman along with her family members was illegally detained and tortured by the then SHO, Jagraon, City, in 2005 in a case of death of a minor girl under mysterious circumstances.The deceased’s brother Iqbal Singh said “On July 14, 2005, then SHO of Jagraon, City, along with a police party, illegally detained me, my mother Surinder Kaur, sister Kulwant Kaur at the police station. We were tortured physically as well as mentally. My sister Kulwant, who was given electric shocks by the SHO, had been ill since the day she was tortured.”“My niece had committed suicide but the police presented it as a murder case and illegally detained our family members to implicate us in a false murder case. I was arrested in the case and sent to jail but the court acquitted me. We had been waiting for justice for the last 16 years and now by registering a case, a way towards justice has begun,” Iqbal asserted.He said even the National Commission for Scheduled Castes had also ordered action against the guilty policemen but no action was taken for years.Even Chairperson of the Punjab State Commission for Women Manisha Gulati had also met the victim last year and assured justice by registering a case against the guilty SHO but she, too, failed to provide justice to the victim.Before breathing her last, my sister’s last words were: I urge God to end my life’s journey on this earth as I am not expecting any justice from the Punjab Police till I am alive. Hope my death will bring justice for me,” Iqbal said.Universal Human Rights Organisation (UHRO) chairman Satnam Singh Dhaliwal, who had been supporting the family from the day one said, “SHO Gurinder is now DSP, Bhawanigarh, ASI Rajvir is now SI in Kapurthala. We want immediate arrest of the accused else we will start an indefinite protest. Now when the victim, who had been awaiting justice for 16 years, has died, her soul will rest in peace only when the accused cops will go behind the bars,” Dhaliwal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-torture-victim-dies-after-16-yrs-dsp-si-among-4-booked-349370
12-12-2021||Ludhiana||Arora sent to judicial custody||The Ludhiana police today produced Anil Arora in court, which sent him in judicial custody.Arora was accused of making derogatory remarks against Guru Nanak Dev. He was arrested from Panchkula on Thursday.Inspector Beant Juneja, in-charge, Crime Branch-III, said Arora was already on a two-day police remand and he was questioned regarding the case. He had also confessed to the crime.Another accused Ashish, who lives in the UK, has also been nominated in the case and the police have already initiated the extradition proceedings against him.Apart from Arora, eight accused have already been arrested by the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/arora-sent-to-judicial-custody-349371
12-12-2021||Ludhiana||Goods worth Rs8L stolen from sanitary godown||Theives targeted a sanitary godown in Vijay Nagar on Friday night and decamped with two laptops, sanitary goods and Rs 30,000.Ramanjot, owner of the godown, said he owns a sanitary goods shop at Subhani building and the godown is at Vijay Nagar. This morning his workers called and informed that the entire godown was lying ransacked.“When I reached the spot, I found that thieves had entered the godown by breaking open the window. The thieves decamped with cash and goods worth Rs 8 lakh,” added the owner.Janakpuri police post in-charge ASI Balbir Singh said a case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/goods-worth-8l-stolen-from-sanitary-godown-349372
12-12-2021||Ludhiana||Mobike-borne man fired at||Three car-borne miscreants fired at a motorcycle-borne man at Guru Arjan Dev Nagar this afternoon. The man, Manpreet Singh, had a narrow escape as he didn’t suffer any bullet injury.Manpreet told the police that he was heading towards market on a motorcycle and when he reached Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, a car suddenly came and a man fired a gunshot at him.The complainant said he has identified one of the assailants who has a criminal past. The assailants tried to kill him as they suspected that he has been informing the police about their criminal activities.Investigation officer SI Jasvir Singh said the statement of the complainant is being recorded and a case would be registered accordingly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mobike-borne-man-fired-at-349373
12-12-2021||---||Woman dies,  4 fresh cases  in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 11Four persons tested positive for Covid, while a 49-year-old woman from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, who had been admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, died today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.55 per cent and there are 33 active cases in the district at present. Twenty-nine patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.Till date, a total of 29,39,058 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 28,39,612 samples were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,698, while 11,748 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of patients who lost their lives to the disease is 2,114 from Ludhiana and 1,061 from other districts.Samples of 4,570 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/woman-dies-4-fresh-cases-in-district-349374
12-12-2021||---||Teachers, students find CBSE Class X English paper difficult||Lovleen BainsDoraha, December 11Teachers and students have complained that English paper of the CBSE Class X conducted today was lengthy and complex. They demanded adequate compensation for the paper from the board.Twenty per cent paper was meant only for the bright category. The reading section needed real intelligence. Besides, shortage of time was another concern of good students. So, students did not leave the school happily. Grace marks should be given to students. — Suzi George, Principal, Green Grove School, MohanpurStudents complained that the reading section was beyond their comprehension. As it was the very first question in the paper, the students got stuck there itself. The literature part too left them aghast as questions were in no way simple. They were confusing and options were quite close to each other. In some questions more than one option could be considered correct.“The final answer key, which is to be put up by the CBSE, should be released after good thought. Questions with more than one correct option should be given due weightage in evaluation of papers by the examiners. After all these are Class X exams and not a joke. The question paper was lengthy as well. On one hand the reading part proved to be difficult and on the other multiple correct options in many of the literature based questions made us shudder all the more,” shared an examinee of a local school.“All my hopes of securing more than 90 per cent have dashed. The board should not play with the future of students. Our whole career depends on Class X marks,” rued another student.The topper of a local school shared “I was disappointed when I saw the paper. When we are eyeing the top position, the loss of even a fraction of mark counts worth hundreds. This loss can be compensated only with grace marks.”Teachers of various schools have expressed their resentment with the paper setter, who ignored students’ level. “Such callousness of the paper setter should not be tolerated. The examinees suffered. Students had burnt midnight oil. They should be given grace marks,” shared a teacher.Managing Director, Tagore International Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal, BK Aneja, said, “The English question paper was lengthy and complex. The options were quite confusing in the reading section and literature. There were grammatical errors in the literature section. The options were incomplete for question number 13 and 14. Section C- literature was tricky and options were very close. Overall, it was not a balanced paper. The board should consider paper for grace marks.”Principal, Green Grove School, Mohanpur, Suzi George said, “Twenty per cent paper was meant only for the bright category. The reading section needed real intelligence. Besides, shortage of time was another concern of good students. So, students did not leave the school happily. Grace marks should be given to students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-students-find-cbse-class-x-english-paper-difficult-349375
12-12-2021||Harshraj Singh||Farmers returning from Delhi get warm welcome||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 11After the Central Government repealed the three farm laws and accepted other demands of farmers and labourers organisations, activists have started returning from Delhi borders. They are being given a warm welcome here in the district.Get ready to pay tollTax collection had stopped as farmers had been protesting at toll plazas across the state. Now, the Ladhowal toll plaza authorities are making arrangements to restart tax collection. Many workers were seen checking FASTag sensors and other equipment at the toll plaza here on Saturday. Farmers would lift their dharna from the Ladhowal toll plaza on December 15.Flowers were showered on jubilant farmers and labourers here today. They were seen dancing in joy while passing through the city. A large number of farmers and labourers returning from Delhi borders are likely to reach or pass through the city on Sunday.On Saturday, members of the BKU, Ugrahan, showered flowers on returning farmers and labourers at Barmalipur village, near Doraha, on the National Highway No. 44. Langar was also organised for returning farmers.Sudagar Singh Ghudani of the BKU, Ugrahan, said farmers and labourers were carrying out the Fateh March to mark their historic victory. “We will shower flowers on them. The march from Delhi borders is on the way. Farmers are likely to reach Ludhiana on Sunday,” he said.“The unity and struggle of the people have brought the Modi government to its knees. We will continue our struggle for the MSP guarantee on crops. A drive will be launched to make Channi government in Punjab in order to fulfil the promise of waiving off farmers and labourers debts,” he added.Meanwhile, farmers are being given hearty welcome at the Ladhowal toll plaza. Tirath Singh of the BKU said, “Farmers’ organisations are returning from Delhi borders. They being welcomed at the Ladhowal toll plaza. Nihang Singhs are also carrying out a march. They will reach here in a day or two,” he said.“At the Ladhowal toll plaza, we will do Sri Sukhmani Sahib Path on December 15 and lift dharna from here,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmers-returning-from-delhi-get-warm-welcome-349376
12-12-2021||---||GLADA officials face people's wrath||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, December 11Ill-prepared demolition drive planned by the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) against scores of unlicensed and illegal colonies on the main Chuharpur Road in the Haibowal area faced stiff resistance from developers, their work force and other affected persons. GLADA officials, who went for demolishing illegal structures, had to beat a hasty retreat from the spot.Led by a Duty Magistrate, cops from the Haibowal police station, along with men and machines, a team of GLADA officials descended at an under-development colony on Chuharpur Road. They announced to carry out demolition at the unlicensed colony. The machine were about to be deployed when a large crowd gathered on the spot and forced the GLADA team to stop their work.GLADA SDO Khushdeep Singh said, property owners in these colonies and other affected persons reached the spot, squatted and protested against demolition drive.The police force accompanying the GLADA team was inadequate. The situation was about to go out of hands when officials contacted the GLADA Additional Chief Administrator (ACA), who advised them to stop the drive and return.Later, GLADA ACA Sandeep Rishi said the demolition drive was deferred as the situation could go out of hand. It could have become a law and order issue, he added. He made it clear that all unlicensed colonies were illegal and no prior notice for demolition was required as GLADA was acting as per the law in this respect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/glada-officials-face-peoples-wrath-349377
12-12-2021||Ludhiana||13,084 cases settled, Rs71-cr awards passed||A total of 13,084 cases were settled amicably out of 27,381 cases placed before different lok adalat Benches involving awards of Rs71,21,03,632 in the National Lok Adalat organised by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA).The Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, DLSA, Munish Singal along with the DLSA secretary-cum-CJM, PS Kaleka, supervised the functioning of 32 lok-adalat Benches in the city.Lok adalat proved beneficial for labourers and workmen as the bench headed by Industrial Tribunal presiding officer Sanjiv Joshi (Additional District Judge) provided compensation of around Rs71 lakh by resolving their ongoing disputes with their employers.The Benches were headed by judges, including ADJ Raj Kumar Garg, ADJ Monika Goyal, ADJ Amrinderpal Singh, Family Court Principal Judge Ajaib Singh, Additional Principal Judge Rakesh Kumar Sharma, ADJ Rakesh Kumar-1, ADJ Mohit Bansal, CJM Sumit Makkar, Permanent lok adalat chairman Balwinder Singh Sandhu, ACJM Harsimranjit Singh.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/13-084-cases-settled-71-cr-awards-passed-349378
12-12-2021||Ahmedgarh||Legislator goes on foundation stone-laying spree||Legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman went on inauguration and foundation stone-laying spree at the town and surrounding villages falling under the Amargarh Assembly segment.CMC gets 100 MBBS seatsLudhiana: The National Medical Commission has increased seats for the MBBS course from 75 to 100 in Christian Medical College (CMC). College Principal Prof Jeyaraj D Pandian said this increase in seats would support CMC’s efforts for meeting the need for healthcare professionals. TNSHe inaugurated two halls constructed under the corporate social responsibility scheme by Shryans Industries Limited (SIL) at Government High Schools, Chhanna, and Dehliz Kalan, and a Government Senior Secondary School at Ahmedgarh. Earlier, Dhiman inaugurated construction work on Thana Road, Dehliz Road, Railway Road and Jain Sathanak Road. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/legislator-goes-on-foundation-stone-laying-spree-349379
12-12-2021||---||Three killed in road accidents in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 11Three persons have been killed in separate road mishaps in the district. The first accident took place on the GT road, near Salem Tabri, on Friday in which a 70-year-old Avtar Singh was killed. Complainant Karamjit Singh of Iyali Khurd told the police that his father was waiting outside Sidak Palace for an auto-rickshaw when a speeding and rashly driven car rammed into him. Due to serious head injuries, his father died on the spot.Investigation officer ASI Janak Raj said the errant car driver fled from the spot and efforts were on to identify him. A case was registered against unknown driver yesterday, he added.In second accident, a cyclist Anil Pandey of Koom Kalan died after his bicycle was hit by a rashly driven Nissan car (PB08DL0613) on the GT road, near Sahnewal, on Thursday. The Sahnewal police nabbed car driver Surjit Pal of Soffi village, Jalandhar. The deceased was factory worker and was going home after the job shift.In third accident, two motorcycles collided near Sidhwan Bet leaving one person dead.Harmanjot Singh of Madarpura village told the police that he, along with his father Baljit Singh, was heading home. When they reached near Sidhwan Bet, a speeding motorcycle rammed into their bike. In the mishap, his father suffered serious head injuries and was rushed to the hospital for treatment where he breathed his last yesterday.The Sidhwan Bet police registered a case against biker Kamaljit Singh of Gorsia Kadar Baksh village. He was yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-killed-in-road-accidents-in-district-349380
12-12-2021||---||Working hours of post offices extended||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 11To meet expectations of the public, the Department of Posts have extended business hours of post offices in the city.Dr Amarpreet Singh, superintendent, post offices, in a statement stated that timing of mail bookings, which include speed posts, registered letters and registered parcels, had been revised at post offices namely head office, Ludhiana, from 9 am to 6 pm, Miller Ganj post office from 9 am to 5 pm, Central post office from 9 am to 6 pm, BNPL railway station from 9 pm to 9 am, and all other post offices from 9 am to 4 pm.“People can avail benefits of these extended hours. Bulk mail customers can also contact these offices to avail services. If any customer faces any issue related to booking at post offices he/she can approach the Superintendent’s office,” Dr Amarpreet added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/working-hours-of-post-offices-extended-349381
12-12-2021||---||Weightlifting association gets Rs3-lakh cheque||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana, December 11The Minister for Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, handed over a cheque of Rs3 lakh to the Ludhiana District Weightlifting and Bodybuilding Association. The minister visited the association office at Rakh Bagh and gave the cheque to office-bearers of the body.The amount will be utilised to purchase equipment, required for the training/ coaching of players.Dr Iqbal Singh Ahuja, Narinder Sharma, chairman and president, respectively, of the association, besides Parvesh Chander Sharma, three gold medals winner in Commonwealth Games and general secretary of the body and Prem Parkash Khullar, former national champion were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/weightlifting-association-gets-3-lakh-cheque-349382
12-12-2021||---||Three nabbed with heroin, illegal liquor||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 11The CIA wing of the Ludhiana rural police nabbed three smugglers and recovered heroin and illegal liquor from their possession in separate cases.A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act and Excise Act was registered against the three nabbed smugglers today.Prem Singh Bhangu, CIA in-charge, in a statement said in the first case, the police nabbed Karamvir Singh, alias Jagga, resident of Moga, and recovered 30 gram of heroin from him. He was arrested from the Sidhwan Bet area when he was on the way to deliver the consignment of heroin to his clients on a motorcycle.In another case, the police nabbed Gurmel, alias Bona, resident of Khet Ram Bagh, Jagraon, and recovered 65 bottles of illegal liquor. He was nabbed at a naka. One of his accomplices Nanna of Jagraon managed to give the police party a slip.The CIA also nabbed Tejpreet, alias Lalli, resident of Jagraon and recovered 20 gram of heroin from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-nabbed-with-heroin-illegal-liquor-349383
