13-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Organisations lay siege to Jagraon bridge over animal slaughter incident||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 12Activists of several outfits today laid a siege to the Jagraon bridge against the incident of cow slaughter. The activists alleged that despite passing of several days, the Ludhiana Police Commissionerate have failed to trace the accused behind cow slaughtering.Activists threaten to intensify protestOn November 24, bovine parts were recovered from a garbage dump at Jeevan Nagar. After the incident, many outfits had held protests to seek arrest of culprits. Later, the Police Commissioner had formed a SIT in the matter and a JCP-rank official was made head of the team. The activists gave a 15-day ultimatum to the Ludhiana police for nabbing the culprits, else they would start an indefinite protest in the city, they said.They also blamed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other incumbent MLAs of the Congress for not pressing the police for cracking the case.The activists had named the protest as ‘Hindu panchayat’. They brought wooden cots (charpai) to sit and discuss issues.Notably on November 24, bovine parts were recovered from a garbage dump at Jeevan Nagar. After the incident, many outfits had held protests to demand immediate arrest of culprits. Later, the Police Commissioner had formed a special investigation team (SIT) in the matter and a JCP-rank official was made head of the team.“Now, over two weeks have passed but the police have not arrested the culprits. We urge the state government to announce Rs 51-lakh reward for those who will inform about the culprits whoare behind the incident, “ said Rajiv Tandon, a leader of a outfit.The activists gave a 15-day ultimatum to the Ludhiana police for nabbing the culprits, else they would start an indefinite protest in the city, they said.The police had closed the Jagraon bridge from all sides due to the protest. They also diverted the traffic to prevent any jam. However, commuters faced huge inconvenience as they had to take longer routes to reach their destinations.The protest was started at around 12.30 pm and it was lifted around 3 pm when JCP J Elanchezhian reached the spot and assured the protesters that the police was working on various leads and soon the case would be cracked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/organisations-lay-siege-to-bridge-over-animal-slaughter-incident-349706
13-12-2021||---||Five test positive for Covid in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 12Five persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district due to the disease today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.55 per cent. At present, there are 35 active cases in the district. Thirtyone persons were sent to home isolation today.Till date, a total of 29,43,328 samples have been taken, of which 28,43,877 were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,703 while 11,748 belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives includes 2,114 persons from Ludhiana and 1,061 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patient, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 4,270 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols of the state government to not only save themselves but also keep everyone around them safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/five-test-positive-for-covid-349707
13-12-2021||Ludhiana||Family of deceased woman seeks arrest of 'guilty policemen' in torture case||The family of 37-year-old Kulwant Kaur, a victim of police torture, who had died on Friday, demanded immediate arrest of accused police officials booked on the charges of culpable homicide and illegal detention.The Jagraon police had yesterday registered a case under Sections 304 (culpable homicide), 342 (illegal detention) IPC, Sections 3 and 4 of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act) against the then SHO Gurinder Singh Bal (now Bhawanigarh DSP), then ASI Rajvir Singh (now Faridkot SI), sarpanch Harjit Singh and panch Dhyan Singh.Iqbal Singh, brother of the victim, said his sister had waited for justice for 16 years and after she lost her life, the police had registered a case against the guilty police officials.Now, after the cremation, which is likely to be held tomorrow, they will decide the further course of action. “We want immediate arrest of the accused policemen and if the police fail to arrest them, we will launch an agitation against the Police Department, “he added.Satnam Singh Dhaliwal, president, Universal Human Rights Organisation, said the Police Department should immediately dismiss the booked police officials and arrest them.Sources said after the registration of the case, the police have transferred further probe to DSP (Investigation) Anil Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/family-seeks-arrest-of-guilty-policemen-in-torture-case-349708
13-12-2021||---||Ludhiana: Day after poll candidate's 'suicide', kin hold protest||Ludhiana, December 12A day after a candidate of the Adarsh Janshakti Party, Vinod Mishra (31), in Gurmel Nagar, Daba, reportedly committed suicide at his house, kin and residents of the area held a protest outside the Daba police station, demanding registration of a murder case.Mishra had allegedly committed suicide on Friday but the incident came to the fore on Saturday when a relative of the deceased came home and found him hanging.Vijay Tiwari, a relative of the deceased, said Vinod was preparing to contest the upcoming Assembly elections and he could not commit suicide.He alleged that Vinod was first murdered and then his body was hanged from the ceiling fan to create an impression that it was a suicide.He said Vinod had enmity with some neighbours and they might have committed the murder.“We will not cremate the body of the deceased till the registration of a murder case. We will intensify our protest in the coming days if our demands are not met,” alleged protesters.ACP Rajan Sharma said the police would proceed in the case accordingly after the arrival of the autopsy report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/day-after-poll-candidates-suicide-kin-hold-protest-349710
13-12-2021||---||Ludhiana: Two nabbed with 800 gm of heroin||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 12The Special Task Force (STF) wing of Ludhiana nabbed a smuggler and recovered 590 gram of heroin and Rs 23,000 drug money from his possession.The accused has been identified as Ashok Kumar (24) of Peeru Banda mohalla. A case under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the accused today.STF inspector Harbans Singh said a tip-off was received that the accused was into the drug smuggling trade and he was on the way to deliver the consignment of drugs. Accordingly, the STF team conducted a raid and nabbed him from near his house.Ashok also had a notorious past as he was already facing a drug smuggling case registered against him at the Salem Tabri police station. About nine months ago, he came out from jail on bail in the case.In another incident, the Special Task Force nabbed Rana (46) of Basti Jodhewal and recovered 210 gram of heroin from his possession. The accused was nabbed from the Moti Nagar area.The Special Task Force launched further probe in the cases to bust the entire supply line.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-nabbed-with-800-gm-of-heroin-349712
13-12-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana residents light candles to celebrate farmers' victory||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 12Not only residents of villages but also people from the city are celebrating the arrival of farmers back home from the Delhi borders after the year-long stir.People lighted candles outside their houses to celebrate the occasion. Farmers started arriving back home yesterday and many people illuminated their houses with candles and diyas to welcome them.Shamsher Singh, a resident of Sarabha Nagar, said it was a great moment as farmers were returning back home after winning their fight.“The day is no less than Diwali, and to celebrate the same, I have lighted candles and diyas outside my home. I will be doing it for three days as on December 13 all farmers are going to Golden Temple to pay obeisance,” he said.Another city resident said farmers were the ones who grow food for the entire nation. “I lighted candles at my home and gurdwara to show a gesture of thank you to them,” he said.Meanwhile, Gurpreet Singh, another resident, organised a langar, serving hot tea and pakoras, near the Fatehgarh Sahib gurdwara. “Since a few farmers will be staying at the gurdwara before going to the Golden Temple on December 13, I have organised the langar on the way for them,” he added.Upinder Kaur said she did not celebrate the occasion in a big way. But she offered prayers and thanked the almighty and distributed prasad among her family members and neighbours. She also lighted diyas outside her house in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/city-residents-light-candles-to-celebrate-farmers-victory-349713
13-12-2021||---||Ludhiana: DSP, SHO, two ASIs booked for helping corrupt policeman||Ludhiana, December 12The Meharban police have registered a case against a DSP, inspector and two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) on the charge of concealing evidence to help a policeman booked in a corruption case.The booked police officials are DSP Lakhbir Singh, inspector Inderjit Singh (posted as the Model Town police station SHO), and ASIs Tarsem Singh and Surinder Pal. A case under Sections 166-A(B) (knowingly disobeys, to the prejudice of any person, any other direction of the law regulating the manner in which he shall conduct such investigation) and 217 (public servant disobeying direction of law with intent to save person from punishment) of the IPC was registered in this regard on Friday night.As per information, a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against the ASI, Harjit Singh, in 2012 at the Meharban police station as he had taken Rs 5,000 bribe from Baldev Singh, who was booked at the Meharban police station under Section 420 of the IPC.The ASI was also videographed while taking the bribe and a CD containing the video was also in the possession of the police.The ASI was acquitted by the court on the plea that the CD containing videography of the incident was not produced during trial in the court. On March 24, 2017, the trial court had directed the Commissioner of Police, Ludhiana, to register an FIR against guilty cops and take action.JCP City J Elanchezhian recently conducted an inquiry into the matter and he recommended departmental action against the police officials, including DSP Lakhbir (then Sahnewal ACP), Inspector Inderjit Singh (then Meharban SHO), Tarsem Singh and Surinder Pal (then Meharban MHC).The ASI was dismissed from service after he was caught taking bribe.Notably, the entire matter came to the fore when ASI Harjit Singh, after acquitted by court due to want of evidence, had approached court for getting back his job. The court had then asked the Director, Bureau of Investigation to conduct a probe, stating why the guilty policeman was acquitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dsp-sho-two-asis-booked-for-helping-corrupt-policeman-349714
13-12-2021||---||PSHRC seeks report from Ludhiana rural police on 'expired' LPG cylinders||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, December 12Taking cognisance of a complaint lodged by city-based social activist Arvind Sharma about LPG cylinders with ‘expired shelf life’ being distributed by oil marketing companies and gas agencies among consumers, the Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC) has sought a report from the police on the issue before the next date of hearing on the complaint (February 16, 2022).|Citing reports in a section of media to the effect that ‘expired’ cooking gas cylinders were being distributed by gas agencies in the city in violation of the safety norms and putting lives of common people at risk by keeping such cylinders in circulation, Sharma had lodged a complaint with the PSHRC, seeking strict action against gas distributors and oil marketing companies.Dealing with the complaint, Justices Iqbal Ahmad Ansari, chairperson, and Nirmaljit Kaur, member of the commission, observed: “Let the matter be put up before the SSP (Rural), Ludhiana, to submit his report before the next date of hearing.”The Bench further said a copy of the order, along with a copy of the complaint be sent to the SSP (Rural) for compliance.No Expiry DateAn official of a public sector oil marketing company, however, asserted that there was no expiry date for LPG cylinders. Quoting a Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) circular, he said: “All new LPG cylinders are required to be taken for first statutory testing and painting after 10 years and subsequently after every five years. As per norms of Chief Controller of Explosives, PESO and BIS specifications, all empty cylinders received at LPG bottling plants are visually inspected for defects before next filling.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/pshrc-seeks-report-from-police-on-expired-lpg-cylinders-349716
13-12-2021||Law enforcement agencies don’t act||Open house: What should be done to avoid public harassment due to protests?||Overall, within the general population, there is a varied perception that the best way to get demands fulfilled is to block roads in protest. Although all citizens have the right to protest, they can’t block roads, impeding the right of other people to commute without hindrance. The law is clear on this, but enforcement agencies are unable to act in time fearing rebuke from their political masters. Therefore, in order to keep roads free for commuting, protesters should be allocated a specific area where they can protest peacefully.Novin ChristopherPeople get stuck in traffic jamsIt’s common to hold protest on roads. This creates a problem for commuters, patients and ambulances. Sometimes people get stuck in traffic jams and lose precious time. The government should earmark a particular place for protests in vicinity of the city. Those, who want to hold dharnas, should do so at a place reserved for the purpose. No organisation or political party should be allowed to use roads or common public places for protest. Those who violate the norm must be sent behind bars.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiGovt must ban protest on roadsTo prevent parties and organisations from protesting on road the government should take steps so that commuters are not inconvenienced. Timing of protest should be fixed. A separate place should be reserved to organise rallies or processions. The government should deploy force to avoid any untoward incident and listen to demands and problems of people, who protest. Organising rallies and protests on roads should be banned.Farzana KhanClick pictures of protestersClicking pictures of protesters and sending these to law enforcement agencies can stop harassment of commuters to some extent. Shaming protesters during or after the protest can deter them from protesting on roads. Police help can be taken to remove protesters from roads.Devna MunjalUltimate victim is publicVarious unions and associations resort to protests and block roads to pressurise the government for their demands. The law enforcement agencies too must have been restrained to take strict action against such activities due to the impending Punjab Assembly elections. But the ultimate victim of all this is the innocent public. No doubt that these unions have democratic rights to protest. Under no circumstances rights of fellow citizens must not be violated. The enforcement agencies should not work under any political pressure.Bir Devinder Singh BediPenalise protesters who block roadsTo hold protests is right of individuals, but damaging public property or harassing public by blocking roads is not the acceptable. This leads to traffic. There should be designated place to protest so that general public is not harassed. Timing of the protest should be fixed. Prior permission should be taken to hold protest at designated place. Forces should be deployed at the protest site to avoid any untoward incident. The government should come up hefty penalties for those, who intentionally block or prevents access to roads or highways while protesting with the purpose of depriving others of their rights.Dr Jasdeep KaurNegotiate with protestersProblem of protest is a matter of concern because it is the general public, which suffers. The government should negotiate with aggrieved parties at the earliest. Unnecessary protests must be strictly banned. No doubt, protest right of every citizen, but it must be exercised with diligence and care. Harassment of general public must be avoided. Courts must definitely interfere in matters of public interest and arbitrate for solving disputes.Ritu PriyaProvide everything what citizens needA protest is a public expression of objection or dissent towards an idea or action of the authority concerned. Massive traffic jams are witnessed these days due to protests by various sections of society. Highways are frequently blocked with commuters at the receiving end. The government must find solution to stop these protests. The state should provide citizens everything they need to meet their basic requirements. The authorities must try to solve problems before protest starts. They must be receptive to ideas put forward by protesters, keep communication channels open, compromise and exercise flexibility. The police should use less force to control protesters otherwise they can turn violent.RS SembhiProtesters can’t take undue advantageAt no cost protesters should be allowed to take any undue advantage. They are not above laws of the land. Whenever protesters try to create chaos by blocking roads or cause inconvenience to the public, they should be booked and severely punished. For the peaceful and genuine protests the local authorities can earmark some spaces (grounds, parks or chowks) in the city.Dr Sunil ChopraCops responsible for allowing protestsWith elections approaching, a few workers of some parties block roads by holding demonstrations and raising slogans. They create scenes and increase difficulties of the general public. Such acts by a few persons create nuisance and must be stopped using all measures, including hard ones. The police can be held responsible for not stopping those few, who create ruckus on roads. The police must arrest all such persons and warn them sternly to stop blocking roads. In case protesters do not stop, they must be physically removed from the spot and taken into custody. Such people misuse freedom, democracy and crate hurdles for the general public. Also, political parties, which these people represent, must be warned to control their activists.Gautam DevPeople’s freedom can’t be curtailedEven though everyone has the right to fight for his/his rights, others freedom cannot be curtailed. Keeping in view the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections, everyone is eager to make the ruling dispensation accept its point. At this juncture they adopt any means to inveigle the authorities, despite knowing that it may lead to breach of peace. To avoid such situations, the police should gird up their loins to disperse protesters.Kamaldeep KaurPolitical parties can’t harass citizensThe first amendment protects right to assemble and express views through protest. Citizens also have the right to speak on public properties. While doing so make sure that they are not blocking roads and interfering in anybody’s work. Political parties have right to protest, but they cannot harass citizens. There should be a proper place to hold protests in the city.Anu JoshiProtests hamper day-to-day workA protest is a public expression of objection towards an idea or action typically a political one. This reality reduces freedom of movement. It reduces citizens’ ability to carry on with day-to-day work. Harassment of public through protests on roads could be made illegal.Varun ChauhanSometimes protests turn violentAlthough the right to protest peacefully is enshrined in the Indian constitution, yet such demonstrations sometime take a violent turn. Enraged protesters block roads for indefinite period. Moreover, their violent acts cause disharmony and chaos. This way they harass public. Demonstrations should be held peacefully without any harm to the people.Mohit VermaPolitical parties provoke protestersProtest is right of citizens in democracy for addressing their grievances. They should take care of other people, who suffer due to this action. Some workable arrangement should be made to reduce distress among public. The government should restrict protesters to a particular area in the city, earmarked for demonstrations. The police should pay special attention and ensure protesters abide by laws. Political parties cannot overlook their duty. They usually provoke protesters to create nuisance. Protesters should be sensible and humble so that commuters don’t suffer and ambulance services are not hit.Dr Sukhdev SharmaProtest if demands are reasonableAll sections of society have right to protest against government if their demands are reasonable. Due to these protests, commuters face harassment. Long traffic jams are witnessed and ambulance services are hit during protests. Aggrieved parties must protest at public grounds, parks and not on roads.Adish Sood, AmlohOpposition parties backing protestsAs the Punjab Assembly elections are due in 2022 various associations and parties hope that leaders can solve their issues. So, all are pressing for their demands. Opposition parties are in one way or the other backing protests against the government. The authorities should designate a place for protests. The police should book protesters, who block roads. Further, protesters should give prior information about their protest to the authorities concerned so that traffic can be diverted to other roads and commuters are not harassed.Vikas SharmaQUESTIONDespite Omicron virus threat looming large, the Covid appropriate behaviour is once again missing from public places. May it be markets, parks, roads, religious and recreational places or any other place where public visits or gathers, social distancing, wearing of masks and use of sanitisers is seldom seen. What should be done to prevent a third Covid wave, especially the possible spread of Omicron variant, in Ludhiana district?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-avoid-public-harassment-due-to-protests-349724
13-12-2021||---||Region reverberates with drum beats, celebrations as farmers return home||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh/ Raikot, December 12The region reverberated with celebrations, raising of slogans and drum beats welcoming and facilitating office-bearers and activists of Samyukat Kissan Morcha, who returned from Delhi borders following declaration of victorious conclusion of the year-long historical event yielding repeal of the three farm laws.While some enthusiasts organised felicitation functions at predestined places in the region, others held tractor marches through villages of their respective areas.Office-bearers and activists of organisations led by legislator Surjit Singh Dhiman and Fatehgarh MP Dr Amar Singh Boparai said residents of the region were enthused over outcome of the farmers’ agitation that resulted in reversal of a decision, which could have upset the viability, sustenance and growth of the economy of all sections of society except the corporate sector.“Had leaders like Joginder Singh Ugrahan not anticipated deleterious effects of the contentious farm laws implemented by the Union Government, every citizen from middle class and lower middle-class could have suffered the jolt changed financial protocol,” said Dhiman.All India Kisan Sabha leader Sikandar Jartauli said activists of the outfit led by state level leaders Major Singh Punnawal and Baldev Singh Latala were felicitated during a function held at the Old Grain Market in Ahmedgarh. Similar functions were held at Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk, Raikot, Dry Port Kilaraipur, Lehra toll plaza and Bhogiwal.The Ahmedgarh Municipal Council president, Vikas Tandon, the Raikot MC president, Sudarshan Joshi, PA to Amargarh MLA Teji Kamalpur and Raikot halqa in-charge Kaamil Boparai led their respective jathas during felicitation functions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/region-reverberates-with-drum-beats-celebrations-as-farmers-return-home-349725
13-12-2021||---||No end to pet owners  woes as Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University staff on strike||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 12As teachers of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) are on strike, pet owners are facing a difficult time. Only emergency cases are being handled these days at the university.Suresh Kumar, a visitor at the animal hospital in GADVASU said he went to the hospital for dressing of his pet’s wound.“I had to return back as the staff was on strike and they were handling only emergency cases,” he said.Major Amarjit Singh Bath (retd) said the government should listen to grievances of the protesting staff and accept their demands as soon as possible. “Doctors are saviours. Their genuine demands should not be delayed,” said Major Bath.Ritu rescued a street dog, who was injured and came to GADVASU for its treatment, but after coming here she found that the staff was not taking up routine cases.“I am a student and do not have much money to spend at private clinics. I gave first aid to dog myself,” she said.Teachers at GADVASU are on strike for the implementation of the UGC Seventh CPC Pay Scales for universities and colleges of Punjab. They also want the Punjab Government to recall its decision of de-linking pay scales of new assistant professors of colleges from the UGC Seventh CPC Pay Scales.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-end-to-pet-owners-woes-as-vet-varsity-staff-on-strike-349726
13-12-2021||---||UCPMA delegation meets Sri Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari||Ludhiana, December 12A delegation of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) called on Sri Anandpur Sahib Member of Parliament (MP) Manish Tewari at his residence and handed over a memorandum regarding demands of industries. The Chairman, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, Pawan Dewan, was also present on the occasion.The memorandum outlined challenges faced by the MSME sector. According to a recent survey there are around one lakh MSME industries in Ludhiana. The delegation also demanded formation of the regulatory authority to control speculation in steel prices.Tewari assured delegation members to take up their issues with the state and the Central government.The delegation included Gurcharan Singh Gemco, Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, Valaiti Ram, Avtar Singh Bhogal, Inderjit Singh Navyug and Ravinder Verma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ucpma-delegation-meets-tewari-349727
13-12-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana District Cricket Association has its own office||The office of the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), an affiliated body of the Punjab Cricket Association, was inaugurated at flat No. 58, Sant Isher Singh Nagar, Pakhowal Road, by veteran cricketer Lokesh Khanna.The office-bearers of the association were present on this occasion. The chief guest also honoured city cricketers. International coach and former District Sports Officer Charanjit Singh Saini was also felicitated by the association. Satish Mangal, former Ranji player and president, LDCA, thanked the chief guest and other invitees for attending the function. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ldca-has-its-own-office-349729
13-12-2021||Bathinda/Ludhiana||Farm workers disrupt rail services in Punjab||Train passengers had a tough time today with rail traffic being disrupted for four hours (noon to 4 pm) due to a ‘rail roko’ protest by farm workers demanding repeal of amendments to labour laws, Rs 700 a day & 200 days work under MGNREGA, waiver of pending electricity bills and restoration of connections, and free plots to farm workers.Key demandsWorkers from Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, Pendu Mazdoor Union, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, Rural Mazdoor Union, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union and Punjab Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union participated in dharnas across Punjab.Protesters alleged the demands made in the meeting of the Joint Workers' Front with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on November 23 were not met despite repeated assurances. They warned the Punjab Government that if the demands of the workers were not met they would intensify their struggle.Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, Punjab, president Bhagwant Singh Samao and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union state secretary Lachman Singh Sewawala said if the government did not meet the demands, Congress leaders would be opposed in villages.Railway officials said protesters had squatted on tracks at Phillaur, Phagwara, Beas, Ajitwal, Gangsar Jaitu and other railway stations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-workers-disrupt-rail-services-349562
