14-12-2021||Harshraj Singh||Now, Ludhiana's Sangat Road starts peeling off a few days after recarpeting||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13Ahead of the Assembly elections, road works worth crores of rupees are being carried out in various parts of the city. But, it seems there is no proper check on quality of works amid the ongoing winter season.Works carried out in a hurry ahead of pollQuestions are being raised as road works are being done in a hurry in various parts of the city. The civic body used to avoid bitumen in road works during the winter season in the past. But, bitumen-based road works are carried out in full swing these days ahead of the elections.Now, Sangat Road, which connects Police Line Road and College Road, has started peeling off from various spots in just a few days after the recarpeting work was done. Earlier, a road at Shastri Nagar and Mint Ghumri Chowk to Jawaddi Road in Model Town and reportedly a few other roads of the city had started peeling off soon after the recarpeting works were done.A resident of the Sangat Road area said the road was recarpeted a few days ago but it had started getting damaged. Even the area received no rain after the road work was initiated, he said.Questions are being raised as road works are being done in a hurry in various parts of the city. The civic body used to avoid bitumen in road works during the winter season in the past. But, bitumen-based road works are carried out in full swing these days ahead of the elections.A former councillor, Inder Aggarwal, said: “Responsibility of officials should be fixed and action should be taken if any road gets damaged soon after recarpeting. Public money should not be wasted due to the poor road works. If outside temperature is low, roads should not be recarpeted. As the elections are near, the road works are just an eyewash.”Leader of opposition in the MC House Jaspal Singh Giaspura said he had also raised the matter regarding road works with Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu recently.“The Mayor has assured that no compromise would be made with quality of road works and payment would not be issued to the contractor concerned if any work is found to be of poor quality,” he said.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/now-sangat-road-starts-peeling-off-a-few-days-after-recarpeting-350181
14-12-2021||Harshraj Singh||Medha Patkar to Punjab CM: Change location of proposed industrial park or cancel it for protection of Sutlej and Mattewara forest||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13Noted social activist Medha Patkar of the National Alliance of People’s Movement has written to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, requesting him to change the location of the proposed industrial park or cancel the project for the protection of the Sutlej and the Mattewara forest.Patkar, who has led the ‘Narmada Bachao Andolan’ to save the Narmada for 32 years, had visited Mattewara, Sutlej bank and Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana district on November 21.Setting up the industrial park on the Sutlej bank will turn the river into another buddha nullah, which must be avoided, she said.In the letter written to the Punjab Chief Minister, Patkar said she had visited Sekhowal village where land had been acquired by GLADA for the proposed industrial park.“When I spoke to residents of Sekhowal and other parts of the state, they expressed opposition to the project. I see a lot of merit in their arguments,” she stated.Patkar said the first and foremost, the project would have a serious impact on the entire south Punjab and eight districts of Rajasthan that depend on the Sutlej as their only source of drinking water.“The 416 acres of agricultural land in Sekhowal village near Mattewara on which 70 poor Dalit families were subsisting on farming were forcibly purchased by the state government. These families do not own any land and have been cultivating the same land in the common Shamlat of the village on contract since 1962,” she stated.“Village residents told me that despite the Gram Sabha’s resolution against any such sale, the land was procured by the government by pressurising the panchayat. The residents are fighting three cases against the panchayat and the state government in a local civil court on the issue. GLADA had recently destroyed the standing crops of the villagers on the land. Villagers also told me that govt officials do not appear in hearings of the court in these cases on one pretext or the other. Kindly intervene to ensure justice to these Dalit families”, she stated in the letter.She said despite the order of the NGT directing the Punjab Government to demarcate the flood plain of the Sutlej and protect it, the state government has failed to do the same. In the best interests of people dependent on Sutlej water and Sekhowal residents, who are dependent on the land as their only source of livelihood, as also to protect the diversity, flora and fauna and wildlife in the forest around the area, the park should be shifted to a more appropriate location or cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/change-location-of-proposed-industrial-park-or-cancel-it-medha-patkar-to-cm-350182
14-12-2021||---||Seven booked for assaulting four residents in 2 incidents||Our CorrespondentLudhiana, December 13The police have booked seven persons, along with their unidentified acomplices, in two cases of assault.Six persons identified as Akashdeep Arora, a resident of Saroop Nagar, Jobanpreet, Manjit Chadha, Mithu, Pawan, Suraj, younger brother of Manjit, and their 15-20 unidentified accomplices were booked under Sections 354, 506, 148, 149 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly assaulting Rajwinder Kaur, her mother Simran Kaur and husband Amrik Singh, all residents of Saroop Nagar.Complainant Rajwinder told the police that the accused had attacked the three victims with sharp-edged weapons due to old enmity.She said when she tried to intervene to rescue her mother and husband, some of the accused unzipped her T-shirt and made attempts to outrage her modesty. “After we raised an alarm and people started gathering outside our house, the accused fled the spot while threatening us,” the victim said.In the other incident, the police have booked Vipin Kohli, a resident of Durgapuri, Haibowal, under Sections 323, 341 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of Amandeep Singh Sran, a resident of the same locality, who charged the accused with attacking him while he was standing outside his house on Sunday due to old enmity.The complainant said when he raised an alarm, the accused escaped while threatening him with dire consequences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-booked-for-assaulting-four-residents-in-2-incidents-350183
14-12-2021||---||No development in Ludhiana North constituency, alleges LIP leader||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader Randhir Singh Sibia and party workers on Monday gathered at a bridge that is declared unsafe on Old GT Road and raised questions over lack of development in the Ludhiana North constituency.Sibia said leaders of traditional parties from the North constituency were invited for a debate and to tell people what they had done for development in the constituency. However, nobody came forward for the debate.He alleged that the sitting MLA ignored development in the area. No steps had been taken to set up a government hospital, government college, stadium and suwidha centre in the constituency.He said there was no tehsil in the constituency. “No underbridge has been constructed at Peeru Banda and on Jassian Road. Moreover, the bridge where we had gathered today was declared unsafe long time ago. The constituency has not witnessed any major development while the old and unsafe bridge over the Buddha Nullah has not been reconstructed till date,” he said.Sibia alleged that many youngsters were still unemployed but the MLA concerned had got his son recruited in a government job, adding that people were aware that development was always ignored in the constituency. If a LIP-led government was formed in the state, development would be ensured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-development-in-ludhiana-north-constituency-alleges-lip-leader-350184
14-12-2021||Manav Mander||Patients at receiving end as TB dept staff observe strike in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13Work in the Health Department is suffering a lot due to the strike by employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM).Since the NHM employees working in the tuberculosis (TB) department of the Civil Hospital here are also on strike, demanding regularisation of their jobs, it has put TB patients at the receiving end. It is nearly a month that the employees are observing the strike.The patients are having a difficult time in getting their medicines and sampling has also decreased considerably. There are 35 employees in the TB department of the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, and all are on strike. At present, an NGO is helping the department in the hospital in carrying out the routine work and there is only one permanent lab technician. Work at some centres is totally halted due to the strike.Laboratories located in centres at Sahnewal, Basti Jodhewal, Salem Tabri, ESI, Laddowal, Payal, Manupur and Khanna are closed as there are no permanent employees.A patient who had gone to the Payal centre to get his test done had to return twice as the lab was closed. “Now, I have come to the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana, but things here are no different. There was a huge rush and I was told to visit again tomorrow,” he said.Another patient, who had come to take his medicine, said it took him really long to take medicine from the centre. “I come daily to take my medicine from the centre but it is taking too long as it is affecting my work,” he said.Ludhiana district TB officer Ashish Chawla said the work was being suffered due to the protesting employees.Amit Sharma, who is working in the Ludhiana’s TB department, said governments come and go but their condition remains the same.“Though the previous government did not pay heed to our demands, Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government has announced to regularise the employees, however, the NHM staff were not included in it and some of the employees have been working for the past 20 years,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/patients-at-receiving-end-as-tb-dept-staff-observe-strike-350185
14-12-2021||Ludhiana||Four fresh Covid cases in Ludhiana district||Four persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district due to the disease.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.55 per cent. At present, there are 37 active cases in the district. Thirtythree persons were sent to home isolation today.Till date, a total of 29,46,510 samples have been taken, of which 28,47,055 were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,707 while 11,748 belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives includes 2,114 persons from Ludhiana and 1,061 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid-19 patient, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 3,182 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-fresh-covid-cases-350186
14-12-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Students appear for Class X, XII Punjab edu board exams||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13The first term of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) exams for Class X and XII began today. Thousands of students appeared for exams of both board classes in Punjab. The first exam was of Punjabi subject today.For Class X, the first term of the final board exam was conducted in the morning session at 10 am while for Class XII, the exam was held in the evening session at 2 pm. For both the classes, the exam was of one and a half hours duration each.This time, it was a new experience for students as board had decided to take exams in two terms. Both the terms will be of equal marks.Dr Devinder Singh Chhina, Principal, Government School, said students were given proper information about the new pattern of the board exams. Students were fully prepared to appear in exams, he added.Gurpreet, a Class X student, said though it was a new experience, yet those who prepared well had no problem in writing answers in the exam. The exam was easy for them, he added. “It is good for us, I feel. If some student has not performed well in the first term, he or she can prepare with more focus and concentration on syllabus in the second term of the same exam to improve his/her score,” he said.The Education Department had deployed teachers on the block-level on duties for conducting the first term exams smoothly.Meanwhile, there was a mixed response in schools as far as wearing of face masks or maintaining social distance was concerned during the exam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/students-appear-for-class-x-xii-punjab-edu-board-exams-350187
14-12-2021||---||Bank employees protest outside  SBI branch in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13On a call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), as part of the agitation programme of the all India bank strike on December 16 and 17, employees held a massive protest demonstration in front of the State Bank of India, Fountain Chowk, here today.The demonstration was addressed by several union leaders, who opposed the bank privatisation move of the government.Naresh Gaur, the union convener, said, “Recently, in another jolt, the Centre Government has decided to privatise two public sector banks.”“It has, therefore, become inevitable for the United Forum of Bank Unions to protest in order to draw attention of the government and managements towards privatisation. We seek support of the people for our agitation and fulfilment of our demands,” Gaur added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bank-employees-protest-outside-sbi-branch-350188
14-12-2021||---||Tributes paid to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13To pay homage to Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife, and 11 others, who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu recently, a candlelight march was held by Arya Samaj, Model Town, here today.The event was largely attended by teachers and students from BCM Arya, Arya Gurukul, RS Model School and officials of Arya Samaj, Model Town. The march started from Arya Samaj and passed through Gol Market. Participants also observed two-minute silence to pray for the brave hearts.On the way, people were seen showering flower petals on pictures of departed souls. The whole atmosphere reverberated with patriotic fervour as students and officials raised slogans ‘Gen Rawat Amar Rahien’, ‘Jab tak suraj chaand rahega, Bipin ji ka naam rahega’, and ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’.The programme was organised under the guidance of Suresh Munjal, president, Arya Samaj, Model Town, and others. While interacting with students on the occasion, Jagjeev Bassi, secretary, Arya Samaj, shared sacrifices made by brave hearts and inspired them to be good citizens of the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tributes-paid-to-cds-gen-rawat-350189
14-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmer union activist Balbir Singh Rajewal honoured||Sahnewal, December 13The Sahnewal Nagar Council, along with Gurdwara Reru Sahib Committee and Kar Sewa Samudaye, today honoured farmer union activist Balbir Singh Rajewal. It was garlands, sweets and victory slogans all the way for Rajewal as triumphant farmers returned home from Delhi borders after one year.Farmers of all villages in and around Doraha and Sahnewal gathered to accord them a rousing welcome.Nagar Council chief Sukhjit Singh Hara, Baba Major Singh, Pal Singh Grewal, Satwinder Bitti, Ramesh Kumar Pappu, Ravneet Singh, Shamsher Singh, Avtar Singh, Harpreet Singh, Parshotam Singh, Pushpinder Singh, Rajdeep Singh, Manjinder Singh Bhola, Malkeet Singh Mika and Parminder Singh Hara were among those, who gave a rousing welcome to farmers.Rajewal and victorious farmers thanked residents of Sahnewal and surrounding villages, who stood by the farming community at all times, come what may.“Residents collected money by visiting farmers door-to-door and encouraged those involved in the struggle. As soon as they got any call from the border expressing concern over withering finances, they immediately gathered in village gurdwara to plan the future course of action and the means to generate funds for the campaign,” said Rajewal while speaking on the occasion.Recalling sacrifices made by farmers, Rajewal said, “Debt-ridden farmers passed through real tough times. On one hand the load of debt weighed heavy on their minds while on the other the urgency to continue the struggle launched for righteousness and survival, had begun to take a toll on their lives. Notwithstanding, farmers kept their spirits up and were ready to break rather than bend.”“Each one contributed according to his capacity. The women too contributed their share to a considerable extent. It was not an individual struggle any more. We are proud that the whole farming as well as non-farming community stood by us both morally as well as financially,” he added.“It is no less than a second struggle for independence. Our unflinching resistance against oppressive designs of the government ultimately got us victory. It is the victory of the common man, who would have been adversely affected by the three contentious farm laws,” he said.“But we are happy and satisfied that the sacrifice of thousands of our daring warriors, who braved the struggle and gave their lives, has not gone in vain. Their families, relatives, village and in fact the whole of Punjab will always remain indebted to them for the selfless sacrifice for a collective cause.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/farmer-union-activist-rajewal-honoured-350190
14-12-2021||---||Administration tightens  noose around retailers overcharging for sand||Our CorrespondentMandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot, December 13The administration has tightened noose around those retailers, who have been overcharging for the building material in violation of the Punjab State Sand and Gravel Mining 2021 Policy.People can order sand at a fair price by applying on portal https://www.minesandgeology.punjab.gov.in and lodge plaints of all types on toll free numbers 1800-180-2422, 0172-2230061, 0172-2230063, 0172-2230064 and 0172-2230065. SourcesWhile retail sellers have been asked to display information regarding rates of sand brought from mines and transportation charges for various localities, purchasers are being encouraged to lodge complaints of any violation on toll free numbers announced by the department.Officials at subdivision and block level have been advised to ensure that provisions of the policy are followed in letter and spirit by contractors and retail sellers doing business in their respective areas. Office-bearers of rural civic bodies have been asked to avail facility of free sand by getting their requisitions attested from their respective SDM’s or District Development and Panchayat Officers.The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Malerkotla, Madhvi Kataria, acknowledged that senior functionaries at the subdivision level and tehsil offices had been advised to spread awareness about provision of the new policy on mining according to which sand could be purchased at the rate of Rs5.50 per cubic feet from the source of mining and no GST was applicable on it.“We have also advised officials concerned to ensure that no sand dealer exploits consumer by overcharging on pretext of freight and labour,” the DC said while maintaining that retailers had been asked to display prices after adding 10 per cent profit. “Freight charges for various localities are also to be displayed,” the DC added.Sources revealed that online service has been started on portal https://www.minesandgeology.punjab.gov.in for the convenience of residents of the state. “People can order sand at a fair price by applying on the link and lodge complaints of all types on toll free numbers 1800-180-2422, 0172-2230061, 0172-2230063, 0172-2230064 and 0172-2230065,” the sources added.The Block Level Extension Officer, Ludhiana, Harminder Singh Saharanmajra, acknowledged that some sand dealers used to fix selling prices arbitrarily arguing that their stocks of building material had been procured at old higher rates. “Now, we have cautioned them of strict action in case a complaint is received regarding violation of the policy,” said Saharanmajra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/administration-tightens-noose-around-retailers-overcharging-for-sand-350191
14-12-2021||---||Ludhiana: AAP blames Cong govt for failing to act against 'parking mafia' in industrial town||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has accused the Congress government and the authorities concerned of turning a blind eye towards the ‘parking mafia’ in the city. Local leaders of AAP also raised questions over the Smart City project, solid waste management, city bus service and Rejuvenation of Buddha Nullah Project.While addressing a press conference here on Monday, AAP leaders blamed the Municipal Corporation (MC) for mismanagement, negligence and wasting funds on unwanted projects. They also raised questions over prevailing corruption in the MC.AAP Lok Sabha in-charge Amandeep Singh Mohie and Ahbaab Singh Grewal alleged that private contractors hired by departments concerned were openly ‘looting’ people by charging high rates against the prescribed fee at various parking lots in the city.Grewal said overcharging remained a major problem at the multi-storey parking lot near DC office at Mini Secretariat, multi-level parking lot of the MC near Mata Rani Chowk, Bhadaur House parking lot, Civil Hospital parking lot, Books Market parking lot and at Sabji Mandi. The Congress government failed to act against the parking mafia while previous SAD-BJP dispensation had also ignored it, Grewal added.Grewal said the authorities did not disclose how much amount from the Centre and the state governments was released for the Smart City projects. He alleged that funds were spent on unplanned projects instead of resolving actual issues of the city.Grewal further said, “Under the Smart City Mission project underground wires were to be laid at the Sarabha Nagar market. Lot of wires connected with poles still exist in the market. The width of Malhar Road has been reduced due to which frequent traffic jams are witnessed, which trouble commuters. An announcement was made for the construction of the waste management plant, but it is still yet to the light of day.”Meanwhile, Mohi said why the processing of waste was not being ensured. Mohi said, “Waste has piled up at the MC’s main garbage dump near Kakka village due to which people of the nearby areas are suffering.”AAP leaders said why the tendering process was not followed when the garbage lifting work was handed over to a private contractor. They also asked why the MC was ignoring the city bus service that was once launched with much fanfare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-blames-cong-govt-for-failing-to-act-against-parking-mafia-in-industrial-town-350192
14-12-2021||---||BDPOs threaten to go on strike if demand not met||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13The joint action committee of the Association of BDPOs and the Rural Development Officers Association has submitted a strike notice to Punjab Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa as their demand for better pay scales has not been fulfilled by the state government.Union members said earlier, they had launched a struggle for their demand from July 7 to August 4. The government had then assured them that their demand would be fulfilled soon, but nothing had been done till date.Association members said if their demand was not fulfilled at the Cabinet meeting scheduled tomorrow, they would be forced to go on strike from Wednesday. They said all schemes regarding development works of the central as well as the state governments would be boycotted during the strike. The Punjab Government would be held responsible for the same, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bdpos-threaten-to-go-on-strike-if-demand-not-met-350193
14-12-2021||Ludhiana||Lodhi Club sports carnival: Titans XI win cricket title||Titans XI scored an emphatic 106-runs win over Warriors of Ludhiana to clinch the title in cricket league held during the sports carnival of Lodhi Club.Members of the club, their spouses and dependents took part in different sports events during the carnival. On the concluding day marathon was was flagged off by Varinder Sharma, Deputy Commissioner, and Dr Bishav Mohan, cardiologist.In the final (cricket), batting first, Titans XI made a mammoth total of 176 runs after losing four wickets in 20 overs. Chasing the target, Warriors of Ludhiana’s innings folded at a paltry score of 70 runs on the penultimate ball of the match.Roha Mehra was declared the best bowler and the best fielder, Gourav Goel was adjudged the best batsman, Rohit Gupta was named best wicketkeeper and Gopesh Aggarwal was declared player of the tournament. Before start of the final, two minute silence was observed to pay tribute to CDS Bipin Rawat and others, who lost their lives in chopper crash. Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu gave away prizes to winners. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lodhi-club-sports-carnival-titans-xi-win-cricket-title-350194
14-12-2021||Ludhiana||Oxygen plant inaugurated at Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana||OP Soni, Deputy Chief Minister, Punjab, today inaugurated new PSA oxygen plant at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). The project has been completed with efforts of Rahul Ahuja, former president, CII, and Ashpreet Sahni, chairman, CIl, Ludhiana zone.While speaking on the occasion, Soni lauded the efforts of the CMCH in serving people of Punjab and the neighbouring states for nearly 127 years. He highlighted the role of CMCH in medical education and healthcare among masses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/oxygen-plant-inaugurated-at-medical-college-350195
14-12-2021||---||Ludhiana MC starts marking yellow lines for auto-rickshaws||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 13To fulfil demand of auto-rickshaw drivers, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has started marking yellow lines on various roads in the city. An official of the civic body said these lines were being drawn as per the recommendation of the traffic police. Auto drivers had raised the issue regarding the need for yellow lines and their other demands before Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi last month.Satish Kumar of the District Auto Rickshaw Worker Federation said they thanked the Chief Minister and Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for providing auto drivers with a designated space (by marking yellow line) for halting their vehicles. The yellow lines are being marked in several areas, including Old GT Road, near railway station, Samrala Chowk, near Bus Stand and other places.Meanwhile, a high drama was witnessed at Samrala Chowk after a private bus halted in the yellow line area. Some auto drivers exchanged heated arguments with the private bus staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mc-starts-marking-yellow-lines-for-auto-rickshaws-350196
14-12-2021||Ludhiana||Man held with stolen vehicle||Road accident victim succumbsLudhiana: An unidentified person was hit by a speeding vehicle coming from the Jalandhar side while crossing the main GT Road near the Kailash Nagar T-point on December 6. The critically injured victim was admitted to the Civil Hospital here where he succumbed during treatment on Sunday. On the complaint lodged by a passer-by, Vishal Heer, the police have booked the unidentified driver. ocOne arrested for gamblingLudhiana: The police have arrested Ravinder Kumar of Azad Nagar from near a liquor vend in Shimlapuri on Sunday. He had been booked under the Gambling Act. The police said he was alluring people for gambling near the vend and Rs 1,770 in cash was seized from him. octhree booked for destroying cropLudhiana: Des Raj, Lucky Bhatti and Chhotu, residents of Bhattian Bet, have been booked by the police on the complaint of Harbhajan Singh of Chitti Colony, Bhattian Bet. The latter said when he went to his fields in Kasabad village with his friend Chandi Ram, he found that the accused had destroyed his wheat crop on two acres with the intention of taking unlawful possession of his land. A plough lying in the fields was also allegedly stolen. He said when he asked about the crop, they threatened to kill him if he pursued the matter further. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-held-with-stolen-vehicle-350197
14-12-2021||Manav Mander||Ludhiana East: Industry hub lacks infrastructure||Flowing through the Ludhiana East constituency, the Buddha Nullah is a major cause for concern for locals here. With many industrial units also located in the area, fly ash is another problem.Past trendThe constituency has sent MLAs from different parties to the Vidhan Sabha in the past. In 2012, the seat was won by SAD’s Ranjit Singh Dhillon, while it was occupied by BJP’s Satpal Gosain in 2007. Gosain also won from here in 1992 and 1997.Electorate strengthLocals’ key demands“The Buddha Nullah overflows during the rainy season and inconveniences people here. The stink caused by the drain is unbearable. Various governments have not been able to find a solution to the problem,” said Desraj, a resident.Many areas in the constituency remain covered by a thick layer of fly ash, caused by the burning of rice husk, used as fuel by industries. It causes respiratory and eye problems to locals here.Traffic congestion adds to the woes of the commuters. “A flyover should be constructed from Samrala Chowk towards the Chandigarh road to ease the traffic,” said Lalit, who runs a factory near Samrala Chowk.The Focal Point is in a bad shape with industrialists complaining of losing business due to the dilapidated roads.“Customers from other states and countries avoid coming here. Things become worse during the rainy season. We have to arrange meetings and showcase our products at other places, as customers are not ready to come here,” said Jeevan Singh, an industrialist.Some areas like Moti Nagar, Tajpur Road and Aman Nagar do not have basic facilities such as safe drinking water, sewerage system and roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/industry-hub-lacks-infrastructure-350053
