20-12-2021||Mask up people||OPEN HOUSE: What should be done to prevent third Covid wave?||Leave alone markets, every locality of our city is thronged by impulsive crowds as if they are demanding release from captivity. The saddest part is that the majority of them are seen not adhering to mandatory Covid safety protocols. They are brazenly ignoring social distancing and roaming without face mask. Vaccination may definitely help boost one’s immunity but mask and Covid- appropriate behaviour are the only true shields, at least for now. And with the impending third wave knocking at our doors, the need of the hour is to mask up, people.Novin ChristopherAlways take precautionsA fews days ago omicron, a new variant of Covid-19, has been detected by doctors. Many cases of the new variant have been reported in 57 countries of the world. Now , India has also become one of the countries having cases of the new variant. We all need to take all safety measures to keep ourselves safe and protected from the new variant. The government should instal sanitiser dispensers at public places such as malls, cinema halls, restaurants and hotels. We should also use Covid safety applications to get the latest news updates by the government. Also, we should always wear mask at crowded places. Wash hands regularly. Children should be allowed to play but with all safety precautions and measures.Anwita DixitGet fully vaccinatedThough Omicron cases are being reported from the various parts of the world and India too but still a majority of us are alarmingly complacent and not ready to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour seriously . It is really shameful. The WHO has also urged all nations to act fast to beat the new variant. Those who are not taking precautions are a threat to others. They should be heavily fined and those who haven’t yet taken the second jab must be asked to take it at the earliest.Dr Sunil ChopraPrevention is better than cureThere is a famous saying: “Prevention is better than cure”. But we have seen that people have started showing a casual attitude towards the Covid-19 norms. In view of the threat of the possible third wave as well as the Omicron variant, there is an urgency to not to lower the guard with respect to the guidelines. The administration should get strict with defaulters. People must go for the proper two doses of Covid vaccine. The Health Department needs to speed up the process of vaccination. Door-to-door vaccination as well as vaccination at workplaces should be undertaken to vaccinate the remaining population. But ultimately, it is the responsibility of citizens to cooperate and help in curbing the disease as well as to check the spread of the third wave and Omicron.Bir Devinder Singh BediDon’t lower the guardPeople should be careful towards the Omicron variant that is allegedly more transmissible than the delta strain. Even fully vaccinated people have been tested positive for the Omicron variant. The principle of ‘prevention is better than cure’ should be followed by each and everyone. This variant has no medicine till now, only prevention is the key. People should use sanitisers and soaps, always wear face mask, follow social distancing norms and avoid visiting crowded places. Experts have warned that the new variant can be more dangerous if its strain is mixed with the delta strain. Main symptoms of the variant are fever, fatigue, scratchy throats. The WHO and NCDC has called it as a ‘variant of serious concern’.Adish SoodTake special care of elderly, kidsThird wave of coronavirus will be more deadly as compared to the first and the second wave. We can only stop the spread of the disease by following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Regular wearing of mask, maintaining hygiene and use of sanitiser are the three main mantras. Focus must be on sound immunity system. Ensure a good quality diet. Go for testing even if there are a few symptoms. Elderly people and children must be given special importance. Doctors and hospitals should discharge their functions properly without engaging themselves in any types of malpractices. Focus must be shifted to positivity rather than negativity. Omicron is the new version of corona virus. This variant is affecting even fully vaccinated persons. Hence, we need to be alert.Ritu PriyaSpread awarenessAgain it is a matter of serious concern that the number of Omicron cases are rising continuously again. After a short gap, the number of patients affected with the new variant are increasing. In the present circumstances, all citizens of the city in particular and others in general belonging to the state and other states must follow the Covid protocols issued by the Central Government and the Health Ministry. We all must keep social distancing and always cover our mouth and nose while sneezing or coughing in public. At all schools, colleges and other social places, people must follow the norms, at least till each and every person is vaccinated. Local governments must take necessary steps and make citizens aware to follow the precautions to beat the new variant. Those who are not following must be fined heavily. We all must cooperate with the local government to control the further spread of the virus.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiLearn from past mistakesThe threat of a possible third wave of coronavirus looms large as the cases of Omicron variant of Covid are rising in the country. The Omicron variant has a large number of mutations and early evidence suggest an increased reinfection risk.The third wave may be milder than the second but the Health Department should monitor the situation closely. It is important that we learn lessons from mistakes committed in the past during the second wave. Don’t forget, the pandemic is still there. Health officials must not lower the guard and must continue to strengthen surveillance and vigorously scale up the vaccination campaign. Covid-appropriate behavior must be followed during events such as weddings, parties, fairs and rallies. Any patient showing fever and respiratory symptoms such as cough, running nose, sore throat and difficulty in breathing and diarrhoea must be tested for the infection. International flights to and from various countries from where cases of Omicron have been detected should be banned.RS SembhiFollow Covid safety guidelines strictlyCovid-19 third wave and omicron is spreading very fast and to handle it, the city requires tough measures. SOP guidelines must be followed strictly at public places. People should be motivated to follow the norms at regular intervals through various media and social platforms. Government guidelines should be followed by residents always and those who are not following the norms should be punished heavily. Surroundings of buildings should be sanitised at regular intervals. People with co-morbidities , elderly people, children below 10 years of age and pregnant women should restrict movement in public places. Hand wash, alcohol-based sanitiser and mask should be used in routine. People entering Punjab from other states should be screened at entry points under the supervision of health officials. The most important duty of the government is to test each and every person for the virus as early detection is the key to stop community spread and vaccination is the only option to remain safe from it. Above all, we should act responsibly.Dr Jasdeep KaurBan movement in night hoursIt is a serious concern when we are reading reports of surge in cases of Omicron variant of Covid. Daily, a few cases are reported. Rise in cases of new variants may be due to laxity in following the norms. When all establishments are opened, citizens ignore protocols, which can be prove fatal for them. It is the duty of each citizen to follow the norms and must tell others to follow the same. Factories, schools, colleges or other institutions must follow the norms to fight the new variant. We all must keep social distancing and avoid roaming without any purpose in public places. The government must ban unnecessary movements in night hours. Public gathering should be restricted. It must be mandatory for every citizen to wear mask while going out.Farzana KhanAvoid unnecessary travellingGetting vaccinated is the most essential precaution against Covid. At least, one dose of vaccination has to be administered as it gives partial protection. Vaccines are the best defence against the infection and will prevent the third wave of the virus in the country. The more people get vaccinated the better are the chances to lower the positivity rate. Avoid travelling as much as possible. Please make sure to prevent crowded places indoors or outdoors. Leave home only when necessary. Just because the restrictions have been eased, it dosn’t mean that we can travel anywhere. Always follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Though the vaccination will protect you from getting a severe infection, people can still infect others, especially vulnerable population.Devna MunjalPoliticians, NGOs must spread awarenessPrevention is better than cure. Certainly, we have to plan against the possible third wave of Covid in Ludhiana. All political leaders, religious heads, panchayat members, councillors and NGOs should be roped in for awareness against the third wave. They have mass appeal. Follow all Covid safety guidelines of the Punjab Health Department to beat the virus. The Health Department should make public aware of the new variant. The police should challah the offenders. The government should legally restrict public gatherings such as large political rallies, funerals and religious functions.Sukhdev SharmaStrengthen health facilitiesThe government should take efforts to create awareness among residents about the new variant and make it again mandatory to wear masks and put restrictions on large public gatherings. All educational institutes should be told to provide an option of online classes along with offline, it will make the difference. The government should make sure health facilities should be well equipped enough to tackle the third wave, if any, in the future. Banks and companies should also provide an option of work from home to check staff strength in offices.Medha BatraAwareness is the keyLessons learnt once should be retained forever. Problems we faced due to previous variants of coronavirus has taught us that to protect us from the third upcoming wave, we have to strictly follow all Covid guidelines. The only way we can call off the third wave is to spread awareness among people. This virus has become a part of a life so lockdown will not help in any way as it will create more economic problems, which we are already facing. Now we have to live with it and for that we have to adapt ourselves into the situation. Wearing the mask should be mandatory when moving out. Not touching unnecessary things and keeping cleanliness are the few measures to keep this virus out of the way. Let’s wait for the day when there would be more advancement in medical technology to fight it, till then let’s become responsible citizens.Rashim MalhotraQUESTIONWith some students again testing positive for Covid after reopening of schools in the recent past, should educational institutions continue with offline classes or revert to online mode of teaching in the wake of the Omicron variant threat also looming large? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.comSuggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-prevent-third-covid-wave-352243
20-12-2021||Secretary of the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital Managing Society Prem Kumar Gupta has been conferred with ‘Bharat Gaurav Award’ for his dedication and effortless contribution to the betterment of society and the nation. The award is a prestigious civilian honour in the country. The award’||DMCH, Ludhiana, official gets Bharat Gaurav Award||Meeting of obesity patients’ support groupObesity is the most undisguised and yet most neglected problem in today’s world. The DMCH, Ludhiana, organised an obesity patients’ support group meeting recently at Dumra Auditorium. The meeting was conducted by Dr Ashish Ahuja, professor, department of surgery, and bariatric surgeon, and Dr PS Nain, professor, department of surgery and bariatric surgeon. The correlation of obesity with Covid-19 was also explained. Mortality in Covid-19 patients with obesity is much higher than patients with normal BMI because it is involved in etiology of insulin resistance which boosts the inflammatory state, which further may lead to increased severity of Covid-19. Obesity is also a recognised risk factor for severe Covid-19 possibly related to chronic inflammation that disrupts immune and thrombogenic responses to pathogens as well as to impaired lung function from excess weight. Obesity may triple the risk of hospitalisation during the Covid-19 infection. Various aspects and causes of obesity were discussed during the meeting along with various ways by which obesity can be cured and the role of bariatric surgery was discussed by the doctors. Deputy dietician Shilpa Singh explained the role of portion-size control in reducing excess weight. She also explained that fad diets were not the permanent solution but consistent efforts with regular dietary modification and lifestyle changes such as making sure to drink plenty of water and avoiding fried and fatty foods during the winters is a way to counter obesity. Converting junk food to healthier alternatives such as preparing food at home using products with low glycemic index such as replacing processed cheese with paneer (cottage cheese) and using atta bread instead of refined flour and using whole-wheat flour to quote some of the alternatives. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dmch-official-gets-award-352244
20-12-2021||---||AAP accuses Punjab Govt of appointing 'junior officials' as BDPOs against rules, demands EC action||Ludhiana, December 19A day after the state government gave charge of BDPOs to around 50 ‘junior’ officers in the state amid strike of BDPOs, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has accused the Congress government of using the strike of BDPOs and DDPOs to manipulate the poll process by ‘appointing junior officers’ as BDPOs against rules.AAP Ludhiana Lok Sabha in-charge Amandeep Singh Mohie and party’s Punjab spokesperson Ahbaab Singh Grewal, while addressing a press conference, here on Saturday alleged that a serious effort was being made by the Congress government to ‘illegally appoint junior and incompetent officers as BDPOs so that the Congress government could be benefitted during the Assembly elections.Grewal alleged: “The BDPOs and DDPOs are on strike regarding pay scales. Now, 58 BDPOs have been transferred on Friday, a majority of them to the head office to get them out of the way. More than 50 junior officers, including gram sewaks, panchayat officers, SEPOs, accountants and accounts clerks, who could have never become BDPOs had been illegally promoted in contravention of the principle of seniority and rules. Therefore, by posting them to such crucial posts at this critical juncture just before the elections, the government is making a blatant attempt to post pliable officers in key positions across the state. More such illegal appointments and transfers are on the way.”Grewal said: “The DDPO, Mohali, Sukhchain Singh, who was spearheading the strike, has been punished and transferred to Fazilka. The president of the BDPOs Association, Navdeep Kaur, has been shunted to Khuian Sarwar in Fazilka.”Now, AAP has appealed to the Election Commission to take note of the serious ‘violation of rules and attempt to interfere with the process of the upcoming elections in the state’. Notably, the BDPOs and DDPOs have been on strike for the past four days.Meanwhile, vice-president of the BDPOs Association, Punjab, Dhanwant Singh Randhawa, said: “We have been demanding restoration of old pay scales that were introduced in 1993. We had staged a protest six months ago and the state government had then assured us that our demand will be fulfilled. The government later refused to fulfil our demand, forcing us to go on strike on December 15. Now, BDPOs have been transferred and many junior officials have been given charge of BDPOs against the rules. Even six officials, who are not even state government employees, have been given the charge of BDPOs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/aap-accuses-govt-of-appointing-junior-officials-as-bdpos-against-rules-demands-ec-action-352245
20-12-2021||Doraha||Teachers take out protest rally||Teachers of the Doraha block participated in the ‘Kharar Challenge Rally’, organised by the Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front, today.The notification issued by the state government, banning rural allowances and the alleged attack on other pay cuts under the guise of the 6th Pay Commission, has invited the wrath of hundreds of teachers. Copies of the notification were burnt and hundreds of teachers raised slogans against the government in Doraha recently.Today’s rally, taken out from Doraha, was led by Bikramjit Singh Kaddon and Balraj Singh Ghaloti.Bikramjit Singh Kaddon, Balraj Singh Ghaloti, Balwinder Singh Mandiala and Karamjit Kaur accused the Charanjit Singh Channi-led state government of conspiring to ban over 37 allowances of employees under the guise of the Pay Commission.“If the government does not lend an ear to the public, it will surely show the mirror to the ruling party in the elections,” the protesters rued.“Restoration of 37 allowances withdrawn from employees, restoration of old pensions, payment of minimum wages to honorary employees and revision of the pay commission are among our demands,” they said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-take-out-protest-rally-352246
20-12-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Covid protocol goes for toss as thousands take part in Rath Yatra in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 19While the world may have raised concern over the rising number of Covid cases, especially Omicron virus, not giving two hoots to protocols, thousands of residents were seen without masks, jostling with each other in a huge rush during the “much-awaited” annual event of the Rath Yatra here today.Since the event is considered to be a “show of strength” with political and industrial bigwigs participating in good numbers, none dared to postpone the event, till the time the Omicron threat is over.The entire route from where the Rath Yatra was to pass through was decorated tastefully with flowers, balloons, lights, etc. Stages were set in short durations and eatables of different types were kept, which were distributed amongst the devotees. And to get the eatables, residents and devotees were seen bumping into each other, ignoring the necessary protocols.Though the police personnel were out on duties but none stressed to public to wear masks, which have become the necessity of the hour, especially when the number of Covid patients is increasing.A devotee, Kamlesh, had called her entire extended family to be a part of the yatra. The family included a small kid of four months of age to three senior citizens and youngsters. One of the senior citizen had recovered from Covid. Except for a young girl, none was seen wearing mask.A shopkeeper in Ghumar Mandi said the yatra should not be allowed till the threat of Covid looms large. “We can take part in such events later but here in this huge rush, we are putting lives in danger,” he said.Meanwhile, a few devotees believed that since most of the population have been vaccinated, there was not much need to worry about and moreover Indians had strong immunity.Each year crores of rupees are spent on organising this rath yatra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-protocol-goes-for-toss-as-thousands-take-part-in-rath-yatra-352247
20-12-2021||---||Covid-19: Three fresh cases of virus in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, December 19Three persons tested positive for Covid, while no loss of life due to the disease was reported in the district today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.55 per cent and there are 34 active cases in the district at present. Thirty patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.Till date, a total of 29,73,423 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 28,73,945 were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,723, while 11,755 patients belong to other districts/states.Total number of patients who lost their lives to the disease here is 2,116 from Ludhiana and 1061 from other districts. Samples of 3,978 suspected patients were sent for testing today.Wife, son of Covid victim test positive||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-three-fresh-cases-of-virus-in-ludhiana-district-352248
20-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Radars deployed on Ludhiana-Khanna, Ludhiana-Jalandhar highway to catch overspeeding vehicles||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 19As fog has started engulfing the region, which also increases the chances of road mishaps, the Ludhiana Commissionerate have deployed two speed radars on the national highway. These radars capture the speed of vehicles from a range of even 1 km and sound alert to the cops at naka.Presently two speed radars have been deployed — one on the Ludhiana-Khanna highway at Sahnewal and another at the Ludhiana-Jalandhar highway. Traffic cops deployed to run these radars lay random nakas at strategic locations to catch the overspeeding vehicles.Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Daljit Singh of the city traffic police, who led a naka on the highway at Sahnewal, said overspeeding is the main cause of most road accidents and curtailing this violation can also decrease the chances of road mishaps.“Speed radar we are having can capture the vehicle being driven above 95 km of speed and it alert the cops who signal such vehicles to stop and then issue them challans. We have increased chlllaning these days to prevent road mishap,” added ASI Daljit.The radars even capture the vehicle number along with the exact speed and also prints the detail to handover to the driver just to ensure that no dispute arises.“We are now devoting more time to catch the overspeeding vehicles. Daily on an average, 40 to 50 challans are being issued. We will increase vigil in these days to issue challans to maximum violators,” said the ASI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/radars-deployed-on-highways-to-catch-overspeeding-vehicles-352249
20-12-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Punish Golden Temple incident conspirators: Shahi Imam||Mandi Ahmedgarh, December 19Shocked over an unsuccessful attempt by an unidentified man to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple on Saturday evening, Shahi Imam, Punjab, Maulana Mohammad Usman Ludhianvi has urged all concerned to probe the incident so that hidden forces and conspirators are identified and dealt with firmly.“I believe that it is the worst news on the sacred land of Punjab that a sinner tried to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple when evening prayer (Rehras Path) was going on at nightfall on Saturday,” said the Shahi Imam, while talking to The Tribune. He said no words are adequate to condemn the incident.Apprehending that the incident was the outcome of sinister designs of some hidden forces, Malauna Mohammad Usman Ludhianvi urged the authorities in the Punjab Government and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee to get the sequence of events leading to the sinful act probed and reach conspirators by all means. “Those who argue that the matter is closed with the death of the sinner should not forget that there are conspirators yet to be identified who deliberately chose the period when the whole world was paying tributes to Sahibzadas for their supreme sacrifice as it would hurt sentiments of Sikhs across the world in severest manner,” said Ludhianavi petitioning that the authorities concerned in the government and SGPC should not try to wash their hands of the responsibility to bring the case to a conclusive end.The Shahi Imam said it was too worrying that sacrilege incidents are occurring repeatedly and the successive governments and authorities concerned have failed to nail the real sinners trying to disrupt harmony of the region. “As sacrilege incidents in any religion cause deep anguish and outrage in minds of members of all religions, these are not tolerable at any cost,” said the Shahi Imam apprehending that inaction and leniency with conspirators would result in reoccurrence of such incidents and disruption of communal harmony in already disturbed state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punish-golden-temple-incident-conspirators-shahi-imam-352250
20-12-2021||---||Ludhiana: Neighbour stabs 70-year-old woman to death at Meharban||Ludhiana, December 19A 70-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by her neighbour at Chuharwal village in Meharban on Sunday morning.The deceased has been identified Swaran Kaur.The neighbour, identified as Jaspal Singh (45) of the same village, was arrested by the police and a case registered against him.The woman was murdered by the accused on the suspicion that she had been doing practising the occult, which brought sufferings for his (accused) family.The SHO, Meharban police station, Inspector Lovedeep Singh, said the incident occurred at around 6.30 am today when Swaran Kaur was going to a gurdwara.A few days back, Jaspal had told the woman to stop doing practising the occult, else he would kill her. Today when the woman left her house to go to a gurdwara, Jaspal cornered her and repeatedly stabbed her with a knife. The woman died on the spot.The SHO said after registering a murder case against Jaspal today, he was also arrested.Villagers, however, told police that the woman was not practising the occult, rather she was quite religious and used to visit gurdara daily.Man’s body found, kin suspect murder||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/neighbour-stabs-70-year-old-woman-to-death-at-meharban-352251
20-12-2021||---||Rs 9.5-lakh robbery cracked, 3 held in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, December 19The police have solved a high-profile robbery that occurred on the RK road on December 10 by busting a gang of robbers.The police arrested three robbers and recovered Rs 2.72 lakh from them.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the robbery had taken place outside a hosiery factory situated on the RK road where six motorcycle-borne robbers had attacked a factory owner, Radha Mohan Thapar, with sharp-edged weapons and snatched Rs 9.50 lakh along with two I-Phones and ATM cards from him.The arrested robbers have been identified as Vishal (19), alias Simba, resident of SBS Nagar, Sunny (22), alias Sandy, resident of Giaspura, and Azad (25), alias Arun, resident of Shimlapuri, Ludhiana district, the CP said, adding that accused Sonu Kumar of Giaspura, a former employee of Shive Hosiery, had carried out the reconnaissance of the factory before hatching a plan to rob it.The CP mentioned that the police teams have raided the hideouts of the accused in Chandigarh, where Sunny and Vishal had been hiding after committing the crime.The police have recovered the sickle which was used as a weapon in the crime, besides two I-Phones (12 Max Pro, 10 Max) along with a part of cash looted from the industrialist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-9-5-lakh-robbery-cracked-3-held-in-ludhiana-352252
20-12-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Khanna: After assurance, contractual staff lift blockade||Khanna, December 18Residents of the area faced inconvenience till afternoon on Saturday as office-bearers and activists of 11 outfits of contractual employees working with various government departments blocked the Sher Shah Suri Marg (NH-1) at Bhattian village near here.However, commuters heaved a sigh of relief after the protesters lifted the blockade after they were assured a meeting with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh on Sunday evening.The scheduled meeting was fixed on the intervention of Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli, who spoke to the CM and apprised him of demands of the employees protesting for regularisation of their services and facilities on a par with other government employees.While commuters, including patients and elderly persons, travelling between localities situated on both sides of Khanna city remained worst affected due to the forced diversion on bumpy link roads, local residents were also among the sufferers as a large number of vehicles plied on link roads due to the blockade of the national highway.Probably, it was for the first time that families of protesting employees squatted on a highway for an overnight action. Volunteers from nearby areas were seen serving tea and snacks to protesters in the wee hours of this morning. Though police and administration officials had been trying to persuade protesters to lift the blockade since its organisation on Friday, all meetings proved futile till this afternoon when Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli held a meeting with state-level leaders of the protesting organisations and succeeded in fixing their meeting with the Chief Minister.Office-bearers of the Theka Mulazim Sangharsh Committee said the employees had agreed to lift the blockade after receiving an invitation for a meeting with the Chief Minister, scheduled to take place at Punjab Bhawan on Sunday evening.“Though it is not the first time that we have been invited for a meeting, this time Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli has assured to be present during the meeting,” they said, adding that Kotli had assured them that necessary action would be taken in the Cabinet meeting scheduled to take place on Monday.However, the protesters threatened to intensify their stir if their demands are not accepted in the Sunday meeting.Meeting fixed on Kotli’s interventionA meeting of contractual employees with the Chief Minister on Sunday evening was fixed on the intervention of Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli, who spoke to the CM and apprised him of demands of the employees protesting for regularisation of their services and facilities on a par with other government employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/after-assurance-contractual-staff-lift-blockade-351887
20-12-2021||---||Ludhiana Mayor calls House meeting on Wednesday||Ludhiana, December 18As the election code of conduct is likely to be imposed soon for the Assembly elections, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has called the MC’s House meeting on Wednesday.The resolutions regarding various development works and proposals are to be presented before the MC House. The Opposition parties are also gearing up for the meeting.It is learnt that around 25 resolutions would be presented before the House members. A proposal to take over some GLADA’s areas will be presented in the House meeting. The civic body will also introduce a proposal to waive the water supply and sewerage charges for houses up to 125 sq yards.Besides, the proposals to change the names of some roads will also be presented in the meeting. “The MC House will also take a decision on a proposal recommending no electricity connection should be issued to buildings constructed without the approval of map,” a source said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mayor-calls-house-meeting-on-wednesday-351888
20-12-2021||---||Contractor comes in contact with HT wire in Ludhiana, dies||Ludhiana, December 18A contractor was electrocuted to death at New Kundanpuri on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as Ram Kumar of Bonkar Dogra village here.The contractor was working on the second floor of the under-construction house. He was carrying iron rods in his hands which accidentally came in contact with high-tension wires passing from near the house. The contractor died on the spot.Investigating officer SI Rajinder Pal of the Police Division 8 said the police would take action after recording the statement of the family members. So far the body has been kept at Civil Hospital’s mortuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/contractor-comes-in-contact-with-ht-wire-dies-351886
20-12-2021||---||Balbir Singh Rajewal honoured by Muslims at Jama Masjid||Ludhiana, December 18Samuykt Kisan Morcha leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was given a warm welcome on visiting Jama Masjid here on Saturday. Rajewal was honoured by the Muslim community today.Rajewal paid tribute to the late Shahi Imam, Punjab, Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Sani Ludhianvi.While addressing the Muslim community at Jama Masjid, Balbir Singh Rajewal said the support of all in the kisan andolan is the reason for the repealing of farm laws. He said it is true that the governments had repeatedly tried to thwart the movement by painting it as religious but with the help of all, all such conspiracies failed.On the occasion, Shahi Imam Maulana Mohammad Usman Ludhianvi said from the very first day of the kisan andolan, late Shahi Imam Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Sani Ludhianvi opposed the three black farm laws and all the Muslims of Punjab joined the movement. He said the repealing of farm laws by the Central government is a victory for the unity of all religions and it would be always remembered by the rest of the world.The Shahi Imam said those who want to divide the society in the name of religion in the country would never be allowed to succeed. He said today they are honouring Balbir Singh Rajewal as the son of Punjab has played a leading role in the front with his dedication, hard work and courage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/balbir-singh-rajewal-honoured-by-muslims-at-jama-masjid-351891
