25-12-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana bomb blast: Deceased identified, remains main suspect||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 24A day after a high-intensity bomb blast left one dead and six hurt at the District Court Complex here, the deceased was identified as a dismissed policeman and he remains the main suspect so far.Though the Punjab Police and Central agencies, including the National Security Guard (NSG) and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), are working on different theories to crack the case that caused terror across the state, the cause and nature of the “high-grade” explosion is also yet to be ascertained.However, the motive of the deceased, identified as Gagandeep Singh, alias Gaggi (29), who was dismissed from the Punjab Police following his arrest in a drug recovery case in August 2019, behind the involvement in the explosion is not yet ascertained.The senior police officers, monitoring the ongoing probe, told The Tribune that though some vital clues have already been traced, the same were being examined to reach any conclusion.“CCTV footage has shown the entry of suspect(s) to the courts complex and his movement has also been tracked,” an investigation officer claimed.The theories on which the police investigation is revolving around include the “suicide bomber” wherein the suspect was trying to wear the explosive for reaching his target but it exploded in the public toilet itself, the suspect was trying to plant the bomb when it blasted and the explosive was planted when it exploded.“We have been able to trace vital clues after procuring technical evidence about the suspect(s) involved in the case but any final conclusion is yet to be reached,” the Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar told The Tribune.He reiterated that the preliminary probe is suggesting that the lone person, who was killed in the blast, was suspected to be carrying or planting the explosive in the public toilet on the second floor of the courts complex, when it exploded.However, major tragedy was averted as both the courtrooms on the exploded floor were not functional on Thursday due to the absence of the judicial officers concerned. Moreover, the footfall of the public was also less today as compared to routine due to the strike of the lawyers for the day, Bhullar said.The preliminary probe has also hinted at the use of passage meant for the lawyers by the suspect(s). “The lawyers’ entry and exit gates remain unmanned so that they may not face any inconvenience,” maintained the officials involved in the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/deceased-identified-remains-main-suspect-354254
25-12-2021||---||Security beefed up at District Court Complex, Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 24The police have beefed up security at the District Court Complex.Despite the courts were functioning, the footfall was quite less than the normal days.District and Sessions Judge Munish Singhal was also present in the courtroom to conduct hearings.Although courts were functioning like normal days but all visitors were being duly checked.The police installed metal detectors at several places right from the entry of the DC office at Mini Secretariat. Even the vehicles entering Mini Secretariat were being checked.The police had deployed commandos at several places.The lawyers entering the court premises were also frisked. Even the tiffin brought by lawyers in the court were also checked for security purposes due to the fear of tiffin bombs.“It is good that the police have beefed up security at the court complex but this practice will be in place for a few days only. The same old situation will again come when anyone can enter court premises without undergoing any checks,” said a litigant.There was minimal footfall at the offices of the Deputy Commissioner and Police Commissioner as well. Although staff was present, but hardly any people visited these offices on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/security-beefed-up-354255
25-12-2021||---||Condition of all injured in Ludhiana blast stable, one discharged from hospital||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 24The condition of all the six injured in the blast that took place in the District Court Complex here yesterday are stable and one has been given discharged from the hospital.Sharanjit Kaur from Jamalpur, who was admitted to Civil Hospital, has been discharged. Senior Medical Officer Dr Amarjit Kaur said Sharanjit has been discharged as she is fit, while the other patient Sandeep is still under observation. Her condition is also stable and out of danger.Although Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had yesterday announced that all the injured will be given treatment free of cost but family members of Gurpreet Kaur, who is admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur Charitable Hospital, complained that the hospital is asking them to pay bills of the medicines.Dr Parveen Sobti, Director of GTB Hospital, said the pharmacy inside the hospital is not run by the hospital and is a private pharmacy. “We have also talked to the Civil Surgeon office in this regard and informed them about the status of the pharmacy. All the treatment and post-operative care of the patient is being done free of cost and hospital is not charging anything from them. The pharmacy has also been asked to give them medicines at discounted price. The hospital is not charging anything from the patient,” said Dr Sobti.Union Minister of Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju, who was in the city today, enquired about the health of injured in the blast. He visited Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. He was accompanied by Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash and Chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes Vijay Sampla, besides several others.He said the main aim of his visit is to instil confidence in the minds of Ludhianvis as well as people of Punjab that the perpetrators of the crime would be tracked down. He said both Union Government and Punjab Government would jointly work to crack the case.Meanwhile Sessions Judge Munish Singal and Deputy Commisioner Varinder Kumar Sharma also met injured persons and enquired about their well-being. They asked the doctors to provide them all possible medical assistance. Sessions Judge Singal said it was an unfortunate incident. But luckily the major tragedy was averted as the bomb blast took place in the public toilet. There was only one causality and that too of a suspected bomb carrier. Lawyer Kuldeep Singh Mand suffered injuries but he is out of danger and recovering.He said more security measures would be taken to avoid such type of incidents in the future with the cooperation of the administration and police authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/condition-of-all-injured-stable-one-discharged-from-hospital-354258
25-12-2021||---||Announce ex gratia relief to injured: Sukhbir Badal to CM||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, December 24Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to announce an ex gratia grant to all those injured in the Ludhiana bomb blast, besides covering their hospitalisation expenses.The SAD president met advocate Kuldeep Singh Mand and Krishan Kumar, who were injured in the blast at the court complex yesterday and are admitted to Dayanand Medical College (DMC) Hospital here. He inquired about their well-being and also interacted with their family members. Family members of both patients disclosed that the state government had not extended any monetary help to them for their treatment.While asking the Chief Minister to extend ex gratia grant to the injured immediately, Badal said, “This should be your priority instead of politicising the ghastly attack to launch a blame game against your political rivals.” He also advised the Chief Minister to call a meeting to review the law and order situation instead of only calling meetings of top police officers to devise ways and means to frame Akali leaders in false cases.The SAD president asked the Congress government to tell the people what measures it had taken to identify the culprits as well as know the conspiracy behind five successive bomb blasts in the last four months, which had preceded the Ludhiana blast. He said if the government had acted in time and taken timely measures, the Ludhiana tragedy could have been averted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/announce-ex-gratia-relief-to-injured-sukhbir-to-cm-354259
25-12-2021||---||Bhagwant Mann blames Cong govt for deteriorating law & order||Our CorrespomdentLudhiana, December 24State president of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann today visited Civil Hospital here to meet the injured persons of yesterday’s bomb blast.He wished them speedy recovery and demanded an unbiased and time-bound inquiry into the matter to put an end to all these enormities, while criticising the Congress government for failing to maintain peace and law and order in the state.Later, talking to mediapersons, he said, “These attempts are made to damage the peace and brotherhood in Punjab.Masterminds behind the incidents of sacrilege and bomb blasts are needed to be caught. But, who’ll do that when the Congress government is busy with its internal war?”He slammed Punjab Deputy Chief Minister and Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who had transferred two DGPs and AGs in a few days, saying that what can be expected from someone who had been charged in the Cabinet with transferring police officers by taking money.Mann said the Channi government lacks intention because if the culprits and masterminds behind the Bargari sacrilege incidents would have punished severely under the law, no one would’ve dared to jump the grill at Sri Harmandir Sahib. He added that PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu is full of excuses, but now when people of his choice are in the government and ministries, he should ensure an unbiased and time-bound inquiry.He said if the mastermind behind the Ludhiana blast is brought to justice, next time anti-social elements will think 50 times before doing something like this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/mann-blames-cong-govt-for-deteriorating-law-order-354261
25-12-2021||Manav Mander||Omicron scare drives people to vaccination centres in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 24Amidst the scare of Omicron variant, people who had earlier missed their second dose of the Covid vaccine, are now coming forward for inoculation. These days, 80 per cent of the total vaccination done in Ludhiana district comprises of second dose.The figuresAs per the records of the Health Department, 48.16 per cent people were fully vaccinated till today i.e. December 24, while the figure was 45.93 per cent last Monday (December 13).A total of 6,168 people were vaccinated today. Out of this, 4,675 people were given the second dose, while 1,493 received their first jab.After the cases of Omicron variant were being detected in India, people have once again started coming forward to get their shots. A majority of the people are coming forward for their second dose. Ludhiana district has set up 35 permanent vaccination centres for the convenience of people.Dr Puneet Juneja, nodal officer for Covid vaccination, said people had once again started coming forward for vaccination in a large number. “Out of the total beneficiaries visiting the vaccination centres, 80 per cent of them are due for their second dose,” he said.He said people should not take Covid lightly and receive both doses of the Covid vaccine by visiting nearest centres. As many as 35 permanent vaccination centres had been set up in the district.Dr Pardeep Mohindra, Senior Medical Officer of the Civil Hospital, Jagraon, said: “People have once again started coming forward for vaccination. A majority of the beneficiaries are due for their second dose”.Renu Bhatija, a resident, said she missed her second dose as she went out of station. Later, she forgot to get the second jab. “Covid cases are rising once again. So, I got myself vaccinated with the second dose yesterday,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/omicron-scare-drives-people-to-vaccination-centres-in-dist-354263
25-12-2021||---||Bikram Majithia drugs case: Big mistake on part of ruling Congress, say Akali Dal leaders||Kuldip BhatiaLudhiana, December 24Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders today staged a joint demonstration at the Jagraon bridge here in protest against the implication of senior party leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a false and fabricated case related to drugs. ‘United against anti-people policies’SAD and YAD leaders said they were united and stood rock solid against wrong and anti-people policies of the Channi government, which was making nefarious attempts to vitiate the environment and harmony in the state.Leading the protest, Harbhajan Singh Dang, district president, SAD, and YAD leaders Gurdeep Singh Gosha and Manpreet Singh Manna, termed the act as a clear case of vendetta politics and a big mistake on part of the ruling Congress.SAD and YAD leaders said they were united and stood rock solid against wrong and anti-people policies of the Channi government, which was making nefarious attempts to vitiate the environment and harmony in the state.“Consequences of such policies will be disastrous as efforts are on to set Punjab on fire again,” SAD and YAD leaders said in a note of caution.Dang and Gosha emphasised that if the government had done its duty and paid due attention to the maintenance of law and order in Punjab, then there would not have been bomb blasts and sacrilege acts. They also demanded an inquiry by an independent agency into Majithia case as he had been targeted by the Congress dispensation out of frustration and political compulsions. Justice ought to be dispensed in this particular case, they added.Akali and YAD leaders said political power was never permanent and both officials and political leaders who were behind the conspiracy to implicate Majithia would have to pay a heavy price as the allegations levelled against the SAD leader would not stand scrutiny of law.“The party will stand by Majithia and will see to it that ulterior motives of political leadership and police machinery are thwarted,” said Dang and Gosha.Among others, Baba Ajit Singh, Manpreet Singh Ayali MLA, Pritpal Singh Pali, Darshan Singh Shivalik, Vijay Danav, Bibi Deol Kaur, RD Sharma, Harish Rai Dhanda, Ranjit Singh Dhillon, Kuldeep Khalsa, Simran Dhillon, Rakhwinder Gabia and Gurinder Pal Singh Pappu were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/big-mistake-on-part-of-ruling-cong-say-akali-dal-leaders-354264
25-12-2021||---||LDCA Blues XI beat Khanna coaching centre in opening tie||Sports CorrespondentLudhiana, December 24LDCA Blues XI defeated United Cricket Coaching Centre, Khanna, by seven wickets in the opening match of the LDCA U-16 Cricket League being played at the GRD Global Education Institute grounds on the Hambran road here on Friday.Seven teams comprising of players registered with the regional coaching centres run by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) and one team from Khanna are taking part in this tournament.The tournament is being organised by the LDCA, an affiliated unit of the Punjab Cricket Association, to give exposure to boys and prepare them for future competitions.The visitors won the toss and opted to bat first. In the stipulated 35 overs, they made 148 runs for the loss of seven wickets. Ishant Chawla was the highest contributor for the team with 40 runs, followed by Abhiveer who scored 37 runs.For LDCA XI, Sajan took two wickets for 17 runs, Divyam grabbed two wickets for 27 runs and Adhiraj, Shabd Tangri and Savinay claimed one wicket each.LDCA Blues scored 149 runs in 29.3 overs with seven wickets in hand. Shabd Tangri remained unbeaten on 88 runs, while Yuvraj and Savinay Kakkar chipped in 23 and 15 runs, respectively.Asisjot was the lone wicket taker for the Khanna team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ldca-blues-xi-beat-khanna-coaching-centre-in-opening-tie-354266
25-12-2021||---||2 international travellers test positive in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 24Two persons tested positive for Covid in the district today. Both are international travellers — one has returned from Dubai and other from London. Total seven international travellers have tested positive in Ludhiana so far. The samples of both the travellers will be sent for genome sequencing and their contact tracing will be done.No loss of life due to the disease was reported in the district today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.55 per cent and there are 36 active cases in the district at present. Thirty-three patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.Till date, a total of 29,90,312 samples have been taken, of which 28,90,808 were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,743, while 11,761 patients belong to other districts/states.Total number of patients who lost their lives to Covid is 2,116 from Ludhiana and 1,061 from other districts.Samples of 3,180 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently, of the Punjab Government to not only save themselves, but also keep everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/2-international-travellers-test-positive-in-district-354267
25-12-2021||---||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, postpones exams||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 24Teachers of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, along with university and college teachers of the state, are on a strike against the non-implementation of the UGC grades of the university and college faculty by the Punjab Government.As a result, academic activities of the university have been adversely affected and examinations have been postponed.Dr HS Banga, Registrar of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, said due to the ongoing teachers’ protest, the administration had postponed the examinations of Bachelor of Veterinary Science & Animal Husbandry till further notice. Any further delay in the examinations might adversely affect the future prospects of final-year students since they had to start their internship from February 28.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/veterinary-varsity-postpones-exams-354268
25-12-2021||Atam Devki Niketan School||Yuletide spirit grips schoolchildren on Xmas eve||Ludhiana: Atam Devki Niketan School celebrated Christmas on Friday. Christmas is celebrated to remember the birth of Jesus Christ. Children dressed up as little Santa and distributed sweets. They decorated Christmas trees and exchanged gifts with each other. — TNSSt Xavier Playway SchoolLudhiana: Christmas was celebrated at St Xavier Playway School, Civil Lines, on Friday. The school was decorated beautifully. Children came to the school in colourful attires and many of them were dressed as Santa Claus and fairies. Various fun games were organised for children. Students danced to the tunes of Christmas carols. A teacher dressed up as Santa Claus distributed sweets and gifts among children. S. Chopra, Principal of the school, cut Christmas cake. Manu Chopra, Director of the school, threw light on the importance of Christmas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/yuletide-spirit-grips-schoolchildren-on-xmas-eve-354269
25-12-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana blast: Centre, Punjab working together, says Kiren Rijiju||A day after a bomb blast rocked the courts complex here, Union Minister of Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju on Friday visited the scene and said the Centre and the state will work together to ensure action against the perpetrators trying to disrupt peace.Editorial: Ludhiana blast: Poll-bound Punjab must be wary of disruptive forcesAlso read: Ludhiana blast suspect a dismissed cop from KhannaRijiju was accompanied by Vijay Sampla, chairman, National Commission for SC; Som Parkash, Union Minister of State for Commerce; and District and Sessions Judge Munish Singhal. He took briefing from CP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and DC Varinder Kumar Sharma. Addressing mediapersons, Rijiju said PM Narendra Modi had expressed deep concern over the incident.“Central and state agencies will work together to unfold the mystery behind the blast. No anti-national element will be spared. Agencies have also hinted at a lead in the case,” he said. On state agencies’ failure to act despite an intelligence alert about possible attacks in Punjab, he said he had not come to count lapses, adding sharing of alerts was a routine exercise of central agencies. He appreciated the Sessions Judge for not letting the court work get affected, as routine hearings were on. On PCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s remark that such attacks were being orchestrated for vote politics, he said leaders should make responsible statements. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-pb-working-together-rijiju-354098
25-12-2021||---||Arm tattoo helped identify deceased in Ludhiana blast||Ludhiana, December 24A day after the blast, central and state agencies remained at the site today, collecting samples from the debris. Sources said a damaged mobile phone, suspected to be that of the deceased, was recovered from the scene.Also read: Intel alert on possible blast went unnoticedLudhiana blast suspect a dismissed cop from KhannaLudhiana blast: Centre, Punjab working together, says Kiren RijijuThe police were treating the deceased, now identified as Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed head constable, as a suspect who was either carrying the explosives or was a suicide bomber.His body was shifted to the Civil Hospital last night and a post-mortem examination was conducted by a board of doctors. Before the autopsy, a team of NSG visited the hospital and inspected the body.Sources said the doctors took viscera samples, which would be sent to the forensic laboratory to identify the kind of explosives used in the blast. It is learnt his right arm had a tattoo of ‘khanda’ (religious symbol), which apparently led to the identification of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arm-tattoo-helped-identify-deceased-354109
