27-12-2021||Sports Correspondent||Ludhiana Club win football league match||Ludhiana, December 26Ludhiana Football Club routed Man I Love Football Club 6-0 in the ongoing Duke Cup Ludhiana Football League being held at the Guru Nanak Public School grounds, Sarabha Nagar, here, on Saturday.The winners played a better game and gave no chance to their opponents to settle down. They went into an early lead and continued to dictate terms throughout the match to wrap up the issue comfortably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-club-win-football-league-match-354953
27-12-2021||Ludhiana||TT Tourney: Local lads Aryan, Vihaan make it to semis||Local lads Aryan and Vihaan along with Tanish from Jalandhar and Pritish of Mohali came out triumphant in their respective quarter-finals to complete the semi-final line-up in the boys U-15 category on the second day of the 4th Manna Singh Memorial Open Table Tennis Tournament, being held at Shastri Hall on Sunday.In the girls’ U-15 section, Chandigarh duo of Cherish and Vani besides Manya and Rishita, both from Jalandhar, wrapped up their matches to book berths in the last four stage. In the boys section, Aryan faced a little challenge from Piyush of HP whom he tamed 11-3, 11-5 and 11-6 while Vihaan edged out Sukhbir of Amritsar in straight sets 11-4, 11-6 and 11-9 to storm into the semi final.In other quarterfinals, Tanish survived some anxious moments against local player, Raghav before clinching the issue 11-4, 9-11, 11-4 and 12-10 while Pritish overcame stiff challenge from Yaman of Amritsar whom he beat 11-5, 9-11, 8-11, 11-9 and 11-2 to join Aryan and Vihaan in the semi-final.In the girls’ category (U-15), Manya outperformed Anjali of Chandigarh 11-9, 11-8 and 11-7; Cherish outclassed Prabhleen from Mohali 11-9, 11-5 and 11-3; Vani got the better of Bhavya of Chandigarh 11-3, 11-5 and 11-6 whereas Rishita drubbed Sherell of Chandigarh 11-4, 11-4 and 11-5 to qualify for the semi-finals. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/tt-tourney-local-lads-aryan-vihaan-make-it-to-semis-354952
27-12-2021||Sports Correspondent||LDCA Blues XI record second win in cricket||Ludhiana, December 26Thanks to an enterprising unbeaten innings of 88 runs by Shabd Tangri, LDCA Blues XI thrashed LDCA Kings XI by152 runs to record second consecutive win in the ongoing LDCA U-16 Cricket League, being played at the GRD Global Education Institute grounds on Hambran Road here on Sunday.On Friday, LDCA Blues XI began its campaign on a high note with an authentic seven-wicket victory against the United Cricket Coaching Centre, Khanna.LDCA Blues XI posted a huge score of 192 runs in 35 overs after losing six wickets. The highlight of their innings was a fine batting performance by Shabd who carried his bat after contributing 88 runs. Hemant Verma remained unbeaten on 21 runs while Yuvraj Pal chipped in with 19 runs.For LDCA Kings XI, Arnav Cheema, Pakshaj and Harshit Sangar took a piece each.LDCA Kings XI’s reply culminated in 18.4 overs with only 40 runs on the board. For the winning side, Divyam, Sajan Dhillon and Savinay Kakkar shared bowling honours. Divyam took four wickets for 11 runs, Sajan scalped three victims after giving away 11 runs and Savinay secured two wickets after conceding eight runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ldca-blues-xi-record-second-win-in-cricket-354950
27-12-2021||Payal||Payal: Punjab CM to open parks at village  today||The local administration has made all arrangements for the scheduled visit of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi at a stadium in Rohno village here on Monday, with the Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli motivating regional leaders and party workers to persuade masses to reach the venue before the scheduled time.Residents too are rescheduling their programmes for interacting with the Chief Minister.Kotli, who has been conducting village and block-level meetings to persuade masses to reach the venue on Monday for attending CM’s event, claimed that residents, irrespective of their political and social allegiance were enthusiastic about the public contact programme of the Chief Minister during the state-level function, being held for open interaction of the Chief Minister with members of all sections of agrarian society. Kotli said the CM would inaugurate a park near Dasehra Ground, a smart panchayat ghar, a ladies park and a sathh (common sitting place), besides addressing a rally on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/punjab-cm-to-open-parks-at-village-today-354949
27-12-2021||Revert to online classes||OPEN HOUSE: Institutions should continue offline classes or revert to online mode?||It’s true that elderly and those with underlying health conditions are more vulnerable to Covid than the younger generation. However, fatalities have occurred in people of all age groups. Therefore, none are safe from the potential risk of infection. As the younger generations have not been administered with vaccines, sending them to school can be life threatening. Hence, it’s imperative to revert to online classes till the Covid situation normalises.Novin ChristopherContinue offline mode with precautionsIt is a fact that the threat of the third wave as well as Omicron variant of Covid is looming large. The biggest concern is the safety of children as there have been a few cases of Covid-19 among students also. In my opinion, in case there are only a few cases among the students, then schools can continue with offline classes but Covid-19 guidelines should be followed in letter and in spirit. Special attention should be given to the health of the students. Any student with symptoms of the disease should be sent back home. Parents too must be guided to not to send their wards to school if they are unwell. If any student is found infected with the disease, there should not be any need to panic. Those students and staff who came in contact with the infected child must be guided to get themselves tested. Their class should be closed. There is no need to close the entire school. If the number of cases show a sudden upward trend, the school must be shut. Avoid any gathering or assembly of students. Remember prevention is better than cure.Bir Devinder Singh BediContinue both modes of teachingOffline classes are not the way out. Some measures should be implemented such as rotation of students in classes, partially online classes, social distancing and wearing of masks strictly during offline classes. Children also need to go out for their proper mental health. Teachers must be trained how to follow Covid precautions in schools in a proper manner. Parents should not lower their guard at home and other places also as only schools can’t be blamed for the virus spread.Kanwar UppalGo for online mode of teachingVarious institutions such as business establishments, shops and even religious places are opened for the public, including schools, colleges and other academic institutes, under the prevailing circumstances. But cases of new Covid variant Omicron is on rise. Hence, under these circumstances it is difficult to open schools and colleges as there may difficulty in implementing all norms and advisories in a proper manner. It may be easy to implement all rules on the campus of academic institutes but outside such institutes, but outside, students can meet other people and managements of institutes can’t monitor students when they leave the organisations. Moreover, there may be a need for more staff to handle and monitor students. For some more months, online teaching should be continued.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiAllow schools to open with cautionGovernments are opening schools and colleges. But in the present condition, there is a surge in the number of cases of Omicron in India too. Schools should be allowed to open with the condition that all guidelines will be implemented, so that studies should not get affected. Proper social distancing should be maintained. Each student must wear face mask. Without mask, students should not be allowed. No gatherings should be allowed at schools.Farzana KhanOnline classes provide more opportunitiesNow, with online classes, you have the option of attending classes in the privacy of your home. You can search for any study-related video you might have missed and catch up on the class later. All you need is an Internet connection and a computer or a smartphone. Online classes enable you to achieve your professional and educational goals in a manner that fits your schedule. With online learning, an instructor can write down notes on a digital board or even assign a student to write real-time notes that students can easily download after the class. Online classes provide more learning opportunities. With online education, students have the option of learning from teachers at any time of the day. I think people should revert back to the online method of studying for their children’s safety due to rising cases of Covid and its Omicron variant.Devna MunjalFollow norms during offline classesWe have seen that students are again testing positive for Covid after reopening of schools. We have also seen that people are showing a casual attitude towards the virus by not following Covid-appropriate behavior. But we should not fully revert to online classes again. Instead, we can continue with offline classes but with all safety measures. Make different schedules for various classes. Teachers and students should be fully vaccinated. We should motivate each other with positive thoughts.KhushpreetSanitise premises regularlyAs Omicron variant is increasing its pace and is affecting even those who are fully vaccinated, it will be more troublesome for students. As it’s also affecting the students, many are demanding for reverting to the online mode of teaching. But in my opinion, we should still continue with the offline mode but with all necessary precautions. Schools should sanitise schools at regular intervals and maintain proper social distancing because reverting to the online mode will create a sense of carelessness among the students.Jasmeen KaurSchool closure will hit studiesAmid rising uncertainty created by new Covid variant Omicron, state governments are thinking about whether to keep schools open or not. However, school closure again would be disastrous for children. Not only their learning is affected due to the online teaching, they have also lost daily interactions with their friends. That’s why nationwide school closures should be avoided whenever possible. When Covid-19 community transmission increases, schools must be the last place to close and the first to reopen.Jasmine AroraTake steps to continue offline modeSchools have started functioning normally after a long time and studies of children have already suffered a lot during the pandemic. Keeping in mind the gravity of the situation, the school authorities should follow Covid- appropriate behaviour rather than reverting back to online teaching again. Fifty per cent of the students of a class can be called on one day and the remaining the next day. Two shifts of students can also be held in every school. Fifty per cent of the students can be called in the morning shift and the remaining in the afternoon shift. These steps will curtail crowding in classrooms. All those entering schools, should wear mask, sanitise their hands and get them checked with thermal scanners.Sunil ChopraDecrease teaching hours of classesThe Union Health Ministry has stressed that states should enhance surveillance and restrictions due to the rapid increase of Omicron cases in the country. In the light of the same, the Punjab Government might issue instructions for closure of schools and reverting to online classes. If that happens, students’ social life will be affected and unprivileged children will not be able to attend online classes in the absence of smartphones and Internet. Schools should provide smartphones to poor students so that they should attend the online classes. However, many students prefer to go to schools for face-to-face interactions with their classmates and teachers and taking part in physical activities. The government can allow schools to continue with physical classes with adequate safety protocols. But school managements must be strict in this regard and no violation be tolerated. RCPCR kits be provided to schools to conduct random tests for early diagnosis. The school time be restricted to three hours a day with no recess, as that is the time when students flout the Covid norms. It is also important to vaccinate children after the availability of vaccine. Another option is that teachers should visit homes of students for giving them tips and homeworks.RS SembhiOnline mode will affect students’ performanceOmicron variant has reached India and its slowly spreading out its roots in the country. It has infected very few people so far but it doesn’t mean that we should go to public places and interact with others without following precautions. Talking about schools, a few students in Ludhiana have been tested positive for Omicron but educational institutions must not revert back to the online mode as students will not able to perform well in their next classes. Especially Class X and XII students must be taught through offline mode as these two classes decide a student future. Virus-infected students must be home isolated for around 10-14 Days. Not only educational institutions but the government also prevent public gatherings and must make it mandatory for everyone to wear double mask and follow all norms to minimise chances of getting infected. If these steps are taken, the chain of virus can be broken.Navjot SinghStop offline classes for some timeI think offline classes must be stopped for some time and students should stay at home and wait till the number of Omicron cases is under control. Meanwhile, for higher classes, schools should be open at alternative days by following the Covid norms sincerely.Yashika ThakurOnline mode better option nowThe administration should allow online education for students in view of the increasing threat of Omicron variant of Covid. Everybody should keep one thing in mind that health is wealth. The new variant is six times more transmissible than the delta strain. It has 50 mutations. Even fully vaccinated people have been affected with Omicron. The principle of prevention is better than cure should be followed by each and everyone. Online study can be a better way out during such a situation.Adish soodMake online teaching more effectiveAs danger of Omicron is looming large and again students are testing positive for Covid, it is definitely dangerous for the students to attend offline classes. Students have weak immunity and it is the duty of the government to protect them at any cost. Online teaching has many disadvantages. Efforts must be made to remove the demerits and make online teaching an effective way to teach the students. In these tough times, it is the only effective way to continue the studies. Offline study can definitely lead people to a disastrous situation, which will be difficult to control.Ritu PriyaLay more emphasis on offline teachingThe world has changed a lot during the Covid pandemic. The way of thinking and working of people have also changed. Teaching methods also witnessed a change. New variant of Covid will be more dangerous for schoolchildren. Children are under stress while attending online classes. There should be more emphasis on offline classes. This is needed for their mental and physical health. Innovations in teaching are also need of the hour. Make it a part of life. Covid is here to stay. Hence, ensure online classes only during the peak of Omicron variant. The government should start vaccination for children also. The authorities should also avoid vacations in schools when there is no fear of the virus. Awareness among schoolchildren and their parents regarding Covid prevention is also very important as suggested by the Health Department.Sukhdev SharmaOnline teaching is need of the hourSince the number of Covid cases in neighbouring states is increasing after its Omicron variant has come into the picture, parents are quite skeptical about sending their children back to school and colleges. In the present situation, online classes are suitable as compared to offline classes but for those students who are appearing for public exams should be allowed to visit their respective institutions in batches containing a limited number of students at a time, only if the institution follows all precautionary measures.Akanksha AttriOpening of schools necessaryOmicron is the new threat faced by the world nowadays. Schools should be opened with half the strength so that offline learning should be continued with all precautions. The announcement of vaccination for some age groups of children from first week of January next year is a welcome step. However, opening of schools is the need of the hour.Vikas SharmaQUESTIONThe high-intensity bomb blast at the District Court Complex in the city last Thursday that left one dead and six hurt has raised the concern over public safety. With the Assembly elections due early next year, the law and order situation has again become a major issue. What should be done to avert such terror strikes and ensure safety and security of the public at large?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-institutions-should-continue-offline-classes-or-revert-to-online-mode-354948
27-12-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Controversial e-auctions, conversion of green belts into plots showed Ludhiana Improvement Trust in poor light||Ludhiana, December 26During the year that is about to end, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) though remained in the news but mostly for the wrong reasons. It would be no exaggeration to say that 2021 turned out to be the ‘most controversial year’ for the autonomous body under the stewardship of Raman Balasubramnium.Several issues like controversial e-auctions, conversion of sites reserved for special purpose or green belts into residential plots, bid to change names of existing schemes, row with the trustees or spending more money in other areas in the city on development at the cost of its own colonies, allegations of cash for select plots (under LDP quota) and massive irregularities in inviting and allotments of tenders worth crores of rupees hogged the limelight showing the institution in the poor light.On the positive side, twice shelved high-rise housing scheme – Atal Apartments, was re-launched for construction of HIG and MIG flats in multi-storey towers. New roads and streets were constructed/repaired, interlocking tiles were laid and parks were equipped and beautified in some of the LIT colonies.Lowse-auction of commercial land in Model Town Extension: Sale of 3.75 acre prime commercial land in Model Town Extension to an industrial house-cum-property developer can easily be termed as the biggest controversy of the year for LIT. Amidst allegations of selling land at a throwaway price by all major opposition parties, the matter went to the High Court. A committee, led by the Deputy Commissioner, denied having fixed the reserve price of the land and the Punjab Government cancelled the auction with directions for a fresh auction at a revised reserve price. On the sidelines of this controversy, the LIT Chairman filed a defamation suit against certain political leaders and members of media fraternity.Conversion of green belt, parks into residential plots: In a bid to create more residential plots and perhaps to generate more revenue, the LIT resorted to change of land use in its Town Planning (TP) schemes by conversion of green belts and parks into residential plots, which was not only unwarranted, but also unlawful. Attempts were made to carve out residential plots in Shahhed Bhagat Sigh Nagar on a site reserved for school and later for community centre. Similarly, plots were carved out in a green belt and parks in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar.Unsold built-up commercial complex: Another year have gone by but the ‘white elephant’ of the Trust — a built-up 2.22-acre commercial complex in a posh area on Maharani Jhansi Road — remained unsold even after fourth (or perhaps fifth) attempt. LIT made yet another desperate, but unsuccessful attempt to sell the complex at a slashed reserve price of Rs 157 crore (from Rs 197 crore). The complex failed to find any buyer and not even a single bid was received for the ‘jinxed’ property.Row with trustees: The LIT chairman, known for his outbursts against leaders of Opposition parties for their criticism of his ways of working, did not spare even the trustees appointed by the Punjab Government and from among the ranks of the Congress. He had verbal duels with some of them more than once and went to the extent of using uncharitable language with at least one of them. In protest against the attitude of the chairman, the trustees walked out from one meeting and Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had to intervene to make the trustees sign the agenda of the meeting.HighsAtal Apartments: Lone significant achievement of the Trust during the year was revival of twice-shelved first high-rise housing scheme, Atal Apartments, in an area of 8.80 acre at Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar on Pakhowal Road here with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi laying (or rather re-laying) the stone earlier this month. The complex would have 11 towers with 576 residential flats (336 HIG and 240 MIG) with all modern amenities. But even this project was mired into a little controversy as the chairman wanted its name changed after legendary Urdu poet Sahir Ludhianavi. However, apparently better sense prevailed, the government put its foot down and the scheme was re-launched with the same name.Infrastructure development: LIT executed a number of projects for improvement in urban infrastructure development in several colonies where roads and streets were reconstructed, parks were equipped and beautified, LED streetlights were installed, water supply was augmented and drainage system improved. At several places interlocking tiles were laid in walking and parking areas of main markets.Event of the year: ‘Event of the year’ award deservedly goes to a businessman who put up a ‘farri’ outside the Trust office to sell ‘moogphaali’ while levelling charges of corruption against the chairman and executive office for approval of sale deed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/controversial-e-auctions-conversion-of-green-belts-into-plots-showed-lit-in-poor-light-354946
27-12-2021||---||18-year-old missing boy found murdered in Basti Jodhewal, Ludhiana||Ludhiana, December 26An 18-year-old boy who had gone missing on December 23 from Basti Jodhewal area was found dead near the Sutlej at Ladhowal on Sunday evening. He was allegedly killed by his friends due to some unknown reason.The deceased has been identified as Tushar Kumar (18), resident of New Shimla Colony.The deceased’s father Varinder Kumar said on December 23 his son had left home on his motorcycle saying that he was going to meet someone but he didn’t return home. On Friday, the family lodged a complaint at the Jodhewal police station, where a case under 346 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC was registered against unknown persons.This evening when the police got to know that the missing boy’s body was buried near the Sutlej, a team immediately went there and dug out the body and took it to the Civil Hospital. The body has injury marks of a sharp weapon.Basti Jodhewal police officials said suspects, who are said to be friends of the deceased, have been detained and being questioned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/18-year-old-missing-boy-found-murdered-354944
27-12-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Engineers’ body complains to Ludhiana Municipal Corporation, seeks FIR against culprits||Ludhiana, December 26Expressing concern over causing damage to trees and attempts by unknown persons to axe trees illegally in a park at Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar colony, the Council of Engineers (CoE) has lodged a complaint with the Municipal Corporation demanding action against the guilty. The council also sought registration of an FIR against those indulged in this illegal act.Kapil Arora, president, Council of Engineers, drew the attention of the MC Commissioner towards the damage caused to three well-grown trees by some persons on Wednesday in a municipal park located in front of the CoE office complex at BRS Nagar colony.Alleging that the Park Management Committee, which was entrusted with the task of maintaining the park and being paid for this work by the civic body, showed negligence in checking damage caused to the trees by some persons in broad daylight.Citing provisions from the policy (May 2017) for the maintenance of parks formulated by the Department of Local Government, Punjab, Arora said: “The committee or the Resident Welfare Association (RWA), which was entrusted with the task of upkeep and maintenance of the park, should neither axe any plant or tree nor remove any other item from it. In case of any breach or violation of the terms and conditions of the agreement for the maintenance of the said park, the agreement should stand terminated and the decision of the Urban Local Body (ULB) or any officer empowered by it should be final.”The complainant asserted that earlier also, a tree right in the middle of the park was damaged by the committee. After the objection from some residents, the tree was not axed. Such incident has happened again and since the committee was responsible for maintaining and protecting the park, its role in causing damage to four trees could not be neglected.Arora called upon the MC Commissioner and other officials concerned to lodge an FIR against the culprits and also nominate the committee as a co-accused for its negligence and failure to protect the trees in the park. He said since the identity of the culprits was not known, CCTV cameras installed outside some houses could provide a lead, if thorough probe was conducted.‘Committee showed negligence’Alleging that the Park Management Committee, which is entrusted with the task of maintaining the park and being paid for this work by the civic body, showed negligence in checking damage caused to the trees by some persons in broad daylight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/engineers-body-complains-to-ludhiana-municipal-corporation-seeks-fir-against-culprits-354943
27-12-2021||---||11 cell phones recovered from 9 jail inmates in Ludhiana Central Jail||Ludhiana, December 26Surprise checking conducted by staff of Central Jail here led to the recovery of 11 mobile phones from jail inmates.The phones were recovered from nine jail inmates, namely Mohammad Salman, Harjinder Singh, Sukhjit Singh, Sukhwinder Pawar, Harinder Singh, Jagjit Singh, Shiv Kumar, Rahul Singh and Jagrup Ram. A case under the Prison Act was registered against them.Investigating officer Assistant Jail Superintendent Kashmiri Lal said on Saturday a surprise checking was conducted in the barracks and one bathroom from where 11 phones were recovered. These phones were kept by the nine jail inmates.Now investigation would be done to enquire how the jail inmates managed to get cell phones in the jail. Jail officials suspected that phones could have been thrown in by some unknown persons from the outer wall of the jail.This is not the first time that cell phones were recovered, earlier also these banned objects were recovered from the jail many a times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/11-cell-phones-recovered-from-9-jail-inmates-354940
27-12-2021||---||Two international travellers among 7 test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, December 26Seven persons tested positive for Covid in the district today. Out of these two are international travellers and came from the USA and Dubai. No loss of life due to the disease was reported in the district today.A total of nine members of a family residing at Dugri have tested positive so far. On Thursday, four international travellers had tested positive and now the total count from the same family has gone to nine. According to information available from the Health Department, relatives and extended family members have come to visit the family residing at Dugri during winter vacation.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.55 per cent and there are 44 active cases in the district at present. Forty-three patients were asked to undergo home isolation today.Till date, a total of 29,95,062 samples for Covid test have been taken, of which 28,95,543 were found negative. The total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,757, while 11,762 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of patients who lost their lives to Covid here is 2,116 from Ludhiana and 1,061 from other districts.Samples of 2,115 suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-international-travellers-among-7-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-354939
27-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Goods, machinery worth lakhs gutted in fire at garment factory in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 26A major fire broke out in a garment factory, Sun Grace Fabric, on Kali Sadak early Sunday morning. Goods and machinery worth lakhs of rupees were gutted in the fire.In the two-storey factory, the fire broke out on the first floor where a huge stock of goods and machinery were kept. When the fire broke out, over two dozen employees were working and they had a narrow escape as flames engulfed the entire floor within a few minutes.Factory workers also tried to douse the flames, but failed.Since the fire spread to the entire hall on the floor, firemen faced tough time to douse the flames. They had to break walls from some points to gain entry into the hall.Aatish Rai, a sub fire officer, who led the team of firemen, said they received fire call at around 6 am and in a few minutes fire tenders reached the spot and started dousing the flames.“We took four hours to completely douse the flames and around 45 fire tenders were used in the exercise,” added Rai.Due to the raging fire, adjoining factory owners also panicked. Some of the factories were lying closed but after getting to know about the major fire incident, owners of these factories also came to their factories due to anxiety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/goods-machinery-worth-lakhs-gutted-in-fire-at-garment-factory-in-ludhiana-354938
27-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Ludhiana blast accused was in touch with drug kingpin, calls traced||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 26The role of Ludhiana Central Jail authorities has come under scanner in connection with the recent court complex blast here. It is learnt that the conspiracy for the incident was hatched by the suspects using mobile phones while lodged in this jail.Made from jailUndertrials lodged in the Ludhiana Central Jail reportedly made phone calls to accused Gagandeep Singh, who died in the incidentDrug kingpin Ranjit Singh Cheeta and terror case undertrial Sukhwinder Singh Soni, both lodged in the jail, reportedly had phone calls with blast suspect Gagandeep Singh, a dismissed Punjab Police constable who died in the incident.Sources claimed the police had seized mobile phones used by Cheeta and Soni to communicate with Gagandeep and to facilitate his interaction with some pro-Khalistani activists.Despite the fact that around 150 phones are seized from Ludhiana Central Jail inmates every year, the authorities have neither been able to ascertain the channel through which inmates obtain phones nor could they establish connivance of jail officials.Jail Superintendent Balkar Singh said inmates might obtain phones with the help of outsiders who lobbed these over the jail boundary wall or there might be connivance of some corrupt jail officials. “Soni and Cheeta are being quizzed and the police will soon come to know how they obtained the phone,” he said.In May this year, a hookah party video of Manvinder Singh, alias Nikka Jatana, who faces 16 criminal cases, had gone viral.In June 2020, Nikka Jatana reportedly planned a murderous attack on his rival gangsters using a phone while lodged in the jail. Later, he accepted the responsibility for the attack via a social media post.On April 28, 2019, the STF nabbed a woman smuggler with 440 gm heroin. The drug racket was being run by her son from the jail using a mobile phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/blast-accused-was-in-touch-with-drug-kingpin-calls-traced-354893
