01-09-2020||Editorials||Resisting China in Ladakh | HT Editorial||The end of August brought a reminder that the border standoff between India and China is far from being resolved. On the military front, both countries have significantly increased deployment along the Line of Actual Control (most recently, on August 29, when India moved fast to scotch another adventurist foray by China) and their soldiers are eye-ball to eye-ball — a far cry from the disenga-gement and de-escalation that military commanders continue to discuss. On the diplomatic front, India has pulled out of a Shanghai Cooperation Organi-sation exercise rather than have its soldiers stand side-by-side with Chinese troops while a foreign-ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue has been fast-tracked. The economic relationship is also slowly disintegrating. India has rightly said that the changes in the territorial status quo must be reversed. China has said the two sides should accept the present ground reality, move on and think of the future. Beijing’s position is absurd. With wars of conquest largely history, Beijing’s preferred model is to impose political humiliation through symbolically powerful victories designed to make the other side look weak. While there is a debate as to what motivates Beijing, there can be little doubt as to what would happen if New Delhi gave in — the perception of subordination of India to its northern neighbour in the eyes of citizens as well as other countries. Which is why the present situation is unacceptable and which is why the border will remain on a hair-trigger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/resisting-china-in-ladakh/story-FZ3aDpmyR1BuK662DpW57O.html
01-09-2020||Editorials||Staggering contraction: Announce a fiscal stimulus, resolve the GST dispute||According to data released by the National Statistical Office on Monday, India’s GDP contracted by a staggering 23.9% in the April-June quarter. The contraction is larger than the 19.2% figure projected by a Bloomberg poll of economists. And it shows that the nation-wide lockdown, which was in place in April and May, has taken a heavy toll on economic activity. An examin-ation of Gross Value Added (GVA) figures, which is GDP minus taxes, shows that the non-farm economy has suffered a contraction, including public admini-stration, defence and other services. In an unusual development, the GDP growth numbers are lower than GVA, which means that taxes have also contracted. Experts believe that the first estimates could see further downward revision as informal sector numbers become available at a later stage. Krishnamurthy Subramanian, the Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) to the ministry of finance, while reacting to the numbers, said that they reflected the exogenous economic shock of the pandemic. He claimed that the economy was already in the process of achieving a V-shaped recovery. High frequency indicators for August do suggest that things are improving. However, it is important to differentiate between a sequential and annual recovery. The real question is not whether the subsequent GDP numbers show a smaller contraction than 23.9%. What matters is a return to pre-pandemic income levels. Most experts believe that this is not likely in the next few quarters, maybe even years. The government must adopt a two-pronged approach immediately. One, as this newspaper has argued, it must announce a second fiscal stimulus — and soon — for that is the only way to spur demand. This deployment of additional public resources must be done smartly. For instance, the government’s own survey suggests that at least three-fourths of micro, small and medium enterprises were using less than half of their productive capacity as on August 1. Can the stimulus be geared towards boosting this sector? Or would a direct cash transfer to citizens work better? Two, as Covid-19 cases continue to increase, even the ongoing sequential recovery may get jeopardised. India’s battle against Covid-19 is critically dependent on how state governments handle the challenge. They need resources to perform on this front. This is why it is necessary that the Centre resolves the ongoing Goods and Service Tax compensation payment dispute with the states in an amicable manner. Till India gets its post-pandemic economy right, its developmental and global ambitions will remain unmet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/staggering-contraction-announce-a-fiscal-stimulus-resolve-the-gst-dispute/story-BbzpYvQQ4dogRm7xlAi7FO.html
