03-09-2020||Editorials||Review the Char Dham project||The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has sought responses from the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) and the Uttarakhand government about the alleged violations of the forest conservation act during the construction of the Char Dham Pariyojana in Uttarakhand. The ₹12,000-crore Pariyojana, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December 2016, aims to build an 889-km all-weather road, connecting the Hindu pilgrimage sites of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri in the Himalayas. The issue of environmental violations in the project is being heard by the Supreme Court (SC), and the case is due to come up on September 8.While there has been criticism of the project on environmental grounds (recent landslides in the state prove once again that it is risky to build in the ecologically-fragile zone), its plan of action illustrates how the Indian State has flouted procedures to push the project through. One, the government used a legal loophole to avoid conducting the mandatory Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), including public hearings, to fast-track the project. Two, official agencies refused to abide by SC orders on stoppage of work. And, three, it suppressed a MoRTH’s revised circular on the contentious issue of road standards in hilly and mountainous terrains to go ahead with its road-widening plans.This is not all: A senior Uttarakhand government official tried to mislead MoEFCC by sending an “altered” report to the ministry, bypassing Ravi Chopra, the chairman of the High Powered Committee (HPC) set up by SC to look into the project. This “subterfuge”, as Mr Chopra wrote it in his letter to the ministry, was conducted because five members of the panel felt that the project will cause “irreversible damage” to the Himalayan ecology, while 21 others (mostly government representatives) said that the ecological damage can be “minimised”. The Chopra report has said that the project is an “act of irresponsibility and disregard towards the Himalayas”, when it is becoming clearer that any development devoid of “honest and uncompromising ecological concerns” will bring “devastation and disaster on our heads”. The Centre must take the Chopra report seriously, review its stand on the need for broader roads, and conduct a carrying-capacity study of the area. The government’s stand will also define how serious it is about complying with green norms in general, and the larger issue of the climate crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/review-the-char-dham-project/story-8GPqxU3OI1qjQaUKVLyZDM.html
03-09-2020||Editorials||When protests rock the world of sport||The first mask had the name Breonna Taylor — a black medical technician shot dead by plainclothes police in her home in Louisville during a botched drug raid this year. The second one had the name Elijah Mcclain — a black massage therapist from Aurora, Colorado — who died after being placed in a chokehold by police and being sedated by paramedics. These are the masks of Naomi Osaka; she has seven of them, one for each match she hopes to play at the US Open (if she goes all the way, and we are rooting for her), depicting seven Black lives lost to police brutality in the United States. Osaka is not alone. When cricket restarted with the West Indies tour of England, each match began with players and officials kneeling to a Black Lives Matter (BLM) banner. In F1, drivers are wearing BLM masks. BLM masks and banners were everywhere during the Champions League matches in Lisbon in August. There have been historic moments of protest in sport before, but they have always been met with crushing opposition. Most organised sport have rules against protests, citing a hypocritical adage that “sport and politics should not mix”. But the presence of national flags and anthems during sporting events makes sport political. The International Olympics Committee put a rule in place for the Tokyo Olympics, banning “any form of political, religious or ethnic demonstrations”. With the wave of protest culture running through sport now, it is time to lay these old notions to rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/when-protests-rock-the-world-of-sports/story-6VbmW4OfBHUyeYmmktf4zN.html
03-09-2020||Editorials||A new low for Indian television news||Over the past decade, the quality of Indian television news has sharply dipped. This can be traced to an obsession with ratings; a preference for contentious studio discussions and dilution of balanced reportage; a tendency to sensationalise news; and a broken business model. But, with its reportage on the Sushant Singh Rajput case, Indian TV news has hit a new low. Here is what should have happened — a prominent actor dies by suicide; the media covers his life and legacy; there is a conversation on mental health; there is due investigation; and there is closure. Instead, here is what has happened — a prominent actor dies by suicide; the media decides that it is not suicide but a product of either a deep-rooted conspiracy by an amorphous Bollywood power elite or an outright murder; conspiracy theories are peddled, reputations tarnished, and every norm of reportage is thrown into the bin; public opinion is manufactured; State agencies either willingly or due to this media-generated pressure enter the field; and citizens remain distracted. This is not to suggest that a fair probe is not needed. But by acting as investigator, prosecutor, and judge, on flimsy grounds, TV news has been irresponsible. Today, they have found one target; tomorrow, it could be someone else. There is no easy solution. Self-regulation isn’t working. But State-regulation could lead to control, which is not desirable. Finding a balance and reining in TV news is now essential to protect individual liberties, prevent mob justice, and have a civilised discourse — all of which are essential in a democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-new-low-for-indian-television-news/story-kARTAzGfsVwCGzsae70yHP.html
