07-09-2020||Editorials||Planning a green future for Delhi||According to a report in The Indian Express, the Delhi 2041 Master Plan will have a “blue-green policy”. The groundwork for Delhi’s master plan is happening at a critical juncture with the pandemic forcing city governments across the world to rethink not just the way citizens will live in the future, but also how public and private resources will be used to respond to the social and economic challenges that the disease has brought to the fore. The Delhi master plan will not only shape the future of the Capital by laying down planning guidelines, but also shape its response to a post-Covid-19 world.One lesson of the Covid-19-hit world has been that cities have to be sustainable, and Delhi Development Authority (DDA)’s promise of formulating a “blue-green policy” offers hope. By pursuing a “blue-green policy”, DDA aims to bring water management and green infrastructure (vegetation, soils, and other elements and practices to restore some of the natural processes required to create healthier urban environments) together. It also focuses on cycling infrastructure to reduce pollution, and vertical growth in unauthorised colonies to make it less dense. These promised steps are important because water management, reuse and recycling, sanitation, and good public hygiene have now become non-negotiable, thanks to the climate crisis and Covid-19. But the Delhi master plan needs citizens’ participation to make it robust and functional. DDA has chalked out a series of activities to engage with stakeholder groups. These groups must ensure that the master plan’s core principles — sustainability, inclusivity and equity — are not lost, as authorities balance competing socio-political-economic interests while drawing up the new plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/planning-a-green-future-for-delhi/story-de6noAP1wgqqgvShHeRiGP.html
07-09-2020||Editorials||With the number of cases increasing, the health infra will be truly tested||On Friday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in India crossed four million. By Sunday, India overtook Brazil to become the world’s second-worst hit country. But none of this comes as a surprise. India has been reporting the most daily cases in the world since early August, and has had the world’s worst-recorded case trajectory since August end. The most important figure through any pandemic, however, is the number of lives lost to it. India’s case fatality rate of 1.7% is significantly better than not only the global average of 3.2%, but also the United States and Brazil — both around 3%. This has been the primary driver of the Centre’s argument that India has handled the pandemic better than other similarly-hit nations. But despite that, more than 70,000 people have died from Covid-19. This is a significant number, and begs the question if there are things the government could have done differently to prevent the loss of lives. When the first (and hardest) lockdown shut the country down on March 25, India had 500 active cases and 10 deaths. Since then, these curbs have been gradually relaxed in seven subsequent phases. Today, when there are more than 860,000 active cases, a majority of economic activities have resumed. An argument can be made that this lockdown came in reverse order. Curbs could have been applied lightly at first, and then gradually strengthened when daily cases rose. In such a system, India would have the hardest phase of the lockdown today. But such an argument is easier to make in retrospect. In March, the world knew little about Covid-19. In a situation where experts were (and still are) learning how to fight the pandemic, a hard lockdown was one of the few concepts that had unanimous scientific backing. The government says it bought India time to strengthen its health care infrastructure, particularly in regions that needed it the most. This claim, though, will be put to the harshest test in the coming weeks. As India’s daily cases continue to set world records, the bulk of the latest infections have come from the hinterland at a time when malaria and dengue spike in these regions. Saving lives, not just in proportion of total Covid-19 cases, but also in absolute numbers, from this point will get tougher by the day, and how the government handles this will determine how well the country has truly fared against the pandemic — and how well it put the lockdown to use in terms of building health infrastructure and capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-as-numbers-spike-the-health-infra-will-be-truly-tested-now/story-i5jCY2jOnGK3X4prhiiS1M.html
