09-09-2020||Editorials||When politics dictates law | HT Editorial||On Tuesday, the Sushant Singh Rajput case took a new turn with the arrest of actor Rhea Chakraborty in a drug-related case. This newspaper has been critical of the electronic media’s coverage of Rajput’s suicide — and the nature of the sensationalist conspiracy theories that have come to dominate a case which should have triggered a discussion on mental health. But it is not just the media which is in the dock; the problem is with India’s law enforcement apparatus and police agencies. Irrespective of the merits of the investigation underway, what is increasingly apparent is that all central and state agencies appear to be operating under political directions, for this case is now clearly linked to politics. On one hand are those who believe that Ms Chakraborty is responsible for Rajput’s tragic death. This view seems to have the support, if not the concurrence, of leaders in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — and the social media campaign against her has the sanction of supporters of the party. It is, therefore, not a coincidence that it is central agencies which are at the forefront of implicating Ms Chakraborty in a range of cases. On the other are those who believe that Rajput’s death is being used to target the Mumbai film industry and its leading figures, and there is an attempt to muddy a normal police investigation in the matter. It is not a coincidence that the Maharashtra state administration in general is applying the law against those who it sees as critics.The issue here is not who is right or wrong. The issue is the complete politicisation of India’s premier security agencies, which seem to act not on the basis of evidence but primarily on political directions. India’s governance structure, of course, has a framework where the state police in the case of states, and other investigative agencies in the case of the Centre, operate under executive control. Political oversight is important. At the same time, there is a desperate need for autonomy — for as repeated attempts at police reforms have shown, it is when investigative agencies are free of political pressure that they can work fairly. There cannot be any rule of law if those meant to protect and uphold the law cannot do their jobs independently. The Sushant case is yet again proof that India needs to find ways to insulate its legal machinery from political masters. Otherwise, driven by an irresponsible media and partisan political considerations, individual liberty will be at peril.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/when-politics-dictates-law-ht-editorial/story-gSmju3ns0uwSgRRXI3L3NL.html
09-09-2020||Editorials||Why Iran matters for regional security||India’s external affairs and defence ministers recently dropped by Iran and talked to their counterparts, the first such talks since the pandemic began. Afghanistan, rather than oil supplies, tops the agenda, reflecting the new contours of the bilateral relationship. New Delhi and Tehran have reason to worry about the slow-but-steady withdrawal of United States (US) troops from Afghanistan and the Taliban resurgence that will follow. While Iran has its own problems with the US, and won’t be unhappy that the US troop presence along its northern border is winding down, it has reason to be concerned at the prospect of the present Kabul regime weakening. Tehran is known to have engaged with some Taliban leaders, but remains suspicious of its more hardcore factions, which are often intertwined with the Islamic State Khorasan Province and both are deeply anti-Shia. New Delhi’s views converge as these same Taliban factions are also the closest to Rawalpindi. At a time when Iran’s economy is stressed by sanctions and low oil prices, and its military stretched by deployments in Iraq and Syria, an unstable Afghanistan would not be welcome. The two countries need to coordinate their support for the Kabul regime. The partly India-funded freight corridor from Chabahar to Herat is the most tangible symbol of Afghan-related cooperation. The next few years will require such cooperation to expand into other spheres. As India’s energy ambitions revolve around weaning itself off oil and gas usage, there will be less traction to be gained in the energy sphere. But there will be more work to be done in the realm of regional security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-iran-matters-for-regional-security/story-489wM1cQmB2RAJ7UL95taN.html
09-09-2020||Editorials||The breakdown with China | HT Editorial||On Monday night, India repelled — yet again — a possible attempt by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to intrude into Indian territory across the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This comes a week after India successfully resisted such attempts, and held on to strategic positions on the southern banks of the Pangong Tso. The escalation in tensions in eastern Ladakh is not surprising. With both armies, mobilised in large numbers and staring at each other in close proximity, it is but natural that skirmishes will happen — especially when one army, PLA, wants to change the facts on the ground and force India to accept a new reality. It is also natural because over the past fortnight, there has been a sharp uptick in rhetoric on both sides. All of this indicates that the India-China relationship has broken down at two levels. The first is with regard to the border management framework that has been in place for close to three decades. It is clear that China no longer sees the advantage of maintaining peace and tranquility on the border — and is keen to maintain this peace only on its terms, after wresting territory over which it has no legitimate claim. This is unacceptable to India, and rightly so. The second is with regard to the broader framework of the relationship. For years, India has convinced itself that the dynamic with China has both a cooperative and competitive element — and while this was true, it is also now clear that the competitive dynamic is on the ascendant, and is becoming sharply adversarial. With external affairs minister S Jaishankar scheduled to meet his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, in Moscow on Thursday, it is this breakdown that must be the focus of the discussion. Is it the case that China has decided that it is comfortable with a hot LAC, and an outright adversarial relationship with India? If that is so — and the conversation will give the Indian establishment a sense of Beijing’s mood — India has no choice but to prepare itself in the military, economic, diplomatic domains and respond accordingly. Or is it the case that China has read Indian motivations wrong, that apprehensions can be allayed, and Beijing can be persuaded to disengage and de-escalate? If that is so, it will help tackle the immediate crisis — even though the long- term orientation of the relationship will still be troubled. India must hope for accommodation, even as it prepares for confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-breakdown-with-china/story-NGgsJbepBc7feny4oHAydL.html
