14-09-2020||Editorials||The Delhi Police is making a mistake||The Delhi riots in February 2020 marked one of the darkest chapters in the Capital’s political history. It reflected frayed social tensions between Hindus and Muslims. It came in the wake of a deeply polarised political climate — the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). It happened in the backdrop of the Delhi elections, where there was violent rhetoric — especially by functionaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It was a deep embarrassment to India internationally with the riots taking place during United States President Donald Trump’s visit. And it reflected gross State failure, where for over 48 hours — before there was a de facto reshuffle in Delhi Police and national security adviser Ajit Doval walked the streets of northeast Delhi — the Delhi Police was unable to quell the violence. The Delhi riots saw violence from both sides, and in that aspect, it was different from the 1984 violence — which systematically targeted the Sikhs. But there is a lesson from 36 years ago. There has never been any meaningful justice in the 1984 violence, with perpetrators, often with political sanction, having got away. That, then, bred a culture of impunity — which enabled subsequent riots and pogroms. There has to be justice not just because it is the right of victims and for closure, but also to send a message that violence and promoting enmity between communities is unacceptable, and irrespective of political affiliations, there will be punishment. Instead of conducting an impartial investigation into the riots, the Delhi Police, however, has spun an elaborate theory — it rests on how those who were critics of the government in general and CAA in particular, including respected political leaders, civil society voices, students, instigated the riots. But the police has been unable to show direct evidence connecting their speeches with the subsequent violence. Instead, this theory appears to be the framework being used to intimidate critics of the government, even as the role of those who may be aligned with the ruling party is carefully sidestepped. The Delhi Police had a simple job — identify the perpetrators of the violence irrespective of their religion and political affiliation, review its own performance during the riots, and build a case. Instead, it has fallen for a legally dubious, ethically questionable, politically vindictive approach which will not help deliver justice. This may allow the real perpetrators — on both sides — to get away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-delhi-police-is-making-a-mistake/story-hPEY0ouHiaJGeUipMiH8TO.html
14-09-2020||Editorials||A productive Parliament||Parliament convenes today after a long period in what will be a shortened monsoon session which will last till October 1. While the pandemic has prevented the full functioning of many institutions, Parliament is the most important one and it is imperative that its functionaries meet with adequate precautions to discuss the many issues the country faces, and legislate on several pending laws. The very fact that Parliament is back in business is a positive step. The most important thing, despite the fact that there will be no Question Hour, is to ensure that this session is productive. There is far too much at stake for it to be frittered away in needless contention and disruptions. There are at 11 ordinances which the government is looking to push through, though once again the Opposition has expressed reservations about this form of legislation. The government must be clear on its Covid-19 strategy going forward, it must be transparent on the facts of China’s incursions on the border and the talks between the two countries. It has to address an economy which is faltering and discuss mitigating measures over and above the ones already taken to get things back on track. The issue of migrant workers and the massive job losses are a matter of concern and must be addressed with an aim of finding solutions which preclude party affiliations. The draft Environmental Impact Assessment policy and the aftermath of natural disasters like floods in many parts of the country all merit the attention of the lawmakers. It can only be hoped that the session does not get derailed by controversial issues including the one surrounding the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput which has become highly politicised with many sections of the media and public becoming obsessed with the case. The Opposition has every right to raise matters of public good, national security, social welfare and point out the shortcomings on the part of the government. The government must act in a spirit of accommodation and respond in a comprehensive and mature manner. Given the crises that India faces on many fronts, there is really no time to lose. Constructive engagement is the only way forward and Parliament must use the limited time available to it to let all points of view be heard and find solutions for the greater common good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-productive-parliament/story-br6KPIknUgVxcaH6kOWpSJ.html
