15-09-2020||Editorials||A reality check on the economy | HT Editorial||India’s GDP contracted by 23.9% in the quarter ending June 2020. The government has argued that a V-shaped recovery is underway in the economy. But almost all institutional and private forecasts do not support this claim. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) expects the Indian economy to contract by 9% in 2020-21. ADB had projected a 4% contraction in June. On September 14, S&P projected a contraction of 9% for the economy, from its earlier forecast of a 5% contraction. Most experts also warn that even the sequential recovery in the economy cannot be taken for granted. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) reached its highest post-lockdown level in the week ending September 13. However, the Nomura report raises questions on its sustainability given the continuous rise in Covid-19 infections. In addition, rising inflation poses another challenge to economic recovery. Headline retail inflation clocked a 6.7% growth in August, making it the fifth consecutive month when inflation was above the upper bound of Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s comfort level. Food prices and necessary services such as transport and communication are driving up inflation, even as the market for mass consumption goods such as apparel continues to be weak. Consumers are clearly facing a double whammy of squeeze on incomes and job losses along with a rise in price of essential commodities and services. And till this situation is reversed, the economy, across sectors, and citizens, across age groups, regions and classes, will suffer. Given these disconcerting facts, many — including this newspaper — have suggested a fiscal stimulus to boost economic activity. However, the fact that the supplementary demand for grant moved on the first day of monsoon session asked for a net additional spending of ₹1.67 lakh crore suggests that there are no immediate plans for another stimulus. To be sure, the government has not ruled one out. In July, the chief economic adviser said that the second round of stimulus might be timed when the Covid-19 vaccine becomes available. What needs to be understood, however, is the fact that delaying the stimulus might make things worse. Unless there is a focused intervention in the economy, both business and consumer sentiment will continue to deteriorate, eclipsing prospects of any credible recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-reality-check-on-the-economy-ht-editorial/story-T4o4X3xCxgOy1OLnsQDVpK.html
15-09-2020||Editorials||Integrate NCDs into the Covid-19 fight | HT Editorial||It took a global pandemic for governments around the world to realise the importance of investing in health care. However, a new study indicates that a lot still needs to be done. According to a Lancet Commission report, for the first time, non-communicable diseases and injuries (NCDIs) have caused more deaths and disability among the world’s poorest billion people. NCDs, a diverse set of diseases that causes premature mortality, results in seven out of every 10 deaths globally. Another key finding is that people with NCDs show increased susceptibility to severe Covid-19 infection, which can lead to death. While countries, especially India, tackle Covid-19 and its economic fallout, they must also begin to direct resources towards other health challenges.The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) seeks to lower death rates related to four NCDs by 2030: Cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease and diabetes. The report highlights the need for governments to show greater commitment. India is one of the 16 countries that has established national NCDI poverty commissions, groups and consortia, indicating its resolve.To reduce death rates, however, requires social, environmental, behavioural, nutritional, and clinical determinants related to NCDs. This includes creating awareness about the causes of NCDs, including alcohol consumption and tobacco usage, among others. These interventions coupled with equitable and effective health care systems are imperative. Covid-19 has exacerbated NCD burdens, but it can be a wake-up call, especially if the government integrates NCDs into the Covid-19 response. This will help reduce the death rate further, and also assist in reaching SDGs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/integrate-ncds-into-the-covid-19-fight-ht-editorial/story-pNZS5RNdPDxqrx3XHzeXJI.html
15-09-2020||Editorials||California wildfires: A climate lesson for India||The wildfires which have been raging in Oregon, California and Washington in the United States (US) since mid-August, have burned millions of acres of lands, killed more than 30 people and destr-oyed thousands of homes. With the US elections due in November, the wildfires have also become a key political issue. Last week, Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden warned that “climate change poses an imminent, existential threat to our way of life” and accused President Donald Trump, a climate sceptic, of denying “that reality”.Mr Biden’s statement linking the wildfires with the climate crisis has wide support. California governor Gavin Newsom said this is a “climate emergency”. Scientists have blamed the peak heatwave and dry winds for fanning the fires, and have warned that such “compound disasters” (when more than one extreme event takes place at the same time, across geographies) are a result of the climate crisis. The US is not the only country that has seen such wildfires. An inquiry has found Australia’s 2019-20 bushfires were likely made worse by the climate crisis, warning that such devastating wildfires are likely to happen again. While India has not seen such large-scale fires, forest fires (mainly manmade) are not uncommon. But unfortunately, the forest department’s firefighting capabilities are rudimentary. It doesn’t have modern equipment, adequate number of vehicles and enough field staff, which can bolster their rapid response system. In an era of the climate crisis and human encroachment into forest areas, it’s time to learn from the crises of the US and Australia and bolster its firefighting infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/california-wildfires-a-climate-lesson-for-india/story-lLd4rljifHmhNLDc7COI2N.html
