23-09-2020||Editorials||The UN must reform to stay relevant | HT Editorial||The United Nations (UN) has always struggled when its most powerful members are disunited. On the 75th anniversary of the UN’s foundation, not only is great power rivalry rising to Cold War levels, but the world is under enormous forces of change, whether technological or environmental. The organisation recognises it needs to make major adjustments, but it can only reform if there is a sufficient consensus among its members to that effect. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking at the supplementary high-level meeting, stressed the need for reformed multilateralism to ensure UN’s continued relevance. India has long called for the Security Council to be expanded to provide permanent seats for emerging powers like itself. That a draft text for such reforms has made it to the UN General Assembly is an accomplishment. While New Delhi must continue to iterate this requirement, it should be recognised this is an aspiration and comes with a long and unpredictable timeline. It is not merely China which will be a barrier, neither the United States or Russia is eager to see their positions diluted. There are three obvious multilateral issues in which the UN needs to become much more active. The most obvious is the pandemics. No government can claim there is not a case for much more transparent and intrusive global preventive health system. Then there is climate. The UN hosts the world’s primary climate change conference, but this role needs to be institutionalised. In addition, climate policy now affects other areas such as trade and immigration and urgent multi-disciplinary discussions are needed at the highest level. Finally, terrorism remains a global threat. The collapse of the Islamic State has taken the wind out of the terrorists’ sail, but no one believes this is not a temporary situation. Cynics will say the UN will be hampered by a de-globalising world, superpowers at daggers drawn and rising protectionism. The debate over a reformed multilateralism and more relevant UN needs to begin sooner rather than later. The speeches have now been made, but India and other governments now need to find ways to convert these into action on the ground. The UN is imperfect because the cohesion of its member-states is imperfect. But no one can deny, as Mr Modi said, “Our world today is a better place because of the United Nations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-un-must-reform-to-stay-relevant/story-PAxRyvJFx1wLExxe0DOUxH.html
23-09-2020||Editorials||Dealing with Covid-19 in rural areas | HT Editorial||On Tuesday, the tally of Covid-19 cases in India crossed 5.6 million. Maharashtra’s tally rose to 1.24 million with a third of the infections reported among rural populations. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have also reported an uptick in cases in rural areas. The states represent a nationwide trend of the pandemic shifting to the rural areas where health systems are weak and human resources are stretched or missing altogether. This leaves the sick with no option but to seek treatment in cities, where the strain on the health care system is beginning to show. Testing is still concentrated in urban and peri-urban areas. Testing in rural areas remains below the national average of 46,440 tests per million, which may lead to undetected and asymptomatic spread in the young, mobile rural demographic, and, in turn, bring the infection back to cities. Meeting the challenge of containing the spread in rural areas is a monumental task. Of the little over 1.2 million allopathic doctors registered with the Medical Council of India (June 30), around a million are available for active service. This puts the doctor-population ratio at 1:1,343 for a population of 1.35 billion, against the World Health Organization-recommended 1:1,000. With most tertiary care hospitals situated in cities, at least 90% doctors live and work urban areas, home to 40% of the population. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s review of the Covid-19 situation with the chief ministers of seven states that account for 63% of the country’s cases focused on scaling up testing and containment in rural India ahead of the last phase of unlocking on September 30. To win the war against the pandemic, battles have to be fought and won on every front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/dealing-with-covid-19-in-rural-areas/story-6PnAjdGTUTr3jwSzGxpTYN.html
