25-09-2020||Editorials||Bihar election dates set | HT Editorial||The Election Commission (EC) has announced dates for the Bihar election, the first major one to take place during the Covid-19 pandemic. It will be held in three phases — October 28, November 3 and November 7. A massive effort has been made by EC to reach masks, gloves, sanitisers and thermal imaging equipment to the state before it goes to the polls. Five main issues are likely to dominate the polls: How the state government has handled the pandemic; the trials and tribulations of 2.36 million migrants who have returned to Bihar from other states; unemployment; the aftermath of the floods; and the agrarian crisis.The Sushant Singh Rajput death probe could figure as well — but perhaps not as a major issue.While the BJP-JD(U)-LJP ruling coalition is a formidable force, it has its task cut out in convincing people that it has handled the crisis thrown up by the pandemic effectively. Covid-19 has brought into stark relief the many problems that the state faces. One is that of the huge reverse flow of migrant labour, leading to a spike in Covid-19 cases and heightened unemployment. Chief Minister (CM) Nitish Kumar has sought a skill-based profile of migrants, but critics have termed this pointless as there are no jobs to be had. The state’s health care system has been stretched thin and its testing strategy, with a huge bias towards inaccurate rapid antigen tests, is faulty. Farmers complain that they cannot harvest their crops in time as they have not been able to bring in heavy machinery from states such as Punjab; nor are they able to find workers; and supply chains have been disrupted as a result of which they have not been able to move their crop in time to the markets. Some of these problems are not unique to Bihar.These issues should serve as easy pickings for any opposition. But the RJD-Congress-led combine has not been able so far to push the government in any substantial manner though campaigning has begun. The RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, considered inexperienced by many, has so far not been able to provide the sort of leadership needed to take on the ruling coalition, which will count on both CM Nitish Kumar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help make its case. Neither the Opposition nor the ruling coalition seems to have understood the extent of frustration and anger over job losses, agrarian distress, and spiraling cases of Covid-19. It will be interesting to see whether these issues take precedence over the traditional caste dynamics that have driven election results in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/bihar-election-dates-set-ht-editorial/story-mXN5fQEyZ81ltPqa50HzbJ.html
25-09-2020||Editorials||Ambitious labour reforms | HT Editorial||One came last year, a few months ahead of an unforeseen global health crisis, and the other came in the midst of it, but two significant reforms, almost exactly a year apart, could, in the medium-term, make Indian industry more competitive. The first, announced September 20 last year was a sharp cut in corporate taxes, especially for new manufacturing companies. The second, passed during the monsoon session of Parliament that effectively ended on Wednesday, was a set of labour reforms enshrined in three labour codes (the fourth one has already been cleared). For years, these have been touted as crucial second-generation reforms — the next logical set of policies to improve the competitiveness of Indian industry, and make it easier to do business in the country. Their absence, many experts believed, was one of the issues that afflicted the Indian manufacturing sector, making it difficult for the government to realise its aspiration to “Make in India”. This is understandable. India’s myriad labour laws were sharply focused on the organised sector (which employed a fraction of the overall workforce), and while designed to protect the interests of workers and ensure compliance proved cumbersome and inspection-intensive. They served as an effective disincentive for small companies to aspire to become large ones. And by preventing companies from adjusting their labour needs to suit market demand, they hurt competitiveness, the ability and willingness of industry to create jobs, and even the workers themselves (with many companies, including large car makers, opting to hire contract workers instead of regular ones). No government seemed willing to address the issue — labour reforms were a sticky political issue, after all. Now, they have been passed — consolidated sets of laws (or codes) on wages, social security, industrial relations, and occupational safety. The wage code was passed last year; the other three, during the monsoon session of Parliament. The worst thing that can happen to both sets of reforms (tax as well as labour) is to review their success in the immediate context of the Indian economy’s recovery from the impact of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. They will make it easier to do business in India (as long as the underlying rules don’t play spoilsport). And they will boost industry’s competitiveness. But it will take time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/ambitious-labour-reforms/story-oK2guNCXgRDIKeiE3FlRwO.html
