29-09-2020||Editorials||The economy going forward||The first half of the fiscal year 2020-21 ends today. The year started under a nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25. While most lockdown restrictions have been withdrawn, especially in the second quarter, the economy is far from normal. India’s GDP suffered an annual contraction of 23.9% in the June quarter. Most private and institutional forecasts predict an annual contraction in the range of 5-10% this year. Neither the government, nor the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has a projection for this year’s GDP. In an interview to this newspaper, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman refused to speculate on the annual performance of the economy while noting that the fall in the first quarter’s GDP was quite substantial.At a time when the economy continues to face a difficult challenge, the government has opened at least two avoidable political fronts which will disrupt a co-ordinated response on the economic front. The first is the GST compensation cess payment controversy with the states. The second is the political showdown on the three agriculture reform bills. It is unlikely that it will have to backtrack from its position on both these issues. There is also the question of policy interventions generating confidence and clarity. The government has banned onion exports even as it celebrates its agricultural reforms as giving unprecedented freedom to the farmers. RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting was abruptly postponed a day before it was supposed to begin; the government is yet to appoint external members to MPC.There is a consensus that a process of sequential recovery is underway in the economy and GDP growth rates will be higher than what they were in the first quarter. There are two reasons why this is not good enough. First, the challenge is to catapult GDP to pre-pandemic levels as soon as possible. Most experts do not see this happening despite easing of lockdown restrictions. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index has been increasing continuously in August and September (except a slight fall in the week ending September 27). Yet, Nomura economists continue to project a contraction in every quarter of the current fiscal year. Second, with Covid-19 showing no signs of miraculously going away, both consumer and business sentiment will remain subdued. There is clearly a strong case to be made for a second stimulus, something the finance minister said she was open to in the interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-economy-going-forward/story-NAgZhC2keUvpJFiVXkNY8K.html
29-09-2020||Editorials||On LAC, India must keep its guard up||China has resurrected its untenable 1959 Line of Actual Control (LAC) claim even as the two armies dig in for the winter. In invoking the 1959 LAC proposed by the then Chinese premier, Zhou Enlai, Beijing is putting up a straw man. The original proposal was rejected by Jawaharlal Nehru and with reason: LAC then was just a number of scattered points which could be connected in many different ways. Invoking this gives China maximum flexibility in terms of its territorial claims. What it shows is that Beijing will negotiate with tenacity, pushing the envelope as far as it can. Delhi must recognise this does not rule out the use of further military actions. The Chinese claim came after two meetings, one between Indian and Chinese foreign ministers and another between the armies’ senior commanders. After each, the two sides issued joint statements committing themselves to disengagement. A sensible interpretation of the happenings would be to recognise them as a sign that Beijing and Delhi are moving into negotiation mode. Given that previous border standoffs have taken months, if not years, to come to a final agreement, the real sentiment these developments should arouse is one of patience.This is not to say there has not been progress. The foreign ministers’ meeting laid down five principles to go forward. The two militaries have agreed not to deploy any more forces. The two governments remain committed to disengagement. A new equilibrium is likely to emerge. LAC is likely to be different from what existed before the Galwan Valley and its latest avatar will have the threat of violence, deep distrust and harsh language as its backdrop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-lac-india-must-keep-its-guard-up/story-NIszmdnX3Wa2Wxa9Bt1LyJ.html
29-09-2020||Editorials||Crop burning: No end in sight||The harvest season has begun in northwest India, and so has stubble burning and the unending search for a permanent solution to a problem that leads to severe air pollution in the region, especially in Delhi and the National Capital Region, every winter. According to a report in this paper on Monday, stubble burning may continue this year because central subsidies on straw management machinery are not attractive enough for small farmers to switch to them. Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, saying that the Centre must look into the Indian Agricultural Research Institute’s (IARI) suggestion of converting stubble to manure using a chemical. Last year, an analysis of satellite data from the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center suggested no decline in the number of crop stubble fires in 2018 compared to 2017, despite the new policy for in-situ management of crop residue. The challenge of disposing agricultural waste in India is significant. According to IARI, the net cropped area is 141.4 million hectares, and crop residues are estimated to be around 600 million tonnes every year, with generation being the highest in Uttar Pradesh, followed by Maharashtra, Punjab and Gujarat. Over the years, several policies have been proposed to address the issue, but they have been mainly in-situ technologies. The failure of these policies show that it is time to try out new multi-pronged approaches to tackle the problem: Incentivising farmers to shift away from water-guzzling paddy and diversifying cropping patterns is one. Uutilising crop residue in power plants, brick kilns and biomass gasifiers is another. A report by the Council on Energy Environment and Water suggests that increasing farmers’ accessibility to stubble managing equipment by setting up more custom hiring centres and promoting rental models may work. Last year, Punjab and Haryana provided incentives to farmers, at Rs 2,500 per acre, for managing the residue in alternative ways. But it was announced in the last week of November after much of the residue had already been cleared and was dropped this year after reports of the funds being misused at the panchayat level. For any multi-pronged approach to work, there needs to be coordination between four groups: Farmers, states, Centre and scientists. At present, there seems to a disconnect among all these groups and a lack of political will to find a solution. Mere lip-service from political leaders — the farm protests complicate the situation further this year; any policing move to control stubble burning will be seen as anti-farmer — is unlikely to take us forward..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/crop-burning-no-end-in-sight/story-AqV781FQpjwfGvW6gwANDK.html
29-09-2020||Editorials||Why herd immunity may not work||On Sunday, as India crossed six million Covid-19 cases, the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said the country is far from herd immunity. The minister cited the soon-to-be released findings of the second nationwide serological survey. The reality is that not enough Indians have built an immunological protection that could allow for going back to pre-pandemic behaviour. What is also established is that India cannot pursue a herd immunity-focussed strategy. Letting the virus run its course will overwhelm the health care system. Mumbai is believed to have faced this scenario. In Delhi, hospital beds dwindled rapidly before additional resources were mobilised. Additionally, some research suggests achieving individual immunity may not last long enough to prevent future infections, making herd immunity an even riskier gamble. Many scientists have pointed out that herd immunity is a scientific tenet that cannot be used in the context of infection-acquired protection; it is possible only through an effective vaccine. And since vaccines are at least another year away, the minister’s comments are a reminder that India must keep its focus on preventive measures as it heads into the festive season. Its citizens are battling behaviour fatigue and economic compulsion and may not adhere to social distancing and compulsory face-covering. It is important to address these while keeping distractions like herd immunity aside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-herd-immunity-may-not-work/story-mb6gbaK3andRGprZvOGRMP.html
