01-02-2021||---||Civil rights restrictions should be lifted in J&K||There is a case to lift all civil rights restrictions in J&K and withdraw all extra police force from the state, based on the law and order (L&O) data released by the J&K police. These restrictions and Internet curbs had given India a bad name as a ‘human rights violator’. Also, the District Development Council (DDC) elections were held peacefully between November 28 and December 19, 2020. No doubt, these elections did not result in a public endorsement of the BJP’s raison d’etre for the crackdown in the Valley.Such a drastic lockdown is no longer necessary. While I do not want to mention foreign governments or foreign NGOs, I will refer to the July 2020 report of the Forum for Human Rights in Jammu and Kashmir, co-chaired by former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan Lokur, who had indicted the J&K administration for detaining 6,605 people, including former ministers and 144 minors.Even as cross-border terrorism was cited as one of the main reasons for the crackdown “to protect the common people”, J&K Director General of Police Dilbag Singh stated that several militant commanders were killed and the situation was better ‘on all parameters’ in 2020. While there were 584 L&O incidents in 2019, the figure came down to 143 in 2020. Militancy-related incidents also came down to 243 in 2020 from 255 of 2019. While 157 militants were killed in 2019, the figure rose to 222 in 2020. However, militant recruitment went up from 143 in 2019 to 174 during last year.All these would indicate better CT management. The only worrisome trend, according to the data, was cease-fire violations by Pakistan which went up from 605 in 2019 to 930 in 2020. However, that is the worry of our Army which is quite competent to deal with Pakistan’s transgressions.A similar claim was made in August 2020 that the stone-throwing incidents which were 532 in 2018 had come down to 389 in 2019 and 102 in 2020 with better police deployment and more arrests under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). As against 583 arrests in 2018, the year 2019 saw 849 arrests which came down to 444 in 2020 when more security forces were deployed. Also, the detention of 444 people under the Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA) was done in 2020 to deal with the emergency situation after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019.The Kashmir valley experienced terrorism from 1988. To quote the South Asia Terrorism Portal (SATP), our most reliable data collector, a total of 10,310 civilians, 3,520 security personnel and 12,396 terrorists lost their lives between 1988 and 2000 in terrorist violence. However, the worst period in the history of J&K insurgency was during 2000-2005 when a total of 4,843 civilians, 3,841 security personnel and 12,843 terrorists were killed.Year-wise, the trend was like this: From 1,385 incidents in 2000, it peaked to 2,084 in 2001, then started sliding down to 1,642 in 2002, 1,427 in 2003, 1,061 in 2004 and 1,004 in 2005. From 694 terrorist incidents in 2006, the number fell to 86 in 2015. It again rose to 112 in 2016, 163 in 2017 and 206 in 2018 and stabilised to 135-139 in 2019 and 2020. All these CT operations were then undertaken by the J&K police with normal CRPF and military help.Despite these killings, no Union government, from 1988 till 2019, considered it necessary either to lock down the entire Valley, arrest mainstream politicians and businessmen or place concertina wires restraining common public ‘for controlling cross-border terrorism’. Nor did they consider it necessary to fly in thousands of outside police forces (30,000, according to the Lokur report) to maintain law and order. This justification was put forward for the first time on August 5, 2019, when Article 370 was abrogated by the NDA government.The official figures of detentions under the PSA are disputed by local civil society groups who say that 662 persons were detained in 2019. The PSA had an ignominious past. This draconian law was enacted by the Sheikh Abdullah government in 1978 against political opponents. Unlike the preventive detention law in the rest of India, PSA denies legal aid to the detainee. Also, the detaining authority does not have to reveal grounds for detention in ‘public interest’.The Union government criticises Abdullah’s excesses, but used his PSA for suppressing dissent in the Valley, which unfortunately is viewed by human rights groups as directed against Muslims. Yet, the same draconian PSA could be diluted under foreign pressure. A leading journalist had reported on January 24 this year how Kashmir businessman Mubeen Shah, a cousin of an important appointee under the Obama administration, was detained on August 8, 2019. His family had to go from ‘jail to jail in Srinagar’ searching for him. That he was kept in Agra was known only after the US embassy’s intervention. He was released in December 2019.The J&K administration has also improvised the coercion method by declaring that a person is released from detention, yet preventing him from leaving his residence through the police. This happened on July 30, 2020, to 83-year-old Congress leader Saifuddin Soz. Soz was caught on camera arguing with a policeman who had grabbed his hand to prevent him from leaving his house. Yet, the J&K administration gave an affidavit to the High Court that he was not under detention. It is the constant complaint of leading Kashmir politicians like former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti that such illegal detentions are practised on them. Such tricks impact the impression of us as a responsible regional power trying to rise to the Security Council high table.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/civil-rights-restrictions-should-be-lifted-in-jk-206083
01-02-2021||---||Spur investment to give fillip to economy||The Economic Survey 2020-21 is a brave attempt to do many things in justifying the ways of the government to the people in the country, to investors and credit rating agencies (CRA) abroad, and laying out a realistic path — the most difficult part — to kickstart the economy. It may leave many dissatisfied on many counts, but that is inevitable. The survey does not take into account the loss of jobs and incomes due to the Covid-19 disruption. It is focused on the formal sector, which is indeed its remit. But the recovery of the economy might depend more on the resilience of the large informal sector which provides larger employment than the formal economy. But like in the agricultural sector, the informal economy does not offer larger incomes that would lead to savings and improvement in the standards of living. It looks like that these issues are left to noisy debates among the dissident economists! The survey offers a penthouse view of the state of the economy.The survey argues that the early stringent lockdown from late March to early May — about 40 days — was crucial in containing the Covid-19 pandemic, and that it helped delay the peak that occurred in September, which gave sufficient time for the governments at the Centre and in the states to ramp up the health services. It suggests that the decision to impose the lockdown was based on the epidemiological-economic lessons drawn from the experience of 1918 Spanish flu. It says, “Evidence from the experience of Spanish flu establishes that cities that intervened with lockdowns earlier and more aggressively, experience stronger recovery on economic front in the long run. Learning from this experience, India implemented an early and stringent lockdown from late March to May to curb the pace of the spread of Covid-19.” The survey indicates that the imposition of the lockdown was not an intuitive act of the top political leadership, but was based on a clear analysis of the 1918 Spanish flu. This is indeed very interesting, and this information should have been in the public domain much earlier.The survey also tries to answer the criticism of the government’s apparent unwillingness to push for fiscal stimulus which has been the general demand on all sides. The survey argues, “The timing of the stimulus was tuned to the absorptive capacity of the economy, which was affected by the lockdown. There was no point in pushing the accelerator while the foot was firmly on the brake as a demand stimulus at a time when supply was constrained would not have helped. The timing of the expenditure push, especially the capital expenditure, after the reduction in health-related curbs, manifests the strategy of ‘stimulating’ growth when it would be most effective.”From these theses of rationalisation in the first chapter, it moves to the second chapter to argue how an expansive fiscal policy and increased public expenditure is the way to propel growth at the time of a financial crisis, with the implicit acknowledgement that the world economy is a pandemic-induced crisis which can be described as the “Great Lockdown” in parallel to the “Great Depression”. The survey falls back on old and new literature in economics to show that public expenditure does not crowd out private investment, but rather helps the private sector to save and invest. It is an interesting thesis in more ways than one. It indicates Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s once in a hundred years Budget to contain an expanded public expenditure.The case for greater public expenditure is based on the recondite thesis that as long as the general growth rate is higher than interest rates, the fiscal deficit is not a bad thing because debt is sustainable. And the fact is noted that in the last 25 years, India’s growth rates have been higher than the interest rates. This is sure to provoke or stimulate debate, whether this is indeed the case among the experts. But it does encourage Sitharaman to take a sunny view of providing the fiscal stimulus and not worry too much about the consequent rise in fiscal deficit. The Modi government has generally been staying on the path of fiscal prudence, and the survey’s clever argument should indeed be a legitimate temptation to stray from the path of fiscal prudence.The most important and thought provoking is the eighth chapter of the survey. While noting that India had for the first time entered the top 50 in the Global Innovation Index (GII) — a vast improvement from its 81st rank in 2015 to 48th in 2020 — there are many problems which need to be addressed, especially in research and development (R & D) by the private sector. And there is the warning: “India must significantly ramp up investment in R&D if it is to achieve its aspiration to emerge as the third largest economy in terms of GDP. Mere reliance on ‘Jugaad innovation’ risks missing the crucial opportunity to innovate our way into the future.”There are the immediate challenges and then the long-term ones. The survey has suggestions on both counts. For the immediate purpose, the need for expanded public expenditure in the hope that the private sector will utilise the time to recoup its strained resources and get back into the economic cycle with greater vigour. It seems, however, that the private sector is more sluggish than ever because even before 2020, the private sector has not shown much enthusiasm for driving economic growth. This was mainly due to the world economy not doing too well. Ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi took over, it was public expenditure and household consumption that had kept the economy ticking. The intangible factor hobbling the Indian economy from 2014 has been the cold relations between the private sector and the government. The Modi government will have to break this invisible deadlock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/spur-investment-to-give-fillip-to-economy-206047
01-02-2021||---||Leveraging diplomacy in Gulf||A diplomatic drive by the government to reconcile multipolarity in India’s extended neighbourhood is expected to place New Delhi way ahead of its competitors for influence in the Gulf as mass vaccination efforts at both ends and an economic rebound prepare the region to overcome the adverse impact of the pandemic.A new trend in geopolitics is towards multipolarity within regions. For this reason, India chose not to confine its latest diplomatic initiatives to the Arab side of the Gulf alone.If the effort succeeds, Indian workers who had left the UAE during the pandemic will be able to return to that country in the post-Covid-19 scenario while others who remain in the UAE and face uncertainties in their workplaces could be reassigned to new employers. Across the Gulf, on its Persian and Shia side, the drive has already positioned India better than most other countries to do business with Tehran as the new Biden administration in the US is weighing the option of rejoining the multi-nation nuclear deal with Iran. Most of all, proactive actions in Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman, where heads of state or government passed away recently, have given India an early start in engaging the new leadership in these countries.Before External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar left on his recent visit to the UAE, it was made known that his mission, in part, was to find ways for the rehabilitation of Indian workers in the seven emirates, which make up the federation. About 3.5 million Indians lived and worked in the UAE before the onset of the pandemic. Many left when the pandemic caused disruptions. This is no small population. Nor are the remittances they send home insignificant. The return to the UAE of many of these Indians is already work in progress, a big relief for states which send them overseas in large numbers as guest workers.Also underway is an effort to prevent any further exodus of Indians. The evacuation flights daily, known as ‘Vande Bharat’, have already become the biggest repatriation in the history of mankind. The UAE’s leadership gave a sympathetic hearing to Jaishankar’s suggestion that workers from India who could lose more jobs should be re-employed wherever possible instead of being asked to return to India. This is crucial for the large Indian community because in the Gulf states, residence of foreign workers is tied to their employment. If new employment cannot be found for anyone who loses his job, he will have to leave the country: for that reason, this initiative is very vital and timely.In Bahrain and Oman, the External Affairs Minister condoled the deaths of their PM and Sultan, respectively. For most governments the world over, the new normal is to show such gestures remotely because of Covid fears. Both these departed leaders had a long history of engaging India well before British rule ended in their region. When the Amir of Kuwait died recently, India took a rare decision to observe State mourning on the death of a foreign head of state. In a culture which values personal interaction, India’s quick fallback on pre-Covid style of diplomacy has ensured not just continuity in relations with these Gulf countries, but also early engagement with the incoming leadership there.A significant change from the past in South Block, the seat of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), is the realisation that a new trend in geopolitics is towards multipolarity within regions. For this reason, India chose not to confine its latest diplomatic initiatives to the Arab side of the Gulf alone. When Jaishankar visited Persian, Shia Iran, he revived a bilateral Joint Commission at a time when most countries were keeping Tehran at arm’s length for fear of incurring Washington’s wrath.Afterwards, India hosted the first Trilateral Working Group meeting among India, Iran and Uzbekistan on the joint use of the Chabahar Port. Among the major democracies in the world, India is one of the few countries which can be equally active on both sides of the Gulf. The US cannot and has not done so for 40 years. It may be a long while, if at all, before Britain can do so either. Other than India, it is only France, Germany and Japan which have attained this level of diplomatic leverage in this region which is critical to India.It has come as a great relief to New Delhi that the nearly three-year-old fracture within the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) ended four weeks ago and normal relations with Qatar have been restored mutually by Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Bahrain. This was a multipolarity which was more difficult to deal with than engaging the multiple poles in Tehran and Riyadh. There were no ethnic, linguistic or religious differences between the UAE and Qatar: the differences were over ideas and policies and not fundamental unlike the great divide across the Gulf between Shia Iran and the Sunni rest.India is friendly with all GCC countries and has a stake in each one of them going beyond the large Indian communities in the entire GCC. Since mid-2017, South Block struggled to balance its interests in all four Gulf states torn apart by the break in their relations. When the MEA issued a statement post-haste when this dispute ended, the joy was palpable. ‘We welcome the reconciliation and rapprochement between countries in the region. India shares excellent relationship with all the countries in the GCC which is in our extended neighbourhood…We will continue to work with GCC countries for the strengthening of our bilateral cooperation.’Other than Michael Pompeo, the former US Secretary of State, the only foreign minister from outside the region who was proactively present in Doha eight days before this rapprochement was Jaishankar. Qatar hosts slightly more than seven lakh Indians. Its Amir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, is expected to be one of the first foreign leaders to visit India once normalcy, post-Covid, restores old-style diplomacy. When the next grand quadrennial football championship, the FIFA World Cup is held in Qatar in 2022, it will be played in a stadium built by Larsen and Toubro, an Indian company. Jaishankar was to visit Kuwait and Saudi Arabia as well, but his schedules were disrupted by unexpected developments related to the coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/leveraging-diplomacy-in-gulf-206045
01-02-2021||My family and I spent the last two weeks travelling through Punjab to Dharamkot in Himachal and back home to a Delhi suburb. As we drove away from the capital city||Why the farmers’ protests are a wake-up call for rest of us||We didn’t mind. A historic people’s movement led by farmers is taking place right now and it is impossible to be untouched by it. What hurts the farmer today will not leave the rest of India unscathed. Those who have risked their lives and livelihood to confront the powerful need to be protected from state repression and false accusations of anti-national activities and sedition. They need visibility. Their demands and point of view need to be amplified by those of us who have smartphones and social media on fingertips.What do these farmers have to offer us in return? Are we doing them a favour by paying attention? Why should the farmers’ agitation matter to the rest of us?At a time when the state and administration have abdicated from people-centric governance and the judiciary as well as large sections of mainstream media seem to have forfeited their role to provide the checks and balances that keep democratic processes in balance, the farmers’ protest is like a shot in the arm of Indian democracy. While it is the three farm laws that have finally catalysed lakhs of farmers to leave their homes and sit in protest in the bitter cold, their mode of protest as well as the capaciousness of their demands is a reminder of some of the basics of humanity — of the power of solidarity, fraternity and unity among people. Of the need for dignity, equality and agency of groups and individuals.On International Human Rights Day, December 10, 2020, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) — the largest farmers’ union at the protests — held an event in which protesters held up pictures of incarcerated intellectuals and human rights activists who have been booked under grave laws, such as the UAPA. Despite a backlash from sections of the media, farmers’ leaders defended this act of solidarity with eloquence and candour, reminding us that the need for stable livelihoods and that of dignity and autonomy cannot be separated into binaries.“These people have been incarcerated in jails for speaking the truth. Through their writing and work, they have explained how the corporate sector adversely affects agriculture as well as the public sector. These intellectuals and activists have exposed the fascist mindset of the government. If we do not raise our voice for them, then who will?” a speaker asked rhetorically from the stage at Tikri border. Off stage, men and women held posters of each of the activists. “These people are freedom fighters, not anti-nationals,” a woman farmer said.On January 18, Women Farmers’ Day was celebrated at the protest sites, just days after Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, while staying the implementation of the new farm laws, had also commented, “We don’t understand why old people and women are kept in the protests.”In a rousing speech on the Singhu border, researcher Navsharan Singh challenged the patriarchal and condescending attitude represented by this statement. “Do not forget that this is the same government which maligned Muslim women who were protesting against the highly discriminatory Citizenship Amendment Act last December in Shaheen Bagh. It is the same government that has denied bail to four young women — Devangana Kalita, Gulfisha Fatema, Ishrat Jahan and Natasha Narwal,” she said.“They want you to go back not because you are weak, but because they are threatened by your fearlessness and empowered presence. Their armies and weapons are not as strong as the determination and courage of unarmed women.”As police violence and political backlash against the protesting farmers escalates, the settlements on the borders of Delhi have only continued to grow in response.The ongoing farmers’ protests are a contemporary example of the power of a peaceful people’s struggle against marginalisation. It is a wake-up call. Will we stand up for those who are risking their all for the rest of us?The writer is an author & filmmaker natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-the-farmers-protests-are-a-wake-up-call-for-rest-of-us-205715
