02-02-2021||---||Myanmar crisis has its genesis in electoral row||After the military’s flip-flop on a takeover, Commander-in-Chief (C-in-C) and five-star Senior General Aung Hlaing declared a state of emergency for one year to ‘restore the Union’ on February 1, the day the new parliament was to convene.Rumours and speculation late last month of a ‘threatened coup’ did not suddenly erupt in Myanmar, which has been under direct military rule for 49 years (1962 to 2011) and indirect rule since 2011. Tanks and armoured personnel carriers appeared on the streets in Yangon and roads to the new capital, Naypyidaw, were blocked.The bone of contention is the alleged fraud during the elections on November 8 last year in which the ruling National League for Democracy (NLD) scored a landslide victory and the military-backed Union Solidarity Democratic Party (USDP) was humbled. The NLD won 396 of the 476 elected seats in the two Houses of parliament while the USDP won just 33 seats.As many as 25 per cent of the seats (166) are reserved for the militaryin both Houses. The electoral victory does not change the balance of power, weighted heavily in favour of the military.The military put out a statement that the C-in-C is in power for the duration of the emergency and Vice-President Myint Sue has been elevated as Acting President while detaining President Win Myint and NLD’s Aung San Suu Kyi. It attributed the emergency to the government and the Union Election Commission failing to clarify 10 million voting irregularities. It justified its actions under Sections 417 and 418 of the constitution. All TV channels, phone lines and internet connections were cut.The US and other countries, besides the UN, have criticised attempts to alter the outcome of the elections and impede the democratic process. India has expressed ‘deep concern’ over the coup and the detention of top political leaders, and said the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in Myanmar. The last coup occurred in 1988 when Suu Kyi won the elections with a massive majority.The military gave mixed hints of its intentions of a takeover. Last February, Aung San Suu Kyi attempted to change the 2008 military-drafted Constitution, but failed as she could not get the numbers.Senior General Hlaing, whose term expires in three months, has been hobnobbing with political opposition leaders and he has even expressed political ambitions to be vice-president, making him the first General to do so openly.A combination of these factors had led to the coup threat being taken seriously, though Suu Kyi did not react to military utterances. Charges of political misconduct have been made against President Win Myint, Aung San Suu Kyi and Union Election Commissioner U Hla Thein. The Election Commission was asked to explain before February 1 (postponed to February 2 due to the coup rumours) when parliament was to open.Rewind to January 26. Military spokesperson Maj Gen Zaw Min Tun told the Military True News Agency that he could neither deny nor confirm that Tatmadaw (military) would seize power, adding: ‘what we can say is we will follow existing laws and the constitution.’ The next day, Senior Gen Hlaing said: ‘Revoking 2008 constitution could be necessary under certain circumstances.’ His remarks created a storm in dozens of countries and UN Secretary General Antonio Guterrez asked the military ‘to adhere to democratic norms.’On January 30, the military released a statement that General Hlaing had been misunderstood: Tatmadaw will abide by the current Constitution and will perform within the law by defending it. The international community, Myanmarese and State Sangha Mahanayaka resumed breathing normally even as Suu Kyi called it ‘a suitable explanation.’The electoral row goes back to early November when General Hlaing accused the government of unacceptable mistakes in the management of elections and ‘as guardian of country, military was watching preparations closely.’ He accused UEC Thein of mishandling the elections as he had expected free and fair polling.The President’s office reported that the military chief’s remarks violated law under Article 26 (A) which calls for the military to be free from politics. A stinging rebuke followed when the military warned the President of impeachment which was rejected by his office. On November 8, while casting his vote though, General Hlaing declared that the military would accept the voting as it is. It is reported that on January 12, General Hlaing even complained to visiting Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and on January 20, asked the UEC to provide proof that the elections were free. This ultimatum and proof of fairness of elections had to be provided before the parliament inauguration.So why did the military renege on its chief’s words on January 26 and then have to eat its words again, saying: “Gen Hlaing was misunderstood?”Myanmar has been under absolute military rule since General Ne Win’s coup in 1962. The 1974 Constitution was scrapped in 1988 after a massive win for the NLD. Besides political reservation for the military, it enjoys ownership of internal, defence and border affairs ministries. It controls the wealth of the nation and the clergy and is the final arbiter in Myanmar despite the Army Chief figuring fifth in the warrant of precedence. The NLD’s attempt to tinker with the constitution failed as the Constitution is impeccably change-proof.Analysts in Yangon are mulling over the army chief’s flip-flop and then the coup. The comments on a military takeover made by Major General Tun were not off the cuff even though the Constitution provides the military with more powers and privileges than are guaranteed to any other military in the world. But the Constitution does not give the army chief the right to stage a coup. Article 40C grants sovereign power to the army chief during an emergency. But only the President can declare an emergency after consulting the National Defence Security Council (Chapter 11 of the Constitution). It also provides the military permanent representation in parliament without being elected.Clearly, General Hlaing has violated the Constitution, without scrapping it. His political ambition, no doubt backed by China, has undermined Myanmar’s national interest and will lead to the dark unknown, but definitely sanctioning of the military.Abrogation of the Constitution is the military signing its own death warrant. During the military uproar, Suu Kyi behaved with characteristic cool, saying on January 27 that there was no problem with the Covishield vaccine donated by India. Myanmar requires a vaccine against military rule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/myanmar-crisis-has-its-genesis-in-electoral-row-206661
02-02-2021||---||Catering to a pandemic-battered economy||This may not be the best-ever Budget, but it is certainly tailored to meet the needs of a pandemic-battered economy. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has not pulled rabbits out of a hat, but framed a workmanlike product with broad strokes to push the country on the road to recovery. The big-bang areas are the rise of 34.5 per cent in capital expenditure, the steep boost in health spending, the clear-cut moves towards privatisation of the public sector, raising foreign equity limits in insurance and a spate of banking reforms — all this without raising taxes, barring a cess for agriculture infrastructure and development. It goes straight on to petrol and diesel, but consumers are spared by a matching cut in other petroleum tariffs.The big disappointment is on one front. The Finance Minister could have taken the opportunity to make direct transfers into bank accounts of the poorest of the poor through the well-organised digital banking systems that are in place now for quite some time. This has been a plea made by many economists and observers ever since the lockdown in March.The arguments against this proposal have been on the grounds of insufficient resources and also the assumption that this would not translate into higher consumption since such bank accounts have remained intact over this period. But this is largely due to the insecurity of the account holders, many of whom have lost livelihoods over this period and are facing perilous times. Besides, this would have been an immediate support to millions, while the rest of the proposals are likely to have medium — or long-term outcomes.The two most welcome areas of the Budget proposals, however, are the hike in spending on infrastructure and the expansion of investments on health and well-being. Infrastructure spending will give the push in 2021-22 that is needed to achieve the target of 11.5 per cent growth.As far as health is concerned, it is a relief that the infirmities of this sector revealed during the Covid crisis have been sought to be removed as soon as possible. The 137 per cent increase in health expenditure should hopefully raise the existing dismal level of 1.5 per cent of GDP on this sector.It must be stressed that this kind of upgrade needs to be matched by state governments as health is a state subject. Its neglect is mainly due to the fact that healthcare is simply not a political issue during elections and is thus sidelined till a medical tragedy hits the headlines.In the banking arena, a series of major reforms has been announced, giving the stock markets another reason to cheer. First, the creation of an asset reconstruction and management company is an idea whose time has finally come. The need for a bad bank to handle stressed assets has been discussed for quite some time, given the growing burden of NPAs on the banking sector after the pandemic.Second, the setting up of a new development finance institution is now on the cards. There are those who feel this is a concept that has not worked in the past. But much depends on implementation of the plan to set up the institution.Third is the capital infusion ofRs 20,000 crore in the banking sector which may not be enough but is adequate in these Covid-straitened times. And finally, there is a move to privatise two public sector banks and one insurance company which gives a hint for future movement in this direction. It looks as if there is finally an acceptance that some inefficient elements of the public sector banking industry may have to be privatised.The other much-awaited reform is in the same area of public sector disinvestment. The Budget proposals lay down a clear roadmap for disinvestment in the next fiscal as well as detailed plans for monetisation of public sector assets. These include toll roads and gas pipelines. The amount sought to be raised through disinvestment is a huge Rs 1.75 lakh crore.But one will have to wait for the actual implementation as big disinvestment targets have been set for the past few years, but none of these have been achieved. At least this year, advantage should be taken of the bullish market trends to offload equity in several blue chip companies while moving ahead quickly to sell loss-making entities.In the backdrop of the farmers’ protests, the Finance Minister did not lose an opportunity to highlight the enormous amounts being shelled out to the agricultural community on account of the minimum support prices on wheat, paddy, pulses and cotton.She also made a commitment to upgrade the development of the mandi infrastructure by utilising a Rs 1 lakh crore infrastructure fund for this purpose. Whether this is sufficient to appease farmers who feel the mandi system is being threatened by the new farm laws is yet to be seen.As for the fiscal deficit, much debate over the past 10 months has been over the government’s reluctance to raise spending and allow the deficit to widen as these are extraordinary times. Comparisons have also been made with other countries which have had been large deficits owing to the Covid crisis.Ultimately, it is abundantly clear that the government has been listening to these discussions. The fiscal deficit for 2019-20 is at 9.5 per cent while the projected deficit for 2020-21 is 6.8 per cent. This is a far cry from the deficit of 3.5 per cent projected originally for the current fiscal.It is clear that a huge leap is being made to revive the economy by a massive spending surge. With revenues at the lowest ebb in 2019-20, this is the boldest move so far since the pandemic began to rage in March last year. The Budget proposals may thus not be the best in all respects but are possibly the most efficient that could be conjured up in these worst of times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/catering-to-a-pandemic-battered-economy-206659
02-02-2021||---||Adieu to fiscal fundamentalism||Nirmala Sitharaman had the toughest task that any Finance Minister has faced, at least in the past three decades. She knew the government had to spend more to ensure the economy recovers. The FM also knew that there was no way that her tax revenues would reach even close to what she had estimated last year. So, she had to bid goodbye to the fiscal fundamentalism that the Modi government has practised all these years and reset India’s path to lowering the Centre’s fiscal deficit. The second, some would say obvious, route that the FM was bound to take, was to raise money by selling public assets, what we call disinvestment.The FM announced that there would be a significant increase in expenditure on health, but the budget of the Ministry of Health has gone up by just 10%.The government’s revenues are set to fall by nearly Rs 2 lakh crore, or about 1 per cent of GDP. Out of this, tax revenues are expected to drop by about Rs 90,000 crore, a decline of6 per cent compared to last year’s estimates. Within this, income tax revenue is expected to decline by 12 per cent compared to last year’s Budget projections, corporate tax revenue is projected to drop by 20 per cent, and GST collections are expected to go down by 9 per cent. Non-tax revenue, which includes what the government makes from selling its services, its interest income from loans given to states, and the dividends it earns from PSUs and RBI, is projected to be lower by 37 per cent compared to last year’s estimates.The Modi government has repeatedly set ambitious targets for disinvestment. In 2019-20, it had set a target of raising Rs 65,000 crore by selling government companies and assets, but the actual receipts were just about Rs 50,000 crore. Last year, the target was a humongous Rs 2.1 lakh crore, almost 1 per cent of GDP. Covid meant that all that was achieved was a measly Rs 32,000 crore. Interestingly, even though this year’s disinvestment target has been set at a stiff Rs 1.75 lakh crore, it is still 17 per cent lower than what the FM set last year. Some of this is likely to be the sale of PSUs that were already meant to go on the block last year. Along with this, Sitharaman has announced that government land, airports, stadiums, highways will be disinvested to raise money.When it comes to expenditure, the government is planning to spend an additional Rs 4.4 lakh crore compared to what it had planned last year. This is a significant increase when seen in relation to our GDP. The Centre’s budgetary expenditure has consistently hovered around 13-14 per cent of GDP. This shot up in 2020-21, thanks to the stimulus packages that were announced to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. Actual expenditure was 13 per cent more than what was budgeted last year, while India’s GDP ended up being 13 per cent lower than what was estimated in the Budget. The net impact was that expenditure shot up to almost 18 per cent of GDP. This year, the government’s expenditure will be 14.5 per cent higher than what was estimated last year, while our GDP will still be lower than last year’s estimates. Therefore, the Centre’s expenditure will end up being about 16 per cent of GDP in 2021-22.Yet, this increased expenditure will have limited impact. That is because 28 per cent of the extra spending will go to finance Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) crop purchases. Over the past few years, the cost of procurement has been entirely borne by FCI’s borrowings. As of March 2020, FCI’s debt was nearly Rs 3.3 lakh crore. The FM has announced in her Budget speech this time that FCI’s purchases will now be funded directly from the Budget. So, the allocation to FCI has gone up from about Rs 78,000 crore in last year’s Budget to over Rs 2 lakh crore this year. Interestingly, despite the low allocation last year, the Modi government ended up giving FCI nearly Rs 3.5 lakh crore in budgetary support in 2020-21. The extra allocation to FCI in this Budget, along with what was given in the middle of the pandemic, should help clean up FCI’s books.The other big addition to expenditure is on interest payments. Interest payments are projected to be Rs 8.1 lakh crore, which is about Rs 1 lakh crore more than what it was last year. This alone accounts for more than 23 per cent of the additional expenditure that the government is expected to make in 2021-22. So, the additional budgetary allocation to FCI and the extra interest burden together account for more than half of the government’s extra expenditure this year.The FM announced that there would be a significant increase in expenditure on health, part of which would be spending on the coronavirus vaccine. However, the total budget of the Ministry of Health has gone up by just 10 per cent. Other key schemes of the government have either had very little increase in budgetary allocation, or even seen a decrease. Allocation for the government’s flagship PM-Kisan is down by 13 per cent. PM Gram Sadak Yojana gets 23 per cent less this year. The National Education Mission’s budget has been cut by 12 per cent compared to last year. The National Health Mission has been allocated just 9 per cent more, considering that India will be in the midst of recovering from a pandemic. While the PM has announced that another one crore people will get free LPG connections, the petroleum subsidy has been cut by a whopping 68 per cent.Allocations to certain projects have been cut, while they have been shown as new expenditure. A case in point is the Saksham Anganwadi & Poshan 2.0, which has been positioned as a new scheme. However, this has simply replaced the Umbrella ICDS scheme which had a higher allocation last year. We might end up finding more devils in the details over the next few days as analysts pore over the voluminous Budget documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/adieu-to-fiscal-fundamentalism-206658
