03-02-2021||---||Hike for defence, but upgrade may need more||It is a long-established, desirable criterion in Indian economic planning that our yearly defence budget expenditure approximates to at least 3% of our Gross Domestic Product (GDP). But this has remained wishful thinking, more so in times of relatively higher level of national threat perception as experienced recently, indeed continuously being on a downward vector over the past five years specifically. In the current fiscal, after the dramatic 23.9% contraction in our economy during April-June 2020 due to the Covid-induced lockdown , defence spending as a percentage of GDP would albeit go up to 2% from the 1.6-odd percentile of the previous five years. This, of course, is a deceptive indicator, effectively not providing enough funds for defence modernisation. Taking the example of the IAF which tends to have capital-intensive procurements, its share of the national budget has varied from 7.4% in 2007-08 to 18.20% in 2017-18, the defence budget varying from $22 billion to $56.9 billion over these years. This year, it is expected to be of the order of 30%.Over the past five years, defence pensions grab around the same resources as defence capital budget share, both of which individually are approximately half of the total defence revenue budget. Of course, this year on account of the inevitable government focus on health and infrastructure spending, defence spending is bound to decrease as a percentile of total government spending. Given these variable economic indicators vis-a-vis defence spending, it is high time we innovate new money-spinners through projects like defence tax, indigenisation, Atmanirbharta and the like.Other nations, either by virtue of their inherent wealth or natural assets like oil and gas are able to spend freely on defence. India does not have this luxury. With such heavy oil bills, we need to incur on account of heavy imports. All the more the reason to find monies for defence equipment. One method besides the introduction of a defence tax (attempted after the 1962 debacle at the hands of China) is to pass on some of the burden to the public sector undertakings (PSUs) and the private sector. A classic example would be to charge refineries and other huge establishments, especially along our vast border areas, a certain reasonable share in new acquisitions. The approach was suggested during the procurement considerations for our proposed anti-ballistic missile shield, though nothing apparently came off it. The argument then was that corporations could justifiably be asked to pay for their defence, such as the IAF air defence orbat (order of battle) covering their areas. This was more applicable to our assets on the western seaboard such as Bombay High, the Barauni and Reliance Oil facilities which were vulnerable to Pak-based air threat. This means of fund-raising of course is politically sensitive and perhaps difficult to achieve in our country where an understanding of matters related to security is sub-optimal.As far as defence pensions go, the only way to curtail them is by trimming the flab, an exercise understood to be currently underway. Getting rid of non-productive assets in the civilian defence-industrial complex is another desirable way. But when we talk of meeting challenges such as what China is currently posing up north, there is no go but to spend more on defence capital budget. Atmanirbharta would be time consuming and perhaps could come in the way of the state-of-the-art military capabilities, more so for the IAF force structure and key high-tech acquisitions of the other two services, such as artillery guns, rockets, aircraft carriers and submarines.Coming to specifics, though the overall defence budget this year has increased by 1.4% (Rs 4.78 lakh crore against Rs 4.71 lakh crore last fiscal), the capital outlay has gone up nearly 19%, besides an additional Rs 20,776 crore spent on emergent weapon stores post the China stand-off. The allocation for pensions has come down from last year’s Rs 1.33 lakh crore to Rs 1.15 lakh crore, presumably owing to expected increase in the retirement age. But an increase in retirement age would also mean an increment in the revenue budget as officers’ salaries would be paid for a longer period. Whether savings would accrue in terms of the overall defence budget is still a doubtful matter. Also, there was an outgo of Rs 18,000 crore last year on account of pension arrears necessitated by OROP arrears to the pensioners. The proposal to start another 100 Sainik Schools with NGO help, though laudable, is going to be challenging as it was tried with the existing 22 Sainik Schools not too successfully. A good aspect of the budgetary proposals is the ‘non-lapsable’ defence budget scheme as per the Finance Commission’s recommendations. Those familiar with the defence acquisition process would know the travails of lapsed budget allocations. Often, the months and years of evaluations, trials and negotiations go asunder if a service is unable to spend the allotted funds within the financial year.There may also be a change in the fiscal year to coincide with the calendar year and along with the new non-lapsable clause, the defence forces would definitely be in a much better space pursestring-wise. So, Rs 1,35,060 crore earmarked for capital outlay could be used more meaningfully too. The Army gets around Rs 37,000 crore, the Navy Rs 33,000 crore and the IAF around Rs 54,000 crore. The IAF funds would address the outgos for the 83 Tejas and additional Rafales and modifications of SU-30s and Mirage 2000. The 19% increment in capital budget is known to be the highest in the past 15 years. So, whilst the considerable increment in capital outlay and non-lapsable clauses are to be welcomed, we need to ensure that there is no overspend on revenue and pension heads. As the economy revives in the next two years, India needs to strive for 3% of the GDP in defence allocations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/hike-for-defence-but-upgrade-may-need-more-207098
03-02-2021||---||Uphold legal principles to check child abuse||THE Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, was enacted by Parliament to protect children and youngsters (below 18 years) from abuse. It is intended to be a comprehensive law to protect the most vulnerable section of society from the offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography, while safeguarding the child at every stage of the judicial process by providing child-friendly mechanisms for reporting, recording of evidence, investigation and speedy trial through designated special courts. It provides stringent punishments for ‘sexual assault’, ‘aggravated assault’, and such assault by persons in position of trust. People who are into child trafficking for sexual purposes are also dealt with. All agencies of the state, including the judiciary, are participants in securing justice to the child who suffers trauma.It is a law that secures social justice and dignity of the individual, as set out in the Preamble to the Constitution, aims to protect the life of a child (as mandated by Article 21) and carries out the mandate of Article 39(e) — by ensuring that the ‘tender age of children is not abused’ — and Article 39(f), which requires that children are given opportunities and facilities to develop in a healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity and that childhood and youth are protected against exploitation. This law is a national mission to ensure children grow without suffering as well as exploitation and in healthy surroundings.The law suffered a big jolt when a judge of the Bombay High Court recently rendered two judgments in the cases of Satish vs State of Maharashtra and Libnus vs State of Maharashtra, setting aside the conviction of the accused under Section 8 of the POCSO Act in the former case and Sections 8, 10 and 12 in the latter. There were charges under Section 354 of the IPC too. The first involved a child of 12 years, lured by the accused into his house, and the other a five-year-old child who was assaulted in her own house in the absence of her mother. Both accused had been convicted by the special court under the POCSO Act as well as the IPC. The High Court judge upheld convictions under the IPC, but acquitted both accused under the Act.In the case of Satish, the High Court affirmed the factual finding that the child was lured by the accused into his house, her breast was pressed and there was an attempt to undress her with sexual intent. Still, acquittal followed merely because the accused had not removed the top, nor put his hands inside the top. The absence of this ‘specific detail’ led the judge to acquit the convict under the POCSO Act, while upholding conviction under Section 354 of the IPC. The judge said there was ‘no direct physical contact, i.e. skin-to-skin’.This logic was extended by the judge in the Libnus case when she said the acts of ‘holding the hands of the prosecutrix’ or ‘opened zip of pants’ were not sexual assault, and the accused was released on the basis of the sentence undergone (five months). The fact that the genitals were exposed was overlooked. The acquittal in the case of Satish has been promptly stayed by the Supreme Court upon a mention being made by the Attorney General.Section 7 of the POCSO Act defines ‘sexual assault’. Inter alia, it covers ‘touching the breast of the child’ or ‘any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact’. ‘Touching’ the breast does not mean it should be ‘skin-to-skin’ contact. Nor does ‘physical contact’ necessarily involve ‘skin-to-skin’ contact. The clothing worn is part of the physical self and even pressing the breast without removing the top would plainly fall within the ambit of Section 7. Pressing is certainly more than touching. The stringency of punishment does not justify introducing the requirement of ‘skin-to-skin’ touch Reading the skin-to-skin touch into Section 7 amounts to rewriting the provisions, which the courts are loathe to do. The judge lost sight of the object of the Act, designed to protect the child from sexual assault. The Supreme Court has repeatedly reminded that the object of the law has to be kept in mind. The famous Heydon’s Rule of taking note of mischief sought to be remedied has to be kept in view (Justice RF Nariman in Arcelor Mittal, 2019).That apart, though the law involved is a criminal one and such laws are not expansively construed, even the criminal laws are to be given a fair and reasonable natural construction in the light of the object. Stringent punishment has been provided to deal with the menacing problem faced by vulnerable children. That cannot be a ground for constricting the scope of Section 7 (amendment done in 2019) that has made punishment more stringent. This approach of the High Court is against common sense and plain logic.The judge also ignored Section 11, which deals with sexual harassment involving the making of anygesture with sexual intent. Even the utterance of words and making of sounds intended to be seen or heard are covered. Chapter IV also covers abetment and attempts to commit these offences. Thus, pressing the breast, even if it be from over the clothing worn, entering the house in the absence of the mother and holding hands and unzipping pantsare plainly covered by Sections 7 and 11 of the POCSO Act as sexual assault and sexual harassment.The construction adopted by the judge is contrary to plain and natural construction of Section 7 of the Act. It ignores both the object of the law and the context of other provisions. It lacks constitutional vision and overlooks duties imposed by the Constitution and the POCSO Act. The CJI-led Bench of the Supreme Court deserves applause for staying the judgment, even as the SC collegium has withdrawn the recommendation it had sent to the government for confirming the additional judge of the Bombay High Court as a permanent judge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/uphold-legal-principles-to-check-child-abuse-207091
03-02-2021||---||Action plan to take on China||The Trump administration helped shift the American paradigm on China from one of engagement to strategic competition, but its handling of China was fitful and erratic. The new Biden administration, many of them old hands from the Obama administration, understand well that they are now functioning in a dramatically altered geopolitical landscape.Biden hopes to put in place policies that translate Trump’s ‘America First’ sentiment into the kind of institutional strength needed in dealing with China.The Biden policy moves appear to have been carefully considered by his new appointees and they all signal the need for the US to challenge Chinese assertiveness, its domestic repression and its surge as a technological challenger to the US hegemony. One of the important signals sent by the Biden administration is the invitation to Bi-khim Hsiao, the de facto Taiwanese ambassador to the US, to attend the Biden inauguration, the first time since 1979 that this has happened. This is an indication that the Biden administration will back the Trump administration decision of early January to lift all self-imposed bureaucratic restrictions in the working of the US-Taiwanese relationship.Last week, the new White House spokeswoman, Jan Psaki, said the US had seen China become more authoritarian at home and assertive abroad, ‘and Beijing is now challenging our security, prosperity, and values in significant ways that require a new US approach’. She added that China was blunting America’s technological edge, threatening its alliances and influence in international organisations.In an online event hosted by the US Institute of Peace, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said the US would join hands with like-minded allies to form a ‘chorus of voices’ that could push back China. He expected many of the partners to be European because it would be in its interests to revitalise the trans-Atlantic alliance with a view of adding heft to its policies, whether they relate to climate change, nuclear proliferation, cyber security or recovering from the pandemic.A key difference in the Biden administration approach will be in dealing with the situation in concert with its allies and partners. This means not only rejoining the Paris Climate Change agreement and the WHO, but possibly the TPP. An important element in this will be to work with allies and partners to modernise trade rules so that some countries do not lose out, as they did in the era of unbridled globalisation.The important thing is that the shift in the US is bipartisan. At an event which featured Robert O’Brien, Trump National Security Adviser and his successor Jake Sullivan, the former said, ‘President Biden and his team are off to a great start on China.’ At this event, Sullivan declared that Biden would, first, work with allies on China, and second, be ready to impose costs on China for what it was doing in Xinjiang, Hong Kong and its threats to Taiwan.There have been worries that in a bid to get China’s cooperation on climate change, pandemics and other global issues, Biden may compromise with China. But, say observers, with the appointment of Kurt Campbell, a known China hawk, as the coordinator of overall Asia policy at the National Security Council (NSC), that eventuality may not arise.How will Biden deal with the billions of dollars in tariffs that remain after the January 2020 Phase I deal? That’s not clear but it is likely to be within the rubric of a multilateral approach that he will take. To an extent, he will be constrained by the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment signed by the EU and China. But, given his orientation now, it is not going to be about getting market access for big US companies, but policies that will promote jobs and wages in the US. An indicator of this was provided by his Executive Order to strengthen the ‘Buy American’ guidelines for the federal government to promote domestic manufacturing.But whether it is Psaki or Austin or the others, almost everyone is agreed that the basis of the new competition is technology. More than anything else, the US is aware that it needs to win the real competition with China, which is over technology. There are two aspects to this. One is the defence against Chinese efforts to acquire key US technology, and the other is to outdo China in areas like AI, quantum computing, space and biopharmaceuticals.It is most likely that the administration will choose to maintain most of the technology restrictions against China that were put in place by the Trump administration.So, Biden is unlikely to remove Huawei and other Chinese companies from the export blacklist. But his focus is likely to seek investment in innovation, workforce modernisation and supply chains.One of the important planks of his campaign was the ‘Build America’ plan, not unlike our ‘Aatmanirbhar’ slogan. The Build America plan has called for bolstering the industrial and technological strength of the US. It calls for ‘Buy American’ by tightening domestic content rules and as a $400 billion spending in additional federal purchases. Importantly, he has said his administration would invest $300 billion in R&D and breakthrough technologies in electrical vehicles, lightweight materials, 5G and AI. As part of this, it called for spreading investment across the board to ensure no area is left behind, and finally, it has spoken of the importance of bringing back critical supply chains to the US.It was Trump who brought a ‘what’s in it for me’ attitude to the White House with his ‘America First’ slogan. What Biden plans to do is to put in place policies that translate this sentiment into the kind of institutional strength that the US needs in dealing with China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/action-plan-to-take-on-china-207085
