04-02-2021||---||Why NDA govt is getting its fundamentals wrong||When Dr Manmohan Singh saved India from a financial disaster in 1991, the entire country thanked its stars. He had brought the Indian economy from the precipice of disaster and we were confident that the worst was behind us. The good doctor, perhaps, did not realise that in the subsequent century, six successive years of economic mismanagement will lead to a situation where every credible global rating agency will be ranking India among the lowest rung of the investment grade.In 2021, three decades after the economic marvel unleashed by Manmohan Singh, the country is back to where it was.How did this happen?The primary reason is that the NDA government is getting its fundamentals wrong. It ignores the edifice and the foundations of the economy and, instead, focuses on whitewashing and embellishments. You may use the most delicate upholstery and the latest drapery, but if your house does not stand on a strong foundation, it will soon develop cracks.Let me elaborate on how the government is focusing on embellishments rather than fundamentals.The economy fell to minus 8 per cent in 2020. So, if it goes up by 11.5 per cent in 2021, it is going up above the 2019 levels by only 3.5 per cent. The annual growth in two years is thus only 1.75 per cent. This piece of datum comes from Kaushik Basu, former Chief Economist of the World Bank.But the tragedy is that the government does not rely on economists any longer. It does not rely on a Kaushik Basu, a Raghuram Rajan, a Manmohan Singh, an IG Patel, an Arvind Subramanian, or a Rakesh Mohan. Instead, it relies on Wikipedia references.The Economic Survey presented by the Finance Minister is littered with errors and quotes juvenile anecdotes. To a considerable extent, it also speaks of the calibre of the ruling government.When Covid struck, India’s manufacturing and service economy floundered. It was only the primary sector that kept going. Crops were sown, tended for, and harvested. Our mandi mechanism delivered despite labour shortfalls and despite the pandemic. And what did the government do to help it? It hurried through farm laws to destroy the edifice of the agriculture market system that had been carefully nurtured for over six decades. Instead, it started vilifying the farmers by terming them as 6 per cent beneficiaries. Well, if the 6 per cent (according to your data), helped India overcome a crisis as big as the pandemic, then you must salute them, not destroy them.The government also massively mismanaged the Covid situation. As a young student, a book that had a tremendous impact on me was John Steinbeck’s The Grapes of Wrath, which captured the plight of poor farmers moving from America’s rust belts to the supposed halcyon lands of California.In India, the reverse happened as we experienced a reverse exodus. People moved from their employment (proverbial California) lands back to the misery of their rust belt villages. This reverse migration was the single biggest setback to the Indian economy during the past 50 years. Yet, the government has failed to acknowledge it, leave alone address it.Instead of helping the farmers who helped tide over the economic fallout of the Covid pandemic, and instead of assisting daily-wage workers, middle classes and professionals who suffered the most, the government decided to look the other way.It started a facetious exercise of self-appreciation by quoting the stock market buoyancy. The reasons are simple. The bank deposit rate of 4 per cent is less than inflation, which is7 per cent. So, instead of putting money in the banks, people are rushing to the stock market.Also, governments are providing liquidity injections.Thirdly, there is a massive inflow of foreign portfolio investment, which I understand is to the tune of around Rs 2 lakh crore in the preceding two months. Do remember, however, that portfolio investments are notoriously fickle. Also, recall that even Nasdaq has appreciated by 90 per cent since March 2020.The Union Government also started promoting monopsonies. What is a monopsony? A monopsony is a situation where there is only one single buyer. If coffee farmers in Colombia and cocoa growers in the Ivory Coast are suffering, it is because of these monopsonies. The NDA government is now desperately trying to create a similar monopsony in the Indian agriculture sector.This takes me to the beginning of the 20th century — the Great Rat Massacre in Vietnam. When Vietnam was suffering from a proliferation of rat population, the French colonial masters of Indo-China came up with what they considered a solution. Anyone who would kill a rat could claim a reward. The evidence required was the submission of the tails of the dead rats. People came in scores with hundreds of rat tails. While the government thought it was succeeding, the rat population exploded. Why? Because people would chop off the tail and let the rat live so that the rats could breed and reproduce, thereby ensuring a steady income for the rat tail hunters.The NDA government reminds us of the failure of the French Governor-General in Vietnam. The government is consciously avoiding looking at the GDP, the fiscal deficit, and indicators that matter. Instead, it is busy counting the rat tails!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-nda-govt-is-getting-its-fundamentals-wrong-207580
04-02-2021||---||How China twisted the Covid narrative||On February 7, 2020, China’s Internet censors experienced an unusual and deeply upsetting trend: they felt they were losing control. News of the death of a doctor, Li Wenliang, who had exposed the outbreak of Covid-19 in Wuhan, had overwhelmed people’s grief and they were sharply criticising the government’s efforts to suppress inconvenient information on the social media.Senior officers in the censor department, according to reports in the US media, were ordered to send thousands of secret directives to manipulate the online discourse. They were told to suppress the inconvenient news, fake online commentators were asked to flood social sites with distracting chatter, trolls were instructed to inundate the social media with party-line blather and security forces were deployed to muzzle the inconvenient voices.Within days, the powerful censors reshaped the narrative removing much of negativity about the government’s handling from the public domain.The virus emerged in Wuhan in December, 2019; initially, the city authorities dragged their feet, waiting for instructions from Beijing while pressuring the whistle-blowing doctors to keep quiet.Much of the delay took place as the information travelled through the vast labyrinth of the Chinese Communist Party awaiting a decision by its top leader Xi Jinping. Once he made the decision, Wuhan, a city of 11 million people, was sealed off on January 23, 2020 to contain the spread of Covid-19.“The most miserable thing was not death, but trying to get medical treatment,” recalls a city resident according to a Chinese media report. One of his friends died of lung cancer in February, as he could not get transport to reach hospitals, which were overwhelmed, and turning away patients. Another resident recalled how his “mother was put in a body bag while she was still breathing.”According to a survey by the Chinese Centre for Disease Control in April 2020, about 4.5 lakh people contracted Covid-19, about nine times more than the 50,008 people claimed in the official media; the official figure of death is 3,800, though unofficial figures are much higher as the authorities refused to relate certain deaths to Covid to keep the figures low.Most of those who died due to Covid were cremated by the officials; even today, many Chinese don’t know where their family members are buried.Some locals, like citizen journalist Zhang Zhan, who tried to report on the early experiences of the people in Wuhan during the lockdown, were arrested for “picking quarrels and provoking trouble” and jailed for four years.Mass quarantines, systematic use of artificial intelligence in contact-tracing and complete shutdown of most daily life activities were credited with controlling the virus.President Xi Jinping, who had maintained a low profile during the initial spread of the virus, arrived triumphantly in Wuhan in March 2020 to proclaim victory over the virus.The world would have celebrated China’s success in controlling Covid-19 if it had timely shared information with the international community on the origin of the virus and taken measures to control the travel of its virus-carrying tourists abroad.If nothing else, it expected the Chinese government to behave more maturely in reacting to its criticism of the early handling of the virus rather than threatening other countries, forgetting that China was the cause of the huge global devastation and deaths.China tried to blunt the global criticism by its despatch of masks, respirators, ventilators and medicines to countries. When some, including the US, Spain, Brazil and the Philippines, complained about substandard products sold by the Chinese companies, the latter ascribed these to “improper use”.China’s global image declined sharply in 2020 due to its arrogant behaviour.Having controlled the coronavirus early and revived its economy, China is now peddling a new narrative — that its centralised authoritarian model, which can efficiently mobilise government agencies, companies and individuals, is better and more efficient than the democratic system.This argument is simplistic as it obscures the untold miseries and hardships endured by the Chinese people after the imposition of the lockdown. Also, historically, high growth rates have been achieved by countries, China included, when they followed market reforms in a liberal environment, not those scaling new heights of authoritarianism.After the arrival of Xi Jinping in 2012, China’s growth rates have declined. While China may have obtained a GDP growth of 2.3 per cent in 2020 (official claim), much of it came from China’s debt-fuelled financing of infrastructure, real estate, state-owned industries and exports. Retail sales growth, a measure of ordinary people’s purchases, declined by 4.6 per cent in December, 2020, indicating that the Chinese domestic consumption had declined as the pandemic raged.China’s unbalanced economic recovery and low quality growth represent a big lost opportunity for the ordinary Chinese struggling with high unemployment, stagnant or low increase in wages and low purchasing power. While the state and its upper crust are getting rich, the prosperity is not percolating enough to the middle and lower classes.There has been criticism in the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore and other countries about the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines made by a Chinese company, Sinovac. Beijing, which had hoped to burnish its scientific credentials on a par with the West, is again furious, complaining of motivated criticism. As part of its vaccine diplomacy, China is exporting 500 million vaccine doses this year, given the global shortages.As 2021 began, there was another eruption of Covid-19 in certain parts of China. The authorities clamped down with their familiar ‘blunt lockdowns’, including suspension of rail and air transportation.Has China learnt any lesson from its handling of the pandemic in 2020 and would it act better in the future? Some Chinese analysts are unsure.China has a history of not telling the ‘truth’ and unless the ‘superior system’ changes, the situation would remain the same, they say.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-china-twisted-the-covid-narrative-207574
