05-02-2021||---||Drone technology critical to ward off threats||Employment of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones is a revolution in the making. Drone warfare is one of the most important combat-strategy developments of this century. It is proliferating rapidly and is likely to become even more potent in the coming years.Drones are designed to deliver air strikes in a ground-guided, pilotless flight that is capable of dropping bombs, firing missiles, or even crashing into a target. These UAVs are equally useful in peacetime too, for gathering critical intelligence.Development of drones was originally driven by commercial and agricultural demands, later finding a market in the military. Today, its presence in the armed forces is as crucial as that of tanks, mechanised armoured vehicles and fighter aircraft in the last century. As compared to fighter jets, drones serve as a low-cost weapon system, affordable to poor countries that could potentially become capable of damage and creating chaos against powerful adversaries with better traditional military capability.Battle using drones helps reduce loss of human life. Precision is yet another advantage of using drones in the battlefield. It lowers the risk to military personnel and has less political and military ramifications.A remote control war through the use of drones has become institutionalised as one of the major counter insurgency/terrorist strategy of the US since 9/11. The US has conducted a large number of drone strikes in Iraq, Afghanistan, Yemen, Pakistan and Somalia, including attacks on non-state actors and important terrorist leadership. Turkey has employed drones against the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, Nigeria has used it against the Boko Haram, Iraq against the ISIS and Saudi Arabia and the UAE in Libya and Yemen. Because of the widespread use of drones in conflicts, their employment in military operations is no longer a taboo as is apparent from the recent conflict in Armenia-Azerbaijan (Nagorno-Karabakh).Employment of drones for offensive operations has been extremely effective from Syria to Libya and on to Nagorno-Karabakh. It is important to note that in these conflicts, drones were employed against well-equipped and well-trained forces, and not against the ill equipped armies of poor countries. In all three conflicts, employment was in the face of some of the best anti-aircraft missile defence system produced by Russia. The victory of Azerbaijan over Armenia showed the perfection of the art of drone. Azerbaijan employed Turkish and Israeli-made drones and exhibited the disparity of costs between the drone and the military assets it can destroy.Being UAVs, drones are able to digitally and instantly provide precious operational information about the battlefield. They enhance situational awareness and target damage assessment. They have the ability to hover over a target, watching it continuously in remote and difficult areas. They are able to reach targets and obtain similar impact with lesser consequences than the penetration of hostile airspace by an aircraft.Drones have applications beyond military use. Some regulatory frameworks exist for commercial and civilian purposes, but there are no guidelines for military application. Therefore, the use of drone technology by the military is likely to proliferate making it a lucrative option for terrorists, insurgents and non-state actors. It could become an ideal low-cost weapon system for state-sponsored terrorism.Drones, when combined with human intelligence, can also be effective in locating and targeting known terrorist operatives. They can be employed with comparatively lower risk to life unlike piloted aircraft or ground forces. They can be employed for limiting terrorist capabilities and reducing collateral damage. This makes it more suitable for covert warfare.We have approximately 15,000 km of land border and a coastline of over 7,500 km, including island territories. We have a turbulent and unstable neighbourhood and a wide range of non-traditional threats. China and Pakistan are our two nuclear neighbours with whom we have unresolved border disputes. Our external threats range from traditional land-centric due to disputed borders to sub-conventional, including the export of terror from across the borders. There are reports of Pakistan and China routinely sending drones into the Indian airspace. Securing the borders against hostile forces is critical to the country’s security.The Indian armed forces have been using drones for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. Weaponised drones which are emerging as an essential technology in asymmetric warfare have not been employed by the forces. It is, therefore, important to take a note of key developments in drone warfare to cater to these threat manifestations.India is facing and is likely to continue to face low-level conflicts which necessitate low intensity of retaliation to avoid an all-out war. Our adversaries, especially Pakistan, should not be permitted to get away with the idea that India would hesitate to retaliate militarily against terrorist attacks. Therefore, there is a need to have low intensity retaliation capacity. Drones can inflict pointed damage on distant targets as they are particularly suitable for low-level conflicts and appropriate response in the event of Pathankot and Pulwama-like incidents. Along with focusing on expensive fighter planes, there is a need to lay emphasis on low-cost drones also and develop a comprehensive strategy for their use in our offensive as also defensive plans.China has emerged as a major player in global arms trade. From being one of the biggest importers, it has become a leading global arms supplier, including that of UAVs. The known capability of China and Turkey in drone technology and their relationship with Pakistan is a cause of concern for India. There is a likelihood of these technologies falling in the hands of extremist groups, posing a big security risk. Therefore, a need to take note of these developments and work on a roadmap and strategy for acquisition and employment of drones is critical. It is needed to counter the envisaged drone threat to India from the neighbourhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/drone-technology-critical-to-ward-off-threats-208104
05-02-2021||---||China out to delink border row from biz ties||Foreign Minister S Jaishankar is the son of K Subrahmanyam, the doyen of India’s security and strategic studies. The minister, too, is making his presence felt in world affairs. Undeniably, China is his forte.Jaishankar needs to counter the uncivil and unacceptable Chinese snub to sovereign India. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told India on January 29 to forget the border dispute. At the behest of the Communist Party of China (CPC), of course, he resorted to undiplomatic coercion. “We have noted minister Jaishankar’s remarks of January 28. However, we stress that the boundary issue shall not be linked with the overall bilateral relations. That’s an important experience we have gathered through many years of efforts to keep relations moving forward,” the spokesman asserted.What’s the implication of it? It’s got to be ‘borderless’ China-India bilateral, thereby giving the CPC-controlled PLA unbridled access to India, to infiltrate, capture land and build villages as Chinese companies, traders and bankers make billions of dollars in the hinterland.China rubbed it in further: “We hope the Indian side will work with us to properly manage differences, promote practical cooperation and bring bilateral relations back on track.”Is it a dire warning — work with us or else...? It will also mean ‘work for us’ as demanded.‘Managing differences’ implies that the ball is in India’s court. India solely is responsible for any eventuality, simultaneously acknowledging that relations have gone for a toss. Hence, could this be ‘disadvantage China’? Beijing surely doesn’t want to let go of the lucrative Indian market, resulting in domestic financial loss.Can it be any worse for India, coming as it does from an enemy nation that has been allowed by the Indians themselves to penetrate their land? Now, Beijing is ordering New Delhi to discard sovereignty in the 21st century to enable the CPC to celebrate its centenary! It’s like Hitler bullying the entire Europe to keep off as he demanded landlocked Czechoslovakia to cease having a Czech-German boundary, to enable his troops to operate freely inside sovereign Prague.It’s like superpowers Britain and France succumbing before Hitler, worse than the serfs of the Middle Ages, in Munich on September 29, 1938, and subsequently justifying their capitulation to a dictator as ‘peace in our time’. Poetic justice and retribution, however, came in no time to the Anglo-French betrayal of Europe in 1938. In less than a year, on September 1, 1939, the ‘peace’ of 1938 was in tatters. This resulted in World War II (1939-45), the ‘greatest disaster of all times’ that killed over 60 million people.Therefore, the Foreign Minister should counter the CPC by asking China to make its stand on India clear — thus far and no further. The Dragon must make things clear. Suggest practical, doable points, rather than resorting to avoidable howling to inject undoable, absurd and unacceptable ideas.One, however, pities the Han diplomat because of his compulsion to weave a delusion of grandeur, as ordered by his CPC boss. Hence, he pitifully tries to project himself in the ‘more loyal than the king’ image, by displaying loyalty in public, even if futile. After all, 2021 is the centenary year of the CPC-government-state trio.Xi Jinping publicly invoked Mao Zedong’s lethal doctrine which killed 45 million Chinese. Since Xi cannot achieve that figure, so let a few maladroitly constructed, high-sounding English words be used to show the power of the CPC to distort the English language. Yes, inappropriate language has been the hallmark of Chinese propaganda to malign all by making a prelude to chaos, confusion and dementia.Else, how does one explain, defend or justify CPC’s words hurled at Taiwan? Independence means war? Following this ‘landmark’ linguistic invention by the Chinese, can it be said — logically or illogically — that India’s independence means war? Even if India continues proclaiming her sovereign democracy, follows a landmark Constitution, and refuses and rejects the Dragon’s diktat? With or without a border? Will then this 21st-century independent India’s act be seen as war through China’s politico-diplomatic eyes?So, there we are. If sovereign Delhi stands by its border, it’s ‘war’. And if India abolishes and makes it an open border at the order of China, it’s ‘peace’, which began when Delhi came to the ‘Dragon’s Durbar’, seen by Chinese Communists as kowtowing before the Forbidden City?After 1962, did Jawaharlal Nehru or Indira Gandhi ever show the intention or inclination to visit China? Atal Bihari Vajpayee, under Morarji Desai’s premiership, committed the cardinal mistake of breaking the ice by meeting Deng Xiaoping in 1978. The mistake was repeated in 1988 when PM Rajiv Gandhi visited Beijing. China took these as visits of those vanquished in 1962, and vassals post-1962. Deng was jubilant.Shouldn’t Delhi make course correction now by revisiting and recalibrating its 73-year-old congenitally defective China policy? The Indian border is bound to erupt any time. China will go for a desperate shot at Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, Arunachal and Myanmar — all in the East.The PLA’s present Ladakh build-up is a deception. The real target is the East. The CPC is too crafty, coercive and malicious to be understood by India. Let the country not have any illusion. It will be an uphill task to face the CPC in its centenary year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-out-to-delink-border-row-from-biz-ties-208096
05-02-2021||I marvel at the insatiable appetite of the Modi-Shah government and its satraps in the BJP-ruled states to take on every opponent who dares to oppose its policies and actions. It reminds me of the Great Khali and his tribesmen in the world of freestyle wrestlers||A long list of opponents||It does not appear that Shashi Tharoor or Rajdeep Sardesai or Mrinal Pande had deliberately or otherwise thrown their hat in the ring. Yet, they became the objects of ire because in their hurry to be the first to break the news, they individually tweeted that a protesting farmer on a tractor had died by a bullet injury in the melee that took place in Delhi on Republic Day. They had watched on TV a tractor breaking the police cordon. It was travelling at what could be considered reckless speed. If the police present there to stop the tractors at a predetermined line was forced to take a split-second decision, I would not fault them if they had fired and thereby prevented others from resorting to similar tactics. Both the police and farmers were keen to show restraint, and a genuine misunderstanding on the part of some journalists and a political opponent could, and should, have been overlooked.However, our brand of the Great Khalis took advantage, more than umbrage, of the tweeters mistaken notion that the farmer had died in police firing, and filed FIRs against Shashi Tharoor and the journalists, accusing them of causing dissension between communities and sedition, of all things! The recourse to accusing opponents of the government of sedition has become a standard practice with the police in particular, despite the Supreme Court’s clear view that sedition is not to be cited unless the clear intention of fomenting violence and civic unrest against the lawfully-installed State is apparent.Incidentally, this government has developed the fine art of turning legal process into punishment, knowing fully well that the case will not stand the test of legal scrutiny. The Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (not yet applied to this case) makes it almost difficult for the judiciary to release the accused on bail. So, if the trials linger, as they always do, the arrested persons are kept in judicial custody interminably. Some of the Bhima Koregaon detainees have spent more than three years in prison without trial, which in a democracy is unacceptable.Stan Swamy, a 83-year-old Jesuit priest, whose mission in life was to stand up for the rights of Jharkand’s Adivasis, has spent close to four months in jail, with no hope of the trial beginning in the near future. When his request for bail was heard by the designated judge, the Public Prosecutor declared that Fr. Swamy was ‘accomplishing the agenda of the CPI Maoists’! The NIA in its charge sheet in the Elgar Parishad case had described the 30-year-old People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), a human rights body, as a frontal organisation of the banned CPI (Marxist)! These accusations do not have the ring of truth.BJP ministers, the late Arun Jaitley, and Ravi Shankar Prasad, were associated with the PUCL, which was born out of the Emergency of 1975, and was founded by no other than Jai Prakash Narain! The PUCL is a well-known rights organisation and many citizens respect the intentions of its members and appreciate the work it has accomplished in the sphere of human rights.The SC should study the UAPA and its use by the government to convert its process into actual punishment. Should people accused of unlawful activities be kept in jail for years together without trial in a civilised society? As a Jesuit priest, conditioned to obey his superiors, I cannot envisage this old man helping the Maoists in any manner. He would be contravening Church diktats and could even be defrocked if this were true.But reverting to the original reason for this article and that is this government’s anxiety to rid itself of all critics of its policies, I have a gut feeling that the list of such opponents of the regime is lengthening so fast that the government will have to expand its security arms exponentially to keep pace. It was the cattle traders and beef eaters to begin with, then the left-wing students at the JNU and Jamia Millia, the anti-CAA/NRC protesters, the farmers opposing laws that were supposed to ameliorate their quality of life, stand-up comics and cartoonists poking gentle fun at these policies or their implementation, the Muslim boys in love with Hindu girls, and now the journalists who in their hurry to ‘break the news’ repeated what they were told by the dead man’s relatives.I know Rajdeep Sardesai personally. His father was the one and only Test cricket player born in my ancestral state of Goa. He was my friend. His mother was the daughter of a senior member of my own service, the police. PM Pant retired as the police chief of Modiji’s own state of Gujarat. His grandmother’s brother, Gen GG Bewoor, was the Army Chief and his great-grandfather, Sir Gurunath Bewoor, ICS, was my father’s immediate boss as the Post-Master General of Bombay Presidency. My association with his family goes back 85 years when I was a boy of six.But just as I am troubled by the sedition charges against Rajdeep, I am also troubled by the continuous assaults by this government on all and sundry who do not concur with its policies and actions. Is it that Mr Modi and Mr Shah do not want any opposition at all in this land of argumentative Indians? Or are they keen to follow the Chinese path where no contrarian voices are heard?All along I had imagined that their goal was a ‘Hindu rashtra’ which, like Pakistan, would ensure that only the majority religion would determine the course of events and politics. But now I am confused. Farmers, journalists and stand-up comics are also in the firing line. Just like they would have been in China!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-long-list-of-opponents-208055
