06-02-2021||---||Raise defence spending to meet challenges||IN the Union Budget for 2021-22, the defence sector has been allocated Rs 4.78 lakh crore, including an outlay for the payment of pensions, against last year’s Rs 4.71 lakh crore. The total amount includes capital expenditure of Rs 1.35 lakh crore to purchase new weapons, aircraft, warships and other military hardware against the capital outlay of Rs 1.13 lakh crore during 2020-21. At a time when India is locked in a prolonged standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, straining its resources, the Budget has allocated Rs 3.62 lakh crore, excluding pensions, for defence expenditure — up by 7.4 per cent from last year. The total outlay for the Ministry of Defence (MoD) is pegged at Rs 4,78,195.62 crore, with pension liabilities down by Rs 18,000 crore from the present fiscal. The outlay for weapons and modernisation has been increased from Rs 1,13,734 crore last year to Rs 1,35,060 crore for 2021-22 — a rise of 18 per cent.The increased budget for modernisation will help the armed forces equip themselves with new weapon systems and spares. In this Budget, the capital outlay for the Indian Army is Rs 36,481 crore; for the Air Force, Rs 53, 214 crore; and for the Navy, Rs 33,253 crore.The total revenue expenditure, which includes expenses on the payment of salaries and maintenance of establishments, has been pegged at Rs 3.37 lakh crore. The total revenue expenditure includes Rs 1.15 lakh crore for the payment of pensions.The Budget documents reveal that the MoD spent an additional Rs 20,776 crore for buying new weapon systems and spares for the armed forces in the present fiscal over and above the funds allocated for the purpose. The amount has been used to acquire equipment like the Spice-2000 bombs, Spike anti-tank guided missiles, SiG Sauer assault rifles, Excalibur ammunition, multiple types of aircraft spares from Russia along with ammunition for tanks and fighter jets.There were expectations of a significant increase in the allocation to the forces, given the added strain of deployment in Ladakh, where about 50,000 troops have been stationed during the harsh winter. While it was the Army holding the fort at the Ladakh border amid the tensions that started in May last year, the jump in the revised expenditure for 2020-21 of the Navy and Air Force was much more. In the ongoing fiscal, the Air Force overshot its original allocation by Rs 11,773 crore and the Navy spent Rs 10,854 crore above its budget. In comparison, the Army spent Rs 821 crore above its allocation.The MoD also carried out extensive construction work on the borders last year amid the India-China standoff. While the estimated budget for the civil work was Rs 14,500 crore, it increased to Rs 15,914 crore as the government spent on building infrastructure in border areas.Apart from that, the allocation for civil works under the MoD is Rs 15,257 crore as against the revised allocation Rs 15,914 crore in last year’s Budget. The civil allocation includes allocation for the construction of roads and bridges, government aid to state governments and housing in the North East and border areas.The Finance Commission’s proposal of a non-lapsable fund for the defence sector has been accepted in principle, but the modalities are to be worked out. It had been reported earlier that the MoD had proposed a roll-on non-lapsable budget over a period of five years for big-ticket acquisitions. It is proposed that a fund of Rs 2.38 lakh crore will be available for a period of five years (2021-26) that will not lapse. The fund can be used for the modernisation of forces, capital investment for Central armed police forces and also state police forces.Amidst the ongoing standoff between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the hike in the defence budget announced is negligible. Given the expectations that a large infusion of funds would come into the sector to prepare the armed forces for the new two-front challenge and the goal of achieving Atmanirbharta in the field of defence manufacturing — with the coming up of two Defence Industrial Corridors and the target of achieving $5 billion defence equipment exports by 2025 — the outlay seems to be insufficient.Military experts, in general, have expressed satisfaction at the overall allocation, considering the coronavirus-triggered adverse impact on the economy, though they said India would have to gradually raise its defence spending to deal with increasing external threats.The capital allocation for the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has been pegged at Rs 11,375 crore, which is an increase of 8 per cent over the amount earmarked in 2020-21. The allocation for the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has been increased to Rs 6,004 crore, 7.48 per cent more than the amount given in 2020-21.Keeping in view the threat perception from China and Pakistan, India needs to increase its defence outlay from 2.1 to 3 per cent of the GDP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/raise-defence-spending-to-meet-challenges-208476
06-02-2021||---||Opposition on terra firma, but cohesion missing||OVER two months after the farmers’ protests began at Delhi’s borders, the incipient signs of a more direct engagement between the political Opposition and the agitators are showing up. The Opposition stepped out of the breathless and bizarre microcosm of Facebook and Twitter to set its foot on terra firma, and check out the travails of people who braved the cold and rain and are living without water and electricity. The Opposition’s forays into ground zero might not yield anything tangible. It is unlikely to pressure the Centre to resume a dialogue with the farmers, considering that the government refused to accede to the Opposition’s demand for a separate discussion on the issue in the ongoing Parliament session. But the initiative opens up the prospect of a partnership between a civil society movement and political parties to address the issues at the heart of the churn in Punjab, Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh.On Thursday, the leaders of 10 parties (excluding the Congress and the Left Front) journeyed to UP’s Ghazipur border, shepherded by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal. The cops did not allow them to cross the heavily fortified red line following which they returned without meeting the protesters, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait. At least, the MPs got a sense of how the Centre had recalibrated its approach to the farmers after the Republic Day violence. The same day, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary, travelled to Rampur to meet the family of Navreet Singh, who died in a clash between the cops and protesters on January 26.The Opposition’s endeavour is conspicuous by a lack of cohesion although the parties are pursuing the same end. The Congress couldn’t associate with the SAD because both are battling to retain or usurp a common turf, a battle that’s often marked by violence. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), a Congress ally in Tamil Nadu, and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which runs the government with the Congress and the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, were part of Harsimrat’s enterprise. Leaders of the Sena, constantly looking to steal a moment on their own, went separately to Ghazipur earlier in the week. UP’s Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), who will count more than the others in the state’s political schema, were out of Thursday’s frame. The RLD, the traditional Jat party of west UP by virtue of inheriting Chaudhary Charan Singh’s formidable legacy, is forced to append itself to Tikait and stay afloat because Tikait has appropriated the RLD’s agrarian base for the moment. Tikait possibly lacks the organisation, cadre and resources to set up the BKU as an autonomous political entity. He will be pushed to work out an arrangement with one of the principal players before the next UP elections, due in 2022. That, however, depends on his ability and power to sustain the protests over a long period and withstand the use of state force.Whatever traction the protests gained after the disaster on Republic Day that nearly derailed the movement is owed largely to the global attention they drew from a range of celebrities and the firestorm the superstars stirred on social media, making it untenable for the Centre to ignore the unexpected backlash. The Opposition’s interventions were largely confined to Parliament.The absence of synergy between the civil society movement and the political parties does not augur well for both. If indeed the parties wish to draw political mileage from the farmers’ fight—as they certainly would in the Punjab and UP elections—can they even claim to be indirect stakeholders after remaining distant and proffering token protests? The India Against Corruption campaign rattled the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime with its focused and well-synchronised attack against the UPA’s alleged malfeasance. It did not reach out to the Opposition although the BJP and the RSS tried hard to get a foothold. The campaign birthed the Aam Aadmi Party but eventually the BJP gained by the atmospherics it aroused and the anti-UPA discourse it shaped. The BJP’s PM face, Narendra Modi, arrived on the scene, carrying a clean slate on the corruption quotient from Gujarat. Can the Congress likewise take advantage from the ‘kisan andolan’ or the SP and the BSP for that matter? None of them seems positioned to reap even a small harvest right now because the BJP has polarised the issue along the ‘national-anti-national’ divide and labelled the protesters and their supporters as ‘enemies of the state’. It’s a trap that the Opposition will be wary of falling into. The global celebration of the movement and backing for the farmers fuelled the BJP’s narrative of ‘foreign forces’ working to ‘destabilise’ the Modi government and by extension, India, through sections of the protesters, making justified condemnation of rights’ violations possible at the risk of being labelled a deshdrohi.In the eighties, journalist, author and politician Arun Shourie was asked to list individuals from outside mainline politics who he thought would redefine India’s history in the coming decades. Among those he chose were Ela Bhatt, the founder of the Self-Employed Women’s Association of India and a cooperative organiser, environmentalist Chandi Prasad Bhatt who set up the Dasholi Gram Swarajya Sangh that mothered the Chipko crusade, Arun Bhatia, a former bureaucrat who floated the People’s Guardian Party, and Chhattisgarh’s path-breaking trade unionist Shankar Guha Niyogi.Each of them was identified with value-based politics and pioneered campaigns that left an imprint on their core areas but are footnotes on a broadsheet. Barring Bhatia, who fought and lost an election in 2004, none of them joined politics and were out of the popular mainstream. Any seminal idea and movement that captures the national imagination needs a political party or allies to stay relevant and go forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/opposition-on-terra-firma-but-cohesion-missing-208447
06-02-2021||---||Pakistan cosies up to Israel||Imran Khan appears to have a unique capacity to manifest his distrust and dislike for India, even in the conduct of Pakistan’s foreign policy. He appears ready to follow this route, even at the time of a raging pandemic. The only place in the world where he can get reliable vaccines quickly to prevent the spread of Covid-19 cases in Pakistan is on his doorstep — in India. Given the relative shortage of vaccines worldwide, India is providing vaccines to several countries. Except for Pakistan, all other SAARC members have approached India. They have received an immediate response, agreeing to supply the vaccines in a fair, equitable and phased manner.After the change of guard in the US, Netanyahu and the Pakistan army find themselves ‘on the same page’.China agreed to provide half a million Sinopharm vaccines to Pakistan, ‘free of cost’, after Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi pleaded for the vaccines with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. China has good reason to keep Pakistan on a tight leash. It has a practice of keeping its client states across Asia and Africa, who are asking for help, on bended knees. It then makes them heavily indebted. Pakistan has placed itself in a situation which compels it to approach China regularly to secure ‘emergency assistance’ from commercial banks to repay a $3 billion loan Pakistan obtained from Saudi Arabia. This is a rather drastic change in its ties with the Saudis, given that Saudi Arabia had even paid for American F16s supplied to Pakistan, just after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. That was also a time when there were Pakistan army units in Saudi Arabia to protect the holy shrines of Islam. There were also the days when Saudi Arabia was home for Nawaz Sharif and his family, when Sharif was exiled by General Musharraf.Imran Khan has long been a favourite of the Pakistan army, which has a distinctly Islamist orientation. Islamist parties like the Jamaat-e-Islami are still regarded as allies by the army establishment. Nawaz Sharif was smart enough to portray manifestations of Islamist tendencies, while being ‘liberal’ in his political and social life. Imran Khan was influenced ideologically and brought into mainstream politics by a former Director General of the ISI, Lt Gen Hamid Gul, a hard-line Islamist, who looked at India exclusively in communal terms. It is with this communal background that Imran Khan, a novice in international affairs, has conducted relations with Islamic countries, overlooking their sectarian and civilisational differences. He forgot that historically the Turks, Arabs and Persians have been rivals. It is this lack of historic knowledge of Pakistan’s western neighbourhood that led Imran Khan to take the fatal decision of joining a new international Islamic grouping, led by Turkey and Malaysia, thereby undermining Saudi leadership.The reaction of Saudi Arabia and other Arab states to Imran Khan’s decision was immediate. He was forced to back off from his decision. The hostility to Pakistan, however, continued and economic assistance from the Arab world virtually ended. Pakistani workers were given notice to leave the UAE and were not warmly welcomed by Saudi Arabia. More importantly, Pakistan is being made to repay every cent it borrowed from Saudi Arabia, with no new money flowing in. Saudi Arabia has been relentless in demanding prompt repayment of debts by Pakistan. A desperate Imran Khan has been forced to borrow money from China’s banks to repay Saudi Arabia. The Chinese, in turn, are reviewing projects originally slated for CPEC. They have already tied up Pakistan in a debt trap.Pakistan is also paying the price for its prodigious borrowings from China. It is losing sovereign control of more and more of its territory. The Chinese now ignore Pakistan’s sovereign control of its territory in Gwadar Port, where there are now entry restrictions for Pakistani nationals, including local Balochis. A similar scenario is set to be played out during and after the construction of naval bases by China in the Sind province. Likewise, Gilgit-Baltistan is being increasingly integrated with Beijing’s Xinjiang province, with a growing Chinese economic and military presence there, which includes a 1,100 MW hydel project. Pakistan had earlier ‘gifted’ the neighbouring Shaksgam valley in J&K to China, providing Beijing a secure road link through Gilgit-Baltistan for its access to the Arabian Sea. Moreover, China is steadily taking control of mineral resources, including gold and natural gas, in Balochistan.Given the fact that Imran Khan has messed up Pakistan’s relations with the Islamic world, Army Chief General Bajwa is now moving for the army to play a more active role in Saudi Arabia. Ayesha Siddiqa, a Pakistani journalist living in self-exile, has revealed that the army is taking over greater control of foreign policy by getting a senior military official, Lt Gen Bilal Akbar, appointed as its next envoy to Saudi Arabia. Siddiqa has also revealed that ever since his visit to Riyadh, General Bajwa has maintained his own ‘back channel’ with Crown Prince Salman. The principal role of Lt Gen Akbar would be to work with the Saudis to establish contacts with Israel and set the stage for Pakistan’s diplomatic ties with Israel — something the army appears keen to do. Pakistani and Israeli armed forces have worked together recently, when they were on the same side in the recent conflict in Armenia. The Pakistan army would now seek to use its moves for closer ties with Israel and to also alter its current friendly relations with Iran to restore a measure of trust with the Biden administration. Siddiqa notes: ‘After change in the US, the three stakeholders — Netanyahu, Mohammed bin Salman, and the Bajwa-led army — find themselves on the same page.’The article has been updated to correct an inadvertent error -- a reference to Nasim Zehra had been made, which is regretted. The write-ups that were ascribed to her had, in fact, been written by Ayesha Siddiqa, a Pakistani journalist in self-exile, and published by a news website in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pakistan-cosies-up-to-israel-207562
