07-02-2021||I went to college in the late 1950s and early ’60s. Those were the days of the hammer and sickle and Marxism||True to their oath, conscience||Being a part of the system, both as an active participant and hapless observer, one began to look at other countries — especially the democracies of USA, UK and Europe. All was not bad in their system, especially the institutions of everyday governance. You could disagree with the economics, but there was something to admire in the governance.During his entire four years as the US President, Donald Trump rejected almost all administrative and legislative norms, despised traditions and abused the powers of office. In short, he did whatever he could to break the system and set up a fully personal imperial presidency. He gave members of his family important positions. He hired and fired seniormost officials on personal whims. He was wrecking institutions and using the Senate to further his goals. There was a method in this madness and he was putting his personal stamp on all instruments of governance and setting the template for his next term and a possible dynastic succession in the person of his daughter Ivanka.The recent presidential campaign was an ugly one and Trump strode across the American stage like an evil colossus who was certain about his victory. He ignored the pandemic and the advice of scientists. As he began to see the signs of a possible defeat, he raised the bogey of a rigged election and launched a systematic tirade against the electoral process, especially postal ballots. He began to cast aspersions on the Governors and officials who oversee the process and certify the results. He added more vitriol and abuse in his remarks about the print and visual media. His captive and diehard supporters came to believe this narrative and the pressure began to mount on the electoral machine.However, the staff stuck to their duties and there was no evidence of electoral fraud in the country. Many of the Governors and senior officers in the swing states were Republicans. It is a tribute to them that not one of them overturned the results. Having not succeeded here, Trump started asking for recounts, which were done but the results remained unchanged. He now went to the judiciary and complained against officers for committing fraud. The first recourse was federal judges, all of whom, about 60 in all, threw out his petitions for lack of evidence. Some had been appointed by him, but no favours were granted by them. He finally went to the Supreme Court, where he had nominated three judges and three had also been nominated by Republican Presidents. The Supreme Court held true and also threw out his petition.In the meantime, rumours circulated about the army and for the first time in American history, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff issued a message to all ranks of the armed forces that they had always been apolitical and would remain so. You can imagine the disruption one man could cause in the entire system. Trump then played his final card, which even his worst rivals and best friends never imagined. He gave a call to the ‘faithful’ to come to Washington on January 6 in large numbers so that they could browbeat Vice President Pence into submitting to his will. They collected outside Capitol Hill, where there were scant security arrangements. Before the Vice President could announce the result, the mob incited by Trump stormed the Capitol and created mayhem.The arrival of the National Guard brought the situation under control and the Vice President made the announcement that Joseph Biden Jr had been elected President. Vice President Pence had stood up in the face of immense pressure and done his constitutional duty. The new President and Vice President have been sworn in, work has resumed and systems are being restored. The pandemic is being taken seriously and efforts to heal a divided country have begun. But, it is going to be a long haul. Trump has been impeached for inciting insurrection, whether the Senate will convict him remains to be seen.Here is the crux: in the face of a dictatorial President and his rogue followers, in the face of threats and inducements, the American electoral system functioned as per the Constitution. The counting agents, the senior officers, Governors, the judiciary, the armed forces and the Vice President refused to compromise on their oath to the Constitution and listened to their conscience. Not one individual at any level bowed down to unlawful demands, not one wavered while performing his/her duty. I salute them and the system which nurtured them and I further salute their media.Throughout the years of the Trump presidency, the media faced a barrage of abuse and insult with dignity and professionalism. They continued to present the facts and their comments. Let us conclude by having a brief look at our government, our institutions, our judiciary, our media — in the words of Bob Dylan, ‘How many times can a man turn his head / And pretend that he just doesn’t see?// The answer, my friend, is blowin’ in the wind.’ The ruling party has its own agenda, declared decades ago. They are a democratically elected party and can bring about changes. However, if the changes are to be so sweeping, there should be proper discussions in Parliament and parliamentary procedures should be honoured. In the case of a major change, the people should be taken into confidence and ordinances and laws should not be promulgated unilaterally. In the absence of a counter-narrative by the Opposition, the brute majority of the government is forcing its way through.Open dialogue is the fundamental basis of democracy and it is in this that the government and the media are sorely lacking. The judiciary and the executive — the two pillars which ensure justice, fairness and continuity — need a deep introspection of their recent performance, or the lack of it. An independent media, judiciary and bureaucracy are the watchdogs of democracy and they should not be domesticated into abject submission.However, all is not lost and the people are the final arbiters of their fate, as the farmers have shown through their peaceful agitation. They have expressed their dissent and the government should in its wisdom find a way out. It should be remembered that the farmer has no religion, caste or creed. It is mother earth and nature which have nurtured him and he in turn nurtures all humanity. He tills his land and serves his country, he does not easily complain or boast. Driven to the wall, he does not stand injustice. The ‘annadata’ is the child of nature and intuitively works under its guidance. Nature has taught him patience, how to face the elements, and that is why there’s hope. The farmer is holding a mirror to the country and asking it to reflect. It is fitting that the Punjabi farmer has shown the way and brothers across the land have taken over the torch. Talk to him with love and respect — constructing Maginot lines is not the answer.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/true-to-their-oath-conscience-208942
07-02-2021||MAGH||A prayer for all||I am also reminded of the month of Magh spent in Allahabad, where thousands of pilgrims congregate each year to take a dip in the freezing waters of the Ganga to wash away their sins. They are mostly simple peasants, accustomed to hardship and the cruelty of the weather cycles: cold winters and burning hot summers. Yet, so great is their faith that they come and stay for weeks, singing songs and being cheated by the pandas, who divest them of their hard-earned money by promising them absolution. This ritual goes back millennia and has even been recorded by the great Chinese traveller Hieun-Tsang when he came here around the sixth century and observed the great king Harsha at the Kumbh, held every 12 years, give away all his wealth. There is something remarkable about the continuity of this great land and its rituals that have sustained communities and faiths through the centuries, despite the countless invasions and colonisers who have tried their best to convert them into another way of believing.All this comes back to me as I remember scenes from my childhood in Allahabad. Every morning, a devotee of Mata Anandmayi would pass the road in front of our house that led to the Sangam. His creaky cycle could be heard long before his voice reciting, ‘Om Anandmayi, hey-hey Anandmayi’. That ditty was our morning alarm and my sister would say, ‘Come on, get up! Om Anandmayi has just gone by.’ If he was our morning alarm, the evening hour for returning home after playing with friends was from another familiar religion. ‘Don’t linger with your friends after you hear the azaan,’ were my mother’s instructions. In between, these two markers of our daily life were the Christian prayers we recited in school, the ‘Our Father’ and ‘Hail Mary’, or the beautiful prayer of St Francis of Assisi that began, ‘Lord, make me an instrument of thy peace, where there is hatred, let me sow love, where there is injury, pardon…’We grew amid the sounds of these familiar prayers, as well as the conch shells and tinkling bells at our own home as my mother bathed her gods, and the thrilling shlokas we learnt simply by hearing them day after day. I do believe that none of us who grew up in those times needed to be reminded that we were a secular country where all religions were respected and honoured. We were secular in ways that many may find it difficult to believe and I daresay that religious differences became more marked when the state declared that all religions were equal. Simply laying down a law does not mean that it is acceptable and this is as true of religious belief as it is of the farm laws. And yet, we persist in flattening the joyous diversity of this land into a single common denominator. If you reduce each religion to its basics, you run the risk of reducing its variety and breadth. Certain words in English have no exact equivalence in Indic languages, so secularism that is now commonly translated as ‘dharma-nirpekshita’ is nowhere as wide in its embrace as the familiar credo of ‘sarv dharma sambhaav’. I am proud that we grew up in an India where we lived the ‘sarv dharma sambhaav’ philosophy.Even if I do not always follow the language, it is the serenity of the Gurbani that moves me. Sanskrit is understood by just a few, yet how can one not be moved by the great hymns composed by Adi Shankaracharya, or the metaphysical verses of our Bhakti poets?Sadly, we have abandoned pride in our cultural traditions and opted to follow the simple monotheistic traditions of religions that can neither match nor outdo the richness of polytheism. The Greeks went into decline after their multiple gods were supplanted by the Christian conquerors and the Holy Roman Empire replaced the pantheism of the Mediterranean civilisations. In our own land, Hinduism pushed the tribal and native beliefs of forest-dwellers and declared them savage. I think the nobility of the tribal communities still lingers in simple lifestyles and community living.How ironic that every religion believes that it is the custodian of Truth when the truth is that they are all flawed in one way or another. The same is true of modes of government and political ideologies, is it not?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-prayer-for-all-208969
07-02-2021||One mid-morning in the 1980s||With whom the buck stopped||That was the start of our lifelong friendship with Dalip Mathai, who headed the recently constituted Wastelands Development Authority, an initiative of Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. However, the purpose of his visit was related to his being the founder trustee of WWF-India and his concern of the moment was that the last surviving population of about 300 blackbucks upon an isolated patch of scrub-land on India’s east coast was on the verge of being exterminated altogether!Dalip went on to elaborate that the 17 sq km delta of Cauvery river at Point Calamere (midway between Chennai and Kanyakumari) was among the smallest wildlife sanctuaries in the country. In the absence of natural predators, over a period of time, the population of ungulates (blackbuck, cheetal and wild boar) had increased exponentially. For instance, in 1967, blackbuck numbers were pegged at 750. But by 1986, their head count had mysteriously plummeted to 320. The Bombay Natural History Society ruled out epidemic and even poaching as the cause of the sudden decline because the sanctuary was small and the watch-and-ward infrastructure was both adequate and so well motivated that poachers simply could not go unnoticed.The mystery deepened but remained unravelled till one among Dalip’s wide circle of conservation enthusiasts learnt that the LTTE cadres had set up a guerrilla training facility inside the Point Calamere sanctuary. And that probably at the point of the gun, they had neutralised the watch-and-ward staff and were now wantonly shooting all animals, especially the blackbuck. Could I help prevent the massacre? As luck would have it, I was to take a brief to the Chief that very afternoon and knowing his indulgent nature, I was hopeful that he would react to the crisis positively.I shared the grim news from Point Calamere with Gen Sundarji with special emphasis that India has been the one and only home of blackbuck on planet earth! Without a moment’s hesitation, he told me to accompany him to a meeting to the PMO Secretariat late that evening. Once there, he led me to a gentleman and said, “He is your man.” The meeting got delayed and the Chief turning to me said, “Baljit, if you have conveyed your concerns, you may hand the brief to me and go home.”Four days later, “my man” gave me the news that the LTTE cadres were indeed shooting blackbuck but not for venison; rather, the blackbuck running at full stretch over the pale sandy sea shore presented the perfect, regulation bull’s-eye target for honing the skills of their sharp-shooters! My heart sank at this. In the next breath, he told me that he had got a firm assurance from the LTTE that henceforth they would neither target the blackbuck, nor other wildlife species in the sanctuary. Indeed, they kept their word. And the blackbuck numbers gradually began rising once again.A couple of months later, Dalip dropped by and in a very apologetic asked for a “personal favour”. He loved passenger pigeons and maintained a coop of over 500 in his backyard. One of the young officers, a pigeon fancier, had brought a few dozen birds from Bangladesh as war booty! Dalip had known of this flock and wanted me to trace the whereabouts of the officer so that he could go and purchase a few. When I managed to contact him, he laughed: “Sir, please tell your friend that he can pick up four pairs as a gift.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/with-whom-the-buck-stopped-208971
07-02-2021||A strong puritanical streak runs through middle class India. In that respect||Why states’ views on high taxation of alcohol make no sense||As everybody knows, in the “dry” states of Gujarat and Bihar, it is easy to buy alcohol. The trouble is that by doing so, you are breaking the law. Hence, it only encourages disrespect for the law. If you can easily break a stupid law, then you feel you can break any law, however well-meaning and beneficial it may be for society. The dividing line between a bad and good law gets blurred. To me, that is the most pernicious aspect of prohibition.However, the main thrust of this column is elsewhere, namely the short-sighted and foolish view of the authorities on the taxation of alcohol. It is widely accepted that excess drinking of spirits like whisky, rum and vodka is more harmful to health than wine or beer, for the simple reason that the alcohol content of spirits is much higher than that of wine or beer. In fact, doctors say that a glass of red wine is good for you. In most countries, wine and beer are sold in provision stores, whereas the outlets for spirits are restricted. Not in India, however. Wine and beer are equated with spirits, and can only be sold at licensed liquor shops. In Maharashtra, you even need a liquor permit for such purchases. Worse, wine is taxed so heavily in India that the cost of a bottle of any decent Indian-made wine is close to double that of a bottle of Indian whisky or rum. To me, again, that’s stupid. Tourists worldwide now tend to drink wine and beer, rather than spirits, when they travel. Hence, such low-alcohol content beverages should be easily available at a reasonable price. China does exactly that, and gets five times as many foreign tourists as we do. Indians, too, should be weaned away from spirits, towards wine and beer.Most wine is made from grapes and their cultivation brings income to farmers. There are several areas in India where the climate and soil are ideal for wine-grape vineyards. I can think of three offhand: near Nasik, Pune and Bengaluru. This is where Indian companies make decent, even exportable, red, white and sparkling (akin to champagne) wine.Recently, I spent a weekend at a friend’s farmhouse about 20 km from Nasik. There are 12 similar farmhouses in the same complex. Each covers 1 acre, half of which comprises a vineyard. In other words, a total of 6 acres of vineyards in the complex. A nearby fresh-water lake supplies the necessary water. An Indian wine-maker in the area buys the grapes, which are only harvested after a consultant has checked that they are at the correct sugar level. The 6 acres produce an average of 18 to 24 tonnes of grapes. There are plenty of other farms in the neighbourhood, big and small, which grow both table and wine grapes, providing farmers and labourers good livelihoods. A rough calculation shows that the production cost of a bottle of wine is around Rs150. For heaven’s sake, or more for farmers’ sake, since they are in the news, why should this wine be so heavily taxed that it eventually sells for several times as much! That’s patently ridiculous.Himachal Pradesh is probably the only state that has had a sensible policy on alcohol for years. It allows wine made from fruit grown in the state to be sold in ordinary shops. It may be news to some that wine can also be made from apples, plums, peaches and cherries, all of which grow in abundance in Himachal (sadly, grapes don’t). The farmers, the retail outlets, and the government benefits — and the consumer gets a drink with low-level alcohol. I should add that the Himachal fruit wines are really not up to international standards, as are some Indian wines. But then, wine-making takes time and entails a long process of trial and error before it becomes more acceptable.Goa, apart from its famous feni, now makes some excellent gin, along with a variety of other spirits, entirely from Indian ingredients. One entrepreneur, Desmond Nazareth, makes tequila from the same cactus-like plant, agave, used by the Mexicans to produce their world famous alcohol. He found that agave grows wild in many parts of India, so he set up a plantation in Andhra. The juicy flowers of the Mahua tree, which grows all over central India, have been used for centuries by tribals to make a potent brew. That caught Desmond’s attention and he refined the juice of the flowers by triple distillation to make a first-rate liqueur. Unfortunately, most of these concoctions mainly sell only in Goa, where the taxes are low. Once taken out of Goa, heavy taxes in other states kick in, making them far too expensive. “Make in India” should not be a slogan just for manufactured goods, but should benefit our farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs as well.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-states-views-on-high-taxation-of-alcohol-make-no-sense-208972
