08-02-2021||---||Internet shutdowns warrant fresh legal view||Over the years, the Internet has become the central lifeline of our day-to-day life. The outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic has amplified the importance of the Net. No wonder, access to the Internet becomes a starting point for us to fully enjoy all avenues of the digital world and related fields. Access to the Internet itself thus becomes an essential element of enjoying the right to life.Under Article 21 of the Constitution, the fundamental right to life includes the right to a dignified life and not mere animal existence. Today, it is hard to live such a life without having access to the Internet.Since access to the Internet can spur cyber crime and criminal activities in the physical world, countries invariably resort to snapping Internet access, at certain places where there are elements of public order being disrupted or where there is an anticipation of cognisable offences which are likely to be committed. Hence, this access to the Internet can be taken away only in accordance with the principles established by law.However, this is one area where a lot of clarity needs to be specifically brought into motion. There is no denying the fact that every government of a sovereign country has got the power to block the Internet. This sovereign power can be exercised in case it is necessary or expedient so to do, in the interest of sovereignty, integrity or defence of the relevant country, security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, public order or to prevent incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence.However, on a number of occasions, it becomes hard to clearly and transparently define as to how these principles need to be resorted to for invoking the power of Internet shutdown. Increasingly, across the world, people are beginning to see Internet shutdown as the violation of not just their fundamental right, but even their human rights. This is so because your existence as a human today cannot have full meaning without having access to the Internet which is becoming a repository of wisdom and knowledge for humanity as a whole.A number of times, there are various factors in the minds of the relevant statutory authorities to order an Internet shutdown. Invariably, the legalities of Internet shutdown orders are also being challenged in courts of law in different parts of the world.In this ecosystem, it thus becomes relevant that the entire legal jurisprudence around the Internet shutdown needs to have a fresh look. There is a need for cyber legal frameworks to clearly and categorically define the limited scope for exercise of powers to impose an Internet shutdown.It is argued by privacy experts that the Internet shutdown should not be acting as a tool for the purpose of depriving the people of their legitimate liberties.Apart from other laws which are invoked for Internet shutdowns, the relevant mother legislation in India in this regard is the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. The Act has no direct provision to deal with Internet shutdowns. However, it does have provisions for blocking of information under Section 69A of the Act.The Central Government has been given the power to issue directions for blocking for public access of any information through any computer resource under Section 69A. When one examines Section 69A, one finds that the government has the powers to direct any agency to block for public access or caused to be blocked for public access any information generated, received, stored or hosted on any computer resource.There are certain specific grounds which have been stipulated under Section 69A, under which powers for blocking for public access any information can be exercised, including in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence.Typically, the common perception is that this power is only for blocking of access of certain specific websites and URLs. However, when one examines the ambit, scope and applicability of the power under Section 69A, it is very clear that these wide powers also include the power to direct for blocking for access by the public of any information resident on the computer resource, including information on the Internet.The constitutional validity of Section 69A has been upheld by the Supreme Court in the case of Shreya Singhal versus Union of India. Several experts believe that there needs to be more clarity in terms of more accountability and transparency with regard to Internet shutdowns. The Government of India has already come up with the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009 which stipulate various procedures and safeguards pursuant to which said blocking for access by the public may be carried out.However, with the changed ground realities, it is imperative that the said provision may be required to be potentially amended in the coming times.The IT Act has been awaiting amendment for the past 12 years. As the government moves in the direction of amending the Act, it is important that appropriate attention be given to address the various emerging nuances, issues and aspects of Internet shutdowns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/internet-shutdowns-warrant-fresh-legal-view-209366
08-02-2021||---||Strong-arm tactics aimed at stifling dissent||The past one year has witnessed major protests which are signposts of a country in ferment. The winter of 2019-20 saw protests, rallies and sit-ins against the discriminatory Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) across India, the most famous of them led by the women of Shaheen Bagh in south Delhi.In the winter of 2020-21, India is amid a massive sit-in on Delhi’s borders led by farmers protesting the contentious farm laws that they see as a threat to their livelihood. Both protests have made it clear that mass movements are the most effective way of standing up to an authoritarian regime.These agitations are watershed moments in the history of public protests in modern India. Both the anti-CAA stir and the agitation by farmers were resolute, dignified and peaceful. Although the farmers’ protest had largely been peaceful, it took a violent turn on January 26 when a group of protesters clashed with the police within the precincts of the Red Fort. Both protests are reminiscent of ‘Occupy protests’ that have emerged over the past decade in other parts of the world.Both protests happened in public spaces, for example, on major highways, calling attention to their opposition to the new laws. They have created a new grammar of protest and called for resistance outside institutional spaces by invoking a ‘citizen activist’ strand. Both protests have defined their grievances by identifying how the respective laws undermine broader economic and political rights. These protests challenged authoritarianism and majoritarianism by demonstrating in their everyday practices a commitment to democratic methods and inclusive politics. Most occupy protests remain confined to the distinctive spaces where they emerge, but these protests have inspired similar ones across the country. They defied the odds in their refusal to disband despite huge pressure to do so and the government’s refusal to concede their demands. The very act of patiently waiting through prolonged sit-ins in biting cold offers a sharp contrast to the state’s paranoid, confrontational, and aggressive stance.However, politicians, public institutions, courts and the police system have treated them very differently. The differences in response to the two protests are instructive in itself and worth noting. Within days of the farm protests, the government began negotiations. It has offered to temporarily suspend the legislations which were reiterated by the Prime Minister recently, even though it failed to break the impasse. Nothing like this happened during the anti-CAA protests. Farm laws can be reviewed, but the CAA cannot be reviewed. For the Hindu Right, CAA is part of a longer battle to redefine secular India as a Hindu nation. For them, Muslims exist in a state of exception, where they cannot take their rights for granted or protest when these rights are denied to them.The farmers’ protests have attracted the support of most of the Opposition, whereas several of these political parties refrained from supporting the anti-CAA protests, barring the Left and a few other parties. They were even muted in their criticism of the government’s handling of communal riots in northeast Delhi and the targeting of Muslims and civil society activists, many of whom are still under detention.While the activists and protesters, in both cases, believed in the potentially progressive power of the courts, the courts regarded them differently. The Supreme Court was willing to suspend the agricultural laws and appoint a committee, although packed with pro-farm law voices, to examine the issue, while it declined to stay the implementation of the CAA in December 2019 and did not suggest expert arbitration.While hearing a batch of petitions against the anti-CAA protesters for allegedly causing inconvenience to the general public with a road blockade, the top court ruled that the right to protest in public places is not absolute, and public places cannot be occupied indefinitely. The court said that while dissent and democracy go hand in hand, protests must be carried out in designated areas. In the case of the tractor parade, the court left it to the Delhi Police to decide whether it should be allowed to enter the Capital on Republic Day.The government’s response to the two agitations makes it clear that it is not willing to tolerate protests; in fact, it is determined to de-legitimise and criminalise them. This was most visible in the wake of the anti-CAA protests. A similar treatment is being meted out to the protesting farmers. It has followed a standard playbook which involves demonising and attacking protesters — in the case of the farmers, they are being discredited with labels such as Khalistanis and terrorists. But this did not gain the same traction as the ‘othering’ of Muslims during the anti-CAA protests. Given the failure to vilify the protesting farmers in the name of nation or religion, it has found it difficult to contain their protests.Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’s defiance appears to have energised farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and this could have wider political implications in the coming months. To counter it, the government is making every effort to convert the January 26 violence into an opportunity for greater repression — threatening arrests, stifling dissenting voices and blocking Internet services and Twitter handles of those critical of state excesses. The Delhi Police putting up fences, welding iron rods into flyovers and embedding big nails on streets to prevent farmers from assembling, is unprecedented. No government has gone this far to stop protests. The ridiculous response to global pop star Rihanna’s six-word tweet and the full-scale kerfuffle over it shows how rattled the government is by the increasing support for these protests.The official response to these two protests underlines the government’s determination to continue on the authoritarian path. Although these very similar occupy-type protests have evoked very different responses, the regime’s ultimate strong-arm tactics in both cases show how an authoritarian (and majoritarian) government is incapable of resolving crises or tolerating any criticism or dissent. Both sit-ins remain a testimony to the power of public protest and the possibility of facilitating political change. Regardless of the outcome of farmers’ protests and the government’s refusal to retract the CAA, if the government continues to demonise and attack all protesters, it will only lose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/strong-arm-tactics-aimed-at-stifling-dissent-209339
08-02-2021||---||China’s vaccine one-upmanship||It is not just in eastern Ladakh that China is confronting India. It is also trying to undermine India’s Covid vaccination programme, both domestically and internationally.On January 16, India launched the world’s biggest vaccination project with the objective of vaccinating 300 million people by July, almost equal to the population of the US. Soon thereafter, on January 20, the PM announced the ‘Vaccine Maitri’ (friendship) initiative to supply vaccines to neighbouring countries.Even before the announcements, and especially after them, the Chinese media, in a series of articles, has launched a concerted and malicious campaign to run down the Indian effort. Some elements of the campaign are:n Labelling Indian efforts as India’s ambition to become a ‘leading power’ from ‘a country that counts for a great deal’; and patronisingly referring to India as ‘a major country in South Asia’ whose vaccine efforts are still worth encouraging, given the overall situation of the global Covid fight.n India has not been able to control its own epidemic well, so how can it convince people around the world that its vaccines are trustworthy to be used globally?n India’s production capacities are inadequate to meet domestic and global demand.n Premature approval of its domestic vaccine, without releasing clinical data, raises concerns over safety and efficacy.n Though India is a major manufacturer of generic drugs, its independent medical research and development capacities are not that well developed.n There would be practical difficulties in rolling out mass vaccinations due to underdeveloped medical facilities, shaky infrastructure and public scepticism.n India’s vaccines are mainly being supplied to South Asian countries, as a form of aid. Not many countries have actually purchased Indian vaccines due to quality concerns.n At the present rates of vaccination, it would take more than a decade for all Indians to be vaccinated.Such attacks do not bear scrutiny or comment simply because of India’s track record and being known as ‘the pharmacy of the world’. Moreover, the recent statement of the UN Secretary General, lauding India for the supply of Covid doses to countries around the world and calling the production capacity of India as one of the best assets the world has today, is enough to rebut motivated Chinese criticisms.However, more than the criticism itself, what is really interesting are the reasons for such a tirade. The key ones are that if India were to become self-reliant in Covid vaccines, there would be no possibility of purchasing the same from China which would lose a huge market. An additional serious concern is that the success of Indian vaccines would allow it to grab the potential market share for Chinese vaccines overseas and earn a lot of goodwill. These worries have been compounded because trials in Brazil showed efficacy of Chinese vaccine Sinovac as around 50%, while China has claimed efficacy of around 75% for its Sinopharm and Sinovac vaccines. This would dent China’s claim of being able to supply sufficient high-quality vaccines in a sustained manner.In reality, apart from supplying vaccines to the neighbourhood, India has got requests for vaccines from nearly 60 countries, both developing and developed. Several of these requests have already been fulfilled and others are in the pipeline. The mind-boggling scale of what India is doing has stunned China: about 1.5 lakh staff in 700 districts have been specially trained, several national-level dry runs that have been held; a total of 29,000 cold-chain points have been made ready to receive and store the vaccines and so on. China has also been surprised that within four days of launching the world’s largest vaccination drive, India began exporting locally manufactured vaccines to neighbouring countries.The Chinese fall-back position seems to be that even if countries bought vaccines from India, they would procure from China as well since most countries would hedge their bets to secure vaccines from different countries.China also looks upon India’s success in the larger context of its ties with the US. China is concerned about the growing Indo-US relations that it fears would harm its interests. Hence, the effort is to put down India so that it is a less attractive partner for the US. China is also smarting that India banned over 250 Chinese apps. Likewise, in 2020, there was a drop of almost 20% in India’s imports from China and the overall trade volume between the two countries was down 7.4% year-on-year.What China has to realise is that the world can tackle Covid only through international cooperation. If the vaccine exercise degenerates into geopolitical rivalry, it will disrupt global supply and demand. China, therefore, needs to stop politicising vaccine exports.Unfortunately, China continues to persist with one-upmanship. The Global Times wrote on January 27: ‘The speed of vaccine promotion will greatly affect the opening-up of all societies in the future. If their [US and Europe] vaccination is fast, this will promote mutual opening-up among them, which will exert pressure on countries which are slow in vaccination. Only by getting vaccination rates in China roughly on par with the rates in the US and European countries… can China continue to lead in being open in the future and further provide the greatest impetus for the recovery of the global economy… China also needs to provide large quantities of vaccines to developing countries, and the total number of vaccines exported should be the largest.’Such attitudes will only further damage Chinese interests. This would be a good time for it to introspect and adopt ‘maitri’ rather than arrogance. India has made clear it will neither be deterred by Chinese actions in Ladakh nor on the vaccine front.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-vaccine-one-upmanship-209329
