09-02-2021||---||Farmers’ stir testing law enforcers to the hilt||Farmers have been agitating at Delhi’s borders for the past more than two months. After the Republic Day anarchy, it was assumed that the kisan leaders would lose their credibility and the movement would gradually peter out. But this has not happened. Farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait’s call has re-energised the agitators of western Uttar Pradesh and they have rallied round him. Khaps of Haryana and the Jat Mahapanchayat in western UP have urged the farmers to join the agitation and strengthen it. They have responded promptly to the calls. There seems to be no end in sight to the protracted agitation.This agitation and the surrounding events and circumstances contain lessons and warnings for the law enforcement officers. First, it was an error of judgement on the part of the Delhi Police to allow the protesters to take out a tractor rally on the occasion of Republic Day. The police should not have given permission, and instead, asked the organisers to choose some other day as the Republic Day parade is a momentous national event and the Delhi police officers and personnel remain busy in working out the elaborate security arrangements, not only for the VIPs but also for the spectators who come to witness the parade. On this day, police resources are stretched to the limit.Nonetheless, the police gave them permission to hold the tractor rally after stipulating a number of conditions regarding the timeline and routes. With my long years of experience in policing, I have often seen that these conditions are usually honoured in the breach and that’s precisely what happened. Some goons and hotheads stormed the Red Fort, unleashing violence and vandalism. It is difficult to buy the argument offered by the police that there would have been greater violence if permission had been denied.Second, there were intelligence reports that some rabid elements might storm the Red Fort. In the light of such alarming reports, security arrangements in and around the monument should have been beefed up and the strength of the police and the CISF suitably augmented to effectively tackle the situation.The Delhi Police should be applauded for displaying patience and discipline under grave provocation. About 360 police personnel were injured, including women officers, who were attacked with swords and sticks. Yet, they did not lose their cool or open fire as any disproportionate use of force by the police would have aggravated the explosive situation, causing serious injuries as well as loss of lives.During the riots that took place in London and Birmingham in 2011, the London Police did not use force against the rioters on the spot, but later, on the basis of CCTV footage and video clippings, identified and arrested them and got them convicted. The courts also disposed of the cases expeditiously and sentenced the lawbreakers to various terms of imprisonment. This should be the template for the Delhi Police.However, there are also instances when settlement has been reached and cases against the accused persons withdrawn by the State as a gesture of reconciliation. Some of the farmer leaders have already said that before the commencement of further negotiations, the arrested persons should be released so that the talks can be held in a conducive atmosphere. But such a move can demoralise the police force.Following the use of tractors as battering rams by some farmers, the Delhi Police have undertaken elaborate measures to fortify the borders. They have now put up multilayered barricades and concertina wires and fixed nails on the roads to prevent any onrush of agitators inside the national capital. Now Delhi looks like a fortress under siege.But these measures have invited both national and international criticism. Criticising the snapping of Internet services at the protesting sites, the US administration has said that unhindered access to information, including the Internet, is fundamental to freedom of expression and is the hallmark of a thriving democracy. International celebrities like Rihanna and Greta Thunberg have tweeted support for the farmers.If the present stalemate continues, the human rights activists are likely to approach courts as they feel elaborate barricading measures at the protest sites infringes upon fundamental rights, such as right to life.The ‘Kettling’ tactics of crowd control were adopted by the London Metropolitan Police during the G20 summit in London to keep the demonstrators confined to a place so that they could not spill over and create disturbance elsewhere. It was approved by the courts only if ‘necessary and reasonable’.An indefinite continuance of the barricading arrangements may invite the judiciary’s intervention.The continuing agitation has sharpened the divide between Jats and non-Jats in Haryana and western UP and deepened the alienation of the Sikh farmers in Punjab. If the farmers return empty-handed after this prolonged stir, there would be anger and disillusionment, which could be exploited by radical groups and their mentors in Pakistan.Hence, the ongoing dispute has to be resolved through further discussions and negotiations as speedily as possible. In this context, I am reminded of the famous address of Edmund Burke in the British Parliament on Reconciliation with America, wherein he said, “If conciliation fails, force remains, but if force fails, nothing remains.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farmers-stir-testing-law-enforcers-to-the-hilt-209766
09-02-2021||---||Paranoia grips Pak army||Lt GEN Asad Durrani (retd), a former Director General of Pakistan’s ISI, continues to be hounded by the army he served with distinction, though not without controversy. The saga of charges against him and counter charges by him against the army leadership, past and present, is riveting. More importantly, for the Indian strategic community, including participants in track-two processes, this matter confirms that senior generals of the Pakistan army expect that former members of their fraternity would be guided by prescribed scripts, especially in their interaction with Indians.Serving generals may ‘respect’ a retired brother but will never tolerate his cooperating with an Indian in an unsupervised joint intellectual venture. That is the ultimate sin and that is what Asad Durrani did when he collaborated with Amarjit Singh Dulat, who was head of the R&AW for a couple of years in the late 1990s. They put together an unusual, though not earth-shaking, book (The Spy Chronicles) on the basis of a series of conversations which covered a range of subjects, including India-Pakistan ties. That embarrassed the Pakistan army as it provided its critics, especially Nawaz Sharif, to claim that the force had double standards to assess the patriotism of its former colleagues and others. For this reason, among others, action was initiated against Durrani and penalties and disabilities were imposed on him. He was also put on the exit control list which prevents Pakistanis from leaving the country. That impediment continues and Durrani has approached the courts against the inclusion of his name.Some 10 days ago, the government filed para-wise comments to Durrani’s petition. According to Pakistani media reports, it opposed the relief sought by Durrani on the ground that he had been ‘interacting with hostile elements’, including R&AW, since 2008. In a paper which Durrani had widely circulated some months ago, and which had found its way to the media, he had noted that earlier government counsel had told the court that he was ‘affiliated with RAW since 2008’. Now ‘interacting’ and ‘affiliated’ have vastly different connotations. It would therefore appear that the army has chosen now to water down the charge to ‘interacting’. Apart from R&AW, other hostile elements have not been named. While it has been mentioned that Durrani was interacting with R&AW, it is highly unlikely that he was doing so with the agency as an institution. What is probable is that he had met with retired R&AW officers on the track-two circuit and maybe had occasionally conversed with some serving officers as well.The key word in the government response is ‘interacting’. The nature of the interaction has not been spelt out but a few logical inferences can be made. If Durrani was interacting with ‘hostile elements’, especially R&AW, in a malignant manner, he should have been charged under Pakistan’s criminal laws and not merely for unbecoming conduct or violating pension rules. ‘Interaction’ is different from either direct or indirect ‘espionage’. The latter would mean working for ‘hostile elements’, including R&AW, and passing on classified information collected either directly or through agents. It is a criminal activity. On the other hand, interaction generally consists of an exchange of ideas, impressions, information available in open sources, experiences. It enables interlocutors to gain a better understanding of motivations and characteristics and greater insights into the working of systems. These are sometimes helpful in removing suspicions and abating anxieties. However, often such interactions are sterile and fail to accomplish even this little for the long-standing attitudes and reflexes of the participants of such interactions do not easily go away.Now all governments have rules for their officials relating to their interaction with foreign officials. This is to ensure that even inadvertently they do not pass on current information that would jeopardise interests. But that is not applicable in Durrani’s case, for he retired almost a decade and a half before he is said to have begun interactions with R&AW. In sum, therefore, the Pakistan army is so paranoid, especially regarding India, that it does not want officers, even if they retired long ago, to meet ‘hostile elements’.Durrani claims that among the principal reasons for the army’s unrelenting hostility arises out of his view that the US had kept Pakistan in the loop on its Abbottabad operation to kill Osama bin Laden in May 2010. Pakistan chose to deny its complicity and preferred that it be accused of incompetence. Durrani has offered little by way of credible reasons, leave alone information, to support his hypothesis. The US had of course entered into a bargain with Pakistan, under which they handed over hundreds of low-level Al-Qaeda operatives for large sums of money. However, it is prima facie difficult to believe that the US would have had sufficient faith in the Pakistan system on Osama bin Laden. Perhaps what has outraged the generals is that a former ISI head is alleging that those who consider themselves as the ultimate guardians of the ‘izzat’ and ‘waqar’ of Pakistan were capable of humiliating compromises.Durrani has also bitterly complained about the current army chief Qamar Bajwa acting on account of regimental sympathy with former chief Aslam Beg. Durrani and Beg had used funds to intervene in Pakistani elections three decades ago. A case against the two goes on and Beg has been willing to save himself at Durrani’s cost. It is unlikely though that the case will ever reach a conclusion.Durrani notes, ‘Whichever route I took, it entailed risk to life and limb. In fact it had to be assumed that the GHQ would hit back’. Is there a difference then between the Pakistan army and the Cosa Nostra with its omerta codes?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/paranoia-grips-pak-army-209774
09-02-2021||---||Secular values, beliefs should be reaffirmed||Secularism as an idea is considered by some as a Western import and by several others as an Indian value. Scholars and commentators have written volumes on the issue and the judiciary has delivered verdicts that are being commented upon as controversial, resulting in an ambiguous situation for the activists. The founding fathers of the Constitution had debated the issue threadbare in the Constituent Assembly and were finally satisfied with the provision of freedom of religion and conscience that became Article 25. It was KT Shah who brought an amendment to get the terms ‘secular and socialist’ included in the Constitution.But Ambedkar and Nehru, who were groomed under the Fabian philosophy and secular culture, did not agree with it. It doesn’t mean that they were against the idea. If we read carefully the statement made by Ambedkar, it was abundantly made clear that freedom of religion and conscience would take care of the implications of secularism at the given stage of progress of society. He further elaborated that if an advanced and mature society needs it, they will go for the amendment at an appropriate time. Perhaps the nation arrived at the appropriate time in 1976 and through an amendment, the ideas got into the Preamble to the Constitution and were later sustained through different judicial pronouncements.But there are critiques that challenge the idea on the ground that there is no need for a secular Constitution — both as a value and as a norm — since the Hindus constitute the majority and subscribe to the principle of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (‘the world is one family’). The issue here is how the concept is viewed by different parties to the debate. Those who have interpreted it as dharma nirapekshata or sarva dharma sambhava did not spell out what they meant by dharma or religion. Unless we know what is an organised religion or religious practice, it is difficult to put it into practice.In modern society, religion has acquired certain characteristics like faith, scripture, rituals, flag, holy book and other forms of organisation that might include political clout. Therefore, all religions, even if we wish to treat them on the same footing, are not similar. For instance, let us look at the two domesticated animals, cow and swine, or the marriage rituals of different castes within Hinduism and Christian denominations etc. We will have a lot of problems here.Therefore, one solution that appeared was ‘to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India’ as a directive principle in Article 44. A similar directive in Article 48 was made under the organisation of agriculture and animal husbandry ‘on modern and scientific lines… take steps for preserving and improving the breeds and prohibiting the slaughter of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle.’The two Articles were kept under the directive principles as instruments of instruction to the State to judicially adhere to while making laws, perhaps at an appropriate time. The laws pertain to the cow and other milch animals (including the buffalo), but a particular animal that is holy for some is made sacred and the buffalo that sustains our agriculture is kept aside.It is also true amid the clamour for a uniform civil code. We often listen to some friends arguing for Hinduism to be made a state religion, like Islam in our neighbouring country, Pakistan. Is it possible? Islam is a monotheistic religion and Hinduism is polytheistic. Hinduism is not Brahminism or Vaishnavism alone. It is an amorphous concept that does not include the practices of non-dwija (twice-born) communities, as touted by a few. In fact, the religious practices of lower and Bahujan castes and Adivasis are different from the Brahminical rituals.Some of the lower castes are kept outside the reach of the Hindu places of worship even today. Interestingly, a majority of the idols of goddesses are drawn from lower castes like Dombi, Sabari and Rajaki in the tantric and Natha traditions. It is different from the Brahminical saptamatrukas. The places of worship of the lower castes, particularly in rural India, are under a tree, mostly in the Dravidian country. It is difficult to place the Adivasis, Dalits, artisan/service castes, and even the Shudras who practise traditions that are different from the mainstream so-called Brahminical rituals as Hindu, given the present euphoria. The issue of diversity within Hinduism seems to have not been taken care of by many scholars, both Western and Indian, while examining the issue of secularism.Secularism as a moral value had been cherished by Ashoka as a ruler and promoter. Perhaps Ashoka was one of the earliest rulers in the world who as a king inscribed (at Girnar rock edicts): “herein the following (are comprised), (viz.) proper courtesy to slaves and servants, reverence to elders, gentleness to animals, (and) liberality to Brahmanas and Sramanas; these and other such (virtues) are called the practice of morality… Whoever praises his own religion due to excess devotion and condemns others, only harms his religion.”Therefore, secularism depicted by some as a European idea is misplaced. It became a value after the deadly experience of the Crusades; at the most, it was medieval. In British India, officers trained in utilitarian values were responsible for secular education in India after 1854. The grant-in-aid code of 1868 in the Madras Presidency was very clear about secularism in the sense of not allowing any kind of religious instruction in the government-funded institutions.In fact, the same traditions were followed by the Nehru government after Independence before religion became a vote bank. It means secularism was practised in administration and other wings of the government. Even today, the executive, judiciary and the legislative wings are secular in their functioning except those political leaders who as public servants fail to follow a code of conduct and are susceptible to disciplinary proceedings as they cross their oath of affirmation. If it were a civil servant, it would have attracted disciplinary proceedings. It is the so-called secular activists who miscarry the nuances of secularism and fail to bring the culprit to book.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/secular-values-beliefs-should-be-reaffirmed-209773
09-02-2021||---||The legacy of ‘Indiawalas’||Leaving politicians and cricketers aside, Adar Poonawalla is easily among the most prominent — and popular — names in India today.Why, even perhaps in the world.Given the pandemic, it is only natural that someone who has led an inter-continental initiative for getting a vaccine onto the world’s health map should become famous.But not everyone who has now become familiar with the name will immediately connect it with the Parsi community. This minuscule Gujarati-speaking population of Persian descent which claims no more than about 61,000 souls in India (out of a world total of just 1.2 lakh) has led India in fields of national magnitude and moment — atomic science, industry, law, education, banking, medicine, music, literature, sport, architecture and over-arching these, philanthropy. Parsis have not just been prominent in these fields; they have been pre-eminent in them.In this 120th anniversary of Naoroji’s pioneering book, we need to reflect on where, post Empire, our wealth lies, whether it is justly spread, wisely used.Cyrus and Adar, the father and son who own and run Serum Institute in Pune (formerly Poona) have, like many fellow-Parsis, the place of their domicile welded into their surname — Poonawalla. And of course there are Parsi surnames that end with the trades practiced such as Doctor, Engineer, Lawyer, Merchant.This incorporation of places and trades in the surnames was natural and ingenious for a community that came fleeing from real or feared persecution in Iran over a thousand years ago. The arrivers had no given destination — except what is now known as India — or a known occupation. If they were to give themselves a new identity the name of the place they were settling into and the trade or profession they were adopting was a good point to start.The Poonawallas, by the logic of trade-names among Parsis, may well now come to be thought of, hailed, as Cyrus and Adar Vaccinewala. Or, rather more clunkily, Covishieldwala. But not just them. I learned (Kashmir Times online, January 21, 2021) to my delight that other Parsis have participated in the development of the same vaccine. Its glass vials were supplied by another Parsi firm, Schott Kaisha, owned by Rishad Dadachanji; trucks to transport the stocks from the institute were those of the most famous of all Parsi firms — Tata Motors; the vaccine batches were airlifted by another Parsi venture GoAir of Jeh Wadia. The vaccines were, further, stored in refrigerators produced by Godrej, while dry ice used for transport was produced by yet another Parsi, Farooq Dadabhoy. They are all entitled to be called Vaccinewala.But there is more that has followed, more to ponder.It is only to be expected that the Poonawallas’ Serum Institute should have offered to reserve 60,000 doses of the vaccine for their own, numerically challenged Parsi community. But hats off to the Bombay Parsi Panchayat for going beyond the ‘expected’, and as the report has it, declining the offer on behalf of the community. This followed Ratan Tata’s advice that ‘we are Indians first, Parsis later and so we will wait for our turn’. This entitles all Parsis now to be called by a grateful nation after their greatest domiciliary address — quite simply, Indiawala.That is what the greatest ever of all Parsis and, by any standards, among the greatest of all Indians ever, Dadabhai Naoroji (1825-1917) was. He was, going by his family’s original name, a Dordi, which means, in Gujarati, ‘rope’ or ‘string’. And he has gone on record as saying, ‘You can burn a dordi but you cannot take the twist out of it’. That ‘twist’ in him, and one might say in the Parsi community as such, is the desire to excel in whatever is undertaken and to do so in celebration of a larger purpose.Certainly for Britain where he spent a major part of his adult life, as an entrepreneur, public figure and Member of the House of Commons (the first Indian to reach that position), Naoroji’s goal lay beyond his own status. It was: Justice for India and Indians, not as vassals of the British Empire but as among its most prized citizens. He knew and wanted others to know that the Empire was draining India of its substance, its soul.Naoroji’s fascinating life is the subject of one of the best biographies ever written on any Indian: Naoroji – Pioneer of Indian Nationalism (Harvard University Press, 2020) by historian Dinyar Patel. This absorbing account of Naoroji’s life tells us how from the depths of poverty and adversity, with nothing to steer him but plain brilliance of mind and sheer determination to excel, young Naoroji drew the attention of Bombay’s educational edifice, his mathematics professor. Arthur Orlebar, describing young Naoroji, simply as the ‘promise of India’. In 1871, exactly 150 years ago, Patel informs us, Naoroji toured South Gujarat, Kathiawar and Kutch to investigate local poverty. His seminal work Poverty and un-British Rule (1901) is the first systematic identification of the roots of India’s endemic poverty in the Empire’s draining of its ‘jewel’s’ wealth.More was to come. Gandhi said he got his first sense of India’s poverty from Naoroji’s book. Patel tells us Gandhi called him by the two ‘titles’ he was himself hailed by: ‘Father of India’ and ‘Mahatma’.In this 120th anniversary of Naoroji’s pioneering book, we need to reflect on where, post Empire, our wealth lies, whether it is justly spread, wisely used. And whether our political economy today is aping something from imperial, colonial, ‘draining’ practices? Is the pandemic itself the result of gargantuan global profit-lust, our own ‘Wuhans’ included?We owe that reflection to Dadabhai Naoroji Indiawala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-legacy-of-indiawalas-208442
