10-02-2021||---||A revival of Chipko spirit needed in Chamoli||The Himalayas once again witnessed a massive disaster on Sunday morning. The analysis based on satellite imagery of the region from Planet Labs, a company formed by former NASA scientists, shows that the flash flood was triggered by a rock slope that got detached from a large glacier, resulting in an avalanche of rocks and ice which moved downwards at a high speed.According to some Indian experts, the avalanche was caused by the detachment of a hanging glacier from the bedrock hosting it, some 20 km upstream of the Rishiganga hydel power project. Yet another explanation is that the detached rock slope slipped into a glacial lake or accumulated melt water held together by natural rocks and debris.Irrespective of whether it was a massive landslide or a Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF), the event caused colossal destruction downstream and nearly washed away two hydroelectric power projects.While the exact sequence of events will become clear over the next few days following field surveys, the connection of any such disaster with climate change and environmental destruction is inevitable. In the past six decades, the entire Himalayan range has recorded a rising trend of extreme warm events, drop in extreme cold events and increasing variability in Western disturbances as well as snowfall in certain regions in the western Himalayas, according to report of climate change in the Hindu Kush region prepared by the Kathmandu-based International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development.These climatic changes affect availability of water in glacier-fed rivers and also result in formation of lakes of glacier melt water. Warming temperatures play a role in glacial destabilisation and help in basal melt which can trigger ‘wasting’ events like the one seen on Sunday morning. Both the number and size of glacial lakes has shown an increasing trend in the past three decades, enhancing the risk of GLOFs. The melting of high mountain permafrost due to warming too is increasing the probability of rock avalanches from steep slopes. Such avalanches can reach glacial lakes and trigger GLOF. Studies have put the number of glacial lakes between 4,000 and 8,000 spread across the entire Hindu Kush Himalayan region. In the central Himalayas, this number has risen from 644 in 1990 to 796 in 2010.In view of this scenario of climate change and increasing threat of landslides and GLOFs occurring due to it, a two-pronged policy response is required. First and foremost, we need to study and monitor glaciers and glacial lakes on a continuous basis. A beginning has been made in this regard. Some glacial lakes are being monitored. For instance, the south Lhonak glacial lake in Sikkim has been ballooning. It has spread to 126 hectares from 18 hectares in 1976. The size of the Geepang Gath glacial lake in Chandrabhaga basin in Himachal Pradesh is estimated to be expanding by 0.025 square kilometre every year.The number of glacial lakes in the Ravi, Chenab, Sutlej and Beas basins has also gone up between 2013 and 2015. Such monitoring studies have to be intensified and made widespread. It can happen under the overarching existing framework of the National Mission for Sustaining Himalayan Ecosystem.India has gained considerable experience in polar research through multiple research laboratories in the two poles: the Arctic and the Antarctic. This can be leveraged to develop permanent research bases and stations in the third pole — the Himalayas. A beginning has been made in this direction by the National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research of the Ministry of Earth Sciences which has established a high-altitude station, Himansh, in Spiti, at an altitude of 13,500 ft. The third pole research endeavour should cover all aspects of climate change, glaciology, hydrology, livelihoods, agriculture and so on.For the mitigation of natural disasters such as glacial lake bursts and landslides, early warning systems have to be developed and implemented. Engineering solutions such as siphoning water from identified glacial lakes is also an option, as experimented in the south Lhonak glacial lake in Sikkim. It is a logistically challenging task involving the transport of pipes etc to points in inhospitable terrain. In Himachal Pradesh, scientists are monitoring changes in the Parechu glacial lake.The evidence coming from research should form the basis of policymaking and planning of development projects in the hills. For this, climate change and environmental concerns will have to be mainstreamed in all development activities, be it the construction of hydroelectric power projects or grand projects like the Char Dham Pariyojana.It has been observed that hydropower projects can amplify the impact of catastrophes such as the one that occurred this week, besides disturbing ecological conditions in the construction phase. Proponents of projects keep inventing new ways of circumventing environmental norms. The Char Dham project was broken into 53 smaller projects just to evade the mandatory environment impact assessment (EIA) studies.A series of smaller hydropower projects is proposed in one valley for the same reason. While the EIA process may be fudged, the cumulative environmental impacts of such projects can’t be avoided. For instance, springs are getting dried as the natural hydrology that brings water to them is disturbed. Landslides have been more common. Projects are sanctioned, subject to observance of certain environmental conditions, but compliance is not monitored. For instance, muck from the construction of roads and other development works is routinely dumped on slopes and riverbeds.Ironically, at the centre of the latest disaster is Raini village, which was the site of the Chipko movement that sowed the seeds of people-centric environment activism in India. In the past two decades, local movements against large hydropower projects have sprung up in Uttarakhand. Several public interest petitions, court orders and a fast-unto-death by environmentalists like Prof GD Agrawal have not had any impact on the attitude of governments at the Centre and in Uttarakhand towards hydropower, irrespective of the party in power. It is time to revive the spirit of Chipko in the hills to prevent cascading disasters from happening in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-revival-of-chipko-spirit-needed-in-chamoli-210222
10-02-2021||---||Craving for power and fetish for nationalism||There is something paradoxical about the discourse of power. The more powerful you are, the more fearful you become. Yes, the craving for or blind attachment to power causes terrible insecurity. It sees conspiracy everywhere; it cannot trust and communicate; and it only erects walls of separation.What else do you see at the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders? Those barricades and iron nails reveal how the ruling regime, despite its messiah and huge propaganda machinery, functions with almost neurotic fear, anxiety and insecurity. Yes, whoever is not in tune with its policies, as it is argued, is necessarily a conspirator. Hence, the farmers who have been fighting for their rights are either ‘misguided’ (influenced by a bunch of Maoists, Khalistanis or tukde-tukde gang) or ‘anti-national’. In fact, these days, any critical voice is seen as a threat to the ‘unity’ of the nation.As we find ourselves amid the epidemic of FIRs and sedition charges, the ‘enemies’ of the nation are discovered every day. A journalist with conscience (not like those noisy television anchors who seem to have monopolised the absolute right to ‘love’ the nation), a human rights activist, a young student guided by the ideals of equity and justice, or a leader of the farmers’ movement trying his best to retain the practice of non-violent resistance or satyagraha: don’t spare anybody, stigmatise them, harass them through court cases, and if necessary, send them to prisons.Yes, this toxic culture filled with fear, suspicion and surveillance is an inevitable consequence of the discourse of power that has made the ruling regime terribly afraid of losing its authority. No wonder, even a tweet by Greta Thunberg or Rihanna can unsettle the government. And, some of our spineless celebrities were required to demonstrate their ‘nationalist’ spirit through what is being regarded as a Twitter war. Yes, this is the story of our moral, intellectual and cultural fall. And everything is justified in the name of ‘nationalism’.Well, nationalism as a psychic emotion is immensely powerful. As history shows, it can inspire a defeated nation to fight the tyranny of colonial power; it can arouse a positive life energy for collective welfare (imagine the emphasis Gandhi put on constructive work); and it can activate the spirit of selfless work and courage to strive for a higher goal (think of a martyr like Khudiram Bose or Bhagat Singh).However, the discourse of nationalism, as we are witnessing right now, can be completely distorted for a purely divisive and partisan purpose. For instance, when the ruling regime speaks of nationalism, what it means is essentially majoritarian ‘Hindu’ nationalism.It does three damages. First, it marginalises and stigmatises the minorities; it is like saying that a ‘Hindu’ nationalist has to continually suspect his/her ‘other’ — a ‘Muslim traitor’. In fact, this stimulant nationalism, far from generating a positive/altruistic life energy, activates negative emotions and psychology of hatred. In the cacophony of Jai Shri Ram, there is no religiosity of love and tenderness; it looks like a noisy slogan of war— a warning that the ‘enemies’ of the nation must be careful.Second, as our moral/ethical sensibilities decline, this sort of nationalism becomes terribly compulsive and exhibitionist. It doesn’t matter even if one is corrupt, brute and insensitive. The only thing that you need to do is to hate Pakistan, see all Kashmiri Muslims as potential terrorists, demonise humanistic values, and celebrate all sorts of hyper-masculine militaristic gestures to prove your ‘loyalty’ to the nation. Hatred — not silent and honest work for collective welfare — is its fundamental characteristic.Third, even though it rests on ‘Hindu pride’, it does a great damage to the pluralistic/syncretic spirit of Hinduism. There is no bhakti or love of Kabir or Surdas in the Bajrang Dal variety of Hinduism; there is no culture of debate that characterises different schools of Hindu philosophy in the prevalent monologue; and it is not easy for the likes of Savarkar to appreciate Gandhi’s experimental Hinduism and cross-religious dialogue.In other words, the prevalent nationalism corrupts Hinduism (even though it cleverly appropriates Swami Vivekananda, Sri Aurobindo and even BR Ambedkar) by transforming it into an exclusivist/hierarchical/fundamentalist doctrine. This logic of nationalism is used, time and again, to condemn, silence and punish all those — farmers, students, teachers, struggling masses — who critique the policies of the ruling regime. In other words, through this discourse of nationalism, democracy seems to have been degenerated into some sort of totalitarianism.Yes, this is the time to question this fetish of nationalism, and strive for something higher and nobler. Let us acquire the courage to say that nationalism as an ideology can prove to be a monster if it is not simultaneously elevated to a higher stage through the spirit of love, compassion, universalism and true cosmopolitanism. Only then is it possible for us to sharpen the faculty of self-critique, and see an ugly thing as ugly even if my nation does it. And then, we should not be offended if Greta Thunberg expresses her anguish over the way the government has dealt with the farmers.It was the same reason that once led us to critique America’s imperialistic policy, and stand for Vietnam. Or, these days, many of us, irrespective of our nationalities, critiqued the notorious phenomenon called Trumpism. No, this should not be seen as interference into the ‘internal’ matter of the nation. Love transcends all borders and boundaries. Globalisation should not be seen as mere McDonaldisation of the world; there is no meaning in globalisation if we do not acquire the courage to expand our horizon, and overcome the psychic boundaries that militant and toxic nationalism creates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/craving-for-power-and-fetish-for-nationalism-210182
10-02-2021||---||The guessing game begins||In a major speech at the State Department on February 4, US President Biden set out his foreign policy agenda in considerable detail. The speech bears careful attention as it indicates the priorities for this administration. One may note that there is not a single mention of India. The Indo-Pacific strategy and Quad as means of dealing with the challenge of China are missing. This confirms the assessment that India may not be as key a partner for the US under Biden as it appeared to be under the Trump administration. The omission is even more telling since this administration has several top professionals who are familiar with India and have had intensive dealings with it during earlier democratic administrations. One cannot argue that there are no India hands in the administration. We may need to work harder to sustain and further develop the Indo-US partnership.Biden laid stress on reviving alliance relationships describing them as ‘our greatest asset’. He added the phrase ‘key partners’ in the next sentence but gave no indication as to which countries are covered in this generic category. In the Indo-Pacific, the US is likely to give precedence to its military allies, Japan, South Korea and Australia.There is acknowledgement of the adversarial relations with China and Russia but the early extension of the START agreement for another five years reflects the willingness to remain engaged with Russia. The same approach will likely follow with China. Biden said clearly that on issues important to US interests, it will engage with China and climate change will offer the entry point for resuming high-level engagement. But US-China confrontation will remain part of the geopolitical landscape. The subsequent phone conversation between Secretary of State Blinken and state councillor Yang Jiechi demonstrated mutual antipathy.There are two other themes. One, the US will play a more active role on the multilateral front. This is reflected in the return to the Paris climate agreement, the resumption of membership of the WHO and a return to the UN Human Rights Commission. One should expect activism at the WTO in concert with the EU and Japan. The US may drop its opposition to the WTO appellate process by allowing fresh appointments to the appellate mechanism. It may no longer oppose the new Director General whose appointment Trump had held up. We did not see any indication of Biden’s interest in rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership or reviving negotiations on a Trans-Atlantic trade agreement. There continues to be caution on this front even as the WTO emerges as the forum where trade and investment issues may be negotiated. Both on climate change and multilateral trade issues, India could come under pressure. Biden obviously expects to leverage the US return to the Paris Agreement to pressure ‘major emitters’ to come up with more ambitious emission reduction commitments. India is already identified as a major emitter and will be expected to commit to achieving carbon neutrality, at least not later than China (2060). On the WTO, there is a long-standing record of bitter divergences on several key issues. Unless both countries make a major effort to manage these points of conflict, other more positive aspects of relations may be impacted.The Biden speech is notable for its stress on democratic values and human rights as guiding principles of American diplomacy. He declared that ‘we must start with diplomacy rooted in America’s most cherished democratic values; defending freedom, championing opportunity, upholding universal rights, respecting the rule of law, and treating every person with dignity.’ There followed a long paragraph on the recent developments in Myanmar and the expectation that friends and allies will join the US in demanding restoration of the democratically elected government. India may not be able to oblige, given its equities in Myanmar. We should expect greater scrutiny of domestic developments in India. We are witnessing some of the likely strains on relations, thanks to comments in the US Congress on the ongoing farmers’ protests. There is an assumption that the US administration may remain muted on these issues, given the importance of India’s role in the Indo-Pacific strategy. The speech heralds a more difficult challenge on this score.The initial moves on India’s western flank are encouraging. The US has changed its policy on Yemen. It could well engineer its return to the Iran nuclear deal. Here its allies and its adversaries, China and Russia, have a vested interest in facilitating the revival of the agreement. They will do the heavy lifting. This would be good for India.One should expect the Indo-US partnership on defence and counter-terrorism to remain strong. Despite Biden having neglected to mention it, India’s role in maritime security and in Quad remains indispensable.One is unable to see the likelihood of PM Modi and Biden developing the kind of personal chemistry that was evident with Obama and more so with Trump. Biden has announced that he would convene a summit of democracies and India would certainly be invited. The date is uncertain. Perhaps before that there would be a G-7 summit hosted by the UK Prime Minister to which PM Modi is invited. That could be an occasion for a summit with Biden and for putting in place a positive and constructive trajectory for Indo-US relations. The democratic connection had helped us in clinching the Indo-US nuclear deal. President Bush, like Biden, was invested in promoting the democratic values. India and the US had together launched the UN Fund for Democracy in 2005. Perhaps we need to revive this initiative at this juncture.The bottom line: strengthening Indo-US partnership may require more hard work than one may have anticipated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-guessing-game-begins-210144
