11-02-2021||---||A false sense of exuberance||India’s stock market has given the Union Budget a spectacular thumbs up, far different from what many commentators and most households (according to a CMIE survey) have had to say. Since the presentation of the Budget, in one week the stock market indices have gone up by around 10 per cent. Irrespective of what happens thereafter, this needs explaining.Since the Budget did not set out to impart a stimulus to economic activity, and instead concentrated on upping investment, foremost in infrastructure which takes time to have an impact, what can be the reason for stock market enthusiasm?Was the market behaving rational or was it in the grip of irrational exuberance? Or was it simply putting the excess liquidity created by the central bank to fight the lockdown-induced downturn into stocks?Several rational explanations have been put forward. Post lockdown, the economy has quickly picked up steam and government sources are foreseeing a V-shaped recovery in moving from a GDP contraction of around 7 per cent in the current fiscal (2020-21) to a growth of 11 per cent in the coming year (2021-22).There is a clear decline in coronavirus infections, with no sign of a national second wave. Plus, the population is being rapidly vaccinated. That, and a degree of immunity given to a significant section of the population by the virus are causing some experts to foresee the entire population acquiring herd immunity.The global economic outlook also seems positive with a sensible US President Biden replacing unpredictable President Trump. Nearer home, the other Asian economies seem buoyant after having weathered the pandemic better than most western countries.But a rational explanation (as opposed to irrational exuberance) is available if we look at not just the behaviour of the indices in the immediate past but take a longer-term view. If we look at where the market was a year ago, then the broad trend would take it close to where it was at the end of the post Budget first week. May be a bit over the top but by only a little.A shorter-term view gives us the same picture. There was a big rise in the latter part of January, around the third week, after which there was a big fall till the end of the month. So we can argue that the market is simply correcting itself and more or less getting back to trend.The overall impression that we get out of all this is that the economy is not passing through an inflection point on its way to graduating to a new superior growth phase. The most recent indices rise is merely episodic or an attempt to self-correct.If the market is not in the grip of irrationality, where does it leave the average investor who, as a rule, seeks to put say a fifth of his savings in stocks in order to take a slight bearable risk for a higher return than what assured fixed income channels offer?The cardinal rule that holds for all time is, don’t be swayed by the immediate and, most importantly, don’t try to second-guess the market, don’t try to get in at a trough and get out at a peak so as to maximise gains. High stock values may be tempting but there is no knowing that they will go higher still. In fact, they may go any which way at a time of slight volatility, like the present.The answer to the question, when does one get in, is to change the question to, where does one get in. Don’t look at the current value so much as the stock itself. Is the company widely considered by the analysts’ community to be steadily turning in healthy numbers?Perhaps most importantly, seek to find an answer to the question as to where the company will be in five to 10 years. The answer lies all around us. Which are the most solid items of popular consumption? Does it look as if the public is satisfied with the value it is getting and there is considerable likelihood that it will continue to deliver that value for a good bit of time to come? Do Maruti Suzuki cars, Titan watches and wearables look likely to enjoy the consumer’s support for quite some time to come? If so, get into that stock and don’t look at its price for a good year or so. Don’t buy or sell at close intervals if you are not a professional investor.All rules about investing have exceptions. Around a decade and a half ago, consumers and investors would have given the Tata Steel stock a resounding thumbs up as it was going places internationally, buying up a bit of what was British Steel, the global grandfather of the industry. But look at what kind of returns it has given since then.Or look at ITC. It is going great guns in successfully diversifying — its Aashirvaad atta is everywhere. But most of ITC’s profits come from cigarettes and what if governments start banning smoking for simply being too injurious to health. Or ethically, should you make money out of people’s bad habits?To get back to where we started, does one get into buying stocks right now or does one start selling? My personal sense is the Budget is a disappointment. Many poor people remain hungry and many among them are still without a job. It will take the economy quite some time to settle down to pre-demonetisation growth rates. So despite the indices’ uptick, a new growth phase is not round the corner. If time tells you I was wrong, then you will know why I never became a professional investment adviser!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-false-sense-of-exuberance-210632
11-02-2021||---||US policy may help reinforce ASEAN centrality||The global focus is on the Biden administration’s reaction to different aspects of international politics. The China discourse dominates current thinking so much that almost every country, including India, is keen to grasp the nuances of the Biden policy towards China. This includes the 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).The association is accustomed to its centrality in the region through the ASEAN Dialogue Partnerships with 10 countries, including India, the US and China; the East Asia Summit, the ASEAN Regional Forum and now the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). It evolved as an Indo- Pacific policy outlook in 2019, so as not to be left out of strategic churning. It successfully stayed the course for the RCEP and some members bravely joined the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, (CPTPP).ASEAN felt the heat of strategic competition as China asserted itself aggressively in the South China Sea (SCS) over which it lays traditional claims to the exclusion of the sovereignty of ASEAN states. ASEAN was concerned with the Sino-US rivalry in the region, particularly as Quad countries like India, Japan and Australia also joined the strategic countenance.Biden’s election brings a sense of relief to ASEAN, which was anxious regarding the then US President Trump’s open confrontation with China, often nudging ASEAN countries to take sides, which they are loath to do. With the RCEP and China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) investments in infrastructure in ASEAN, it was perceived to be tilting towards China. President Trump had not made it easier, having skipped every East Asia Summit since 2017. That hurt ASEAN centrality. ASEAN now believes that with Biden, a more rational order will prevail where normal diplomacy, rather than tweets, would determine the policy. Till the next East Asia Summit in November 2021, ASEAN has adequate time to adjust to the Biden administration, understand it better and engage it.The cautious policy of trying to balance between the US and China was unhinged by China’s vaccine diplomacy which included joint production with some states, expanding the reach of the BRI including into the Philippines and a post-pandemic expansion of trade making China ASEAN’s largest trading partner.Several interlocutors in the last months of 2020 noted that ASEAN’s future policies would be determined by the US elections. It remains to be seen whether ASEAN policies adopt any change or merely become more comfortable with a new Biden administration. Current statements by Biden nominees during confirmation hearings indicate that they will continue to counter China, stay focused on the Indo-Pacific, engage Japan and South Korea as alliance partners and stay the course with the Quad. These have been sources of discomfort for ASEAN. The style and demeanour that the Biden administration exhibit towards China could be the balm that ASEAN may relax with.Brunei has taken over as the ASEAN chairman from Vietnam. It convened its first virtual meeting of foreign ministers on January 28 this year. They look forward to working to strengthening the ASEAN-US strategic partnership for regional peace, security, stability and prosperity. They hope that ASEAN-US cooperation will sustain multilateralism, international cooperation, contribute to global economic recovery and mitigate the impact of the pandemic.Trump largely ignored ASEAN, with Mike Pompeo in September challenging ASEAN to act firmly against China, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi visited Myanmar, Indonesia, Brunei and the Philippines in January 2021, while he had visited Malaysia and Thailand in October 2020. This has not softened the ASEAN position on the South China Sea and in the statement by the foreign ministers on January 28, 2021, they reiterated the consensus in the Vietnamese Chair’s statement in November 2020.The next steps require a conclusion of the decade-long process of the ASEAN-China code of conduct on the SCS. China has agreed to negotiate with ASEAN as one entity but has put forth difficult conditions including non-applicability of United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) , exclusion of non-ASEAN countries from access to resources and to keep the South China Sea gains unchallenged. Some ASEAN countries like Indonesia and Vietnam have approached the UN Secretary General with declarations of their UNCLOS-compliant positions on the South China Sea. Similar support has come from the UK, France and Germany.This is an interesting time for ASEAN. While they were waiting for the Sino-US rivalry to play out, France, Germany and the Netherlands in the past two years announced new Indo-Pacific policies. The EU is also expected to announce one. These are not robust challenges to China. ASEAN saw them as supportive of its vision. These recognise ASEAN centrality and expanded relations with them.ASEAN has 10 dialogue partners, including the United States, China and India. Since 1997, there has been a moratorium on the expansion of such dialogue partnerships, but there is growing interest among the countries to engage with ASEAN. ASEAN has accepted more sectoral partners without breaching the moratorium. Norway, Switzerland and Turkey have been thus accepted in the same category as Pakistan. Chile and Germany are joined by Italy and France in a new category of development partners. With the growing interest of the UK in the Indo-Pacific and in the region, it is making post-Brexit efforts to join the TPP. This interests ASEAN. Earlier, the UK had a dialogue partnership with ASEAN through the EU but now intends to push its case for a separate partnership with ASEAN along with its application for the Asia-Pacific free trade agreement and the TPP. It has already presented a plan for ASEAN to use global value chains as part of ASEAN’s post-pandemic recovery framework.With growing interest in ASEAN, it is time for India as a privileged dialogue partner since 1995 to add more substance — ranging from infrastructure, capacity building, trilateral cooperation and public health to new resilient value chains. The absence from the RCEP should not be allowed to diminish the partnership, much as others with a shorter history are trying to build.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-policy-may-help-reinforce-asean-centrality-210630
11-02-2021||---||Need a reality check on China’s designs||The Chinese army is there to stay in Aksai Chin. This reality had become known to our leadership in the 1950s and so it is now — though admitting this fact will be seen as a mark of defeat — and hence the claims and counter-claims, even when the reports about China ramping up its military capabilities and infrastructure in Tibet continue to appear in the Indian media. The Chinese are past masters at giving assurances and then doing another thing on the ground. No wonder that our External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had recently stated that “significantly, to date, we have yet to receive a credible explanation for the change in China’s stance or reasons for massing troops in border areas”. Furthermore, his comments at Vijayawada (as reported in the print media) indicated that not only had Chinese actions shown ‘disregard’ for the commitment to minimise troop levels, but also ‘a willingness to breach peace and tranquillity’.The reason why China has resorted to this build-up, and would stay there as long as it takes, hasn’t been lost on the policy-makers at South Block. Thus, Jaishankar has said, “We know the reason why China amassed troops at the border and breached peace.”The reasons lie in the pages of Sino-Indian history that show why an acceptable settlement is still a far cry, despite the Sino-Indian ‘agreements’ signed in 1993, 1996, 2005 and 2013. These did provide a clear direction, if there was a sincere desire to settle this long-standing issue. But in some ways, it is like the India-Pakistan dispute over Kashmir. Neither side can be seen to be giving in, with so much at stake for their political leadership. For China, there is Mao Zedong’s vision that saw Tibet as the palm of its right hand and Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan and Arunachal Pradesh (earlier NEFA) as its five fingers that China has to ‘liberate’. For India, it meant accepting the Chinese claims — as suggested by China’s Zhou Enlai in 1959 and 1960 — which would lead to charges of ‘horse trading’, as Nehru had put it, since all the territory that China claimed, “whether Arunachal Pradesh in the east or Aksai Chin in the west, were Indian,” states Zorawar Daulet Singh in his recent book, Power Shift: India-China relations in a Multipolar World. For many years even after Nehru had passed away, Indian diplomats were loyally hanging on to his legacy. This stand in due course has become an Indian article of faith.Thus, despite the much publicised meetings between the leaders of India and China — Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CPC Chairman Xi Jinping — who had first engaged in 2014, and then following the standoff over Doklam in 2017, over structured summits at Wuhan in 2018 and then at Mamallapuram, near Chennai, in 2019, there were major Chinese intrusions across the LAC in 2014 and then in 2020. One reason was that the directions to their respective militaries, to have better and more frequent communication and strengthen the existing confidence building measures (CBMs), so that the special representative (SR) could “seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable settlement to the border question”, were quite vague.And so, there was room for (mis)interpretation leading to transgressions by troops on either side of the LAC, whenever the opportunity arose. But these were generally by patrols along the LAC or the McMahon Line, and were rarely entrenched intrusions, barring a few like those in 2013, in eastern Ladakh, before April 2020.However, the absence of political drive to find a solution over the boundary disputes, especially after the 2013 Chinese intrusions in east Ladakh, and the 2017 Doklam stand-off, and a Chinese desire to position oneself at an advantage became more noticeable, with ‘nearly 75 per cent of the transgressions’ by Chinese troops taking place across the LAC, and only 20 per cent in India’s eastern front along Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. This makes it apparent that for the Chinese, the Aksai Chin area was ‘a valued piece of real estate’, and the Ladakh crisis could thus be explained as a ‘belated reassertion of China’s original claims over the area’.What had brought matters to a head in 2020 — as China would’ve seen it — were several actions initiated by India in recent years. First, India’s effort to improve infrastructure — roads, bridges, tunnels and communication arteries — at various points along the Sino-Indian boundary. For years after the 1962 conflict, India hadn’t developed these for fear that better roads from the Himalayas onto the plains would aid an invading Chinese force to roll down! Then in July 2013, a decision was taken to raise a strike corps for the Indian Army in the eastern sector, with offensive (defence) capabilities to monitor China’s activities and have acclimatised Army units for rapid responses. But it was finally the Modi government’s decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution — that gave J&K special status — and the creation of the Union Territory of Ladakh, and the call thereafter “to liberate 38,000 square kilometres of Aksai Chin” by no less than the Home Minister that contributed to China’s aggressive behaviour. These issues have been brought out in detail in essays in a recent book compiled by bureaucrat-turned-academic Shakti Sinha, One Mountain Two Tigers.With talks leading nowhere, in early 2020, the Chinese army dramatically increased its presence in Aksai Chin, along the LAC as the snow melted, which India mistook as military exercises, even though there were substantially larger elements of tanks and artillery. Thereafter, Beijing made its intentions known. It was in no mood to pull back its army, and as it did in 1959-60. China then conveyed to New Delhi, that a solution to the latest boundary tensions could be found around the Chinese proposals of 1959. Is it time, therefore, for India to do a reality check?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/need-a-reality-check-on-chinas-designs-210631
