12-02-2021||What I admired most about Datta Padsalgikar was his concern for the police constables||Police welfare on mind||Datta had no hesitation about visiting the houses of the men working directly for him, be it in the capacity of a chauffeur or an office orderly. He would avail of the opportunity presented by a child’s birthday, for instance, to enter the Police Lines to partake of the birthday cake. Not many police officers I know would think of such a heart-warming gesture.Datta Padsalgikar has been selected by the country’s National Security Adviser, Ajit Doval, as one of his three lieutenants. Datta has moved up. But he is still remembered and will continue to be loved by the men he commanded. His biggest contribution to police welfare was to introduce the concept of an eight-hour shift in the city’s 90-odd police stations.Nobody in the police had imagined that this feat was possible. But listening to a constable from a police station, whose duty was to distribute duties to the men, Datta decided to try it out first at that very police station, and later to other police stations in the city. The reaction of many officers and men who I met was electrifying. Such an arrangement had never been tried out in the recent or even distant past!So, when the state’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wrote to me, inviting me to discuss police welfare over dinner he hosted last month for a dozen and more retired IPS officers, I listed the eight-hour duty schedule as the most important welfare measure that the lower ranks would appreciate.In view of my physical infirmities pursuant to my advancing years, I was compelled to decline the minister’s dinner invitation. But I wrote to him, listing the most important measures that I felt he should facilitate at his level to make the quality of life of the policeman better.A policeman serving in any state is on duty physically 14 hours a day on an average. The normal shift is of 12 hours. This usually prolongs to 14 or even longer if there is a local emergency, like it happens all the time in a commercial metropolis like Mumbai. If you add the commuting time to and fro from home to place of work, the man or woman hardly finds the time to interact with the family!It is this lack of quality time with spouses and children that police leaders and their political bosses should address. It affects the policeman or woman’s peace of mind and emotional equilibrium. Without this equilibrium, it is difficult for him or her to give his or her best. Often it leads to alcoholism or worse. Very certainly, it affects productivity levels. More dangerously, it also affects the way the policemen or police women deal with members of the public who perforce have to visit police stations.The Home Minister, in his letter, mentioned the sacrifices policemen and their officers had made during the Covid lockdown. It was incumbent on the government’s most visible arm, the men in khaki, to enforce the rules of the lockdown. In the course of this duty, they were exposed more than other citizens to the infection. Over 200 died of the pestilence in the past nine months in the state. Almost half of those who died met their end in Mumbai City. A grateful government felt obliged, said the minister, to ameliorate the lot of these ‘soldiers’.I commended him for thinking of the police, even though the idea emanated from the sacrifice of their fallen colleagues. I also suggested a yearly medical check-up of every policeman/woman, as well as their family, and a central repository of the findings and the treatment recommended. In the month before he demitted office, DGP Subodh Jaiswal was in talks with six Rotary governors. I had facilitated these talks because Gulam Vahanvaty, Rotary Foundation’s Board member and my co-trustee in PCGT, a Mumbai-based NGO, had requested me to do so. If this initiative is pursued for the city of Mumbai alone, it may be possible to make a beginning. Covering the entire state was found to be impractical for a single entity.Another immediate welfare measure I recommended was repair and maintenance of policemen’s quarters in more than a dozen Police Lines that dot the city. Many of these quarters were of colonial vintage! There are flats in such a sad state of disrepair that the possibility of accidents disturbs the peace of mind of the residents of those flats. The police housing establishment is perpetually short of money to maintain the quarters, and if the government could find ways to meet that necessity, it would help immensely to lift morale.The constabulary is much more educated and knowledgeable today than it was in 1953 when I joined the Indian Police Service. The minimum educational qualification required to be recruited has risen steadily from those early days to High School Certificate today. But, high school-qualified candidates stand a poor chance because degree holders competing for recruitment outnumber them.It is not only the men, but even their wives who are educated, many of them having graduated from the city’s burgeoning colleges. The modern policemen’s family is content with two children. In fact, one-child families are common in the lines. Many of these one-child homes consist of the parents and a girl child!What impressed me most about the minister’s initiative was the realisation that he showed that he really cared! He did not set himself up as all-knowing! He wanted to pick on the minds and the experience of senior retired officers. This surprised me because he had just got rid of an outstanding state police chief, Subodh Jaiswal, on the specious ground that Subodh ‘interfered’ in police postings (as local newspapers reported).If now the minister accepts some, if not all, of our suggestions, my respect for him and his government will increase. The rank and file of the force is also sure to respond.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/police-welfare-on-mind-211010
12-02-2021||---||Blocking dissent may prove counterproductive||In a healthy democracy, the State is not afraid of the opinion of its citizens, be they critical of the regime. One of the classic signs of a backsliding democracy is the State seeking to criminalise or shut down amplification of opinions by those who disagree. From terra firma, the battle inevitably goes to cyber space these days.The Indian government is currently in a battle with Twitter, the micro-blogging site with millions of subscribers. It wants to block 1,178 accounts that it says are propagating Khalistani content, in some instances backed by Pakistan. Twitter has made it an issue of free speech though it’s also begun capitulating and has reportedly blocked some 500 accounts, leaving those of journalists, activists and politicians. This is actually the first time that Twitter has taken a ‘free speech’ stance in India, possibly a result of changes in the US where it is headquartered and famously terminated the account of a sitting President Donald Trump this year, just before President Joe Biden took over.In India, the Modi regime is faced with its biggest challenge in the ongoing agitation against the farm laws; it clearly wants to manage and counter the dissent and to do so is ready to take the battle into cyberspace. Because new media, such as Twitter, is hard to contain, supporters of the regime and prominent ministers have taken it upon themselves to shift to a made-in-India app called Koo and #BanTwitter was the hash-tag trending on, well, Twitter on February 10.In a nation where demonetisation was abruptly announced and a national lockdown declared at four hours’ notice, it’s not impossible to imagine Twitter being banned. But it’s worth mentioning that the Prime Minister has the largest Twitter following of political leaders in office with 65 million (currently, former US President Barack Obama has the largest following in the world — 129 million). But ever since pop star Rihanna with 101 million followers (the fourth largest) put out a tweet asking “why aren’t we talking about this #FarmersProtest” along with a story about India cutting internet at protest sites, Delhi seems to have lost a certain balance.The MEA reacted with an official statement, about “sensationalist social media hashtags’ and “poor understanding of facts”, thereby making a celeb tweet a matter of State concern. Since then, other international personalities have also tweeted about the farmers’ protest, illustrating clearly that you can’t shut down social media in an interconnected world. The counter campaign asking or compelling Indian achievers in cinema and sports to tweet identical words in support of the government’s actions was a poorly executed command performance.The showdown between Twitter and the Indian government is another marker of how tough New Delhi can get. But as long as India keeps its Net space open, trying to block contrarian opinion and protest on these platforms is a bit like standing with an umbrella to avoid a tsunami. Organised protesters have prepared back-up Twitter IDs and intend to share information and opinion linked to the farm protest in accounts bearing other names. It’s a battle the government cannot win, short of banning the site altogether, akin to actions taken in nations that do not claim to be democratic. Twitter is an American company and threatening its employees with arrest has already attracted criticism in the Western media.Beyond cyberspace, what is being done on the ground is to use the police to intimidate the media. Just look at the events of January alone: two journalists covering farm protests were arrested for allegedly obstructing police, FIRs were filed from BJP-ruled states against a total of 10 journalists and three Manipur journalists were arrested under the draconian UAPA for an opinion piece.Conditions in Kashmir remain deplorable and the restoration of 4G Internet there was a reminder of how long people there were denied freedoms. This week, there were raids on the Delhi-based news website Newsclick that’s done several gritty ground reports on the farmers’ protest.The assault on independent media is a sign of paranoia as it takes place in spite of mainstream broadcast media being overwhelmingly in support of all policies of the regime. Little wonder, India is slipping on the Democracy Index prepared by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU). Last week, it slipped two places in the 2020 report to land at position 53 and therefore in the category of “flawed democracy”. In 2014, India was 27 in the rankings, but has been steadily moving downwards since.More challenges await some citizens. Any Indian who has ever applied for a passport would know that there is a police verification required. The police in Uttarakhand have declared an intention of monitoring social media posts to see if passport applicants have “anti-national sentiments” which in the current climate may be a case of supporting the farm protests or being politically opposed to the state or Central regime. There is nothing in the Passports Act that supports this, but the police can certainly impede the process. Likewise, the regime of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, himself a product of the JP movement, has threatened a similar sort of police verification to deny protesters a government job, financial aid from the state and a passport.A democracy at its best represents all the people all the time. We have already created an election template where we get some of the people against another set of people and mobilise voter blocs to get adequate votes to win a seat in the first-past-the-post system. One section of India’s society is all too often treated as the enemy within. With the farm protests, we are labelling other industrious citizens as hostile inhabitants of the land.The vocal section that sees the nation embodied in an individual or a party has ironically amplified its views through the very social media platform that the government would now like to censor. The government has consistently refused to call out hate speech or fake news peddled by accounts loyal to its ideological fraternity. Indeed, it is the right wing cause that has gained the most through social media campaigns and hash-tags.New media has played a big role in changing the nature of discourse in the post-truth age. It has promoted the worst tribalism and prejudice, but it can also be used to counter them. Democracy is not about electoral conquest that culminates in the victorious regime treating all critics as enemies of the State. If that were indeed to be the permanent state of mind, India would fall into the category that the EIU Democracy index calls authoritarianism. If India bans Twitter, the long protest, the crackdown and the state of our democracy would invite further international scrutiny.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/blocking-dissent-may-prove-counterproductive-211008
12-02-2021||---||Expand maritime footprint to check China||Geography gives India a strategic edge in the Indian Ocean, but that is insufficient to counter China’s growing influence in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), which stretches from Africa to Australia. Sino-Indian rivalry and New Delhi’s wish to balance China largely explain India’s offer to sell arms to countries in the IOR at the inaugural Indian Ocean Defence Ministers’ Conclave, held on the sidelines of the Aero India show in Bengaluru on February 4. More than 20 countries — from Madagascar to Singapore — attended the meeting, which focused on the enhancement of stability and prosperity in the IOR.As an arms retailer, India will face tough competition from China. The world’s seventh largest arms vendor, China is already the top seller of weapons to several Indian Ocean states, including India’s friendly neighbours like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Myanmar. India ranks 23rd as an international arms seller. So, how realistic is New Delhi’s aim of selling $5 billion worth of arms in five years’ time? That is an open question.Attempts by India and China to expand their influence in the IOR highlight the strategic and economic importance of the ocean’s international waters to both countries. Traditionally, India has regarded the Indian Ocean as its maritime sphere. Parts of the ocean comprise India’s territorial waters. Most of India’s trade by volume and all its vital oil imports traverse the ocean, so maritime security in the IOR is a strategic and economic imperative.China recognises that geography gives India a special position in the Indian Ocean but it has warned that the ocean is not India’s backyard. Since 2015, China’s Defence Papers have linked its national security and development interests. The world’s largest oil importer, China buys 40 per cent of its oil from the Middle East, so the openness of the ocean’s seaways, access to ports in the IOR and the acquisition of a stake in them are among China’s top economic and security priorities. Throughout the IOR, China’s presence and influence have increased. Most countries in the IOR have joined China’s Belt and Road Initiative, presenting it with the opportunity to offer them both investment and military gear.China’s naval strength in the Indian Ocean is greater than India’s. The People’s Liberation Army Navy is bigger than the Indian Navy and it can deploy more sea-based aircraft. India is safeguarding its interests in the IOR. The Indian Navy has significantly increased its deployment of warships, submarines and other assets in the IOR, in an attempt to send across a message to China. The extent to which India is able to deploy advanced technologies will have a bearing on its status as major South Asian and Indian Ocean power.China’s growing presence in the Indian Ocean reflects its wish to consolidate its role in the IOR and enhance its global maritime power. China has moved submarines, destroyers, special operations forces and guided-missile frigates into the Indian Ocean.With most states in the IOR, China has strengthened its trade and investment ties. It has developed ports in Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Myanmar and enhanced its influence in the region. It has also built its first overseas naval base in Djibouti in north-west Africa. Djibouti is strategically located at the southern entrance to the Red Sea, en route to the Suez Canal. The canal connects Asia to Europe and Africa.The China factor also represents the most significant challenge to India’s politico-military strategy in the Western Indian Ocean. In recent years, China has strengthened trade ties with Middle East countries. Beijing is a major import-export partner of India’s friend, Israel. It is also Saudi Arabia’s largest trading partner and is helping to finance Riyadh’s ‘Vision 2030’ to help diversify the Saudi economy and transform Saudi Arabia into a major industrial powerhouse and an international logistics hub.India must contend with the hard fact that it cannot take even friendly neighbouring countries for granted. Take the case of Sri Lanka. On January 15, about 10 days after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar visited Sri Lanka, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa declared that because of regional security considerations — implying India’s suspicions of China’s clout in Sri Lanka — India’s Adani Ports company and its Japanese partners would build the East Container Terminal of Colombo port. But on February 2, Sri Lanka made the shock announcement that Adani Ports would not be allowed to develop the terminal because the “foreign company” did not agree to its proposals and because of opposition from trade unions. Some Indian officials see Chinese prodding behind Sri Lanka’s volte face. News of its U-turn came a few days after Sri Lanka received free anti-Covid vaccines from India. Good vaccine diplomacy is clearly not intertwined with success in port diplomacy.China’s strengthening influence in the Indian Ocean goes against the Indian vision of an IOR where security rests on the balance of power rather than dominance by any single country — whether that is the US or China. This is a major reason why New Delhi has signed logistics agreements with the US, France and Australia to counter China’s naval presence beyond India’s immediate maritime neighbourhood. But to counter China successfully in the choppy waters of the Indian Ocean, arms sales, military strength and partnerships must be accompanied by more economic investment and trade with countries in the IOR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/expand-maritime-footprint-to-check-china-211009
