13-02-2021||Former Director||Ecological damage will take its toll on farming||Even as the struggle to save lives continues, we can see a strong link between the Chamoli tragedy and the farmers’ agitation hundreds of kilometres away. That commonality lies up in the Himalayas, and it arises from a problem that few in India know much about, or even if they do, think that it’s something that can be set aside for another day.Despite the overwhelming evidence of the destruction wrought by the flash floods, or the memories of the Kedarnath tragedy, few care to look at the problem head-on. Within the government, the ongoing pretence is that each problem can have cash thrown at it and passed on. It can’t.The flash flood — a rather understated term for several thousand tonnes of snow, ice and debris rushing through a valley at about 20 metres per second — is now understood to have been caused by a hanging glacier breaking off, thereby creating a mass with a 20-25 metre head, that gathered further debris as it hit the under-construction Rishiganga power project and then the Tapovan power project further downstream.These are the findings of the Defence Geo Informatics Research Establishment (DGIRE), an establishment created last year by merging two other institutions, both researching high-altitude mountain terrain. Both are focussed on defence, rather than the environment. Both are inextricably interlinked, but as their own experts admit, there is little ability for daily data gathering to be able to predict a disaster.The thing is you don’t need a daily dose of data to be able to say that the whole glacier belt is in serious danger. The Himalayas, often called the ‘Third Pole’ for the quantity of ice and thereby water that it provides, has seen its glaciers retreating, with this worsening at least since 2005.A startling example is of the Gangotri glacier retreating 850 metres between 1996 and 1999. In recent years, black carbon deposits due to stubble burning and forest fires have hastened that process. Gaumukh has already been pushed back several metres. The Rongbuk glacier, which feeds Tibet, is similarly placed, and Chinese glaciers are similarly affected. In sum, waters that feed the Ganga, the Indus, the Brahmaputra, the Salween, the Mekong, the Yangtze and the Yellow river are all going to face initially a huge rush of water, flash floods and avalanches, followed eventually by drought.It is not just India, but also China, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar that are affected. And with some 25,000 glacial lakes, expect repeats of the Uttarakhand tragedy. Everyone is affected, and everyone will face disasters, China included. The presence of a large number of forces in the sensitive Ladakh area is not doing any good either. Expect an acceleration of decay and natural disasters.There’s a second issue that worsens all of this. Few again have heard of the Asian Brown Cloud (ABC) which is not to be confused with your computer’s back-up plans. The ABC is a man- made cloud of carbon emissions, dust and other poisons released by ‘developed’ cities, trapping the air across continents, including China and Southeast Asia. That means less sunlight, less rain, and an inverse warming effect that also means glaciers will melt at a faster rate. It also causes unusual weather patterns, which means your farmers are going to have to deal with erratic weather.And to sum that all up, farmers depending on water will find less rain, less river water, and polluted air that doesn’t allow crops to grow. So, the farmers protesting against the farm laws today could soon be in deep trouble, even as groundwater depletion continues to accelerate across Punjab in particular. It’s an entirely closed loop. The more the burning of agricultural waste and other pollutants, the less the chances of survival of present crop patterns, and down the road, any crops at all.Now, consider the government’s plans. The Rishiganga power project was pushed through despite committee after committee warning against its building. Meanwhile, mega-dams are back with the Centre, the spending of about Rs 1.3 trillion planned for multipurpose dams such as the Etalin and Dibang in Arunachal Pradesh, Athirapally in Kerala, and Bodhghat in Chhattisgarh. Two are in ecologically sensitive zones, and the others will involve displacement of entire tribal villages.In a twist, these large projects have been slotted as ‘alternative energy’ programmes, which means getting environmental clearance is easier. In addition, the Environment Ministry has decided to classify ‘small’ HP projects as ‘linear’ (like a road) which exempts it from Gram Sabha permission. Its Environmental Impact Assessment 2020 report tells its own tale, as it was attempted to be rushed through during a pandemic.The ministry could argue the project delay due to multiple levels of decision- making, and it would be right. But those multiple levels were designed to prevent just such a disaster as the Chamoli tragedy. The answer is not to ride roughshod over the environment. It is to generate admittedly much-needed power by alternative means including solar, wind and even micro dams. It is all doable. What’s needed is an understanding of the utmost urgency at the top.Finally, given the constant need to compare our own growth to that of China, remember that Beijing’s environmental policies plan to come down heavily on polluters, even as its own environmental problems multiply. With the initiation of disengagement in Ladakh, another confidence-building measure between the two sides can be a data-gathering exercise for the entire Himalayan area.Sure, both are going to do it anyway for defence purposes. It simply requires an expansion of data collection and placing of ground and space assets to do so. Again, Beijing will do it anyway. Delhi might as well play catch-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/ecological-damage-will-take-its-toll-on-farming-211681
13-02-2021||Security Analyst||Why the Ladakh disengagement is on now||The disengagement in Ladakh was within expectations — classic to the India-China standoffs. But stabilising the borders could take a long time.Soon, the troops are expected to cease their forward positions on both sides of Pangong in a phased manner, which means returning to the pre-April 2020 position — the Indian Army will hold its traditional base Dhan Singh post at Finger 3 and the PLA will hold Finger 8 at Sirijab on the North Bank. A similar status quo is to be restored in the South Bank. The structures built by both sides since April 2020 will be removed. There will be no patrolling for the time being by either side to the traditional areas.India has certainly not conceded anything, as the Raksha Mantri assured the Parliament, except that some outstanding issues, probably in the Depsang and Demchok areas, are yet to be resolved, subject to further discussions with the Chinese side. Importantly, the breakthrough has been achieved through bilateral protocols. Rajnath Singh said that India had held to its resolve and expected China to display sincerity in resolving the remaining issues.The Raksha Mantri placed the talks of the disengagement process starting from September last year when he met his Chinese counterpart in Moscow. However, both sides have since mistrusted each other and put the onus of easing tensions squarely on the other side.So, what explains the disengagement factor now?Of course, China’s Ladakh manoeuvrings remained opaque, but if the timing of the disengagement is anything to go by, Beijing’s move seems strategic, subtly linked to the US factor of meddling in the Ladakh standoff.The US, too, has made no bones about its China containment plans, as revealed by the State Department’s declassified strategy document released on January 12.All along, India was made to appear as a willing partner of the American trade and tech onslaughts against China, affording for the spread of coronavirus, while also using it as a pretext to impel business decoupling etc. Mike Pompeo, in his parting shot, admitted to have built an “enormous coalition”, enabling the banning of 300 Chinese apps. Former US envoy Kenneth Juster revealed how the US shared real-time information and logistics support to pre-empt Chinese activities across Ladakh.But for New Delhi showing restraint, it was an outright US incitement to a wider conflict. New Delhi and Beijing, however, rejected Trump’s mediation offer and, instead, both resolved to end the row peacefully through dialogue.But as time began to run down on the Trump administration, China made the first disengagement offer in November when it proposed to turn the Sirijap Finger areas into a “no-troop area”. For India, it amounted to ceding its traditional patrolled areas. The PLA later relocated its 10,000 troops from depth areas (80-100 km from the LAC).Tension started to ease since then, but China possibly withheld further talks until Trump’s stay in the Oval Office ran down the clock. The current disengagement, therefore, is within expectation, when the ninth round of talks was held on January 25 — days after Trump made his exit from the White House.The takeaways are clear: Beijing wanted to test the limits of Indo-US strategic partnership and waited to weigh its options after the Biden administration took a call on the China-centric Quad and “Indo-Pacific” strategy.What has emerged now is that PM Modi and President Biden in their recent conversation differed over Quad. It also found no mention in the Indian statement issued after Secretary of State Antony Blinken and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to each other on January 29.India’s wariness to Quad taking an exclusive military alliance shape was known. It seems still reluctant to join the next upgraded meeting called by the US. The question is whether China’s disengagement is linked to deterring India from joining the US-led alliance system.Meanwhile, signs of differences are also surfacing between Washington and New Delhi, with US officials, including the Congressional India Caucus, voicing concern over democratic norms on the farmers’ protest and their right to access the Internet, shutting down of Twitter accounts etc. The State Department has also started making exceptional statements on Kashmir affairs. India’s unwillingness to endorse a tough American line to push a democratic agenda in Myanmar is a new addition.Against these evolving backdrops, the Chinese Defence Ministry was quick to announce the end of the Ladakh impasse — a day before India issued a statement.Curiously, Chinese analysts had earlier implied the waning of America’s China-centric India policy under the Biden administration. They had insinuated a bumpy road ahead, owing to differences over India’s domestic issues, the Pak-Afghan factor, besides frictions stemming from looming US sanctions over India acquiring Russian S-400 defence systems. Chinese media also termed the signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) as compromising India’s own strategic autonomy rather than balancing the ‘China threat’. In fact, even Kenneth Juster referred to the facts of differences hitherto overlooked because of the China factor, as he saw they could potentially drive India-US ties in different directions.That being the case, the Chinese though never discounted the US factor in India-China equations, but the trajectory, it believed, would be determined largely by structural issues that could only be addressed through bilateral means.Clearly then, the Chinese disengagement move in Ladakh, coming on the heels of Biden taking charge, is surely aimed at lessening any prospect of India partnering with the new administration to form an anti-China coalition.A shift towards a bilateral means is also interesting at a time when the Biden administration is yet to formalise its Quad strategy, though Pompeo, before leaving office, enacted new protocols and laid sufficient landmines aimed at constricting Biden from changing the course on China and India. Of course, some excessive actions by the Trump administration have already narrowed India’s options.If earning US support was essential for India’s standing up to China, it has paid off. China has certainly failed to repeat 1962. India hasn’t really budged, but has shown its resolve and staying power. The persisting psychic burden of the 1962 defeat is being removed once and for all.To be sure, China can’t be trusted or taken at their word. The initial steps being taken so far indicate that troops haven’t been pulled back from the heights on the South Bank opposite the Spangur gap.Yet, the partial disengagement should be seen as the first sign of thawing. While the process may take time, what is required now for both sides is to send the right kind of political messaging. But the admirable part is the exemplary step taken by both sides to defuse the situation while taking enough precaution in time and space to avoid adverse public reactions in both countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-the-ladakh-disengagement-is-on-now-211682
13-02-2021||For a lapsed Marxist like me||Not a private affair||Public sector inefficiency cannot destroy our economy, but unregulated private sector avariceafter privatisation can finish us off.It is rare for a Prime Minister to use the term ‘babu’ for a bureaucrat. But while accepting his contention that babus do not have a monopoly over commercial wisdom, it has to be underscored that the fear of privatisation or a corporate takeover has nothing to do with the efficiency of the babus. Our top bureaucrats, like all other achievers in our society, are a mixed bag of the good, bad and ugly — in fact, if only a tad more accountable than the rest. They do not necessarily make or mar, at least, the financial system, which has been inherited from an extremely avaricious private sector.It was Feroze Gandhi who stood up in the Lok Sabha to attack his father-in-law and the Prime Minister over a scam in the Bharat Insurance Company. This private insurance company was then owned by Ramkrishna Dalmia, who had bought Bennett Coleman and Company, the publishers of The Times of India, from its British owners. Nehru ordered an inquiry on the floor of the house and soon enough, the Vivian Bose Commission unravelled a multi-crore scandal that finally led to Dalmia getting convicted and serving a sentence in Tihar Jail. It was the nationalisation of Bharat Insurance Company and several other private insurers that created the country’s most credible financial institution, the Life Insurance Corporation.If not equally dramatic, there are stories of financial distress caused by inept and greedy owners behind the nationalisation of many other institutions. Sure, Indira Gandhi’s tilt towards the Left after the Congress split in 1969 had created a political climate conducive for socialist sloganeering, but the primary responsibility for all the scams in the financial sector has to be laid at the doors of the promoters. It is this history of nationalisation that we tend to forget when we reverse the process and decide to privatise banks and insurance companies.Can privatisation alone clean up the banks and ensure that they do not go belly up? If it were so, the Yes Bank fiasco would not have happened. It was a private bank run by new-generation entrepreneurs with global exposure. Ownership — whether private or government — is no guarantee against fraud. A secure government employee of a PSU bank or an insecure, contracted employee of a private bank can commit the same fraud, provided they believe they will get away with the crime. After the Vijay Mallya or Nirav Modi scandals, it can be said with a great amount of certainty that behind every financial crime is a PSU bank employee — senior or junior. Yet, people trust PSU financial institutions only because they have a sovereign assurance about the investments and returns.This is very important, more for depositors than borrowers. The private banks have grown exponentially in retail banking because of the risks and bold decisions they have taken to lend money to home and car buyers and entrepreneurs. Here the bankers had to trust their borrowers. And India’s small and retail borrowers have ensured that they can be trusted with the banks’ money. In fact, ours is a society where borrowers commit suicide when they cannot repay their debts. But the same cannot be said about deposit-seekers like Bharat Insurance Company of yore. An Indian depositor suffers the inefficiency and inconvenience of depositing his savings in a PSU financial institution only because of the fear of the loss of his deposits. It is this fear of loss of deposits that has got extended to the fear of privatisation of LIC and PSU banks.Every investor wants better service and greater return on investments than what a PSU institution offers, but what if he loses the entire investment in the process? If the government would stand guarantee for retail investments and deposits, nobody would mind the privatisation of these institutions. In fact, it would even be a welcome move. But our contemporary history teaches us that for one successful Ambani brother, there is a bankrupt one as well. That ratio is scary. The fear of the farmers at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders is also the same: what if a new private sector procurement entrant fails?The government owes it to Indian retail depositors to ensure that failed, tainted or controversial companies are not allowed to participate in the privatisation process. The ideal situation would be to have mom-and-pop investors buying up the government offerings during an IPO whenever LIC and PSU bank shares get offloaded, with the assurance that they would all be professionally run by competent, credible boards. These behemoths have been created by generations of hardworking citizens and if they are handed over to cronies, who get into any sector where the government resources are up for grabs, they are bound to fail and take the entire economy with them.Public sector inefficiency cannot destroy our economy, but unregulated private sector avarice after privatisation can finish us off. So, privatise by all means, but let the wealth remain with small investors who, in turn, can create entrepreneurs with domain expertise — India’s new capitalists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/not-a-private-affair-211683
