14-02-2021||His name is Shahrukh Khan||Life’s lessons from the wise dogs of Dhauladhar mountains||I had paused next to the dog to chat to him about his day and mine. I appreciated his choice of spending a winter day doing nothing much except relaxing and occasionally contemplating one’s role in healing the world. Shahrukh Khan, the dog, seemed way ahead of me in the pursuit of answers to life’s recurring conflicts. Like a wise teacher, he wasn’t offering me any quick answers. Just his presence to be inspired by.After nearly a year of no holidays in the pandemic year of 2020, our family of five had finally planned a getaway that had brought us to Himachal . Three members had chosen to trek to Triund and our eldest daughter and I were spending the day in Gallu. She had brought her personal embroidery project with her and I hoped to work on an anthology of essays on India’s lockdown that I am editing. I needed a day off to do this — with no Wi-Fi, no phone calls, and no doorbells to distract me. Only the promise of fresh omelettes and instant noodles, the simple soul food of India’s Himalayan trails.“Don’t you get tired stooping over your computer for hours like this?” Hukam Chand said as he passed me by with a log of wood on his shoulder. I instantly fixed my posture as I saw him mimic me with my shoulders hunched and neck outstretched stiffly. I would have thought he is the one who does the back-breaking work.As we drove from McLeodganj to Dharamkot and later to Kandbari and Bir Billing, we stopped in various places for large meals and short walks. Some days we trekked, on other days we sat by mountain streams and admired the light dancing on water, daring ourselves to dip our timid toes in the icy flow. Then it snowed and we became part of large crowds of tourists and locals who came out to revel in the magic of fresh snow.We moved out of our hotel and stayed with friends, exchanging stories of lockdown and the things we learnt to do in the unexpected time we had at home with ourselves. I took down recipes of pancake and bread. We shared anecdotes of heartbreak and healing. We teased the one who is newly in love. We ignored our books and devices and made wild plans about future adventures.At our friends’ home, we were escorted everywhere by Chulbuli and Laddoo, community dogs who hung outside various homes in the neighborhood. It was uncanny how they knew when we would leave for a walk and when we were ready to find our way home. We let ourselves be led by the energy of the dog siblings. They knew something about the mountains that we could absorb too, if we agreed to not try to put it in into words.A year is not a long time, but something about the disruption caused by the pandemic has changed the way many of us experience life. For me, what was earlier a vague awareness of our mortality and the impermanence of things, has now become a more overt influence on how I process events.From the distance of the mountains, I looked back at missed deadlines, unanswered emails and the heavy expectations of one’s professional life. I realised I no longer want to carry the burden of guilt. Left to themselves and sometimes when they are actively neglected, things find a rhythm on their own. The one labelled urgent reveals itself to be superfluous. Our subconscious leads us towards the essential; we just need to give ourselves permission to follow.If anything is truly urgent in this time of generalised anxiety, it is our ruptured need for peace, intimacy and solace. We need pockets of silence that enable us to break away from words that do not seem to reach others and make place for a language that allows us to express our vulnerability. To connect deeply with our own selves.Each one of us has a need to heal and each one of us has restorative powers within us. That’s what I learnt from spending a few days with Shahrukh Khan, Chulbuli and Laddoo — the wise dogs of the Dhauladhar mountains.— The writer is an author & filmmakernatasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lifes-lessons-from-the-wise-dogs-of-dhauladhar-mountains-212080
14-02-2021||State power in some countries is getting just overpowering. Take Russia||The state power||What does a political leader do, recovering from poison which almost kills him? Navalny is reported to be very rich and could have stayed in luxury abroad. But you can’t fight a system while staying outside the reach of its tentacles. The trouble is that Navalny has ideals also, a pretty dangerous thing to be equipped with. If you are constantly attacking a Russian head of state, ideals are a bomb in your coat pocket ticking away. Entire Europe knows it was a state nerve agent which poisoned Navalny and that the courts which try political prisoners are a farce. The question one can ask: ‘is the state a criminal?’ Of course, it is or was in Hitler’s or Stalin’s times. State-sponsored killing would be as old as history. Isn’t the state a much bigger criminal than an individual? Can Jack the Ripper or Al Capone match a state on the rampage?It is not just Russia. Look at Myanmar. The Junta takes over and dismisses the government on the brazen excuse of ‘voter fraud’. Aung San Suu Kyi is imprisoned. The political ‘party’ the army backed, lost. It is much worse when the army becomes the state — as it did in Burma from 1962 to 2011. The fig leaf of the army just being the army is necessary. Even the fig leaves of judiciary and human rights, with a commission to enforce those rights, offer some palliative. The usual story is unfolding now: protests, the three-fingered salute, car horns blaring and the water canon in action. Rubber bullets have been fired at protesters. If all this escalates, we will see blood on the streets. The chorus of condemnation of the Junta would have been much fiercer if Suu Kyi had raised her voice for the Rohingya. But regrettably, she kept quiet and lost much of her halo. The atrocious treatment of the Rohingya has ethnic and religious dimensions, and this persecution has had ‘national’ approval in Myanmar. Our right-wing parties need to take a lesson from this. National jingoism can take many forms, and religious jingoism can be a part of it. Donald Trump seems to have taken too much of our right-wing time. We need to devote more attention to our neighbours. We need to support democracy in our neighbouring countries, more strongly. Formerly, political exiles from Pakistan and Nepal used to flock to us. Pakistani poets have stayed here for years. Exiled Ranas from Kathmandu came here. Now you don’t see them.The jackbooted Pakistan state is a veteran in trampling on human rights. It took Pakistanis about half a century to conduct an election, resulting in the Prime Minister getting hanged. (ZA Bhutto could have won without any tampering, but he went for the overkill. Overkill is a syndrome strong rulers are addicted to.) It must be mentioned that the Pakistani military is very watchful of its own rights — in fact, those are the only rights protected in Pakistan. From this beleaguered, army-besieged, and khaki-benighted country, with a puppet in-swing bowler as Prime Minister, comes this delightful story. Gulalai Ismail, human rights activist, daughter of Mohammed Ismail, escaped from Pakistan and finds herself in New York. Imagine the embarrassment of the state, the ISI, IB, Rangers, Paramilitary forces, which I surmise outnumber the electorate, caught flat-footed! Yah Allah, what a pass have things come to. So the state has now jailed her father for sedition and terrorism-financing. Sounds a bit familiar.The Pakistan judiciary caters to both public sentiment and the state. Killers of Daniel Pearl, the American journalist who was linking the al Qaeda with the ISI and was beheaded in 2002, have been graciously acquitted by the Sindh High Court. The death sentence on the al-Qaeda operative convicted of beheading Pearl was first reduced to seven years’ imprisonment and now he has been sequestered in a guest house. The Supreme Court dismissed an appeal by the Sindh government and Pearl’s family against the acquittal.Nearer home, we are much better off. Some leftists, liberals, tribal leaders, etc, get a smooth passage into Tihar and other salubrious places. The government has differences with farmers, but everything is hunky dory. They have held a dozen peaceful meetings. Farmers bring their own chai paani, government side gets lunches from Parliament canteens. No slogan bazi, no hulla gulla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-state-power-212042
14-02-2021||AN English bowler||Sport transcends religion, leave it alone||Charles Fry, Ranjitsinhji’s friend and captain at Sussex, believed Ranji’s distinctive strokes were due to “a combination of perfect poise and the quickness peculiar to the athletic Hindu”.It’s all rubbish, really — there’s no Christian stroke or Hindu quickness or, for that matter, Muslim reverse-swing. It can be safely assumed that both Wainwright and Fry were not really referring to Ranji’s religion — and that, in the idiom of their day, they were overflowing with “Oriental” clichés.Sport is secular. What god or gods you believe in — or don’t believe in — plays no role in how you perform. Bob Woolmer’s atheism didn’t prevent him from trying his best with a deeply religious Pakistani cricket team. John Wright, born in a Christian family, and an enthusiastic choir boy as a child, did his best to coach an Indian team that had players from different religious backgrounds.‘Religion poisons everything’ — that’s the sub-title of a book by Christopher Hitchens, the atheist writer and polemicist. In India, it seems that there are clear attempts to poison cricket, too, with religious hatred.Wasim Jaffer, who played 31 Test matches for India, is Muslim. So is Zaheer Khan or Mohammed Siraj, the emerging fast bowler. Sachin Tendulkar is Hindu. Shubman Gill is Sikh. Virat Kohli is from a family of Hindus, but is “non religious”.Big deal! Sport transcends religion. Sportspersons know it well. They know a player must perform, whichever god he does or doesn’t bow down to.It’s no surprise, then, that it’s a cricket administrator who has poured poison into cricket.Jaffer, who had an excellent career lasting over two decades, winning several Ranji Trophy titles with Mumbai and Vidarbha, resigned his position as Uttarakhand’s coach recently. He alleged that the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) secretary and selectors had been “pushing non-deserving players” for selection into the state team. His resignation letter suggested that the CAU’s affairs were run in an unprofessional manner.Immediately after that, CAU fired a salvo at Jaffer — its secretary alleged that Jaffer was making “religion-based” selections. He alleged that Jaffer was trying to “break the team through religious activities”. As if on cue, the team’s manager added allegations of his own — that Jaffer used to call “maulvis” for Friday prayers at the team’s camp, and changed the team’s religion-based slogan to “Go Uttarakhand”.Later, Jaffer denied the allegations, and said that it was a very painful episode for him. “The communal angle that has been brought up, that is very, very sad,” Jaffer said.“Had I been communal, both Samad Fallah and Mohammad Nazim would have played all the games. It’s a very petty thing to say, or even think,” he said.It’s terrible that a cricketer and coach has to explain this.Social media erupted in a battle on the issue. There were several voices in support of Jaffer, too. CAU’s secretary then began to backtrack, saying he never knew of any allegation of communal bias against Jaffer.So all this trouble was over nothing? No. It’s likely that the CAU secretary, who has inherited control of the association from his father, has been unnerved by his own wild allegation. And it is also possible that Sourav Ganguly, BCCI’s president, had a quiet word with him.Among his brother cricketers, few dared to stand up for Jaffer — not his India captains Sachin Tendulkar, Ganguly and Rahul Dravid. Anil Kumble, his coaching partner at IPL team KXIP, was one of the few players who supported him, the others being Manoj Tiwary and Dodda Ganesh. Ajinkya Rahane, who has shared long partnerships with Jaffer for Mumbai, said he had “no idea” about the issue.Jaffer’s prominent Mumbai teammates Sanjay Manjrekar — known for often saying the right thing — or Tendulkar kept their silence.Clearly, even the ‘God’ of cricket is not necessarily a good friend to a man in need. A good straight-drive doesn’t make you a great human being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sport-transcends-religion-leave-it-alone-212040
14-02-2021||Selection for the Police Command Course in the United Kingdom in the late 1980s held out promise of exposure to the Home Office Large Major Enquiry System (HOLMES)||In troubled Northern Ireland||Of the week-long field visits to London, Leeds, Manchester, Scotland and Northern Ireland, integral to the programme, schedule of the last one remained uncertain, with the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) expectedly pre-occupied with the Provisional Irish Republican Army (PIRA), which had superseded other republican groups in two decades to emerge as the most violent one. Ultimately, our brash course coordinator, Chief Superintendent David Clarkson, settled on a date and let the hosts know. And so, on a windy Sunday morning, the 10 of us boarded a Shorts 360 aircraft from Leeds Bradford Airport. Quite a flight that was — the aircraft was buffeted by strong winds all along and it was not until the pilot competently set the bird down on the Belfast Harbour Airport runway that our innards stopped sloshing around our thoracic cavities.Inspector Brian McCargo was there to receive us — much of what he said in ‘sing songy’ brogue flew over our heads. Our digs for the week were in the stately Culloden, built as the residence of the local Bishop and turned into a hotel in the late 1960s. Its imposing structure sat atop Hollywood Hills overlooking Belfast Lough. The week began with a call on Sir John Hermon, then RUC Chief Constable for eight years. Self-assured and calm, he detailed the bloody ravages perpetrated by the PIRA. Keen to divest the RUC of its militarist image, he had rejected the shoot to kill approach. At the time of our visit, he was helming a change in interrogation techniques — an unannounced visit to the Castlereagh Police Station in Belfast showed that mistreatment of prisoners was improbable. Later, I gathered that his humane approach had significantly reduced mistrust between his force and community members, including the Catholics.Garnerville Training School arranged sessions about the history of the 20-plus years of Irish ethno-nationalist conflict and approaches adopted, including use of the British army and MI-5, for quelling violence. On the technical side, we were introduced to modifications in police station design, police patrol vehicles and body armour to reduce casualties, the use of electronics to defeat Improvised Explosive Devices, and the like. A trip to Ballykinler military base, not far from Belfast, one afternoon served as a worthwhile introduction to the twin roles of the British army since its deployment of about 19 years in the province. Besides supporting the RUC in Internal Security duties, the army was conducting independent counter-insurgency operations.Responding to our urge to savour usquebaugh, we were allowed unchaperoned one evening to visit the Cultra, a pub on the slopes below the Culloden, with strict advice that we were not to disclose any association with the RUC. The hostess beguiled us into trying Guinness, instead of Irish whiskey. A dark stout produced since the 18th century in the neighbouring Republic of Ireland, its viscous petroleum-like look and lactic acid flavour put me off. On another evening, we visited Anderson McAuley, the Harrods of Belfast, in the heart of the city. Favourite of the well-heeled for more than a century and a quarter, this tony multi-floored department store selling a wide range of goods seemed to be losing its verve. The same evening, we drove past Divis Flats in West Belfast, occupants of which were known to think nothing of tipping a refrigerator over the handrails of their balconies to crush any man or vehicle suspected of spying in this stronghold of Irish nationalist paramilitaries. An Army Observation Point atop this tower, among the tallest in Belfast, could only be accessed by helicopter in those days. A few tots of Black Bush were needed that evening to soothe one’s nerves. Sensing our new-found predilection for this brand, Brian offered to arrange a visit to the Bushmills distillery.Two days later, we headed out in four separate Ford Granada sedans, rather than the new armoured Land Rover Tangis, for Londonderry about 80 miles away in the north-west of the province. While each adopted a different route, we arrived at the appointed rendezvous in a police station at about the same time. All the while, our drivers used coded communications to ensure a coordinated arrival; our driver’s call sign was “Alpha X-Ray Idiot”. After our engagements in the police station, we headed out to Bushmills, where our tour between the mashing tuns, yeast washbacks crafted out of pine, and copper stills was punctuated by generous swills. Consequently, we were not in the best shape for negotiating the nearby Giant’s Causeway, a World Heritage Site marked by thousands of basalt columns of uneven heights disappearing into the sea.The week ended too soon and fortunately without mishap thanks to Brian, who, though a Catholic, had joined the RUC to contend with his co-denominationists staging a bloody insurrection. Quite brave of him, considering that he had to live in the community! We left the Emerald Isle reinforced professionally but sad that this land of beautiful rolling meadows had been wracked for years by The Troubles, the downplayed euphemism for unrelenting fratricidal conflict.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-troubled-northern-ireland-212037
