15-02-2021||---||Healthy mind-body connect alleviates stress||Be yourself, love yourself;And lift yourself — by yourself.— Mantra for well-beingTrue education lies in the inner space of the learner. It helps you discover who you really are, and a mindful journey begins from within. You are ‘present’ here and now, and you are self-reliant to face life’s challenges. The present century, characterised by fast social changes, has been aptly called the age of anxiety and stress. Everyone has just one thing to say: “We are too busy with our lives.” Tolerance levels is at an all-time low, self-centeredness, hatred, road rage, murder, suicide and like maladaptive patterns of behaviour have alarmingly increased.What makes an individual behave so? That such an action, contrary to norms, has taken place has to have a reason. This ‘action’ is only an effect. It has to have a ‘cause’. The cause, in general terms, is stress — a force, a pressure, a strain or distress that makes a person act in an unusual manner. And yet, stress by itself is only an effect and not the cause. One has to look deeper and find the causa causans of stress — the cause of the cause, the first cause. Stress is caused by something and there the answer lies. To look at such a cause, the first or the main cause, one has to look at the affected individual, his wants and his needs. This is only part of a much wider problem.The concept of stress envisages the stressor or stressful event, the individual (his self-perception and stress tolerance) and the response. The stressor is an adjustive demand placed on an individual that produces a psychological or physical reaction, and sometimes produces symptoms of emotional or physiological disability. Stress affects the mind and the body. The process takes time to build up. When people live in a constant state of stress, their bodies produce adrenaline, a short-term reaction to stress. They produce steroids, part of the immune system, as well. When you start producing extra steroids, the immune system suffers. The steroids start working against each other.How is stress recognised and tackled? Stress is recognised by looking at its symptoms or manifestations, and thereafter tracing the cause, or cause of the cause, if necessary. Failure or delay in determining the cause may lead to serious consequences for the individual and the organisation. Manifestations of stress can be observed at three levels of operation: psychological (irritability, mood swings, worry, anxiety, withdrawal), physical (palpitations, diarrhea, impotence or lack of libido, migraine) and behavioural (impaired quality of work, increased absenteeism, careless driving, over indulgence in smoking, alcohol and drugs). The point of concern is that the stressor at one level may aggravate the situations on other fronts disrupting the homeostasis, a compensatory mechanism within. An example of psychological homeostasis is maintaining one’s self-respect in the face of failures through rationalising mechanism.The determinants that govern the severity of stress include the characteristics of the adjustive demand (stress), the personality of the individual, and the cultural and situational context in which the stress occurs. What emerges is that stress is essentially individually defined and is the outcome of the focal individual and his environment. The environment presents stimulating conditions, but the perception, coping ability and control mechanism of the individual determines the degree of success achieved in coping with stress.One man’s stress is another man’s challenge. If an individual handles stress well, it is referred to as eustress or positive stress, which is good for growth. On the other hand, if the individual does not cope well, it leads to distress and disease. The external support from people close to him acts as a prop and can certainly help him to cope. Individuals exposed to highly stressful situations tend to turn to others for support. A father’s statement to his son before the exam: ‘Do the best you can’ is more supportive than ‘I am sure you are going to do well’ or ‘I am not worried, you will surely pass’. The last two statements add to the son’s burden, for not only must he fear the disappointment of not passing, but also the loss of respect in the eyes of his father. This could have serious repercussions on the child.A healthy mind-body connect is the bedrock of self-belief and consequent well-being. When it comes to health or stress, one cannot take the ‘mind’ out of the equation of prevention and healing. Most diseases are ‘psychosomatic’— they stem from the mind. And by constantly thinking about it, we are allowing it to actually breed. The answer lies in exercise and detoxification of the mind. Practices like mindfulness, self-compassion and meditation are ‘spiritual delights’ and tonic for the mind and body. By focusing on and controlling our breath, we can change how we think and feel. The breath is a means of changing our emotional state and managing stress. There is then inner balance, peace of mind and joy.The author in his book titled The New Me: A Visionary Treatise to Uplift the Youth in Making the Right Choices has discussed a live case-study of a soldier confronted with the spiralling effect of stress, where the problems faced on the personal front do not receive any cushion or relief from home and work fronts. The case brings out how to recognise and assess stress by looking at its manifestations; the stressor should not be viewed in isolation, but relative to the individual’s perception, capacities and personality; and the role of the individual, the organisation and other agencies in the management of stress.In today’s bizarre times, ‘self-help’ is the best bet for understanding stress, its early detection, observation, analysis and proper management of unusual behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/healthy-mind-body-connect-alleviates-stress-212469
15-02-2021||---||Free market push may hit small farmers||On a cold winter morning, hundreds of tractors had rolled down the streets of Washington DC. This was on February 5, 1979, when more than 900 tractors (some estimates say more than 1,500) had descended on the American capital to protest against policies which depressed farm prices, resulting in declining income, andto demand a guaranteed farm income to enable them to stay on the farm.Forty-two years later, the iconic farm movement — unprecedented in recent Indian history — echoes the same sentiments, with almost similar demands.The American Agricultural Movement (AAM) — as it was called — arose after the 1977 US Farm Bill failed to protect farm prices at a time of surplus food production. While commodity prices continued to decline, farmers found it difficult to cover even the cost of production. This resulted in small farmers increasingly quitting agriculture, and in the process leading to soaring auction of farm lands. Farmers argued that the government was more concerned about keeping food prices low for consumers than caring for farmers. Sounds familiar, isn’t it?Wheat price for instance, when adjusted for inflation, was lower than what the American farmers had received after the Second World War. Another study showed that adjusted for inflation, the US farm income in 1976 was less than the annual farm income during the Great Depression years in the 1930s.It was then that a group of farmers met at Campo, in Colorado, and decided to launch a series of strikes across state capitals to show how the rural family structures were crumbling, increasingly leading to agricultural population declining to obscurity. Using the tractor as a symbol of farm discontent, thousands of tractors were used in the next two years to demonstrate in the state capitals. These tractor demonstrations — which began to be known as Tractorcade — helped take the message of agrarian distress to the urban population, which knew little about the economic disparities plaguing rural America.According to the US Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, what the farmers wanted was ‘100 per cent parity on domestic and exported agriculture products, all agriculture products contracted at 100 per cent parity, food imports prohibited until domestic supplies were used to fulfil domestic demand, agriculture policy announcements made in advance to give farmers time to adjust production, and a way to give farmers an influence in policy matters’. In other words, American farmers were seeking a price assurance, and even wanted protection at times of trade distortions.When I look at the demands of the protesting Indian farmers, and compare with what the American farmers were asking for, I see a similarity. While the Indian farmers are not using the word ‘parity’, what they are demanding is an income assurance by way of an assured price. Knowing that farmers everywhere have suffered the brutality of markets, farmers want Minimum Support Price (MSP) to be made a legal right. This will definitely impact trade policy, but that is a small price compared to the loss of livelihood that millions of farmers suffer year after year. When they ask for repealing the three Central laws, which were pushed in without any meaningful consultation with stakeholders, they are in reality seeing a role in formulating future farm policies.The historic 1979 Tractorcade that stormed Washington DC had attracted farmers from across the country. In an interview, Beverly Anderson, probably the only woman who drove a tractor from 1,300 miles away, recalls: “Sometimes, the tractorcaders were fed by people of the communities where they stayed, and people took notice of them as they drove down the highways. In that respect, their mission was a success — the contacts allowed farmers to tell their stories — that wheat was selling for about the same price as it had at the end of World War II, while production prices increased, that it cost more to put in a crop than they would realise at sale, and that failure of the family farm system would make the country dependent upon imported food.”Initially, the residents were unhappy, wanted the farmers to be moved out. But then, it so happened that the city was hit with a blizzard and life came to a halt. Public transport was all shut down. It was at that time farmers used the tractors to clear the streets, pull out the cars from under the snow, and take doctors and nurses to hospitals and so on. This helped develop bonhomie with the urban population that began to see farmers as fellow citizens. For several weeks, farmers would drive their tractors daily through various parts of the city appraising people of their plight. Some farmers even stayed back for months.The then American President, Jimmy Carter, himself a farmer, was sympathetic. “I don't know of any other group that has suffered more from inflation than farmers,” he had reportedly said. The bureaucracy of course was not convinced. They had more faith in the markets.As Anderson reminisced: “We were successful in telling the story of the plight of the American farmer. As far as any legislation that helped, not really.”If only the policy makers had listened to the farmers’ woes, and provided them with at least a guaranteed price, American farming wouldn’t have been left devastated, with farm lands gobbled up, forcing small farmers to move out. Intensive agriculture has destroyed the soil, polluted the groundwater, and chemical pesticides have contaminated the food chain. With the real cost of cheap feed externalised, American agriculture is crying for regeneration. Decades later, the headline of a Time cover story (November 27, 2019) says it all: “They’re trying to wipe us off the map’. Small American farmers are nearing extinction.”There are lessons here. Free market orthodoxy hasn’t helped increase farm incomes in America, and for that matter, anywhere in the world. It has only pushed small farmers out of agriculture. To make farming an economically viable and sustainable enterprise for small farmers, India needs to carefully listen to the protesting farmers. There may not be another opportunity again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/free-market-push-may-hit-small-farmers-212468
15-02-2021||---||Signs of tactical change||In the three weeks since Antony J Blinken has been US Secretary of State, he has already made an impact on India and its neighbourhood. Had Mike Pompeo continued as Secretary of State in a presumptive second Trump administration, it can be said the military disengagement by India and China along the LAC would not have taken place.Pompeo inflicted tremendous damage to Sino-Indian ties when he was the chief US diplomat, most of it since spring last year when tensions flared up in Ladakh. By dragging LAC tensions into speech after speech, Pompeo contributed more than any other politician-diplomat anywhere in the world to vitiate the atmospherics of Sino-Indian efforts to return the LAC to some semblance of normalcy.Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) officials may bristle at any suggestion that Pompeo had a whip hand over sovereign decisions by India concerning its ties with China. But consider this: time was when diplomacy and security policies in India were left to diplomats and real experts. Politicians had the humility to be guided by plenipotentiaries, professional men and women who knew what they were doing!In his book, Vajpayee: The years that changed India, Shakti Sinha, Vajpayee’s private secretary, devotes several pages to how the BJP’s first PM insisted, when he was in the Opposition, that on national security issues, there could be no politics. He surprised his party by standing up in Parliament and supporting the Sukhoi aircraft deal with Russia by then Defence Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav. Contrast this with what the principal opposition party did when the Modi government concluded the Rafale plane deal with France.More recently, on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), there was broad unanimity in South Block and among civil servants in the Commerce Ministry that India should accede to RCEP. But when the time came, they could not have their way at the ASEAN+3 summit in Bangkok in 2019 with politicians who knew nothing about RCEP. The decision to stay out of RCEP may turn out to be the biggest blunder in the history of India’s economic diplomacy.When Jeff Bezos, the richest man ever, came to India, extending his hand for business engagement, politicians who resented stories in The Washington Post owned by Bezos, issued a fatwa that no one of any consequence should meet him. Our economic diplomats had no role in taking this decision. Similarly, when politicians stopped all work on building the new Andhra Pradesh capital, Amaravati, they paid no heed to the damage it would cause to India’s relations with countries that had put in massive amounts of money into projects there, for which they had signed building contracts. Diplomats were not even consulted about the fallout.In Pompeo’s case, his wild card statements on China, bringing in the LAC standoff, lulled many politicians in New Delhi into a false sense of complacency that the US would be with India if the skirmishes in Ladakh escalated. They did not see through President Trump’s offer to mediate between India and China, missing the point that a mediator has to be neutral.By remaining silent on the Sino-Indian dispute, Blinken helped lower the temperature. Those in New Delhi who did not want to meaningfully engage China bilaterally as long as Washington’s support was forthcoming had to think again. Inferences will be drawn from the coincidence that the Ladakh disengagement was announced on the very day the new US President, Joe Biden, spoke to his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, for two hours. Washington has begun re-engaging China.In India’s neighbourhood, the Myanmar coup has been a blessing for Blinken. The new US administration needed to pick on someone as part of a process which Biden sums up as ‘America is back.’ Trump’s policies made it impossible for the new administration to pick on countries which Washington is traditionally used to picking on.Iran is out because Biden wants a rapprochement with Teheran on the nuclear issue. He wants to go back to a Cuba-friendly policy, which was set in motion when he was Vice-President. On North Korea, a policy review is under way in the State Department: no one wants to rock the boat before that is complete. Blinken is already handling Saudi Arabia in velvet gloves.Myanmar is of a size the US can pick on without any fear of consequences. Myanmar is also not of much strategic import to Washington: so the opportunity cost of confronting Myanmar is virtually zero. It makes Biden look good that he is upholding the liberal values of his Democratic Party — human rights, democracy, political freedom. In 1983, when President Ronald Reagan wanted to demonstrate US assertiveness, he invaded Grenada, a country of merely 1.2 lakh people.Even so, Blinken has kept parachutes in readiness to bail out in case the US suffers any equity loss in Myanmar. The State Department has taken out insurance policies in such an eventuality with India and Japan. The US is talking to these two countries which have influence in Myanmar, both with the junta and with Aung San Suu Kyi. Washington expects New Delhi and Tokyo to bail it out if any bailout becomes necessary.Before Blinken spoke to S Jaishankar, the External Affairs Minister, and Biden to PM Modi, the US administration would have taken note that India did not use ‘coup’ in describing what the MEA, instead, called ‘the developments in Myanmar’. Last Friday, the MEA spokesman said: ‘India and the US have agreed to remain in contact and exchange assessments on the situation’ in Myanmar. It is an early sign that the Biden administration recognises India as the pre-eminent power in the region and intends to develop a relationship based on that premise. From a new US presidency, this is a good augury.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/signs-of-tactical-change-212467
