16-02-2021||---||More to Chinese retreat than meets the eye||After the protracted standoff between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA that lasted over nine months in eastern Ladakh, the process of disengagement and pullback to previous positions has started. The military tension between the two neighbours had grabbed international attention even as the world was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic.The last six months saw a number of engagements between the two countries, both military and diplomatic, including long-drawn-out confabulations between commanders at the corps level, the highest field formation of the Army. The last such meeting on January 24 apparently led to this disengagement of frontline troops.What has led to this pullback of forces? Chinese proclivity for inordinately dragging out territorial disputes and its intransigence are well-known. It is habituated to making extravagant claims, tenacious in maintaining these and cloaking them with plausibility by sheer persistence. This ‘grab what you can get and then try and grab some more’ policy, accompanied by bluff and bluster, are greatly favoured by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).Consistent with this policy, China had deployed its troops in extreme winter opposite the Indian formations in Ladakh, indicating that the PLA was there for the long haul. The Indian Army formations stood steadfast, holding their ground.With troops on either side having faced the harshness of extreme cold conditions, the PLA has now decided to pull back, especially in the north of Pangong Tso, to areas which the Indian Army had been insisting upon during various rounds of talks. The Raksha Mantri’s statement mentions “the Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the North Bank area to east of Finger 8… any structures built since April 2020 will be removed and landforms will be restored.”Many Sinophiles would surely have been surprised by this sudden acquiescence by the PLA. While the operational orders to the PLA troops would have been issued by its western theatre command at Chengdu, it would only be at the explicit directions of the top leadership of the CCP in Beijing.A quid pro quo is expected from the Indian troops, especially from the tactically advantageous positions to the south of Pangong Tso.There are many reasons for this change in Chinese obduracy. First, the terrain-hardened Indian Army has matched it in every which way on the frozen soils of Ladakh — operationally and logistically. Though China may have mobilised adequate logistic resources, there have been inputs about unease among the PLA soldiers during the severe winter conditions. Plentiful supplies are worth little when the morale is low.The Chinese decision-makers cannot but be aware of the Indian Army’s capabilities and long experience both in combat and sustaining viable fighting formations in extreme conditions. They seem to have realised that the Indian Army could not be stared down.Even more importantly, the Indian government’s political line has been very clear and widely supported during this confrontation with the northern adversary. Optimum synergy between the Indian Army and the Foreign Ministry was apparent at all times, be it during various meetings at the LAC or in diplomatic statements. The Chinese had been effectively halted at Doklam in west Bhutan in June 2017 and the PLA got a much larger dose of the same medicine from the same Army in east Ladakh for the better part of 2020.Apparently, China has realised that being the bigger power, continuation of this standoff would not be to its advantage. This was one battle it may not be able to win by contact warfare.However, if the Dragon has blinked, it is also due to various reasons which are not directly related to India. The LAC situation would be a minor headache for China compared to the problems it faces to its east and south-east. From Senkaku islands to the South China Sea, it has an inimical neighbourhood. Taiwan continues as a festering sore below its underbelly.The Biden administration has yet to spell out any tangible policy changes from the last regime vis-à-vis China, but whatever has emerged so far appears a continuation of dealing with it from a position of strength.The deployment of the Nimitz carrier strike group to join the Theodore Roosevelt strike group, on the heels of a French nuclear submarine sailing in the South China Sea, which China has convinced itself it owns, would surely be disquieting to its leadership and a bigger military challenge than Ladakh.The protests in Hong Kong have been a constant irritant for the CCP leaders and make for poor optics. Its heavy-handed repression of the restive Uyghurs in Xinjiang shows China’s leadership very unfavourably. The much-flaunted Belt and Road Initiative is increasingly mired in controversy in many countries, seen it is as a debt trap. With all this on its plate, the Chinese leadership would do well to put the Ladakh issue on the back burner.However, this is definitely not the last of it. To draw a parallel with Doklam, though the PLA was stopped from its direct progress further south, in the last three years, it has managed to circumvent that area by building a road to the east, through western Bhutan, by which it can outflank the Jampheri ridge line. It has also been busy settling population in newly created border villages, near sensitive and disputed areas on the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh.While weather and terrain may make such settlements unfeasible in eastern Ladakh, China will surely look for indirect ways and means to achieve its objectives of regional dominance by pursuing territorial claims, however unfounded they may be. These would go beyond the military and could encompass economic, diplomatic and non-contact (non-kinetic) means of warfare.As the pullback on the LAC progresses, there will be a bevy of experts who may question the tactical and operational wisdom of vacating areas occupied earlier, especially south of Pangong Tso. Rest assured that the formation and theatre commanders of the Indian Army are battle hardened professionals, who know what they are doing.For India, being ever wary of its northern neighbour is a given. The Army needs to be equipped and prepared for the long haul all along the 3,500-km Line of Actual Control. More importantly, coordination between Indian defence and diplomacy has to remain on an upward trajectory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/more-to-chinese-retreat-than-meets-the-eye-212966
16-02-2021||---||Budget a let-down on the education front||The Union Budget 2021-22 has come as a big disappointment for educationists as it has failed to allocate the required amount to undo the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Budget fell way short of allocating 6 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) on education, as promised in the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020.The Finance Minister’s assurances of more and better schools are likely to remain a dream with the allocation of Rs 93,224.31 crore, which is a mereRs 8,000 crore more than that of the financial year 2020-21. This slight increase of 5 per cent from last year is considered ‘disappointingly insufficient’ by education activists.There was hope that the Budget for 2021-22 would bring some succour to the education sector, more so with the announcement of the NEP last year. The Union Cabinet had approved the NEP in July 2020, which aimed at the universalisation of education from the pre-school level to the secondary level. The situation demanded a more generous allocation of funds, especially due to the challenges that the education sector faces.This allocation is totally insufficient to meet the required educational needs. The schools have been shut for nearly a year now due to the pandemic and it has been a real struggle for the education sector to keep going in the prevailing circumstances with a near-total dependence on digital education. A significantly higher amount is needed to promote infrastructure and digitisation of school education in view of the pandemic and also implementation of the NEP that would require more institutions, courses and other infrastructure around it.In the educational sphere, it is the girl child who has been most severely hit due to the lockdown and the closing down of schools. An appraisal of the situation reveals how the education of girls as compared to the boys took a more drastic and severe downward turn. While the boys were given priority for online studies due to their access to computers or smartphones at home, the economic crunch due to Covid-19 put the girls at a disadvantage.According to a survey, only 26 per cent of girls were able to get a smartphone for studies as compared to 37 per cent of the boys who clearly got a priority from their families when it came to accessing mobile phones and Internet facilities. No provision has been made in the Budget for children who were left behind in the digital race.The survey, titled ‘Gendered impact of Covid-19 on education of school-aged children in India’, conducted by the Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, states that 71 per cent of the girls disclosed that they had been at home since the Covid-19 outbreak and were expected to do domestic chores even during the time of their online studies. As compared to the girls, only 38 per cent of the boys confirmed that they were asked to do any domestic work. The survey also cites a number of cases during the pandemic where girls were made to drop out of school and marry early.The need is for a separate and special provision in the budgetary allocation towards girl child education, as was demanded by many educationists before the Budget. This demand stood ignored and contrary to all expectations as the Budget has provided just Rs 1 crore for the girl students under the National Scheme for Incentive to Girls for Secondary Education.In the 2020-21 Budget, the initial allocation for the same was Rs 110 crore. This, however, was revised and reduced to Rs 1 crore only. The NEP, enacted with such fanfare last year, speaks of ‘gender inclusive’ funds for promotion of girl child education. But it also did not find a mention in the current budgetary allocation. This is when it is well known that nearly 57 per cent of the girls in India are forced to leave school in class X or soon thereafter.Such budgetary apathy would adversely affect the enrolment of the poor and marginalised communities, especially girls, and cause a leap in the dropout rate at schools. It fails to be inclusive of the lowest stratum of society and provides little or no relief to the poor, caste and religious minorities as it glosses over the key concerns of access to education which have long prevailed in our country.This is when the Right to Education Act, 2009, lays down free and compulsory education for children between the ages of 6 and 14 years in India. This Act had made India one of the 135 countries to have made education a fundamental right for every child.However, this inclusiveness remains on paper only. Nothing has been implemented so far. The budgetary allocation for education that could have been an important step towards this end continues to be elusive even in 2021-22. How long do we have to wait — another year of promise which is belied in reality?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/budget-a-let-down-on-the-education-front-212962
16-02-2021||---||US reshaping China policy||Slowly and systematically, the Biden administration is giving shape to its China policy. Unlike the haphazard, though sometimes effective, Trump policy, the new administration is going about it methodically, setting up study groups, task forces and consultative processes to ensure it gets it right. It has already assembled a formidable team of China experts to man its National Security Council.This consultation is not just within the administration and with experts. The two-hour conversation between Biden and Xi Jinping is an indicator of the seriousness of the process. Biden has boasted that he has spent more time with Xi than any other world leader. As Vice President he had 24 to 25 hours of private meetings and the two travelled over 25,000 km together in China. But in his conversation of last week, Biden was about laying out the bounds of the renewed ‘friendship’.According to the White House readout, ‘President Biden underscored his fundamental concern about Beijing’s coercive and unfair economic practices, crackdown in Hong Kong, human rights abuses in Xinjiang and increasingly assertive actions in the region, including toward Taiwan.’ But the readout also noted that the two leaders discussed the pandemic, climate change and nuclear proliferation, indicating they sought to identify potential areas of engagement as well.Earlier, state councillor Yang Jichei had a conversation with US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken. Yang, who was formerly the foreign minister, is now the director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs, the body that makes China’s foreign policy. While Yang drew the line in the sand on issues like Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong, Blinken made it clear that the US would hold China ‘accountable for its effort to threaten the stability of the Indo-Pacific, including across the Taiwan straits, and its undermining the rules based international system.’It is clear that the new US policy towards China features engagement, competition and cooperation. As Blinken put it in an interview in CNN, the processes require the US to deal with China from a position of strength. This is not casual rhetoric, but the end product of an interlinked policy that involves action in domestic industrial policy, cooperation with allies and a changed military posture. The Biden team acknowledges that it was its predecessor Trump administration that had identified the importance of strategic competition with China. But the Trump approach was erratic, as is evident from the Phase I trade deal that was struck between the two countries in January 2020.One of the key flaws of the Trump approach was to ignore the strength that America derives from its allies and the need for its leadership role in a range of areas from climate change to global health concerns.The Biden approach on China will focus on an effort to rebuild America’s industrial base through strategic investments in R&D, as well as structural reforms to ensure that no American gets left behind. The administration will seek investment in areas like semiconductors, AI, biotech, new materials and clean energy, as well as in enhancing the quality of its workers to service these industries.To start with, the administration will retain the Trump tariffs, but is likely to be ready after a review to negotiate with the Chinese on them. Further, there is likely to be much greater and systematic coordination with allies like Canada, Europe, Japan and South Korea.Alliances will form a key area in the US strategic competition with China. The Biden team will have to work hard to convince them that the US is willing to play a leadership role once again, whether it is in Europe in relation to Russia or in the western Pacific with China. The Trump administration’s handling of alliances has left a trail of suspicion that the US is unwilling or unable to play a significant role outside its own immediate region. Its shambolic handling of the Covid pandemic has only deepened this worry.The administration has been particularly careful to identify the Indo-Pacific as a priority region. The Indo-Pacific team under Kurt Campbell is the largest regional team in the National Security Council which has a generous quota of Indian Americans at the leadership levels.Biden himself underscored the importance he attaches to Quad in his telephone conversation with PM Modi last week. The American readout noted that the two leaders agreed to ‘continuing close cooperation to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific’ as well as for a ‘stronger regional architecture through the Quad.’To emphasise the importance of China in his scheme of things, the President used a visit to the Pentagon last week to announce a review of US strategy towards China which will look at key areas, including intelligence, technology and the US deployment in the region. This will be conducted by a 15-person task force headed by Ely Ratner, a well-regarded China specialist, and is expected to come up with its recommendations in four months.Needless to say, all these are plans which usually come with a new administration. What marks them out as different is their inter-connectedness. Thus, if the US is not able to turn around its economy and heal the domestic political divisions within the country, its ambitious goal of undertaking an intense strategic competition with China will be doomed.There is a sharp understanding that we are now at an inflection point in a contest that will shape the nature of the emerging world order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-reshaping-china-policy-212953
