17-02-2021||---||LAC withdrawal plan gives China the edge||Keeping politics aside, relevant questions need to be asked about the ongoing LAC withdrawal plan. One of India’s worst fears of squandering gains on the ground for restoring the adverse situation on the LAC is turning out to be true. China looks set to get what it has wanted: not all, but most of it, including consummation of its 1959 claim line.Also readPangong pullback by February 24Chinese, Indian troops start ‘synchronised’ disengagement in eastern Ladakh: China’s Defence MinistryBJP exposing chinks in Mamata’s armourIndia has committed intelligence, operational and, now, negotiating lapses while managing the border standoff with China. After rejecting, it has conceded to a Chinese proposal of September 2020 containing a segregated agreement on phased disengagement, de-escalation and de-induction north and south of the Pangong Tso lake, according to which India will vacate the pivotal commanding heights on the Chushul range on its side of the LAC for a Chinese pullback from Finger 4 to Finger 8, an outright 8-km intrusion into Indian territory.That is not all. Indian troops will move from Finger 4 to west of Finger 3. The space vacated will become a buffer zone in which patrolling will be suspended.Still worse, there is no iron-clad linkage of this agreement with subsequent negotiations on the Gogra/Hot Springs, Demchok and especially Depsang where the Chinese have intruded 18 km and imposed a patrolling ban for the Indian forces.After yielding so much, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh informed Parliament that he ‘did not concede anything’, which was clarified the next day by an MoD statement reading, ‘did not concede any territory.’ This is equivalent to the government's earlier claims that the Chinese ‘have not intruded’ and ‘no territory has been lost’, when the facts on the ground were different.The Chinese have imposed the Galwan model of disengagement weighted against India.How can Singh describe the surrender of strategic space on the dominating Kailash heights as a tradeoff for withdrawal from the Fingers area astride the frozen lake along with the restriction of movement on the Indian side of the LAC as ‘not conceding’, especially after letting China cherrypick the withdrawal option?In September 2020, the Chinese had posed this selective disengagement, but with the proviso that India, which had occupied Chushul heights on August 29/30, first withdraws from the heights and only then would the Chinese vacate the intrusion between Fingers 4 and 8.At the time, many defence and strategic experts had warned the government against falling into China’s trap of conceding the one towering advantage it had gained and one which had unnerved the Chinese until the bottom line of restoration of status quo pre-April 2020 was achieved.After a long rethink, China agreed to a simultaneous withdrawal, dropping the precondition that India, which moved first to occupy the Kailash range, should be the first to withdraw.Clearly, the Chinese have brushed aside the demand for the restoration of status quo ante. The Chinese have never used the terminology of restoring status quo ante, but instead used restoring peace and tranquility in border areas. So far, the Chinese had categorically refused to discuss Depsang, which locks up the Indian strategic garrison of Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO).Singh referred to this in Parliament: ‘The House should also know that there are still some outstanding issues with regards to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh.’He did not name Depsang, a veritable dagger pointing towards DBO, the capture of which has for long been on the Chinese operational agenda. DBO links up with the 5,180-sq-km Shaqsgam valley — gifted by Pakistan to China in 1963 — which connects with the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.The loss of DBO will unhinge the India-occupied Siachen snow wall separating the Pakistani forces and the Chinese PLA. China has unilaterally established blocks at Depsang to prevent Indian troops from moving to their traditional patrolling points on the LAC.The Congress has questioned the government on the selective disengagement, worrying that Singh’s statement gave little reassurance of the status quo ante as of April 2020.It also lamented the fact that the government had agreed to withdraw from the dominating heights without any quid pro quo by China. When MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury sought a clarification in the Lok Sabha on these issues, strangely Parliamentary Affairs Minister Arjun Meghwal interrupted him, saying that he should be proud of the country’s defence forces.In the Rajya Sabha debate, the Chair did not allow clarifications in order to uphold national unity and security. When former Defence Minister AK Antony rose to speak, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal rushed to urge his silence. During last year’s debate, the Chair, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, had twice requested Singh to brief a select group of MPs on the situation along the LAC separately. But he has not done so till this day.The government, which has demonstrated immense resolve by matching soldier for soldier and height for height, determined to stand up to China, seems to have suddenly cracked and, surprisingly, given in to Beijing’s pressure. Unacclimatised to deployment in winter, it was the PLA that was keen to pull back and descend from the heights which it had occupied for the first time after 1962. The speed and alacrity with which Chinese tanks, guns and troops pulled back last week was surprising.To obfuscate the advantage-China withdrawal deal, government officials have been planting stories about the consummate skills of the national security trio — the Defence Minister, Foreign Minister and National Security Adviser — in achieving the breakthrough and restoring India’s image as well as its deterrence of defence, diplomacy and international partnerships.The Chinese have a penchant for changing goalposts. They cite principles, with ‘those who advanced first must withdraw first’ being the most common and also the most flouted one.The negotiations are likely to end up in China’s ‘two steps forward, one step backward’ approach, retaining Depsang, as predicted earlier, and Singh admitting to ‘substantially restoring the situation’ to that existing prior to the standoff.By agreeing to the strategically stunted and segmented withdrawal plan north and south of the Pangong lake, and forfeiting the preponderant advantage of the commanding heights on the Chushul range for a couple of Fingers will probably go down as a ‘breakthrough blunder’ in ensuring that India’s quest for the restoration of status quo ante on the LAC is never met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/lac-withdrawal-plan-gives-china-the-edge-213337
17-02-2021||---||BJP exposing chinks in Mamata’s armour||For months, even after a spectacular score in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in West Bengal, the BJP floundered in a labyrinth of dilemmas that offered no easy exit before the 2021 Assembly poll. The BJP’s dilemmas were framed on three aspects: core ideology vs governance; the national as opposed to the regional/local; and projecting a chief ministerial candidate or not.Also readLAC withdrawal plan gives China the edgeThe issue with hard-selling the RSS’s fundamental beliefs, founded on the ‘supremacy’ of Hinduism and ultra-nationalism, was that they militated against West Bengal’s social and cultural convictions and were initially rejected by the opinion moulders who influence political leanings.After thrashing around for several months, the BJP found an anchor to fasten its line of attack on the Chief Minister, Mamata Banerjee, melding the very elements that earlier looked incongruous.The year 2020 offered a big breakthrough to the BJP. The pandemic and the Amphan cyclone shaped its campaign. A health crisis and a natural calamity made for a potent mix because in the BJP’s perception, while Covid-19 management exposed Mamata’s ‘incompetence’, the devastating cyclone reflected on her government’s ‘lack of preparedness’ and highlighted the alleged corruption involved in relief distribution, complaints of cutbacks in direct benefit transfers and diverting funds allocated for reconstructing homes to undeserving persons. When the targeted beneficiaries protested, they were reportedly intimidated by workers of the Trinamool Congress (TMC).West Bengal’s ‘party society’, a feature that evolved into an institution under the Left Front, is the bane and boon of its politics. Committed workers and confirmed voters of a party/coalition can ask for the moon and get slivers of favours. When the Left Front cadre shifted allegiance to the TMC, it hauled the ‘party society’ with it. The patronage, reward and punishment remained, except that while the Left had enough and more time to finesse the system, the TMC fumbled, unable to prioritise its patrons: the defectors or the original rank and file.The anomaly created a sub-sect of haves and have-nots. The latter, disillusioned by unfulfilled expectations and unrewarded loyalty, looked for options. But the first hint of ‘disloyalty’ was quashed by retribution that took the form of assaults, frame-ups and denial of governmental welfare schemes.The Left or the Congress might have been an alternative but for the fact that their base moved to the BJP in 2019. Therefore, although sections of the voters might have pined for a return to the Left, the CPM and its allies did not have a leg to stand on. Additionally, when a party’s ideology had to be spelt out, the Left and the Congress were bracketed with the TMC.There ended the difference. The BJP projected itself as the TMC’s bona fide alternative, overcoming its generic weaknesses such as the lack of a robust organisation and local leaders. The last Lok Sabha elections popularised the slogan ‘Prothame Ram, pore Vaam’ (first Ram, then the Left).The BJP’s biggest success in West Bengal was embedding Ram in the state’s religious iconography. The Ayodhya ‘movement’ never fired the imagination of Bengali-speaking Hindus. However, the notions of ‘Hindu pride’ and ‘nationalism’ became the bywords for Hindu empowerment after the BJP cashed in on Mamata’s concerted moves for the minorities that lent themselves to the ‘appeasement’ charge. The allegation stuck on her and chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ became as kosher as venerating Durga. It was construed as an act of defiance against Mamata’s politics of ‘reverse polarisation’.The campaign against Mamata’s governance (or lack of it) segued into the larger themes of faith and nationalism as the BJP embarked on another project of taking Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay’s poem Vande Mataram across West Bengal and emphasising the ‘nationalist’ overtones of the novel Anand Math that contains the poem.The incipient signs of unease within the TMC were visible when a stream of defections began. Before 2019, Mamata lost a key political confidant, Mukul Roy, to the BJP. The BJP was invested in Roy for his organisational skills and vast network among the TMC’s adherents and hoped for early payoffs.Suvendu Adhikari, a leader of significance from Nandigram, the epicentre of the revolt against the Left Front government over land acquisition that turned around Mamata’s fortunes, deserted her and went to the BJP. Adhikari’s entry was heralded by a huge public meeting on his home turf that was presided over by Amit Shah, the Home Minister.The BJP extracted the political capital it could from this event to enhance its profile that increasingly depended on spiriting away TMC heavyweights ostensibly to recompense the absence of its own leaders. Others followed, although the growing presence of the TMC renegades led to discomfort among the BJP’s ‘originals’, regardless of whether their political base mattered electorally or not.However, each desertion hit Mamata, personally and politically, because those that left cited the clout and power exercised by her nephew and heir apparent Abhishek Banerjee as the reason.Rajya Sabha MP, Dinesh Trivedi, the latest turncoat, may not be electorally significant but the veteran of many parties is a Gujarati businessman who has many friends across the political spectrum as well as the industry and was, therefore, useful to the TMC. Like his colleagues, Trivedi is veering towards the BJP.The entry of Asaduddin Owaisi, president of the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), as a ‘serious’ player and of Abbas Siddiqui, purportedly an influential cleric of Hooghly’s Furfura Sharif shrine, triggered the usual pre-poll chatter of an imminent split in the TMC’s Muslim support. Owaisi’s one-region impact in the Bihar elections bolstered the belief that he was out to damage Mamata’s minority base. Unlike Bihar that experiments with new entrants and formations, West Bengal is a ‘party society’ that looks askance at new arrivals.Mamata is doubtless battling with her back to the wall. Is this her last stand? Or will she stage an epic fightback?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjp-exposing-chinks-in-mamatas-armour-213335
17-02-2021||---||Change of heart in heartland||Who could have thought that Rakesh Tikait would become the ‘chehra’ of the farmers’ movement that has been going on for the last six months? Or that his tears would bring thousands out of their homes to sit by his side to safeguard the ‘izzat’ of the community and the honour of kisans?Rakesh Tikait was considered a weak link in the chain of farmers groups protesting for the repeal of the farm laws. People in west UP used to say that he was no patch on his father, Mahendra Singh Tikait, who had brought Delhi virtually to its knees in 1988 and done it without aligning with any party. Visits to his village Sisauli in those days revealed the respect the senior Tikait commanded among the farming community, and the easy access everyone had to him. After he died in 2011, his older son Naresh took over the reins of the organisation and Rakesh became the spokesman for the Bharatiya Kisan Manch.The farmers’ stir has weakened the BJP in Punjab, dented it in Haryana, and damaged it in western UP. It is not good news for the party because elections are due in UP and Punjab in a year’s time.Rakesh Tikait’s efforts to get into politics did not succeed. He was close to the BJP, in particular to Rajnath Singh. After the clashes between Jats and Muslims in Muzaffarnagar, he organised a mahapanchayat there in 2013, which deepened the divide between the two communities. While he helped the BJP, he contested on the Ajit Singh-headed RLD’s ticket in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. He lost, as did the other RLD candidates, during the Modi wave. Again, in 2019 he helped the BJP, and enabled the win of several candidates.But today, despite his earlier proximity to the BJP, it would be more difficult for him to do business with the government, even if he wanted to, because of the growing anger among the Jats towards the BJP — unless he manages to deliver something that the farmers consider ‘honourable’. If a tough farmer like Tikait had been reduced to such helplessness, it was, the Jats felt, an ‘aar paar ki ladaai’. Tikait has vowed to sit at Delhi’s border till October, and daily families are joining him from the hinterland.Today, Jatland is in ferment. The Jats of western UP, who had gravitated to the BJP in the last decade, are turning away from it. Families who had become saffronised in 2013 are today vowing not be taken in by ‘anti-Pakistan or anti-Muslim propaganda’ of the BJP ‘next time’. They openly talk about having been ‘misled’.The Jats’ ghar wapsi to the RLD may have begun.The other significant development is the cautious rapprochement that has begun between the Muslims and the Jats estranged by the Muzaffarnagar violence. The Muslim kisans who had left the BKU to form their own organisation are reaching out to the Tikaits again, and the Jats to them. The Jat-Muslim combination was the keystone of Chaudhury Charan Singh’s politics. He included the OBCs in this coalition, around a larger kisan identity, installing non-Congress governments from Punjab to Bihar in 1967. The BJP may feel it can ride the anger of the Jats. The Jats are not numerically large, unless other communities join hands with them. It is early days yet, but RLD’s Jayant Chaudhary has already reached out to Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party, exploring the possibility of an alliance in the 2022 UP elections, which could give them electoral advantage in western and central UP.Mayawati is too unpredictable, and from all accounts, may take a position which would go to help the BJP. Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad’s reach is limited. The Jats of western UP have had a ripple effect in Haryana. Though farmers from Haryana had joined their fellow kisans from Punjab in the protest on the Delhi border, Tikait’s tears widened and intensified their involvement.But unlike in western UP, where the RLD is openly participating in the mahapanchayats, Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda has been active behind the scenes. He is clearly seen as the tallest Jat leader today in Haryana, and a likely beneficiary of the farmers’ unhappiness with the BJP. Dushyant Chautala has lost ground by continuing in government. Hooda does not want the fight to become a Jat versus non-Jat battle, which could go to the BJP’s advantage. He knows that along with Jats, he will also have to retain the support of the non-Jats. And he would want to be given a free hand in the state by his party bosses before he reveals his cards.Slowly, the Gujjars and Meenas are coming on board. Sachin Pilot held two huge mahapanchayats in Dausa and Bharatpur, and two more for Rahul Gandhi. A Gujjar himself, he seized the initiative to galvanise the farmers, which no one else was doing in Rajasthan.Individual leaders apart, as a party, the Congress is only piggybacking the protests. Regional leaders — like Jayant Chaudhary and Akhilesh Yadav — are wary of tying up with the Congress. They have too little to gain and too much to lose — as happened in Bihar, where the Congress insisted on contesting from 70 seats and won only 19.‘Mahapanchayat’ has become a new tool for political mobilisation. It enables many groups to come together at the ground level under the umbrella of the kisan, without formalising unity. The farmers’ protests have in some way catalysed the unhappiness that had been building up in many groups against the ruling party.It is early days to assess the political impact of the farmers’ stir. It has weakened the BJP in Punjab, dented it in Haryana, and damaged it in western UP. That is not good news for the party because elections are due in UP and Punjab in a year’s time.At this stage, what can be said with certainty is this: A churning is underway in India’s heartland and it is against the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/change-of-heart-in-heartland-213334
