18-02-2021||---||Rural economy needs a New Deal for revival||A historic farmers’ movement is a moment to unveil a vision for the future. Not just for farmers or agriculture, but for rural India, and indeed for the future of India.This movement has already created history. It has firmly brought back the farmers to the national imagination. You can’t pretend they don’t exist. It has put the fear of vote, more effective than the fear of God, in the minds of the political class. You don’t take panga with farmers. It has shut up market fundamentalists who whisper too-clever-by-half agri-reform recipes to the powers that be. No more corporate plugs masquerading as textbook economics pushing for “reform by stealth”. At least for some time! It has succeeded in pushing the envelope to where years of academic and political debates on agriculture could not.Yet, it will be a pity if that is all this movement achieves in terms of imagination. It will be tragic if the successful halting of the ‘agri reform’ onslaught becomes a pretext to perpetuate the status quo. It will be sad if this pushback to corporate agri-business turns into a push for trade unionism of the better off farmer. The imposition of the Modi government’s farm laws must serve to draw attention to the multiple crises faced by the farmers, farming and agriculture. These laws are not the starting point of farmers’ woes. Nor is their repeal the panacea they need. This great movement must take forward the idea of India that places farmers at the heart of our future.Indian agriculture faces three intertwined crises. While the current focus is, rightly so, on the economic crisis, we cannot afford to forget the ecological crisis. Both these crises together produce what the farmers experience as an existential crisis. Indian farmers need nothing short of a New Deal that addresses these three crises simultaneously. Ideas, policies and politics must come together to design this.The economic crisis is easy to describe. Although nearly half of our working population (58% of the rural households) is mainly engaged in agriculture, farming is not economically viable. Landholdings are small: 86% own less than 2 acres, based on the agriculture census of 2015-16. The average yield is low and uncertain. Prices are low too and kept systematically so. According to my calculations, this yields a meagre monthly income of less than Rs 8,000, including all sources of income. The number of agricultural wage labourers has kept swelling, though farm wages have been stagnant. No wonder the average monthly consumption is higher than the income. More than half of the farm families are in debt.The lazy economists’ formula is to say reduce the population dependent on agriculture, except that they forget to mention the continent where this additional population should be transported; or to specify sectors of our economy waiting to offer millions of additional jobs, notwithstanding the overall state of joblessness. The challenge is to find a decent income for hard-working small farmers.The ecological crisis is less easily noticed and is even more pressing. The Green Revolution has come to a dead end. Superstitious belief in chemical agriculture and overexploitation of water exposed us to the degradation of soil health and groundwater depletion on a frightening scale. Add to this the loss of biodiversity, shrinkage in seed variety, decline in nutria-crops like millets, loss in livestock economy and deforestation, and you begin to see why the ecological crisis is not a hobby horse of fringe environmentalists.And now think of the looming challenge of climate change. Soaring temperatures and uncertain monsoon is a recipe for disaster, especially for farmers dependent on rains. Incomes of these ‘dryland’ farmers are predicted to fall by as much as a quarter due to climate change. Ecologically sustainable agriculture is a material and pressing concern that we should have addressed yesterday.Finally, there is the existential crisis that the farmers feel and react to, the story of farmer suicides, over 3 lakh in the past two decades. As agriculture shrinks, farmers experience a loss of dignity. As the self-respecting cultivator, the farmer is forced to become a labourer, and soon, a migrant labourer. Farmers do not want their next generation to take to farming.The challenge and the opportunity of the farmers’ movement today is not just to ward off the impending threat of the three laws or to secure some enduring economic gains, but to come up with a way forward on the economic, ecological and existential crises facing agriculture.It requires, above all, an imaginative leap. Leaders, policymakers and thinkers must be able to stand up and say: India is not condemned to relive European history. Agriculture will follow an Indian path. Agriculture can and will provide a dignified livelihood to a substantial population. Rural India is a land of opportunities, and the key to our national future.This resolve, an article of faith if you will, can open the path for new policy architecture. This will have to be led by the government and backed by a substantially bigger budget. Some of this state support must take the form of higher and more efficient subsidies, as our net subsidy so far has been low, if not negative. Some of these resources must be spent on a truly universal and comprehensive crop insurance as well as debt relief and reconstruction. But much of state support must go towards building agricultural and rural infrastructure that facilitates private entrepreneurship, agro-processing, farmers’ cooperatives, animal husbandry, forestry, and so on. Flourishing private initiative in agriculture needs more, not less, state support.The design of this new architecture will be around a combination of income support and ecologically appropriate agriculture. The current focus on government procurement of wheat and paddy creates perverse incentives for farmers. Instead, farmers need price support for a wide range of produce on the condition that they adopt crops suitable for local ecological conditions. Crop loan and crop insurance could be added to this mega scheme. A small top-up component of income support for small and women farmers, and other vulnerable sections could be included. This will have to be linked to a boost for pastoralists, rural industry and handicrafts etc. The future must be integrated with a big push for decentralised reinvigoration of the rural economy.Will this cost a lot of money? Yes, at the current prices, we should be looking to spend an additional Rs 3-4 lakh crore, around 10 per cent of the Budget, for this New Deal for rural India. Can the country afford it? Should this be our national focus? Well, that is a question of political will. The real measure of the success of the current farmers’ movement would be the extent to which it succeeds in creating this much-needed political will.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rural-economy-needs-a-new-deal-for-revival-213872
18-02-2021||---||Look into LAC lapses to be future-ready||With the complementary withdrawal of Indian and Chinese troops from the bitterly contested Pangong Tso or Lake region along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh underway, it is time for the government to consider launching a review into the intelligence and operational lapses resulting in the debilitating faceoff that erupted last May.And though the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) ingress into the adjoining areas still awaits vacation, as does the restoration of the April 2020 military status quo ante along the LAC, a multi-disciplinary commission of inquiry needs establishing, similar to the one which followed the analogous 1999 intrusion by the Pakistan Army into Kargil, to manage the Chinese threat and Beijing’s future duplicity.The 1962 ambush by China followed the placatory Panchsheel Treaty eight years earlier, much like the slew of five bilateral border treaties and confidence- building measures 1993 onwards aimed at managing the LAC. Thereafter, the Lt Gen Henderson Brooks inquiry into the disastrous border war was never made public, with successive governments incredulously claiming that the report, of which just two copies exist, remains ‘sensitive’ and of ‘current operational value’.However, a cross-section of serving military officers, veterans and defence analysts concede that a ‘lessons learnt approach’ emanating from such a suggested inquiry commission or review committee would assist in future projection of India’s Comprehensive National Power, including military strength, to deal with a formidable foe like China. Such an endeavour would also help restructure tri-service cooperation, intelligence sharing, timely information dissemination and media management, amongst other aspects.It would also assist in dealing with what is grudgingly accepted in military and security circles, that future Indian Army deployments along the LAC will duplicate those along the Line of Control and the Siachen glacier against Pakistan, as all previous Sino-Indian LAC-related protocols now stand nullified. New unassailable pacts, predicated to overarching distrust of China by India, will need to be concluded to ensure peace between the nuclear-armed neighbours till their 3,488-km-long LAC is eventually demarcated.Doubtlessly, naysayers will assert that the Indian Army has, in recent months displayed flexibility, speed and steadfastness in its LAC deployments, as well as strategic chutzpah by seizing the commanding Kailash heights on Pangong Tso’s southern bank, which helped determine the February 10 pullback agreement. But many veterans differ, claiming that rushing an additional 50,000 troops to man the LAC, including critical Army Headquarters reserves, was more a rushed ‘battalion approach’ to man the 800-km-long LAC flank in eastern Ladakh, rather than a structured strategy.For several decades, a resource-strapped and diffident India had followed the path of least resistance against China, sheltering behind multiple border treaties to ensure peace along the LAC with its more powerful neighbour. China, on the other hand, viewed the LAC accords as an abiding tactical measure, aimed at lulling an amenable India into a false sense of security for nearly three decades as it embarked on progressing its economy. It willfully ‘persuaded’ India, including its military into focusing on bilateral economic issues like trade and commerce, furthering diplomatic, political and even defence ties. Resolving the border imbroglio was interminably postponed despite 23 rounds of talks between the respective Special Representatives, but China’s 1959 claim lines in Ladakh, it now transpires, were not forgotten.It’s also known in Indian security circles that its military planners, especially the Army, had set a 2010 deadline to meet the proliferating security threat from Beijing. It was widely accepted at the time that the logistical, infrastructural and materiel inequalities would become too pronounced if this schedule slipped. Alarmingly it did, as was revealed by the frantic procurement of assorted ammunition, missiles, UAVs, varied ordnance and high-altitude kit, worth over Rs 20,000 crore, June 2020 onwards.Those opposing a review or inquiry into the PLA’s ingress also point to the Army re-orienting its Mathura-based1 Strike Corps — one of three such ‘sword arm’ formations — to convert it into a mountain strike corps for eventual employment in Ladakh. This envisages two of its infantry divisions being trained in mountain warfare, in what analysts consider a tactical, rather than a wider strategic and holistic approach to higher defence management.The Army also needs to abandon the Second World War concepts of attrition and manoeuvre warfare, familiar to generations of its commanders and ones they feel ‘comfortable’ planning for and executing like in the four wars with Pakistan. It requires desperately to shift focus to futuristic non-kinetic warfare technologies like robotics, artificial intelligence, cyber and network-centric operations to match the PLA capabilities.The proposed review would especially need to focus on the slip-ups leading to the Chinese incursions despite the three-fold surveillance grid: regular joint foot patrols by the Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police supplemented by detailed imagery provided by UAVs and satellites. The federal government would do well to emulate the Kargil Review Committee (KRC) inquiry instituted by the BJP-led government of the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on July 29, 1999, three days after the Kargil hostilities concluded, to evaluate the lapses that led to the Pakistan Army’s intrusion and the subsequent hostilities in which over 500 Indian Army soldiers died.Headed by strategic affairs expert K Subrahmanyam, the four-member KRC interacted with over 100 military and intelligence officers, bureaucrats and even journalists, for nearly five months, before submitting its report that was tabled in Parliament in February 2000 and also made public.Some of its sensitive portions were redacted, but despite the expurgations, the report was instructive, revealing numerous intelligence collection failures, operational shortcomings and inter-service jointness, amongst other inadequacies. Thereafter, a Group of Ministers (GoM), headed by Deputy Prime Minister LK Advani and four task forces led by seasoned officials further reviewed the KRC’s recommendations, precipitating manifold changes in India’s overall security apparatus. Obviously, these need to be reappraised following the PLA’s ingress into Ladakh and should be made public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/look-into-lac-lapses-to-be-future-ready-213853
18-02-2021||---||Isolation of Myanmar||Military dictatorships are now frowned upon across the world. Despite this, military coups do happen, particularly in Africa. Military dictators face prospects of ostracisation and denial of foreign aid. There are two countries in Asia — Pakistan and Myanmar — where the military exercises a strong influence on national affairs, and in shaping government policies. The authority wielded by the Pakistan army is unconstitutional. It knows how to manipulate politicians, and how to dump them. Despite this, the US has frequently been more than comfortable with the army’s extra-constitutional role in Pakistan.India would have to work closely with Japan, as it has done in the past, to steer negotiations.While Myanmar attained independence from the British in 1948, it was, thereafter, under military rule from 1962 to 2011. An army-dominated government ruled Myanmar till 2015, and Aung San Suu Kyi became the de facto ruler in 2016, after her National League for Democracy won the national elections. But under Myanmar’s 2008 constitution, key portfolios like defence and internal security are managed by the military, which also has 110 seats in Parliament. Having married a foreigner, Suu Kyi, is disqualified from becoming President. She took over power by being designated as ‘state counsellor’, while the President became a mere figurehead. Despite these shortcomings, Suu Kyi, whose father was Myanmar’s founding father and first President, wielded the powers of office skillfully, and mustered growing public support.Myanmar has been troubled by ethnic insurgencies since its birth. There are 31 armed ethnic groups, holding control of vast tracts of the country. Some of these groups are funded and armed by China. But thanks to the shortsightedness of western sanctions, China has gained a stronger economic and political foothold in the country. Years of sanctions have given China a dominant say in Myanmar’s economy. China’s economic policies are regarded as mercantile in Myanmar. Thanks to some skillful diplomacy over the past three decades, India has established a good rapport with both Myanmar’s military and political leaders. Indian economic aid has improved communications in Myanmar and led to the development of IT facilities there.The Bay of Bengal Port of Sittwe in Myanmar was recently built by India. It will serve as a valuable outlet to the sea for India’s northeastern states. While foreign investment has been welcomed in Myanmar, it is China that has derived the maximum benefit from its investments in Myanmar, together with private companies from countries like Singapore, Thailand, Japan, South Korea and Vietnam, making significant inroads. India recently provided Myanmar with its first submarine. Maritime and military cooperation with Myanmar is steadily expanding. The contribution of India’s private sector to investment and business in Myanmar has been virtually non-existent.Despite its closeness to China, Myanmar has played an important role in curbing and ending the activities of insurgent groups in India’s Northeast. Many of India’s armed separatist groups like the NSCN (K) and NSCN (IM) in Nagaland, ULFA in Assam and separatist groups in Manipur, used to regularly enter Myanmar and establish ties with local separatist groups there, like the Kachin Independence Army. They would enter China’s Yunnan province, where they were feted, armed and trained. Myanmar has cooperated with India in preventing such activities. India, in turn, has prevented Myanmar’s separatist groups, like the Arakan Army, from establishing bases on Indian soil. Recognising that things could get out of hand in Myanmar, on the eve of elections there, India sent its Army Chief and Foreign Secretary to Myanmar in October 2020 for meetings with Commander-in-Chief, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing and state counsellor Suu Kyi. The Chinese foreign minister soon followed suit.Not surprisingly, Suu Kyi’s party, the National League for Democracy, was swept to power again, winning 258 out of the 330 seats. The military is required to nominate 110 candidates to Parliament. According to the Myanmar constitution, Parliament was to be convened on February 3. The army struck on February 2, seizing power, while placing Suu Kyi and her followers under arrest. This has been accompanied by a crackdown on peoples’ resistance, including demonstrations by healthcare workers, civil servants and teachers. The western powers were till then inclined to being highly critical of Suu Kyi for backing the army’s crackdown on the Rohingya, which led their fleeing to Bangladesh and India. They have, however, now demanded her release. The G-7 grouping, comprising the US, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, as well as the EU called on Myanmar’s military to immediately end the state of emergency and restore power to the democratically elected government.Any move of the UNSC to end military rule and seek restoration of democratic government will be vetoed by Russia and China. Moreover, a majority of Myanmar’s ASEAN neighbours in Southeast Asia are opposed to any sanctions. Japan and India have been working together in dealing with the situation in Myanmar. Tokyo recognises that isolating Myanmar will only force the Myanmar army into a closer embrace of China. India would, therefore, have to work with Japan, as it has done in the past, to steer negotiations. During the past five years, Myanmar’s dependence on China has been reduced by 24%. Myanmar has also not yielded to China’s pressures for the construction of a $3.6-billion hydel project on its Myitsone river. Unlike Pakistan and Sri Lanka, Myanmar has been very careful in not getting drawn into a Chinese debt trap. India and Japan will have to persuade the US and Australia to remember that isolating Myanmar is a recipe for increasing the Chinese presence and influence in the Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/isolation-of-myanmar-213849
