19-02-2021||Senior Journalist||Judges deliver justice, they don’t embody it||If it wasn’t disturbing, it might be funny. Late Tuesday evening, the Supreme Court announced it had suo motu registered a criminal contempt case against Rajdeep Sardesai for two tweets last August. Although Attorney General KV Venugopal had earlier refused consent, the court, it seemed, was exercising its right to take cognisance. Hours later, the court’s registry clarified this was “an inadvertent mistake”.I would say the issue at the heart of the law of contempt is a simple and straightforward one. Are judges special or is justice special? It’s an interesting question and not because it’s a tricky one.Let’s examine it in the light of two cases where charges of contempt have been filed and are being heard — the case of comedian Kunal Kamra and that of cartoonist Rachita Taneja. I’ll give you the details so you can judge for yourself whether they amount to contempt, satire or humour.In Kamra’s case, it was a matter of two tweets and a gesture. The first tweet said: “Honour has left the building (Supreme Court) long back”. The second said: “The Supreme Court of this country is the most supreme joke of this country.” Do these tweets really amount to contempt or are they better understood as satire or even a reflection of what the Indian public thinks?The gesture is more tricky. It’s both clever and questionable. At one level, the raised index and middle finger of Kamra’s left hand is a V-signal. However, the accompanying message could convert this into a rude gesture. Actually, crude might be a better word. But is that contempt? Even if it is, it’s too immature to be taken seriously. Judges — and not just because of their age — should rise above it.Let’s now turn to Kamra’s defence. “I believe that constitutional offices — including the judicial offices — know no protection from jokes”. But he goes further… “jokes are not reality and don’t claim to be so.” And then tellingly, adds: “Just as the Supreme Court values the faith public places in it, it should also trust the public not to form its opinion of the court on the basis of a few jokes on Twitter.”This is what former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi said to me in a recent interview: “I don’t think it’s contempt… the tweets of Mr Kamra may be in bad taste but they are not contempt…people are entitled to speak their mind… we should shrug our shoulders and move away. These things happen but move on.”The other case concerns two cartoons by Rachita Taneja. In one, a figure with a mike says to the Supreme Court, whilst the BJP looks on, “Tu jaanta nahi mera baap kaun hai.” In the other, there’s a drawing of the Supreme Court with an orange flag and the caption says, “Sanghi Court of India”. Is that contempt or satire or criticism?I haven’t seen Taneja’s defence, but let me quote Mukul Rohatgi’s opinion. These cartoons are “definitely not contempt but satire”. He said: “The Attorney General should not have granted permission (for prosecution)… by taking notice of these matters, you are giving importance to something that doesn’t deserve it.”Now let’s return to the question I started with: Are judges special or is justice special? I would venture to suggest Kamra’s and Taneja’s fate depends on how the Supreme Court answers this question. Obviously, I don’t know but I can tell you how the concept of contempt has evolved in Britain, where it originated, and how British judges view it today.The concept is centuries-old British law abolished in 2013. At the time, the British Law Commission said the purpose was not just “preventing the public from getting the wrong idea of judges…but where there are shortcomings, it’s equally important to prevent the public from getting the right idea.” In other words, one intention was to hide judicial corruption. The concept, therefore, clashed with the need for transparency but also freedom of speech.As far back as 1968, Lord Denning, Britain’s former Master of the Rolls, had this to say of the Law of Contempt: “Let me say at once that we will never use this jurisdiction as a means to uphold our own dignity…nor will we use it to suppress those who speak against us. We do not fear criticism, nor do we resent it. For, there is something far more important at stake. It is no less than freedom of speech itself. It’s the right of every man, in parliament or out of it, in the press or over the broadcast, to make fair comment, even outspoken comment, on matters of public interest… we must rely on our own conduct itself to be its own vindication.”In 1987, after the Spycatcher judgment, when the Daily Mirror called British Law Lords ‘You Old Fools’, or in 2016, after the Brexit ruling, when the Daily Mail called three judges ‘Enemies of the people’, the British judiciary consciously and sensibly ignored the headlines and did not consider contempt prosecution. In fact, Lord Templeton’s comment on the Spycatcher headline is worth recalling: “I cannot deny that I am old; it’s the truth. Whether I am a fool or not is a matter of perception of someone else…there is no need to invoke the powers of contempt.”A similar position was adopted in a 2008 lecture by our own Justice Markandey Katju: “If a person calls me a fool, whether inside court or outside it, I for one would not take action as it does not prevent me from functioning, and I would simply ignore the comment or else say that everyone is entitled to his opinion. After all, words break no bones.”More importantly, Justice Katju added: “The test to determine whether an act amounts to contempt of court or not is this: does it make the functioning of judges impossible or extremely difficult? If it does not, then it does not amount to contempt of court even if it's harsh criticism …the only situation where I would have to take some action was if my functioning as a judge was made impossible…after all, I have to function if I wish to justify my salary.”I think that answers the question I began with. Whilst justice is important, judges must not take themselves too seriously. Even if their amour propre is offended, it does not mean the institution has been questioned or justice brought into disrepute. Judges deliver justice, they do not embody it. They should never forget that their court is supreme because it’s final, not because it’s infallible. When it’s their lapse, they can be criticised, but of course, politely and fairly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/judges-deliver-justice-they-dont-embody-it-214451
19-02-2021||Former Ambassador||Reading tea leaves of Biden’s China policy||US President Joe Biden's telephone conversation with China’s President Xi Jinping on February 10, according to the US media reports, was “a sharp confrontation in a polite and civil manner”. While Xi spoke in a conciliatory tone underlining the importance of a healthy bilateral relationship, Biden raised “fundamental concerns” about China’s coercive and unfair economic practices, the crackdown in Hong Kong, human rights abuses in Xinjiang and its assertive actions in the region, including Taiwan.The two leaders also exchanged views on preventing proliferation of nuclear weapons (reference to seeking China’s cooperation inconstricting North Korea’s and Iran’s nuclear weapon programmes) and cooperation on climate change and global pandemics.China had been eager to start a dialogue with the Biden administration early on to repair the bilateral ties, which had reached its lowest point during the Trump administration. Xi Jinping had thought of sending his Politburo member and senior diplomat, Yang Jiechi to Washington to interact with Biden’s team, but the latter’s response was cold as President Biden first wanted to consult the US allies and partners.In his statement at the Department of State earlier, Biden had warned that while “we need not have a conflict with China, there would be extreme competition”. The competition, it was elaborated, would be comprehensive to ramp up all round pressure on Beijing. The Biden administration would hold China to account for its political persecution and human rights abuses; on the economic side, it would escalate pressure on Beijing to reform its economy which President Trump tried but failed; tariffs on China’s exports and sanctions on export of sensitive US technologies to China would continue for the present.On the military side, the freedom of navigation in the South China Sea and the visit of warships to Taiwan Strait have been expanded and the US army has resumed ‘Yudh Abhyas’ exercise with the Indian Army in Rajasthan. The Biden administration has made it clear that it would stand up for its allies and partners which face China’s bullying.Unlike Trump, Biden is proceeding in a systematic and consistent manner to consult US allies and partners, important members of the Republican and his own party and various government departments on the contours of his new China policy. During a visit to Pentagon last week, Biden announced the setting up of an interagency China task force headed by Ely Ratner, one of the best China specialists in Washington to coordinate the work of various departments dealing with political, economic, technology and military issues and formulate a coherent policy to win the competition against China.It will also examine the current deployment of the US intelligence and military assets globally and how these should be reconfigured on ground on the basis of its new foreign policy and security priorities. The new policy will be based on consultation with and spell out the role of US allies and partners. It will submit a report in four months on a set of recommendations on key priorities and decisions to delineate a way forward on China-related issues.Earlier, in a telephone conversation on February 8, President Biden and Prime Minister Modi had agreed to work together for a rule-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific (IP). Biden had told PM Modi that the US would build “a stronger regional architecture through the Quad” (US, Japan, India and Australia), ostensibly to counter China’s influence in the region. A virtual meeting of the Quad Foreign Ministers on February 18 is the first after the Biden administration assumed office.It is believed that President Biden’s remark about the transformation of Quad as a security framework to confront China spurred rethinking in Beijing on its immediate disengagement of military forces in Ladakh. President Xi who has been working for dividing the US-led transatlantic alliance for sometime by entering into trade and investment agreements with several Asian and European Union states before Biden’s taking over, took this initiative in the hope that India would not agree to the US proposal of transfiguration of Quad as a security framework directed against Beijing and would distance itself from the US. A thaw in China’s relations with India would permit Beijing to focus its attention exclusively on its competition with the US, Xi thought.The checkmating of China’s deceptive advance into the Indian territories in Pangong Tso, Galwan valley, Hot Springs and Gogra Post by our armed forces, our efforts to modernise the border infrastructure, augment the force and armour strength in the region and firm stand taken by our leadership sent a clear message to China that its deceptive forays would not yield much dividend.Xi is trying to reduce tensions with countries against which it had provoked conflicts earlier. Besides statements, China will be carefully watching the actual moves of the US, its allies and partners on the ground. China is happy at Biden’s statement that he would not be pursuing a military conflict with her.The competition between the US and China will be long term and depend on whether the US and its allies can undertake much-needed economic, technological and military renewal to stay ahead of China, whether they can put enough pressure on Beijing to reform its unfair economic practices and thwart the latter’s aggression in the region. They will need to take new initiatives (other than China’s Belt and Road Initiative) to expand cooperation in economic, technological and strategic fields with countries in the region as China would punish those which would side with the US.China would continue to buttress its economic, technological and military capacities in the hope that it would outmatch those of the US in course of time as it thinks time is on its side. Also, that many allies and partners of the US would not agree to sacrifice their economic interests with Beijing for supporting the US to protect its global supremacy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reading-tea-leaves-of-bidens-china-policy-214485
19-02-2021||The Public Concern for Governance Trust (PCGT)||Champions of a cause||Activists are a thorn in the side of the government. If they could be silenced because of fear, there would be very little opposition to whatever plans it has of reshaping India.The country needs enthusiasts in different fields and disciplines. Environmental issues, particularly climate change are matters of concern. Every child in school knows about ‘sustainable development’. They understand that runaway development without concern for nature is the cause of climate change and manmade disasters, like the one that struck Chamoli district in Uttarakhand last week.Disha Ravi is one of the thousands of young people who have been conditioned by their teachers in schools to think of the plight of future generations. But she is one in a thousand who had adopted this concern as her mission in life. The PCGT would commend her for her commitment to a worthy cause. The Modi-Shah duo should do likewise. That great statesman-politician, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, would have done that!Because she was gifted with special qualities of leadership (just as Modiji is gifted in the arena of politics) and because of her deep concern for the future of our planet (a quality she shares with Swedish teenager Greta Thunberg), Disha motivated her friends in Bengaluru, and later, through a movement of youth christened Fridays for Future (FFF), to stand up for nature and prevent it from being ravaged by undiluted ‘development’.It is understandable that a government bent on ‘development’ should take note of a little wisp of a girl who, like her role model, Greta Thunberg, was attracting the attention of young people in Delhi and other parts of the country. The Indian government, used to having its own way because of the overpowering presence of its undisputed leader would have marked her out for eclipse in the not-too-distant future.The opportunity seems to have arrived sooner than expected. The farmers’ protest, which I am certain Disha would not have been too concerned about, was seen as a god-sent opportunity by organisations of Sikhs settled abroad to revive interest in the Khalistan movement since the farmers enjoyed the support of a majority of people of the land.A certain Mo Dhaliwal, a naturalised Canadian of Sikh descent, allegedly approached the innocent girl activist and lured her to join him to fashion a ‘toolkit’ for the farmers’ agitation. A toolkit explains to the ignorant what the agitation is all about and draws up an action plan for the farmers and others to follow.This toolkit was shared by Disha with her friend, Greta, who, in turn, tweeted approval publicly, thus bringing the toolkit to the notice of our intelligence agencies. Rejoicing at this unexpected ‘gift’ that fell into its lap from Sweden, the government and its striking arm, the Delhi Police, bided their time till the weekend to arrest the exuberant Disha, aged 22, in Bengaluru. They whisked her away to Delhi without obtaining a transit remand from a local Magistrate as more responsible police forces are wont to do and are expected to do.Disha is not a criminal! If anything she is like a policewoman ferreting out crimes against nature. If activists like her are going to face charges of sedition, the future of this great country is bleak, too bleak to imagine! Already, parents in Delhi are reported to have decided to stop their children from attending the weekly sessions of FFF that had made them aware of the dangers of interfering with the environment beyond a point.Perhaps, the government wanted this young girl’s efforts to stop. Her work was presenting too many obstacles to ‘development’. Children were being influenced to the point of being ‘brainwashed’. In July 2020, the Delhi Police had taken down the website of the FFF (India) but restored it soon when protests mounted. What probably irked the government is that the FFF had taken a strong stand against the draft Environmental Impact Assessment notification of 2020 that reduced public consultation on projects and allowed ‘post-facto’ environmental clearance.By putting Disha away, the government could kill more than one bird with a single stone! It would prevent her movement against environmental damage from spreading, it would saddle the farmers’ protests with a Khalistan tag because of Disha’s unintended association with Dhaliwal of the Poetic Justice Foundation, a pro-Khalistani Sikh group, and, perhaps unintendedly, also discourage the tribes of activists who abound all across the country and take up a whole range of issues. The activists are a thorn in the side of the government. If they could be silenced because of the fear that the government has generated everywhere in the land, then there would be very little opposition left to whatever plans it has of reshaping India. And if it required a 22-year-old enthusiast to be sacrificed for the cause, so be it!The government has opened up another front after their campaign against farmers, journalists and Muslim lovers! This time, it is environmentalists and the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/champions-of-a-cause-214486
