20-02-2021||Senior Financial Journalist||Build consensus on need for privatisation||Public sector enterprises in this country were meant to attain the ‘commanding heights’ of the economy soon after Independence. While one can easily criticise the performance of these companies now as being slow and bureaucratic, there is no doubt their creation contributed significantly to the industrialisation of a previously agrarian economy in the 1950s and 1960s. One of the key problems at the time was the need to gain access to technology from abroad for many manufacturing processes. The close ties with the then Soviet Union helped this country obtain such technical knowhow from there which was used to set up several public sector projects and schemes.But seven decades have elapsed since independence and times have changed. The Indian economy has changed gears after the liberalisation and economic reforms of 1991. The private sector has come to occupy a much larger share of the economy, while the performance of the public sector has increasingly become a drain on the taxpayers’ resources. According to the Economic Survey, as many as 110 public sector enterprises out of the total of 366 are currently in a defunct state. In addition, 77 are loss-making companies. The total profit of 171 public undertakings was Rs 1.38 lakh crore while the consolidated losses of the rest were Rs 44,816 crore. The net profit of public sector companies declined by as much as 34.6 per cent in 2019-20 from the previous year.It is in this backdrop of rising public sector losses that one must view the bold leap towards privatisation in the Budget proposals. It is a long awaited reform. The first steps towards privatisation were taken by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government in 1999. At the time, many public sector undertakings were sold off and a review of their post-sale performance shows that all are doing far better than in their previous avatar as state-owned entities.At the same time, one cannot forget the controversies that swirled around some of the sales. One was the criticism that the underlying assets of these enterprises were not fairly valued. The company itself may have been loss-making and therefore could be sold for a pittance, but the linked assets needed to have been given a higher value. This aspect has been the subject of much debate, but the learnings from these issues have evidently been imbibed this time round. In contrast to the earlier approach, the latest budget proposals present an entire pipeline of government-owned assets that can be monetised to raise resources. This includes more than just surplus land and also covers toll roads along with oil and gas pipelines.The other element of the new public sector policy that is being awaited with bated breath literally is the proposal to privatise two state-owned banks and one insurance company during the current fiscal. This seems to be part of a process to consolidate the banking industry. Mergers of some banks were already carried out last year with the aim to ensure that the sector will end up with a few large banks rather than multiple small ones. It appears policymakers are keen to slowly pull back from ownership of the banking industry. This is a major shift in approach and needs to be implemented in a gradual manner, given the key role of the nationalised bank industry in the economy.For the time being, however, privatisation along with reducing government equity stakes in many companies is going to be a major driver for resource mobilisation. The 2021-22 Budget proposals have set an ambitious target for disinvestment receipts with the aim of raising revenues to finance the huge increase in capital expenditure planned for the year. The target has been kept at Rs 1.75 lakh crore, which may seem high but is lower than the current year’s target of Rs 2.10 lakh crore. The latter is far from being achieved as till now, the total revenue mobilisation under this head is Rs 12,400 crore. The year is expected to end with total receipts of Rs 32,000 crore due to disinvesment.The big-ticket revenues in the next fiscal are expected to come from sale of the loss-making Air India and the profit-making Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL). The Air India sale was derailed last year as there were literally no bids for the airline. The company’s huge debt overhang was taken out of the picture and other incentives were added, leading to a possibility that it could be acquired by the Tatas. Which would be in the fitness of things, given that the airline’s founder was JRD Tata. As for BPCL, it has many suitors owing to its critical role in the country’s oil refining and marketing sector.Apart from these larger ventures, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) as the Disinvestment Ministry is now euphemistically called, has identified an entire pipeline of about two dozen public enterprises that could be privatised over the next one to two years.For the long term, however, a more detailed policy on privatisation plans is available. It envisages that barring four strategic areas, divestment will gradually be carried out in all others. The selected areas are atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services. Even in these sectors, a minimal number of public enterprises will be retained with government equity participation.While privatisation has been widely considered an economic reform that needs to be carried out in the medium and long terms, the question has always been of political will. Even now, it would be prudent on the part of the political leadership to ensure that there is a wider consensus on the issue. Dialogue with stakeholders like unions would be required so that a much-needed reform is not stalled in the process of being implemented. The ruling party will also have to contend with the fact that the RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh is staunchly opposed to privatising public sector companies.In this context, it is clearly advisable that critics of this important reform are taken on board and persuaded that this is a reform that is essential in order to truly modernise the Indian economy. Otherwise, it could end up being a failed attempt at economic reform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/build-consensus-on-need-for-privatisation-214894
20-02-2021||Senior Economic Analyst||Half the fuel story||Petrol has hit Rs 100, and PM Modi blames previous governments for it. His logic is that we pay so much for petrol, because we have to import most of its key ingredient, crude oil. So, when global oil prices go up, there’s no option but to raise fuel prices in your local petrol station. If only India had produced its own crude, oil marketing companies in India could have set their own prices.Mainstream economists will point to the dangers of giving MSP to farmers, but will keep mum on the ‘assured’ trade parity prices given to oil refining companies. All this seems to be true, only if you know nothing about the oil business. But first let us tackle the issue of why we don’t produce enough of our own crude oil. There are two reasons for that. One, we simply don’t have enough proven reserves. And, two, we haven’t spent enough on ‘exploring’ new oil fields.As of 2019-20, India had crude oil reserves of about 62 crore tonnes. That year, we consumed about 25 crore tonnes. At that rate, all our reserves would have been used up in 2.5 years. At our current state of exploration of oil reserves, we can do nothing to dent our import dependence. At best, we can reduce it a bit.That is exactly what the Modi government’s stated objective is. The aim is to cut crude oil imports by 10 per cent by 2022. When Modi first became PM in 2014, India imported 83 per cent of the crude it consumed. By 2022, that ought to go down to about 73 per cent. That is going to be impossible because, instead of going down, India’s crude oil import dependence has increased since 2014. In 2019-20, it stood at 88 per cent of our crude consumption.This increase in imports doesn’t necessarily mean domestic production hasn’t improved. After all, fuel consumption does go up with higher economic and income growth. So, if crude oil consumption increases at a faster pace than domestic production, the share of imports will also go up. The truth, however, is that India’s crude oil consumption growth has slowed down sharply in the Modi years. Between 2013-14 and 2019-20, consumption increased at about 2.2 per cent per year. The rate of growth in the previous six years, between 2007-8 and 2013-14, was 6.7 per cent.What about domestic production? In 2013-14, Indian companies produced 37.8 million tonnes of crude oil and condensate. That dropped to 32.2 million tonnes in 2019-20, a sharp slide of 15 per cent. Instead of contributing more to India’s crude oil consumption, domestic oil companies provided even less than what they used to, before the Modi government came to power.However, even the best laid plans can go wrong, so it is possible that despite intense efforts crude production couldn’t match expectations. In reality, the effort itself was missing. To produce more crude, you need to invest more in exploration and oil extraction. The opposite happened as far as government oil companies go.In 2013-14, the last year of UPA-2, ONGC spent Rs 11,687 crore on exploration. In 2018-19, it had dropped to just Rs 6,016 crore, down to almost half. ONGC’s cash reserves stood at Rs 10,798 crore in March 2014. That has dropped to Rs 968 crore in March 2020. That’s a decline of 91 per cent. Most of the money it had was used up to buy a majority stake in HPCL, so that the government could meet its disinvestment target. How can the company be expected to spend on exploration or on other capital investments?In fact, the petrol sector has always been used as a cash cow by the government to meet its revenue requirements. And this has only increased under Modi. In 2014-15, the Centre gave about Rs 60,000 crore in petroleum subsidies. However, in the same year, the petroleum sector as a whole gave the Centre Rs 1.72 lakh crore in taxes, duties and dividends. In 2019-20, petroleum subsidy dropped to Rs 38,500 crore. At the same time, the contribution of the petroleum sector to the Centre rose to Rs 3.34 lakh crore.So, while subsidies dropped by 36 per cent, the revenues from the petroleum sector almost doubled. Is this a conducive environment for increasing domestic production? All other industries which saw rapid growth – IT and telecom, for instance – were given tax holidays and preferential infrastructure support. In the case of crude oil production, the exact opposite has happened. And the situation has only become worse under the Modi government.But import dependence is only half of the petrol pricing story. The truth is hidden in the pricing mechanism itself. We are told, petrol and diesel prices are now unregulated and decided by market forces. That is simply untrue. The pricing of petrol has nothing to do with either its cost of production or its demand in India. It is almost entirely determined by how much it would cost to import petrol into the country, even though the petrol is being produced in India.The price of petrol in a gulf port is taken, to which are added the cost of loading the petrol, shipping it, insurance costs, port handling costs and customs duty, to arrive at an import parity price for petrol. This accounts for 80 per cent of what refineries get for the petrol they produce. The remaining 20 per cent is determined by what they would get if they exported the petrol. Together it is called a trade parity price.This price has nothing to do with the actual cost of producing petrol or diesel in Indian refineries. It is true that a large part of the cost of producing petrol is the cost of imported crude. But, surely other overheads, including labour, is cheaper in India? In fact, Indian refineries have some of the highest refining margins, or profits on every barrel of crude that they process. Mainstream economists will point to the dangers of giving MSP to farmers, but will keep absolutely mum on the ‘assured’ trade parity prices given to oil refining companies. They will also focus on high government taxes, which is only part of the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/half-the-fuel-story-214896
20-02-2021||Ex-Special Secretary||2018 ‘covert’ op that is embarrassing India||On April 27, 2018, a leading Indian business paper, quoting “highly placed government sources”, said that a secret Coast Guard operation was authorised at the highest level to intercept an unarmed yacht carrying “runaway” Dubai royal princess Latifa Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. This was after key national security officials felt it necessary to “secure India’s counter-terrorism and strategic interests.” However, new revelations in the form of secret videos released on February 16, 2021, would embarrass us further as this was apparently done without following the legal procedure.If true, this was an unprecedented action as no such forcible “rendition”, as the Americans call it, was allowed by India in its history. I know personally that Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi did not oblige even his personal friend, Afghan President Mohammad Najibullah, when he requested, through secret intelligence channels, the rendition of his key aide who had deceived him and escaped to the West through India with large sums of money. That was at a time when Najibullah was helping India through a number of sensitive operations to frustrate Pakistan’s covert war against us.America justifies such demands based on Article IV, Section 2 of its Constitution which requires a state to hand over such fugitives if found within its jurisdiction. Also, America has been claiming “universal jurisdiction” since the 19th century against piracy on the high seas, quoting a judgment in United States vs Smith (1820). This has been criticised by human rights groups as it was originally meant against slaves.“Extraordinary rendition” is adopted when such fugitives are nabbed with the help of local security services in a foreign country or merely kidnapped without following the legal extradition procedure. The first such case was in 1883 when the Pinkerton Detective Agency, their oldest private detective company, kidnapped one Frederick Kerr from Peru for a Chicago court.In 1997, the CIA abducted Mir Aimal Kansi from a Pashtun tribal area with covert Pakistani police help for shooting and killing two CIA employees in 1993 outside their office inLangley. Kansi was executed in the US after a trial in 2002.After 9/11, the US pressured foreign governments to agree to “extraordinary rendition” in which the fugitive was forcibly nabbed and sent to other countries for interrogation. Stephen Grey, author of Ghost Plane: The True Story of the CIA’s Rendition & Torture Programme, says that Pakistan had handed over more than 500 persons to the CIA after 9/11.In 2009, Sabrina De Souza, a CIA employee of Indian origin, was convicted along with 21 CIA officials in absentia by an Italian court for aiding the abduction of a 9/11 suspect of Egyptian origin, Abu Omar, from Milan, Italy, in 2003 and forcibly sending him to Egypt in a US Air Force plane where he was tortured. The European Court of Human Rights had also imposed a fine of 70,000 euros on Italy to be paid to Abu Omar and 15,000 euros to his wife.Faced with these embarrassments, the US Senate Foreign Relations Committee held a hearing on July 26, 2007 to discuss “Extraordinary rendition, extra-territorial detention and treatment of detainees: Restoring our moral credibility and strengthening our democratic standing”. Quoting the Italian case, the then Chairman Senator Joe Biden, now the US President, had said in his opening statement that the controversial rendition programme had created a “toll on our relationship with some of our closest foreign policy partners” as it “operated outside the rule of law.”It is not anybody’s case that Princess Sheikha Latifa was wanted for any crime in her home country and that we had only cooperated for rendering her to justice in the UAE. Our “unprecedented March 4operation”, according to the above daily, had involved “three Coast Guard ships, including the state-of-the-art offshore patrol vessels Samarth and Shoor, helicopters and a maritime surveillance aircraft” to locate the “United States-flagged yacht, Nostromo, some 50 km off the coast of Goa” carrying Princess Latifa and her friends.The paper had also reported that Latifa had said, at the time ofapprehension, that she was seeking to escape torture inflicted onher and her elder sister Shamsaby their father, United Arab Emirates Prime Minister and Dubai ruler Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. BBC’s investigative current affairs ‘Panorama Programme’ said on February 17, 2021, that they were releasing videos that Latifa had secretly recorded during her captivity in Dubai.These facts were also judicially noticed by the London High Court which issued a “fact-finding judgment” on December 11, 2019, describing how the victims were nabbed by the Indian Coast Guards using smoke grenades or gas, together with gunshots after spotting them from air.The judgment corroborated Latifa’s allegation that armed Indian Coast Guard forces commandeered her boat on March 4, 2018, from international waters 20 nautical miles off the coast of India. After boarding, they kept her face down on the floor with her hands bound. They threatened to kill Latifa, her friend Tiina Jauhiainen and others. They physically assaulted another friend Herve Jaubert, Tiina Jauhiainen and crew members and forcibly made them return to Dubai. At Dubai, they continued to mistreat them. Tiina Jauhiainen was denied any legal aid and forced to sign a false statement. Latifa was held against her will, locked in a house and her movements tightly controlled.Former Irish President Mary Robinson, who was the UN Human Rights Commissioner, said on February 16, 2021 that she felt “horribly tricked” over her involvement in this affair. She said she was invited to Dubai by a “friend” in December 2018 where she attended a lunch where Latifa was present. This friend was none other than Princess Haya, the Dubai ruler’s wife, who is also suing him in the London court.Robinson was later blamed by human rights groups when the Dubai administration released a photo of this lunch to prove that Latifa was safe and healthy. She was originally told of Latifa’s “bipolar disorder”, which she now feels she did not have. Robinson has now joined in calls for immediate international action in order to establish Princess Latifa’s current whereabouts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/2018-covert-op-that-is-embarrassing-india-214895
