21-02-2021||In August 2005||Bara Khana in faraway Vancouver||British Columbia is an extremely beautiful part of Canada and we were looking forward to some good sightseeing. But sadly, that was not to be! The Colonel, a smart, well-dressed Sikh, informed us that the following morning there would be a meeting with our ex-servicemen to discuss their problems, mostly related to pensions, followed by a Bara Khana in the evening. The latter really took me by surprise, because for the life of me I couldn’t imagine attending a fauji Bara Khana, 11,000 km away from home.The next day, we met with two dozen veterans, mostly all Sikhs, in a makeshift conference hall. The Colonel introduced us and thereafter, it was all pure Punjabi… it was just like being back in India in a Sikh infantry battalion! Their problems were many and my Punjabi wasn’t the best, so after a while, I handed over the meeting to my wife, who apart from being a Punjabi was also a senior civil servant in our government. Over the next two hours, she heard one complaint after another about non-release of pensions and the difficulties they faced getting their legitimate dues. It was all very upsetting and we left the meeting in a rather pensive mood.The Bara Khana in the evening was very different. Nearly a hundred veterans, again mostly all Sikhs, sat together on tables of six and eight toasting good health to each other. It was only when the master of ceremonies, a Subedar Major, came on stage, that I realised the significance of September 12. It was Saragarhi Day, of great importance to all Sikh warriors in general, and to the Sikh Regiment in particular. It would be recalled that on September 12, 1897, hundreds of Afghans attacked the British outpost of Saragarhi in North West Frontier Province. Twenty-one soldiers of the Sikh Regiment, led by Hav Ishar Singh (portrayed by Akshay Kumar in the recent film), fought to the last man defending the fort, in one of the most courageous battles in the history of warfare.The ‘josh’, spirit and enthusiasm amongst these veterans from Punjab was unimaginable as the Subedar Major narrated the story of the Battle of Saragarhi (which all of them would have heard multiple times before), ending in the final soul-stirring ‘Bole So Nihal, Sat Sri Akal’. This was surely India, not Vancouver!The icing on the cake was the chance meeting with Brig Darshan Singh. No cadet of the National Defence Academy during the late 1960s can ever forget the burly head of Physical Training, especially those who were kicked off by him from the 10-metre diving board and fell spread eagled into the swimming pool below. Daka Singh, as he was then called, was sadly now a shadow of his original build, but it was such a pleasure for me to escort him to the stage and introduce him to the audience as my Ustaad! Everyone stood up and gave him a rousing round of applause.We returned to Washington DC but my wife remained very disturbed. Over the next few months, she took it as a holy mission to ensure that our Vancouver warriors got their monetary dues. It took a while but soon after we returned to India, she received a letter from the Colonel that all the affected veterans had received lakhs of rupees as their pension arrears. What a joyful culmination of our journey to Vancouver!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bara-khana-in-faraway-vancouver-215464
21-02-2021||Even as we were all recovering from the devastating glacier burst in Chamoli||Doing with less||Add to this the fact that people in developed countries have been pampered by years of easy living. They have never experienced power outages that can last days, or no water as pipes freeze. Unlike us hardy people who have lived all our lives with such disruptions, they don’t keep a bucket filled in the bathroom ‘just in case’, nor invest in inverters and candles. I am ashamed to say so, given the trials that many are facing there, but I can’t help thumbing my nose at those who have wasted the precious resources of our planet and now have the temerity to preach to us on how to save water and power. Join the club, is my answer to all ‘woke’ environmentalists who have cut trees to make toilet paper, drained water into their swimming pools when others were thirsting for a sip and loaded the planet with so much plastic waste that one day we will all be buried under it.At the risk of sounding like a broken record, I praise all those middle-class Indian homes where plastic dabbas are re-used to store food, aluminium foil is neatly folded to use for wrapping rotis, ziplock bags are washed to be used another day, old clothes carefully cut up into dusters and rags used to polish furniture or brass. Sadly, our new rich brats have forgotten these useful lessons.As for wasting food, we were told that there was no greater sin than throwing food away. Each grain of rice, each morsel of vegetable and dal had to be finished before one was allowed to leave the table. I am appalled at how much food is simply thrown away now. Abroad, I have seen huge baskets of bread and rolls outside bakeries for free distribution as it is a day old. A day old! In our homes, old chapattis were smeared with ghee to make paranthas, leftover rice was tossed with vegetables and made into a homely version of fried rice, and so on. In the absence of refrigerators, food was cooked so that it was consumed that day itself. What stops us from keeping these thrifty habits alive? Do we need lessons from some American or European know-all telling us how to conserve energy? On the other hand, we could teach them a thing or two about doing with less.All over the Third World, people value food and natural resources deeply. Many rituals are created around such lessons to make them a part of everyday life. Similarly, trees, water sources, plants, and even stones, are worshipped to remind us how the natural world must at all times be respected. However, years of rule by people of another culture erased these basic lessons when missionary teachers would make fun of our idolatrous practices. Recently, on Basant Panchami, a festival celebrated in various ways across India, I was astonished to see that very few bothered to dress in yellow clothes or cook yellow, saffron-scented sweet rice. As for Saraswati Puja, associated with the festival, there is now no mention, except to score electoral points in Bengal. As children, we kept all our books and writing implements in front of Saraswati to bless them and loved that we were not supposed to open a book that day.In the colony we live now, more children know about Valentine’s Day than the significance of this lovely ritual. I have nothing against celebrating all festivals whether they belong to my religion or any other, what saddens me is how a marketing blitz unleashed by multinational companies that make and sell greeting cards and teddy bears is slowly taking over. We have already lost our food, languages and clothes to others. Let us at least keep our celebration of nature’s bounty alive.Our festivals and rituals carry within the distilled wisdom of centuries. The worship of nature is woven into all pastoral communities, whether here or elsewhere. However, many cultures have thrown the baby out with the bathwater when they turned away from these celebrations. Let us not forget that wearing yellow clothes to celebrate the onset of spring or dancing round a Lohri bonfire to say goodbye to winter are remnants of a pastoral way of life when Nature was saluted. Is there a better way of making children eco-conscious?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/doing-with-less-215466
21-02-2021||While speaking in the British Parliament in 1922||From ‘steel frame’ to ‘Babu’||From the steel frame to the instrument to keep the country united and finally to a figure of ridicule — a ‘Babu’. This journey from the sublime to the ridiculous has taken only 73 years. In this system of governance, we have chosen the elected politicians to head the government at the Centre and the states and the All India Services are the instruments of governance. Gradually, the political class has usurped the powers of the bureaucracy and has begun to run governments as personal fiefdoms. Laws are bent, rules are broken and the system circumvented in order to achieve political or personal objectives. With the passage of time, some unscrupulous officers began to collaborate with similar elements in the body politic and now the disease has spread to lower levels also. It has become a pandemic against which the only vaccination is your conscience or your will to stand up and speak the truth to power. Mercifully, there are a few who do this and that is why the system has not totally collapsed.I will not go into details of how institutions have been destroyed, laws and rules compromised, collaborators rewarded and conscience-keepers sidelined. In all this, most of the officers have become willing, subservient collaborators afraid to open their mouth, lest they anger the politician. The nexus of the politician, elements in the services (including the judiciary) and the crony businessman/industrialist is almost complete and is in a position to not only influence policy, but also define it. The common man for whom the welfare state came into existence is nowhere in the picture except at the time of elections, when votes are bought or obtained in the name of religion, caste, etc.For 30 years or so after freedom, the public sector was built to galvanise the economy. There was no private sector worth the name when the British left. They left no developmental infrastructure behind as they had no interest in the development of the country. It had to be created from scratch and that was done by men of vision, intellectual brilliance, solid integrity and full faith in the rule of law. They had created the Constitution and they lived by the principles enshrined in it. Together, with the services, they laid down a network of dams, irrigation facilities, steel plants, science institutes for education and to develop nuclear power for peaceful purposes, agricultural universities, cement factories and various other things needed to kickstart a country’s economy on the path of all-round development. The voice of India was respected in all international forums. This was because there was no nexus and all citizens, political leaders and officers were seen to be lending their shoulder to the national wheel of progress.How did the public sector start performing at below-par levels? It was manned by officers of the All India Services who had entered through a very rigorous system of selection, got trained in the best institutes and were groomed by senior officers in the field and in the secretariat, men and women of proven competence and integrity. I was part of the UPSC from 2002 till 2007 and can say without hesitation that out of the lakhs appearing every year for the civil services exam, rarely has there been a complaint against the fairness and the integrity of the UPSC. The brightest of young men and women appear for this exam and about a thousand finally make it.The problem begins when they go to the states and are posted in the field and get exposed to the electoral structure i.e. panchayats, municipal councils, corporations, MLAs, MPs, ministers, etc, and begin to see the difference between theory and practice. They seek support from their seniors when forced to do wrong, but very rarely does it come. So, what is it about the political environment in the field which does not allow the rule of law and good administration? It is the quality of men entering politics at all levels. About 200 MPs have criminal records and some of them are ministers. The same holds true at the state level and down to the panchayat. This kind of a political setup requires the same kind of instruments to do their dirty work. Thereafter, the young bureaucrats start getting wiser and most of them adapt to the ways of the system and you will find different shades of grey in their orientation.If we are serious about bringing a change, we should begin with the political setup. There should be a special commission of eminent jurists, constitutional experts, representatives of all parties, etc. They should have a hard look at the prevailing conditions and come up with a code of conduct for all political parties, which should include the distribution of tickets for elections, for selection of ministers, interaction with bureaucrats, interference in transfers and postings, redressal of complaints of bureaucrats, to mention a few of the requirements. This commission and code of conduct should have statutory backing. Instead of going in the direction of reforming the political setup, which is at the root of all problems, newfound ideas like lateral induction at the level of joint secretary have been introduced. How will they fit in? How will they affect the career prospects of the cadre officers? How will they be selected? Will there be reservations? We should stick to the UPSC, strengthen it and focus on the reforms of the political setup in the country. It is easy to destroy institutions, building them is the challenge. For instance, what was achieved by replacing the Planning Commission with Niti Aayog? Individuals and a plethora of organisations cannot be a replacement for cogent, well-thought-out, planned institutions which have been built over a period of time. There is a large pool of institutional knowledge available with most of our established institutions, using it however is up to the leadership of these establishments.In the light of the prevailing situation and the likely trends in the future, India leads the world in the number of high-net-worth-individuals applying for permanent residence abroad and in the unemployed millions at home. They will both look to foreign shores to go and try their luck there. There is nothing for the garib aadmi or the honest businessman here. Since the system does not cater to them, they will have to speak for themselves (most of the media will ignore them). The farmers seem to have realised the peril they are in and are out in strength to demand their rights peacefully. Will others join in? Only time will tell.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/from-steel-frame-to-babu-215462
21-02-2021||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is a strange and unusual country. Just the other day||UAE’s mission to Mars and the inspiring new role models||One does not associate the Arab world with women being in the forefront of science and technology. On the contrary, the widespread notion is that in most Islamic countries women have a lower legal status than men, which, to be honest, is true, and that they are virtually treated as second class citizens. The Arab world is best known for producing much of the world’s oil, not for any major scientific or technological achievements. The UAE clearly intends to amend this popular impression of Islam. But before going further, a brief narrative of the spread of Islam is called for.The faith had its origins in Saudi Arabia. Its founder, Prophet Muhammad, died in 632 AD and within a short period, Islam spread with astonishing speed all over the Middle East and North Africa, even across the Mediterranean into Spain. By 1000 AD, Islam was knocking on the doors of the Indian subcontinent. Later, the faith would spread further East, into Malaysia, Indonesia and parts of China. With Muslims numbering 1.7 billion, one out of four persons in the world belongs to the Islamic faith. Contrary to popular belief, the conversions to Islam over the years in this vast area were not by force, but largely voluntary. Between the 8th and 14th centuries was the Golden Age of Islam, when the Islamic world was at the forefront of disciplines like science, astronomy, medicine, philosophy and theology, while Europe sunk into the Dark Ages. With so much Islamophobia around these days, it is worth recalling Islam’s glorious history.I spent almost a year in the UAE as editor of one of its leading newspapers. When taking up the assignment, I had no illusions about the kind of freedom of the press I would enjoy, since the respective royal families of the Emirates were basically the ones who ruled the UAE. They made the major decisions. For instance, I would never have been able to carry the recent news about the abduction of the Dubai ruler’s daughter, Princess Latifa, allegedly by Indian commandos on the high seas and her return to captivity in Dubai. This made big international news, but not in Dubai itself. Nor could my publication dare to delve into the underworld money from India and Pakistan flowing unhindered into the UAE. Dubai had a free-wheeling economy, and what would be seen as illegal, even criminal, activity in most countries, was winked at. After all, the smuggling of various goods from the UAE by dhows to the coasts of India and Pakistan had earlier been the basis of Dubai’s prosperity. Once, while at Dubai’s India Club, Dawood’s presence at another table was pointed out to me by my host. If I dared publish any of this, I knew I would be on the first flight back to India! But I was keen to learn something about Islam first-hand. This was a wonderful opportunity. Moreover, the newspaper was very professionally run, with first-rate staff. Though its circulation was low by Indian standards, it attracted plenty of ads, testifying to the buoyant economy. My pay packet was a very generous one. Since there is no income tax in the UAE, as a non-resident Indian, I could send back my entire savings.The UAE consists of seven Emirates, the best known being Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah. Of the total population of a little under 10 million, only 11 per cent are UAE citizens. The rest are what are called “expatriates” (expats), of which Indians constitute 38 per cent, and Bangladeshis and Pakistanis 19 per cent. Abu Dhabi is the only Emirate rich in oil, while Dubai runs almost entirely on trade and business. But, like Singapore, it is an incredibly efficient, clean place, with excellent public transport. And, of course, there are the huge shopping malls.The UAE attracts Indians like a powerful magnet, from workers lucky enough to get work permits (many get duped), to entrepreneurs and managers. Fortunes are made (and unmade as well) and remittances sent home. Kerala’s prosperity is partly based on Malayalis working in the Gulf. Though it attracts plenty of tourists, the UAE is entirely work-oriented. If you don’t have a job, you cannot stay. There is zero tolerance for any kind of labour agitation, the bane of Kerala. If you need proof that given sufficient incentive and acceptable conditions, Indians are the hardest working and most enterprising people in the world, go to the UAE (the Chinese might dispute that assessment). Though Abu Dhabi and Sharjah are conservative (no alcohol allowed), Dubai is extremely liberal, and tolerant. The hotels and many restaurants serve alcohol. Even Arabs are served it, if they take the precaution of not wearing the traditional dress! Few women wear burqas. Returning to the Golden Age of Islam may be a long way off, but with a UAE spacecraft orbiting Mars, a major step forward has been taken and the right signal sent.— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/uaes-mission-to-mars-and-the-inspiring-new-role-models-215468
