22-02-2021||---||Despite dip in Covid death rate, no room for laxity||The world remained in the throes of Covid-19 during 2020. With the dawn of 2021, India initially saw a sharp decline in the fury of the pathogen and a consequent dip in daily deaths and infections, but states such as Kerala, Maharashtra and Punjab are witnessing a resurgence of cases of late, even as the virus continues to rage in the US and Europe.The drop in the death rate and the rollout of the nationwide vaccination programme are positive developments for India. A recent decision of the Chandigarh administration to restore the services of city hospitals and other establishments to pre-Covid levels brings hope of normalcy. Similarly, the termination of the services of thousands of doctors in the country, involved in Covid management, indicates that the virus may not last long.A statement by the AIIMS Director clarifies that “antibodies against the coronavirus may last for up to eight months or longer pursuant to the vaccination.” He further says that the healthy population above 50 years of age will start getting the vaccination from March 2021 onwards. “This will also include population with co-morbidities, between 20 and 50 years.”A ray of hope is visible with the advent of the vaccine, despite some adverse events, occasional deaths and the uncertainty of extent and duration of its efficacy. Reports from Israel, where scientists claim to have developed a drug which can eliminate the coronavirus from the body by a single dose of nasal spray, may seem too good to be true. Another report from the same country claims that a majority of the serious cases will benefit by the administration of neutralising antibodies. Researchers at the University of Tel Aviv said, “The cocktail of neutralising antibodies represents a promising approach towards effective and safe treatment of severe Covid-19 cases, especially in the elderly population or chronically ill people, who will not be able to easily produce these antibodies upon infection or vaccination.”If the infection has dipped to a low level even before mass vaccination was started, what will be the role of the vaccine, which has caused so much hype and excitement? Vaccines don’t stop you from getting infected. Vaccines help you fight the disease if you do get infected. It is also believed that successful vaccination may save a patient from reaching a serious stage.But some questions arise: Is it safe to take the jab when thousands of adverse events and dozens of deaths have been reported in the country? How long will the immunity acquired after vaccination last, when several studies indicate that the antibodies’ level starts falling after 90 days in Covid-infected patients? If coronavirus is dying a natural death or the Indian people are protected due to natural reasons, will it be prudent to invest so heavily in continuing the vaccination programme for long?With new variants being reported from other countries, especially from South Africa, which are not only more transmissible but might also make the body’s antibodies (acquired either by vaccination or previous coronavirus infection) less able to neutralise the virus, what will be the status of the present vaccines in case of a second wave?For the prevention of a second wave, measures like avoiding crowded places, social distancing, mask-wearing and hand hygiene should continue.Regular exercise, good sleep, nutrition and shunning smoking and alcohol could be added to the list to prevent long-term complications in the post-Covid phase. A recent report based on a PGI study that most Covid patients had low levels of Vitamin D and calcium is significant and calls for adequate exposure to sunshine.Consuming a diet that minimises inflammation may improve and strengthen the immune system against many different infections, including Covid, and is also likely to reduce the prevalence of several non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like dementia, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer. It includes vegetables, fruits, nuts, seeds, legumes, potatoes, whole grains, breads, herbs, spices, fish, cheese and yogurt, which are in abundance in Indian diet.Besides the diet, researchers have found that the presence of plenty of AAT protein inhibits the production of ‘neutrophil elastase’, which is a protein that helps the virus enter the receptor cells in the body. The deficiency of AAT is high in Europe and the US, which explains the high death rate in those nations, despite their more robust healthcare systems.The World Health Organisation (WHO) advocates that building an inclusive, green and resilient recovery is an urgent and shared global challenge. The WHO says that the world cannot afford repeated disasters on the scale of Covid-19, whether they are triggered by the next pandemic, or from mounting environmental damage and climate change.Environmental damage increases the risk of emerging infectious diseases in humans — over 60 per cent of which originate from animals, mainly from wildlife. Overall plans for post-Covid recovery, and specifically plans to reduce the risk of future epidemics, need to go further, beyond early detection and the control of disease outbreaks. Unchecked human encroachment on nature is one of the root causes of zoonotic pandemics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/despite-dip-in-covid-death-rate-no-room-for-laxity-215809
22-02-2021||---||Fatal flaws in prosecution for Pearl murder||On January 28, 2021, the Pakistan Supreme Court rejected the Sindh government’s detention of British-born Ahmed Omer Saeed Sheikh (henceforth Omar Sheikh) and three others under the Maintenance of Public Order Ordinance. When implemented, Omar Sheikh would walk free, having been acquitted by the Sindh High Court (SHC) of the charge of killing of US national and the South Asian bureau chief of the Wall Street Journal Daniel Pearl.Pearl had been abducted in Karachi on January 23, 2002, while searching for Mubarak Ali Gilani to investigate the links of Richard Reid, the “shoe bomber” with Pakistani jihadi organisations and the ISI. This was when Omar Sheikh led him into a trap. A month later, a videotape was delivered to the US Consulate in Karachi showing Pearl’s beheading.On July 15, 2002, an anti-terrorism court (ATC) in Hyderabad, Sindh, had sentenced Sheikh to death. It also handed life term to the other three suspects for the abduction and killing of Pearl. All four challenged their conviction in the SHC in 2002 that remained pending till 2020.In April 2020, the SHC overturned the convictions and ruled that none of the accused was proven as murderers of Pearl. Omar Sheikh was convicted of kidnapping and his death sentence was commuted to a seven-year sentence and the other three were released. Since Sheikh had already spent 18 years in jail, he was liable to be set free.On one pretext or the other, the Sindh government kept Sheikh and the others in custody.However, in December 2020, the SHC ruled against their continued detention and ordered their immediate release. The Sindh government filed an appeal in the Supreme Court to keep the four incarcerated, citing threats to national security if they were to walk free. After the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal on January 28, the Sindh government, without waiting for the detailed judgement, has filed a review petition to restrain the release of Omar Sheikh.The US reaction to the reversal of the guilty verdict of Omar Sheikh by the SHC and the rejection of the detention appeal by the Supreme Court has been very strong. The US State Department termed the reversal “an affront to victims of terrorism everywhere.”The White House spokeswoman said the US was ‘outraged’ by the Supreme Court decision and underscored the administration’s commitment to securing justice for Pearl’s family. The US has also offered to take custody of Omar Sheikh to stand trial in the US.The surprising overturning of the guilty verdict 18 years after it was delivered has been due to several fatal flaws in the investigation and prosecution. For example, the phone number used by Sheikh to call Pearl and presented to the court by the prosecution was not Omar’s but of one Siddiqui in Karachi. Was a wrong number deliberately presented in court?The defence was able to establish that the man presented in the court as the taxi driver who drove Pearl on January 23, 2002 to the fateful rendezvous and was the only witness who claimed to have seen Pearl go with Omar was actually a fake witness — a police official pretending to be a taxi driver. Why did the police rely on a false witness?The prosecution case was based on the confessional statements of Omar’s accomplices, Fahad Nasim and Syed Salman Saqib. Both, on Omar’s behest, had emailed demands for Pearl to be released, failing which he would be killed.A judicial magistrate, Iram Jahangir, who recorded their confessions, also recorded an additional note saying that the confessions were not voluntarily, but through either torture in detention or inducements. Since the confessions were not voluntary, the case rested on weak foundations that the defence was able to demolish. Was this done intentionally?Likewise, the police and the prosecution claimed that the last email sent by Fahad Nasim and Syed Salman Saqib on January 30 containing demands for Pearl’s release were based on handwritten notes — in English and Urdu by Omar. To prove this, the testimony of handwriting ‘expert’ Ghulam Akbar was used. Curiously, the defence was able to establish that the ‘expert’ lacked proper qualification and had no prior experience in the field. Why did the police employ such a fake witness?Hence, even though the Sindh government has filed a review petition, given the lacunae in the case, it is unlikely that the verdict of the Supreme Court would be any different unless the prosecution comes up with some new evidence.If Pakistan was hoping for a reset in relations with the US after Joe Biden became President, its plans have gone seriously awry at the commencement of his term. Pakistan was looking to base relations on an economic partnership instead of security and Afghanistan.However, the Supreme Court verdict has derailed this, as indicated by the maiden conversation between US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Pakistan Foreign Minister Qureshi during which the Pearl murder case consumed most of the time.Significantly, the conversation took place a day after the Supreme Court verdict and, not surprisingly, Pakistan announced a day later that it would become party to the review petition filed by the Sindh government. Pakistan will now have to do a lot of damage control to come out of this first test for Pak-US relations under the Biden administration.The case obviously fell apart due to the deliberately shoddy investigation and prosecution that will allow Sheikh to get away. This makes one wonder why Omar Sheikh is such a ‘high-value asset’ for the Pakistan ‘deep state’ that it is willing to risk the global perception of Pakistan as a terror hub, an unsafe place for journalists and complicate Pak-US relations at the beginning of a new presidency. Perhaps, the full story has not yet been told.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fatal-flaws-in-prosecution-for-pearl-murder-215749
22-02-2021||---||Coup time after time||Myanmar, Thailand and Pakistan are completely different in historical evolution, national temperament, political, social, and cultural processes but have one common factor: their armies are both professional and intensely political. Significantly, over the past six months, the armies have faced protests to curb their intrusion into politics. The latest manifestation has been in Myanmar where the army staged a coup on February 1 and put political leaders, including the iconic Aung San Suu Kyi, into detention. Earlier, in Thailand, the youth launched unprecedented demonstrations, demanding that the monarchy redefine its role and refrain from legitimising military coups, as it had done in the past. The real target of the youth was the monarchy-army alliance. And, in Pakistan, the opposition parties picked up the courage to launch a movement denouncing the army’s manipulation of the political process.The issue for India is whether the protests in these countries will succeed in reducing the political role of the armies.While developments in Myanmar have attracted international attention, those in the other two countries did not do so in equal measure. This is because unlike the Myanmar coup, the other two armies’ interventions have not been, in the recent past, as dramatic. The Myanmar coup has been condemned by the western democracies and the ongoing protest movement will continue to receive support. However, the West has been traditionally indulgent towards the Pakistani and Thai armies.The essential contemporary issue, particularly for India, is not the attitude of western democracies, though it exposes their hypocrisies. It is if the protests in these countries will succeed in reducing the political role of the armies.Myanmar and Pakistan began as democracies after their independence from Britain. However, their democratic systems could not acquire stability. Pakistan came under direct military rule in 1958 when the army staged a coup and the Myanmar army gained direct control of the country when it also staged a coup in 1962. Thailand never lost its independent status, and from 1782, came under the rule of the Chakri dynasty after a devastating defeat by the Burmese. That loss is part of the Thai people’s consciousness. From 1932, the monarchy accepted a constitutional status. Theoretically, the country became democratic but the army, on numerous occasions, overthrew elected governments and the monarch always gave these moves legitimacy. The last Thai coup took place in 2014. All three armies projected their actions as necessary to protect their respective countries’ sovereignties; their peoples largely acquiesced.Over the past decade, all three armies allowed in greater or lesser measure the ‘return’ to democratic governance but kept a firm grip on their countries’ security sectors. The Pakistani army did not constitutionally entrench itself in the political system but manipulated it from outside, while also signalling to the country and the world that it was the repository of final authority. The armies in Myanmar and Thailand ensured their presence in their respective legislatures to directly participate in their political processes. Indeed, the Myanmar coup now is largely because the success of Suu Kyi’s party in the last elections in November threatens its political position and especially those of the senior generals.The opposition parties’ Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) began last autumn. Its most significant demand, voiced most assertively by former PM Nawaz Sharif, is that the army should become apolitical. It is ironic that like many Pakistani politicians, Sharif was initially the protégé of the army itself but the split between the two came decisively in 1999, and since then, the politician and the generals have been enemies. The PDM has held impressive rallies throughout the country and there is a constituency within Pakistan that wants the army not to play politics. However, the generals keep the Indian threat continuously alive to ensure that the people consider them as the country’s ultimate saviours. This will ensure that their role in being the final arbiters of the country’s security policies—an essential element in the hands of elected governments in all democracies—will never get diluted. This would be so even if the PDM were to gain enough momentum to force an early election. That contingency seems unlikely now but cannot be ruled out as PM Imran Khan’s continuing incompetence is obvious.The Thai youth movement’s demand that the present elected PM, Prayut Chan-o-cha, who as army chief staged the 2014 coup, should go. More significant is its desire that the monarchy should remain above politics and never legitimise army coups. The movement has, unprecedentedly, moved away from observing the traditional forms of respect towards the monarchy. After showing a degree of patience the government is hitting back through the legal process. The movement also hit the pause button because of Covid resurgence but fresh confrontation is now emerging. Eventually, the monarchy and the army will have to show a degree of accommodation to the protests, but Thailand becoming a true democracy anytime soon is unlikely.In Myanmar, the Civil Disobedience Movement (CDM), especially in the larger cities, is widespread. Till now the army has avoided violence and the Chinese, even while shielding it, are doubtless advising that it should avoid bloodshed. The army’s patience, though, is being tested. What will not weaken is its resolve not to give up its constitutional political role despite international sanctions and condemnation. The ethnic complexities of Myanmar strengthen that resolve.All in all, for the foreseeable future, India and the world will have to deal with these three armies as playing very significant roles in their countries destinies. This would be so whatever forms of government they may have.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/coup-time-after-time-215741
