23-02-2021||---||Don’t let border dispute with China fester||INDIA has undelineated and undemarcated, thus disputed, borders with some of its neighbours. With China, the entire length of the border from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, with the exception of 220 km in Sikkim (delimited by the Convention of March 1890, signed between the British regime and China at Calcutta), is not demarcated. A somewhat ambiguous Line of Actual Control (LAC) works as the de facto alignment. This has led to periodic border skirmishes, apart from a major war in 1962 and the one recently averted.While it is in India’s long-term interest to permanently settle the dispute, the Chinese have never shown any urgency in the matter and have even scuttled the process of clarifying respective perception of the LAC, set in motion by the 1993 Agreement. In fact, they have been candid in saying that in developing bilateral relations, let the focus be on matters of convergence, leaving the contentious border issue to be resolved by the following generations — possibly a clever ploy to trigger confrontation, when expedient, as also to pose the threat of a ‘two-front war’ on India.In the recent imbroglio in eastern Ladakh, Indian forces did well to promptly wrest the initiative from the Chinese, particularly by occupying dominating heights on the Kailash Range on August 29-30, 2020, thus effectively blunting Chinese designs for any further offensive as also markedly strengthening India’s bargaining position. This, followed by the five-point resolution adopted by the Foreign Ministers of both countries in Russia on September 10 and the subsequent rounds of military-level talks have finally yielded in a synchronised and mutually monitored disengagement. However, even if this process proceeds earnestly as visualised, disengagement can, at best, avert an immediate confrontation but not eliminate the possibility of a similar, or even worse, conflict in future. The ultimate solution lies only in a comprehensive resolution of the dispute. It is only prudent, therefore, that the current focus on disengagement of troops must eventually graduate, in continuum, to permanent settlement by delineating and demarcating the entire border.The ambiguity about the border with China is an ancient legacy. In Ladakh, it was sanctified by treaties from time to time and assumed to be well known based on usage, customs and traditions. The British proposal, on attaining sovereignty over Jammu & Kashmir in 1847, to delineate the border by a joint tripartite commission did not find favour with China. Ironically, the British themselves seem to have lacked clarity as they kept vacillating between a maximalist Johnson-Ardagh Line and a more moderate Macartney Line, essentially dictated by requirements of the ‘Great Game’ for control over Central Asia, principal variables being the Russian pressure and Chinese ability to provide a buffer. Their map of the mid-1930s showed the frontier with a colour wash with the annotation ‘boundary undefined’. The firm boundary shown in the 1954 Survey of India map was not accepted by China and, in the absence of any presence of Indian military or administrative control of the area, they started the construction of the Aksai Chin road shortly thereafter.Towards finding a solution now, it would be in order to visit the existing ground reality — Arunachal Pradesh has always been an integral part of India and Aksai Chin has been under Chinese control since the mid-1950s, through which passes their strategic national highway G219, being the only road link between Xinjiang and Tibet. The Chinese claims over Arunachal Pradesh as well as Indian assertion to take back Aksai Chin are virtually matching in rhetoric. A realistic appraisal of the balance of combat power of both sides would suggest that neither seems to be in a position to realise their respective claims in the foreseeable future by employing military means. The process of clarification of the LAC, started in 1993, has got scuttled and, even the LAC has now lost its sanctity; the confidence building measures (CBMs), formulated in 1996, have been compromised. As such, a pragmatic solution for the future lies in the realm of a negotiated border settlement.Here, it would be instructive to understand the Chinese mindset on border settlement by recalling Deng Xiaoping’s proposal to Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the then Foreign Minister, during his visit to Beijing in February 1979. He had then stated that China could compromise her stand in the eastern sector for a similar concession by India in the rest of the places, implying concessions by both sides. The Indian viewpoint on this matter, as stated by PV Narasimha Rao, the then Foreign Minister, in Parliament in July 1980, was that Arunachal Pradesh was an integral part of India and, as such, the very premise on which China was offering the concession had no basis. Nevertheless, mutual understanding and accommodation/adjustment in all sectors has remained at the core of their subsequent exchanges at various levels.Flowing from the above, one possible way towards an equitable and mutually acceptable solution would be to recognise the boundary alignment based on the widely accepted ‘watershed principle’, both in the eastern and middle sectors. In the east, China must accept Arunachal Pradesh as an undisputed part of India and recognise the McMahon Line as the border. In the central sector, the six border passes agreed to in 1956 should form the basis of border alignment. Cartographic distortions of the past, resulting in differing perceptions, can be resolved using advanced techniques available now.In the Ladakh sector, the solution may well be in a negotiated settlement somewhere between the Chinese 1959 Claim Line and the boundary claimed by India. Once this is broadly accepted in principle by both sides, detailed negotiations could follow. Underlying principles for fixing the precise alignment should include providing adequate depth to the Indian road to Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) as well as Chinese Highway G219; the boundary should run along identifiable topographical features, ensuring even defensibility; and no settled population must be dislocated. No doubt this would be a hard bargain and a long-drawn exercise, but will surely be a step forward to reach a final settlement. For the interim, both sides must commit to completely demilitarise the area and keep their forces well back at mutually agreed locations, to be monitored through a joint mechanism.This would usher in a permanent ‘win-win’ situation for both countries and also pave the way for regional cooperation to mutual advantage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dont-let-border-dispute-with-china-fester-216214
23-02-2021||---||Leading light of Pagdi Sambhal Jatta stir||IN 2020, more than a century after the historic Pagdi Sambhal Jatta farmers’ movement in pre-Partition Punjab, the Central government enacted three laws which are considered to be ‘anti-farmer’ by the peasantry. Ajit Singh, who spearheaded the 1907 movement, has been resurrected as an icon and a powerful inspiration for the present farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders and all over India.The British colonial government brought in three laws against the farmers of Punjab in the first decade of the 20th century — the Punjab Land Colonisation Bill, which introduced inheritance by primogeniture, threatening farmers’ land with seizure, as they are fearing now; the Bari Doab Canal Act, by which rates of water were increased, and 25 per cent hike in revenue rates was effected; and the Punjab Land Alienation Act.Between March and May 1907, several meetings were held in various cities of Punjab to oppose the three laws. On March 22, 1907, during a meeting held at Lyallpur, Lala Banke Dayal, editor, Jhang Syal, recited his poem, Pagdi Sambhal Jatta, now regarded as a classic. Subsequently, the peasantry’s agitation was called the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement. Lord Morley, Secretary of State for India, told British Parliament that in all, 33 meetings were held in Punjab, of which Ajit Singh had addressed 19 as the main speaker. Ajit Singh was a powerful orator who used to hold the audience spellbound. One of his speeches, delivered on April 21, 1907, at Rawalpindi, was described as ‘highly seditious’ by British officials and a case under Section 124-A (sedition) of the IPC was registered against him. Lord Kitchener, Commander-in-chief of the British forces in India, apprehended a revolt in the forces. Ultimately, the three laws were revoked in May 1907, but Lala Lajpat Rai, also a speaker at some of these meetings, was arrested on May 9 and Ajit Singh on June 2. Both were deported to the Mandalay prison in Burma for six months under Regulation-III of 1818. Both were released on November 11, 1907.Ajit Singh, uncle of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, was born on February 23, 1881, at Khatkar Kalan village (then in Jalandhar district), just three weeks after The Tribune came into existence in Lahore. Arjan Singh, father of Kishan Singh (Bhagat Singh’s father), Ajit Singh and Swarn Singh, was a staunch nationalist. All brothers did matriculation from Sain Das Anglo- Sanskrit School, Jalandhar. Later, Ajit Singh completed a law course from Bareilly college. During his college days in Bareilly in 1903, Ajit Singh and Kishan Singh went to Delhi to meet the Indian princes attending Delhi Durbar called by Viceroy Lord Curzon. They tried to impress upon the princes to fight against the British rulers. As Ajit Singh mentioned in his autobiography Buried Alive, they were in close touch with Motilal Ghosh, proprietor of Amrita Bazar Patrika (published from Calcutta), and Kali Prasun Chatterjee of The Tribune. In 1903, Ajit Singh married Harnam Kaur, adopted daughter of Dhanpat Rai of Kasur.Both brothers attended the 1906 Congress session at Calcutta, presided over by Dadabhai Naoroji. They sided with Bal Gangadhar Tilak in the Congress. Returning to Punjab, they formed Bharat Mata Society, which was called Anjuman-i-Mohabban-e-Watan in Urdu. The society published anti-British pamphlets in Urdu. Other members of the society included Sufi Amba Prasad, Ghasita Ram, poet Lal Chand Falak, Nand Kishore Mehta, Lala Ramsaran Dass, Dhanpat Rai, Pindi Das, Jaswant Rai and Zia Ullah.Bhagat Singh was born on September 28, 1907. In December 1907, Ajit Singh and Sufi Amba Prasad attended the Congress session at Surat, where Tilak presented Ajit Singh with a taj, crowning him ‘the king of Punjab peasantry’.Fearing that he could be arrested in a false case, Ajit Singh, along with Sufi Amba Prasad, left for Iran from Karachi by ship. Ajit Singh, under the pseudonym of Mirza Hassan Khan, stayed till 1914 in Iran, Turkey, France and Switzerland before reaching Brazil, where he spent 18 years (1914-32). From 1932 to 1938, he remained in Europe — mostly in Switzerland. Everywhere, he was teaching oriental languages to foreigners for a living; he had learnt 40 languages. His family first got news of him in 1912 and then only in 1928, when Agnes Smedley, an American sympathiser of Indian and Chinese revolutionaries, wrote to BS Sandhu (Bhagat Singh) on March 17, 1928 (c/o AC Bali at Lahore) informing him of Ajit Singh’s address in Rio de Janeiro. Bali, who was part of Bhagat Singh’s revolutionary movement in Lahore, later worked as a senior journalist for The Tribune. In an article on Ajit Singh, Bali wrote that Bhagat Singh’s last wish — before he was executed in 1931 — was that his uncle may not be allowed to die in a foreign country. Bhagat Singh had been trying to ascertain his uncle’s whereabouts through his friends, especially Amar Chand, who has gone to the US for higher studies. Ajit Singh also tried in vain to get Bhagat Singh out of India to save him from the gallows.Ajit Singh’s life in exile is a long story. In Italy, he created Azad Hind Lashkar of 11,000 army men and met Netaji Subhas Bose in Italy. In Switzerland, he interacted with Lala Hardyal and Champak Raman Pillai. He also met Lenin, Trotsky and Mussolini. Finally, due to the intervention of Jawaharlal Nehru, who had become interim Prime Minister of India, Ajit Singh was released from a prison in Germany. He returned to India on March 7, 1947, after spending two months in London with Indian nationalists while recuperating from ill health. In Delhi, he was a guest of Nehru. On his return to Lahore on April 9, he was given a tumultuous welcome. In view of his bad health, he went to the hill station of Dalhousie in July 1947. On the intervening night of August 14-15, 1947, after listening to Nehru’s Tryst with Destiny speech, he felt overwhelmed and after saying ‘Jai Hind’, breathed his last around 3:30 am in free India. His memorial at Panjpola in Dalhousie is a place for paying tributes to the great revolutionary freedom fighter and leader of Indian farmers’ struggle for justice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/leading-light-of-pagdi-sambhal-jatta-stir-216210
23-02-2021||---||Society devoid of compassion||We smell violence; we breathe violence; and we live amid the normalisation of violence in everyday life. You need not be a Marxist to see that the ruling regime feels tempted to use the coercive machinery of the state as it sees the seeds of some sort of anti-hegemonic resistance. It does not spare anybody. Today, the victim is a young climate activist from Bengaluru, or a doctor with conscience from Gorakhpur, or a university student from Delhi; and tomorrow, it can be you if you dare to look at the world differently from what the Establishment regards as ‘truth’. But then, it is difficult to separate the functioning of the State or the ruling regime from the way we are—our societal practices and our collective psyche. As ordinary citizens, we too need to look at ourselves, and enquire whether we have chosen to become the carriers of this violence.Inflated ego of the leader, the arrogance of power, and we as non-critical spectators: what else do you need for writing the obituary of democracy?Let us admit that ours is a terribly violent society. In fact, a culture that produced a text like ‘Manusmriti’ has not yet come out from the violence implicit in the discourse of patriarchal Brahminism. Is it that many of us are still carrying a consciousness that hierarchises, excludes and brutalises the ‘other’? Or for that matter, is it that, despite the trauma of Partition and communal hatred, we have not yet come out of the pathology of a consciousness that robs religion of the religiosity of love, spreads poison, negates the aesthetics of living and art of relatedness, and erects walls of separation? And is it also true that our modernity, far from liberating us from the ‘dead weight of past’, has only intensified vulgar consumerism, or generated a middle class—terribly self-centric, fearful and indifferent to the plight of the subaltern? Is it the reason that the ideology of militant nationalism with its culturally regressive discourse sustains itself through us—the divisive/violent/casteist/communal consciousness we continue to inherit?It is often used by the ruling regime to manufacture, identify and stigmatise its ‘enemies’—‘Maoists’, ‘urban Naxals’, ‘tukde-tukde’ gang, civil rights activists, or even farmers and ‘andolanjivis’. Not solely that. In an age that sees a close affinity between the dominant political class and the corporate empires or Bollywood/cricket celebrities, it is quite obvious that the spirit of egalitarianism, cultural pluralism, intellectual vibrancy and spiritual oneness has to be ridiculed. What prevails is the mass psychology of hatred. Hate Pakistan. Hate Kashmiri Muslims. Hate communists. Hate Gandhian nonviolence. Hate creative minds. Hate young students who dream of and imagine a better world. See conspiracy everywhere: in a tweet, in a seminar, in a protest march, or even in a piece of satire/humour. Send the cops to the university library. Convey the message through the tsunami of FIRs and sedition charges. See ‘Khalistanis’ at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders. Let the episodes of Hathras and Unnao recur; and let the middle class in gated communities—influenced by noisy television anchors— continue to live with utter indifference!What an irony! We have begun to appreciate the cult of narcissism. And, as a result, the spirit of dialogue and negotiation, or sensitivity and tenderness is seen to be the characteristic of a ‘weak’ personality. A ‘strong’ leader is one who loves himself to the extent that he considers his monologue as the ultimate truth; and as ‘followers’ we must accept every word he utters, or be hypnotised by his presence—the rhetoric of a dramaturgical performance. Not solely that. A strong leader abhors all feminine sensibilities; narcissism and hyper-masculine aggression must go together. The inflated ego of the leader, the arrogance of power, and we as non-critical spectators or consumers of this magic: what else do you need for writing the obituary of democracy, and inviting a new form of authoritarianism? Violence is its inevitable consequence. Our language is toxic; words are weapons of destruction; a slogan like ‘goli maaro saalo ko’ is the new normal; and the troll army is an integral component of this politico-cultural landscape. We have become terribly violent; friends have become enemies; neighbours have become strangers; we have lost our sublime prayers as religion has degenerated into a narrow/egotistic mandir-masjid politics.These days as the ruling regime wants us to believe that even a young girl like Disha Ravi is part of ‘global conspiracy to defame India’, it is important to remind ourselves of the bitter truth: we do not need conspirators to defame the country; with our own deeds and practices, we are degrading ourselves. With every act of cow vigilantism and mob lynching, India is defamed. With the very idea of ‘love jihad’, India is defamed. And the recurrence of brute sexuality and violence against women does by no means glorify India. As the entire world sees the misery of the migrant workers during the pandemic, India is defamed. And the way the State deals with its own people—say, farmers, Dalit activists, students, or ordinary Kashmiri men and women—reveals how the emergent totalitarianism is killing the very soul of democracy. India is not a picture postcard; India is not a mythical tale of rishis and yogis; India is not the statue of Buddha or Gandhi. India is not what is written in the Constitution. Instead, India is terribly wounded.Possibly, the possibility of our collective redemption lies in the acknowledgement of this sickness. And then, you and I might feel the need to work on ourselves, overcome our sadomasochism, see the discontents of narcissism and hollowness of egotistic pride, realise the religiosity of love and compassion, and move towards a truly egalitarian, sane society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/society-devoid-of-compassion-216206
