24-02-2021||---||India needs a dedicated cyber security law||The year 2021 promises to usher in a new era of cyber legal developments and growth as far as India is concerned. This year is expected to witness a plethora of activities which will contribute to evolving cyber legal frameworks and related ecosystems in India.One of the keenly awaited developments in Indian cyber law jurisprudence is the National Cyber Security Strategy. This strategy not only aims to build on the National Cyber Security Policy 2013 but also be a comprehensive guiding gospel for individuals, policymakers as well as other stakeholders. The strategy is likely to throw more light on the appropriate response mechanisms concerning the enhancement of cyber security in government and other sectors.The Union Government has been working on the National Cyber Security Strategy for quite some time and the entire world is looking up with bated breath to see how the strategy will evolve. The strategy should inform the relevant authorities of everything they need to take into consideration while dealing with cyber security ramifications concerning their operations.This assumes more significance as India is consistently on the radar as a potential target by cybercriminals and cyber security breaches. Given the fact that India does not have a law on cyber security, the strategy should be seen as an interregnum step, before India graduates to having a full-fledged cyber security law.While all attention will be on the new strategy, we need to be mindful of its legal ramifications. The strategy document will be the manifestation of the government’s thought processes and will not have the statutory penal force behind the same, unlike a law passed by Parliament. Hence, the strategy would be only a directory and not mandatory.Very quickly, India will have to start working extensively on coming up with a dedicated national cyber security law. The need for having such a law is immense because that will be an important tool to protect India, its cyber security and cyber sovereign interests. At a time when a lot of other countries have already started coming up with dedicated laws on cyber security, India is slightly behind the curve. There is a need for appropriate action in this regard.Cybercrime, including phishing, identity theft and fraud, has massively increased in the past one year. However, its coverage under the existing laws is neither adequate nor comprehensive. We are further likely to see consolidation in cybercrime penetration. This would underline the need for coming up with more effective and deterrent legal frameworks and more stringent provisions to fight cybercrime.Hopefully, 2021 would see the government focusing on more effective ways of trying to combat cybercrime.Another major cyber law trend in India for 2021 will be the passing and implementation of the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019. Historically, India has not had a dedicated data protection law. The government had tabled the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 before Parliament in December 2019. The year 2020 saw the said Bill under the active consideration of a Joint Parliamentary Committee.It is expected that the parliamentary committee would come up with its report this year and on the basis of the same, the government is likely to make appropriate changes in the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 and have it passed in Parliament. This Bill is likely to change the rules of the game in terms of providing stringent obligations for all data-handling entities. Implementing the personal data protection law will strengthen the Indian information technology ecosystem, apart from strengthening appropriate protection for personal data. Hence, all stakeholders need to be prepared for a new set of compliances concerning data protection in 2021.This year is also likely to see the government coming up with new approaches to deal with the protection of non-personal data. This is important as the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, has a limited mandate of protecting personal data and non-personal data is outside its ambit. It will be imperative for the government to work extensively on the protection of non-personal data as well.It is expected that there will be movement towards appropriate amendments to the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. This Act is India’s mother legislation to deal with all activities in the electronic ecosystem. This law was passed more than two decades back and only got amended in 2008 and has been crying for appropriate amendments to make it more topical and relevant with the passage of time.It is also hoped that 2021 could potentially see more appropriate changes in the Indian cyber law to incorporate enabling legal provisions to deal with the challenges thrown up by newly emerging technologies.Given the developments in Indian cyberspace and the increasing digitisation, these emerging cyber law trends should help further develop and refine legal approaches towards cyberspace issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-needs-a-dedicated-cyber-security-law-216669
24-02-2021||---||Growth entails more jobs, boost in spending||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has never been so forthright before as she is now. It is usually the case that finance ministers are forced to speak hard facts even if they do not mean to. It is in one of those candid moments — and there have been quite a few in her post-Budget media interviews — that she told the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) national executive meeting on February 4, “Government alone, even if it brings bags full of money, cannot just meet the demand of the growing and aspirational India.”She wants the private sector to invest. It has been a puzzle for the last six years as to why the right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with its natural affinity for market forces has not been able to enthuse private sector to play a more active role. For quite some time now, she has been displaying her ideological belligerence against socialism and has been vocal about how the BJP government respects wealth creators.But she is aware of the contradiction in which the Modi government finds itself because Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been too keen to establish the reign of the State through digitisation, an unmistakable right-wing trait, which is quite different from that of the conservative political parties of the Anglo-Saxon polities like the UK, the US, Canada or Australia.He wants to be seen as the patriarch rolling out welfare measures to rural women, farmers et al. That is why, she said in a recent interview that socialism did not have a copyright to welfare measures. Of course, the Modi government has a right to practise welfare economics and refuse to be tagged as socialist.Prime Minister Modi, in his address recently in reply to the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President’s Address, had lashed out at bureaucrats and questioned the rationality of them heading public sector enterprises, and he made out that the young people in this country had a right to be charting the economic course.It was fuzzy logic at its best. He would not name the private sector but it was clear that he was targeting state socialism of the supposedly Congress era as the villain. It seemed a futile outburst after 30 years of economic reforms.The problem lies elsewhere — private sector investment. The fact that the finance minister is making a direct appeal to the private sector to invest is a sign that private sector investment is not happening to the extent that it should. It is the details of private sector investment that offers some clues.An article in the February 2020 bulletin of the Reserve Bank of India under the title, “Private corporate investment in 2019-20” prepared by Pronita P Saikia and RK Sinha gives the capex details of the projects and the credit raised from banks, financial institutions and other sources like external economic borrowings (ECBs), initial public offerings (IPOs) and others. The total borrowing for 988 projects in 2018-19 was Rs 2,53,705 crore from all sources, and in 2017-18, private sector investment for 955 projects was Rs 2,07,673 crore.It turns out that 76.9 per cent of the projects and the funds raised were for new projects, and only 19.7 per cent was raised for expansion and modernisation. And among the new projects, a large share of the loans was for mega projects with an outlay of Rs 5,000 crore and more, and with a longer gestation period. In 2018-19, there were five mega projects compared to three in 2017-18. And there were 40 large projects with total costs between Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 5,000 crore.The infrastructure sector accounted for 58.6 per cent of the aggregate funding in 2018-19, an improvement over 2017-18. But the pattern of private sector corporate investments shows a capital-intensive pattern. The question that is to be raised is whether the private sector investment is going into the right, productive channels?Like farmers depending on staple cereals for their earnings through the minimum support price mechanisms, is the private investment stuck in infrastructure where assured returns serve as a safety belt? Is much of the private sector investment getting choked because of the averseness to risk?The macroeconomic situation has been less than robust before Covid-19 struck at the beginning of 2020, according to the RBI, based on national accounts aggregates. The average growth rate between 2014-15 to 2018-19 rose to 7.5 per cent from the 6.7 per cent of 2008-09 to 2013-14, but at a decadal level it is much less. It stands at 6.9 per for 2011-19 compared to 6.8 during 2001-11.India seems to be stuck somewhere in the middle between low and high growth orbits. Perhaps Indians need to spend more, and to do so, Indians need to earn more. How to make that happen is the challenge. And what the private sector can do to create the jobs and enhance the consumption of the ordinary people.This cannot happen at the national level. It needs smaller scales like Tier-2 cities and towns and even the villages. It needs a different kind of thinking. It is the private sector that needs to create the market. The fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector could show the way. The private sector should knock at the untapped markets spread across the country. It is the small places and small markets that can create the buzz. The mega projects and the megalopolises cannot do the trick.So, rhetorical appeals to private sector to invest will not help in meeting the growth challenge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/growth-entails-more-jobs-boost-in-spending-216637
