25-02-2021||---||No substitute for state funding of agriculture||The 122nd birth anniversary of Justice Gurnam Singh, the first non-Congress Chief Minister of Punjab, falls today. He was one of the architects of the agriculture policy that made India surplus in foodgrains. This is relevant today amid the farmers’ agitation against the Central Government for repeal of the three new farm laws. In the mid-1960s, India suffered from major food deficits and even famine. It was dependent on American food aid, termed PL480. The country was an unregulated market where big traders purchased foodgrains at low prices from farmers and sold them at huge profits to deficient states. The then PM Indira Gandhi raised the alarm at the distress caused by food shortages and high prices.After taking charge as CM in 1967, Gurnam Singh announced remunerative prices for farmers. The minimum support price (MSP) for wheat was fixed at Rs 72 for the new ‘Mexican’ variety and Rs 86 for the old varieties. Hoarding and export of wheat from Punjab was banned to ensure price stability for consumers. Union Agriculture Minister Jagjivan Ram accepted Punjab’s request for the purchase of surplus foodgrains by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) at the MSP. At the state level, a policy of setting up village mandis or agriculture market was framed; till then, the mandis were mainly restricted to urban centres. The policy of rural electrification and link roads for connectivity to mandis was initiated, making Punjab the first state to do so. The Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act for regulating the mandis was passed by the Unionist Party government of Sir Sikander Hyatt Tiwana in 1939. It was the brainchild of the then Development Minister, Sir Chhotu Ram. The Act was amended in 1961. The MSP was adopted by Union Agriculture Minister C Subramaniam on the advice of American scientist Frank Parker in 1966 at Rs 54 per quintal. But a major incentive to farmers that led to the food surplus came when Punjab revised the procurement price to Rs 72 in 1967. Haryana followed suit. Gurnam Singh went on to head the Indian delegation at the World Food Conference at Rome, the only Chief Minister to have this honour.Coming back to the present, the new farm laws have been hailed by captains of industry and some economists as the ‘1991 moment’, a reference to the economic reforms of Manmohan Singh.However, the farmers have rejected the laws. It is feared that India will again become an unregulated zone for agriculture and market forces will determine prices for farmers and consumers. Provision for corporate houses to open private mandis without paying taxes applicable to the APMC mandis may lead to the latter’s closure. Stockpiling is allowed. The stipulated contract is biased in favour of companies. The farmers say this is a return to the pre-1967 era of hoarding, artificial surpluses and shortages, low purchase prices for the cultivator and inflated prices for the consumers. Hence, they want the laws repealed and redrafted.Farming involves, in some form, 70 per cent of the Indian population. About 90 per cent of the farmers are poor and marginal. Agriculture contributes only 16 per cent of the GDP because of lack of government funding. Farmers are under heavy debt and over 4,00,000 have committed suicide since 1996. The new reforms have triggered unease that will take over agriculture. Farmers fear they will lose their lands to crony capitalism. Farmers of Punjab and Haryana who made the country self-sufficient in foodgrains by their hard work, say that MSP and FCI procurement, their main source of income, are being eased out and they will be left at the mercy of big businesses. So, they have taken the path of agitation.Instead of addressing the concerns of the farmers, the Centre has chosen the path of defaming them and suppressing the movement by repression and the use of draconian laws.Punjab, which then included Haryana, saw the biggest agrarian agitation of the 20th century for the repeal of three farm laws enacted by the British Government in 1907. Then too, there were mass detentions and compromise formulas were floated, including one brought forward by Lala Lajpat Rai.But after nine months of struggle, the laws were repealed. The agitation, titled Pagdi Sambhal Jatta or “preserve the rights and honour of farmers” is being replicated at Delhi’s borders today and steadily spreading to other parts of the country. The violation of human rights of peaceful protesters and those speaking up for them has brought about international condemnation.So, what is the way forward? Gurnam Singh believed agriculture was viable only with government support. Big business could supplement, but not be a substitute for state funding. Industry, on its own, could not sustain farming. But a prosperous farming community would sustain the industry by giving it a large consumer base. He found support from the likes of Dr MS Randhawa, a brilliant civil servant, a farmer himself, who served as Vice-Chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University, as also Partap Singh Qadian, founder of the original BKU. The US, Canada, EU, Japan and China heavily subsidise farming to maintain price stability and a minimum income for farmers. China subsidises agriculture four times more than India. So, the government must allocate more funds for agriculture through MSP and direct payment to farmers; and capital expenditure on technology, water and soil conservation, research, agro industry, opening APMC mandis and so forth.It should give incentives to farmers of Punjab and Haryana to switch from rice and wheat to other crops. The government will find that funding agriculture will pay far more financial and social dividends than subsidising bad industrial loans or promoting crony capitalism. Or else, India will remain a poor country with weak institutions while other Asian countries move ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/no-substitute-for-state-funding-of-agriculture-217154
25-02-2021||---||Cong giving short shrift to regional satraps||Assuming that the Congress has a ‘durbar’ or ‘high command culture’, it needs a cogent durbar policy too, particularly in the selection of chief ministers of the party-ruled states.This felt need assumes significance in the context of the fall of Puducherry government in a bizarre and pathetic manner with the V Narayanasamy government losing majority barely two months before the Assembly polls.On the face of it, there is a simplistic and perhaps convincing narrative of putting the blame on the BJP’s doorstep. Narayanasamy dubbed his fall from the chief ministerial post as a ‘murder of democracy’ and accused the BJP of indulging in ‘poaching’ and ‘political prostitution’. Similar allegations were levelled when the Congress was upstaged or deprived of forming a government in Goa, Manipur, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh.But beyond the rhetoric, the Congress needs to introspect and accept some plain facts. While the collapse of Congress governments may be attributed to amoral practices, misuse of Central agencies and resources or the office of the Governor, the party cannot escape blame for undermining the regional satraps and having utter disregard for their aspirations or the collective will of the MLAs.Rahul Gandhi’s stated bid to modernise and reform the grand old party, therefore, requires a ‘standard operating procedure’ for the selection of a chief minister. The culture of nomination or forcing a decision from ‘Delhi’ is eating into the vitals of the party organisation.Old-timers may recall that Ajit Jogi was made the Chhattisgarh chief minister in 1999 when he did not have the support of even six MLAs in a House of 90. Instead of opting for a head count among the Congress MLAs, Sonia Gandhi had mandated Ghulam Nabi Azad, Prabha Rau and Digvijaya Singh to ensure that Jogi pipped aspirant Vidya Charan Shukla without any semblance of a democratic exercise.There were similar stories when the Congress won the assembly polls in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh in December 2018. This time around, Rahul Gandhi was the 87th president of the AICC. Rahul had remained uneasy throughout when Kamal Nath, Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel were selected to head the three Congress-ruled states.Rahul first tried pushing through the nomination of Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot and Tamradhwaj Sahu in the three states. However, a powerful lobby of the old guard swung into action. It had the backing of Sonia Gandhi. Within hours, caste-based aspirations and the idea of giving equal opportunities were buried and Rahul was made to own up the ‘two-person rule’ in the party. The results of that non-transparent selection process are still being felt in Jaipur and Raipur. This is not to say that Kamal Nath, Bhupesh Baghel (both state party unit chiefs then) or Ashok Gehlot lacked credentials or stature to head the government. The fault line was Rahul’s inability to order a head count in a transparent manner.Puducherry may be a tiny Union Territory, but it has vibrant democracy at the party level too. A few years ago, the rivalry between Delhi-based Narayanasamy and N Rangasamy was so intense that Rangasamy, now heading the breakaway AINRC, had requested the then AICC general secretary in charge of Puducherry, Kamal Nath not to let Narayanasamy sit in his car. Somewhat taken aback, Nath had reportedly asked the then Congress chief minister, Rangasamy, why he was making such an unusual request. The response of Rangasamy was telling. He reportedly told Nath that he did not want Congress workers in Puducherry to get an impression that Narayanasamy was close to Delhi (Congress high command).Rangasamy was not off the mark. As a Delhi-based politician, Narayanasamy, like Jogi, was 10 Janpath’s favourite. Many heads had turned in disbelief when Narayanasamy had succeeded Prithviraj Chavan as Minister of State during Dr Manmohan Singh’s time.Some had thought Rahul himself should have taken up the job for a real-time crash course in governance. There was the talented lot of Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot, Milind Deora, Jitin Prasada, RPN Singh and others who would have benefited working directly under Dr Manmohan Singh. The political grapevine had it that Narayanasamy was chosen because he would listen to and carry out instructions from Ahmed Patel who was not holding a government position.Narayanasamy held several offices prior to his stint in the PMO and in Puducherry. Around 2008, he was the AICC general secretary looking after Madhya Pradesh. The faction-ridden Congress consisting of Scindia, Nath, Digvijaya, Suresh Pachauri, Ajay Singh and others required a person who could rein them in. But Narayanasamy lacked the authority that was expected from a senior party representative. At one meeting, Narayanasamy was even heard addressing Pachauri, then MPCC chief, as ‘sahib’ though purely in hierarchical terms, he was supposedly senior. A joke used to circulate at Indira Bhawan, the MPCC office in Bhopal, that someone once asked a senior leader about Narayanasamy’s political stature. He replied that the stature was so high that many regional satraps seldom asked him to sit down. This may sound uncharitable but illustrates the deep rot that had set in the high command culture.The Puducherry Congress had been seeking intervention for long. But the façade over the leadership issue in the AICC since May 2019 has been such that Sonia or Rahul never prioritised Puducherry. Resentment kept brewing. It was said that verbal offers of a change of guard were made and that the ‘promise’ was not fulfilled. There are talks galore of unfulfilled promises to aspirants in Jaipur and Raipur too. While there is no confirmation of these whispers, the key players keep nursing ambitions in the absence of a categorical denial.The BJP may not be a major player but it kept a hawkish eye on A. Namassivayam, a restless Congress minister who resigned to trigger a crisis. As usual, there was talk that Namassivayam was not given an audience in the ‘Delhi durbar’ of the Congress.The Congress leadership is still confident of preventing the BJP, Rangasamy and AIADMK from coming to power in the May 2021 polls, but a sense of demoralisation has set in after the loss of another Congress-ruled state. Would Jaipur be the next venue where informal promises have reportedly not been fulfilled?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/cong-giving-short-shrift-to-regional-satraps-217153
25-02-2021||---||How to privatise banks||The government has decided that there will be no more than four public sector units in each strategic sector, of which banking is one. Since even after the merger of several public sector banks there are still a dozen odd left, the task ahead is a long one. Hence, the goal the government has set for the current financial year — privatise two public sector banks — is the minimum that needs to be done. But even this limited task will not be easy to fulfil.No serious acquirer can be expected to come forward to acquire a sick bank. The average rural or semi-urban branch finds it difficult to make money.The junior minister in finance has taken the first step to spell out the obvious boundary lines. No serious acquirer can be expected to come forward to acquire a sick bank. A sale has to be ‘reasonable’ and ‘a fair deal’ for the buyer, the government and also bank customers. Last but not the least, even though left-oriented trade unions are not a constituency of the present government, come the bank employees. Their long-term interests, including the pension commitments made to them, will have to be secured while going through the sale process.But even if a bank is not formally designated a sick enterprise, it is well known that most public sector banks are weak. Periodic capital injections by the government have ensured that they are able to carry on doing business by meeting the regulator’s capital adequacy norms. And their level of stressed assets has been kept under some kind of control through hefty write-offs.But even what is there on paper does not reveal the whole truth. The pandemic has resulted in court-ordered moratorium on repayments and a standstill on recognition of NPAs. The true picture of the level of non-performing assets will only be known once regular repayments and asset recognition get under way. Knowing that the official numbers may not tell the full story, a practice of giving additional information through pro-forma numbers has been started.According to information disclosed by 17 banks (six top public sector and 11 private sector banks), for the December quarter, ‘gross NPAs’ have been put at Rs 5.95 lakh crore, ‘unrecognised NPAs’ at Rs 1.04 lakh crore — the two together yielding a figure of ‘pro-forma gross NPAs’ of Rs 7 lakh crore.This being the scenario, what is there in a public sector bank, except perhaps State Bank of India, and to an extent Bank of Baroda, for a prospective buyer to feel that he has before him a potentially viable asset which can be turned around to become a profitable one?First, does the economy need the business model that public sector banks represent? They served a historical purpose but in the business of taking banking to the unbanked, the can is now being carried by the better and bigger microfinance institutions and the small finance banks which have mostly emerged from their earlier avatar of NBFC-MFIs which are rigorously supervised by the Reserve Bank of India. And these have far lower levels of stressed assets than the average commercial bank.The government is keen to take financial inclusion forward through digital banking, which on the face of it, seems to be capable of doing away with brick and mortar bank branches. Under this scenario, the last mile will be delivered by hotspot-enabled kirana stores functioning as public data offices where you will get good bandwidth to do your basic banking with ease through your smartphone.But bank branches which offer a physical interface between unlettered customers and banking staff is essential for first-generation users of even basic banking services to learn how to handle banking procedures. It is a mistake to think that those at the bottom of the pyramid do not need their own relationship managers. All you need to do to convince yourself of this is the queues of confused customers at bank branches even in urban areas waiting patiently to be told how to do what needs doing.The most tangible values that public sector banks have to offer are their large deposit base and branch real estate. Plus, most ordinary Indians to this day wish to keep their meagre savings in a safe institution that carries de facto government guarantee against bank failure. For this, they are willing to earn a rate of interest which is below the inflation rate, that is their deposits losing real value over time.The banks’ foremost liability is that the average rural or semi-urban branch finds it difficult to make money. A key reason is their staff have poor knowledge of local business conditions so that an unacceptably high part of their small loans portfolio is non-performing. It is here that the microfinance institutions and the small finance banks score as they are part of the rural ecosystem and know it intrinsically. Plus, there is the traditional cynical attitude of the banks’ unionised staff.So is there a way in which public sector banks can be successfully privatised or should they be closed down and the staff paid off so that the banks do not represent a perpetual drain on the public exchequer through endless recapitalisation?There is — through a process of patient transformation under which there are incentives for the new owners to do good banking business in the ‘other India’. As the economy grows and rural non-agricultural services become more important, there is great scope for successful bank financing of micro and small businesses, like cell phone repair and solar panel servicing, not to speak of motorbike maintenance.But the new owners, who should be akin to startup entrepreneurs, have a developmental mindset as well as bottom line orientation, cannot be identified in a day, and after the sale need hand holding to overcome the unexpected like a natural calamity or, God forbid, another pandemic. And that is a tall order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-to-privatise-banks-217152
25-02-2021||---||China changes tack||In his speech at the State Department earlier in February, US President Joe Biden spelt out the priorities for foreign policy. These included his intention to return to active global engagement, work closely with allies, promote multilateralism and uphold democratic values and human rights. He identified China as a formidable competitor and Russia as a threat but conveyed his intention to compete and, if necessary, confront but also engage with them to meet global challenges such as climate change, arms control and non-proliferation and pandemics. On specific issues, he announced an end to US support to Saudi Arabia in the civil war in Yemen and revive the Iran nuclear deal. India was not mentioned nor was Indo-Pacific. However by appointing a key adviser, Kurt Campbell, for the Indo-Pacific, it is clear that it is a region of considerable importance to the US. The convening of the 3rd ministerial meeting of Quad on February 14, reportedly at the request of Secretary of State Antony Blinken, reinforces its criticality.After accusing India of having gone over to the ‘dark (American) side’, the latest Chinese expectations of India’s continuing non-alignment are remarkable.He has accorded to alliance relationships, Biden attended, on February 19, an online summit of G-7 countries, all of whom are US allies and which in the past functioned as a global steering committee of a West-dominated economic and security order. While the G-7 has been supplanted by the G-20 as the premier international forum for global economic coordination, it continues to be an important consultative platform for western economies and Japan. In a communique issued after the meeting, the G-7 pledged ‘to make 2021 a turning point for multilateralism’ and to put ‘our global ambitions on climate change and the reversal of biodiversity loss at the centre of our plans’. We may expect US and Europe to coordinate their positions at the forthcoming Conference of Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in Glasgow later this year.Biden elaborated his foreign policy posture at the Munich Security Conference. He reiterated his intention to revive transatlantic alliances as ‘the cornerstone of all we hope to achieve in the 21st century.’ So the US-Europe alliance, in particular NATO, will occupy a central place in Biden’s foreign policy but whether the Europeans will respond remains to be seen. On competition with China and on the threat from Russia, key European countries have interests different from the US. Despite US requests to delay the EU-China investment agreement, Germany made certain that it was pushed through. On Russia, too, Germany has resisted calls to halt the Nordstream pipeline that will bring Russian gas to Europe.Biden acknowledged that ‘democratic progress is under assault’ and that democracies must confront the notion that ‘autocracy is the best way forward.’ This implies a greater scrutiny of the democratic credentials of various states, including India.The speech spells out Biden’s China policy. He says that one must prepare for ‘long-term strategic competition with China’ and that this competition will be ‘stiff’. However, he spells out the Chinese threat more in economic rather than security terms, unlike the portrayal of Russia as a security threat. The stress on transatlantic alliance also seems to reflect this, even though his Indo-Pacific strategy is clearly directed towards China. Is the Indo-Pacific of lower priority? Time will tell.Biden wishes to restore US engagement with multilateral institutions and associate his country with multilateral approaches to global issues. The US has rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement and Biden will convene a climate summit on Earth Day. He has not only rejoined the WHO but also pledged $4 billion to the Covid-19 partnership initiative. We will also see the US, Europe and Japan working together to revive and reform the WTO. On both multilateral climate and trade related issues, India and the US have a record of almost adversarial relations. These must be managed so that they do not affect the more positive components in the relations. There will be pressure on India to sign up to an early peaking year for its carbon emissions and a carbon neutral year in 2050, like other major economies. Such pledges are not in India’s interest without reference to its energy security challenge and its developmental prospects. It is more important for India to formulate an ecologically sustainable strategy of growth that is different from the energy and resource intensive model adopted by China.How is China reacting to the policy statements from the US and further crystallisation of Quad? The Chinese foreign minister has called for a ‘reset’ in US-China relations and a withdrawal of all US tariffs and trade measures against China under Trump. This is unlikely. On Quad, Chinese media has dismissed the latest meeting as a ‘toothless photo-opportunity’ and no prospect of Quad emerging as an ‘Asian NATO’. But more interesting in the wake of the ongoing disengagement of forces at the India-China border, is the Chinese view of Indian calculations in joining Quad. A Global Times editorial claims that it is not in India’s interest ‘to completely tie itself to the US’ anti-China chariot’ and that ‘although the US and India need each other to deal with China, they still have their own independent calculations’. The article goes on to say: ‘Although India is moving closer to Washington, the non-alignment core is still in India’s fundamental interest.’ A later article by a Fudan professor, Shen Yi, makes this even more explicit: ‘India is mulling over the idea to ease restrictions on investment from China as the country is mired in pandemic-induced economic recession.’ No reference here to what is happening at the border. After accusing India of having gone over to the ‘dark (American) side’, these latest expectations of India’s continuing non-alignment are remarkable. They reflect an effort to get bilateral relations on track again. But that could be a long haul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-changes-tack-216631
