26-02-2021||---||Covid vaccine rollout needs to be decentralised||The Covid-19 vaccination drive is set to enter a new phase to cover people eligible for vaccination beyond the first prioritised group of healthcare and frontline workers. Those who were vaccinated at the very beginning of the immunisation drive are also getting the second dose of the vaccine. Vaccination has been initiated in all states and union territories where over one crore healthcare and frontline workers have been covered. The coverage of vaccination, however, is not uniform throughout the country. Many states have reported vaccine hesitancy even among healthcare workers who are at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19. The lower-than-expected achievement of vaccination despite the availability of vaccine supplies has led to questions about the potential wastage of doses in some places. Besides, it has led to the demand for making Covid-19 vaccines available in the private market.In the current phase, the vaccination drive is fully funded by the government. It is not yet clear how the next phase covering people above 60 and those above 45 with co-morbidities will be funded. Those supporting the demand for letting the private sector handle Covid-19 inoculation cite the slow pace of vaccination in the public sector, and the fact that many people in the next phase can afford to pay for their vaccine shots. This view is based on the assumption that the public sector is inefficient and incapable of handling a large vaccination drive. This is fallacious because it was the public sector healthcare system that led disease eradication campaigns in the past such as smallpox and polio that were driven mainly by the effective delivery of vaccines in every nook and corner of the country.The bulk of the essential child immunisation programme is state-driven, though India is yet to reach 100 per cent coverage of life-saving vaccines. All this does not mean that the private sector has no role in immunisation as such. The private sector has been a supplier of essential vaccines and also plays a critical role in delivery in urban areas, particularly of a host of new optional vaccines. The private sector has been involved in Covid-19 vaccination for healthcare workers at many centres.The idea of keeping the Covid-19 vaccine drive in the public sector was to ensure that those who need the vaccine first should be prioritised, given the limited supplies in the initial weeks and months. Affordability or willingness to pay for the vaccine was not a factor while formulating this strategy. Even developed countries, where affordability may not be a dominant factor as in India, decided to keep vaccination in the state sector. It is a different issue that the same countries did not bother about the issue of access vis-à-vis poor countries. The bulk of available supplies in global markets were cornered by developed countries through direct and advance purchase mechanisms, leaving little for several countries in Africa and Asia with little or no supplies. Those asking for Covid-19 vaccines available in open markets should bear this in mind.The glitches seen in the public sector-led immunisation drive in the initial days are being progressively fixed. Other inefficiencies can be identified and addressed in many ways to optimise the use of available doses of the two vaccines. The rollout needs to be decentralised. Instead of a Centrally framed and implemented plan, we need state-level immunisation programmes based on epidemiological factors driving the pandemic in each state. If the pandemic curve in Maharashtra and Kerala is different from that of other states, vulnerable groups there need to be prioritised for vaccination even if they don’t fall in the priority groups decided by the Centre.The same should apply while implementing vaccination at the state level. All districts within a state may not need the same quantities of the vaccine. Such a targeted approach can make the vaccination programme efficient. At the political level, taking states into confidence while formulating the plans can help address issues like those raised by the Chhattisgarh government. By being proactive and transparent with vaccine-related information with state governments, the Health Ministry could have avoided politicisation of the vaccination rollout and perhaps prevented hesitancy too.Another aspect relating to the wider availability of the vaccines is their pricing. For the government sector, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech negotiated a special price. The SII has already said that the price of its vaccines in the private market will be much higher, factoring in administration fees or margin of doctors, cold chain costs etc. It means there will be differential pricing. If such dual pricing is allowed before all priority groups are vaccinated and before enough doses are available to feed both private and public sectors, it can lead to pilferage from public supplies and black marketing. Profiteering by unscrupulous elements in the private sector, as seen in Covid-19 testing and treatment, can’t be ruled out. Higher pricing of say Rs 2,000 for two doses for private markets could also dissuade economically weaker people who are not on priority lists or have co-morbidities from vaccination. The number of such people is substantial and if they are not vaccinated, it would be difficult to achieve the goal of ending the pandemic through vaccination.The pandemic has deepened existing fault lines in society, between the rich and the poor, between haves and have-nots, globally and domestically. Telemedicine for non-pandemic-related health problems is tricky for those on the wrong side of the digital divide. If Covid-19 vaccine supplies are diverted to private, for-profit markets at the current stage of the pandemic, it will only add to existing inequities. Instead, the Central and state governments can utilise the opportunity to boost the public system with new investments. This will not only help in vaccination, but also help achieve other goals such as the eradication of tuberculosis and childhood diseases, besides redeeming people’s faith in the public sector health system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-vaccine-rollout-needs-to-be-decentralised-217583
26-02-2021||---||Why we should worry about Bengal polls||I worry about the coming Assembly elections in West Bengal. Not because I am particularly invested in who wins or loses this election. By all accounts, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has run an average government with some popular schemes. Its track record on democratic rights or corruption is hardly sterling. The demise of the Left and the continuing irrelevance of the Congress is now a template of Bengal politics. In this context, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) meteoric rise in the state is to be expected. Ideological and personal likes and dislikes apart, there is no special reason for alarm. No matter what the outcome, the fate of the people of Bengal is unlikely to change in any major way.More than the outcome, I worry about the election itself. I worry about the path to these elections. I worry about the day of the elections. I worry about the aftermath of the elections. It could leave an irreparable damage in many localities. It could leave the state of West Bengal in disarray. It could cause long-term damage to some of our already weak national institutions.I worry because there already is a precedent in West Bengal. The infamous Assembly elections held in 1972 is widely believed to be one of the blots on India’s otherwise relatively clean record on holding fair elections.In that election, Indira Gandhi’s Congress — it was called Congress (R) at that time — recorded a landslide victory reducing the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M) to just 14 seats in a 280-member Assembly. If you go by the pro-Left media and academics, the entire election was ‘rigged’.A more balanced assessment suggests that the Congress was poised for a narrow victory anyway, riding on the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War. It seems that the last-minute panic of a possible defeat pushed Siddhartha Shankar Ray, a close confidant of Indira Gandhi at that time, into pressing the panic button and ‘manipulating’ the elections to ensure a landslide.Whatever the motive, what we know is that in several constituencies, the Congress used strong-arm tactics, voters were allegedly turned away and booth-capturing took place. In many constituencies, the sudden switch in voting behaviour was hard to explain.In short, the 1972 election was seen to be rigged in many instances.I worry because the BJP is rather desperate to win this Bengal election. It can smell a chance in the state but it knows it is not quite there. The BJP has all the power and resources at its command. And, needless to say, little scruple.The BJP’s desperation to win Bengal is no secret. Besides an overarching and all-consuming desire to expand its rule all over India, it has a clear need. The losses that the party has suffered and is likely to suffer in the North, where it has reached saturation, can only be made up from the East or the South. States such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala are still far away for the BJP. So it needs major gains from the East. For a party that is known to throw everything into a routine election, it is not hard to imagine what it might do in an election it is desperate to win.The BJP knows that it has an outside chance in West Bengal. Its tally of just three seats in the previous Assembly elections does not indicate where it might stand today because its spectacular performance in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 showed that it was only three percentage points behind the TMC. If the Lok Sabha elections were to be translated into Assembly seats, the BJP would have won 126 seats to the TMC’s 152.The BJP also knows that it is hard for it to replicate this performance. The party always does much worse in the Assembly elections in the state than in the Lok Sabha elections. Besides, the party has no leadership face to come anywhere close to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s popularity. It does not have a substantial election issue or a concrete agenda to offer so far. In other words, it is a situation of ‘so close, yet so far’. This is dangerously tempting.Let me pause here: I am ultra-cautious, almost a conservative, when it comes to allegations or insinuations of electoral rigging and fraud. I have scoffed at politicians, including Mamata Banerjee in 2006, when they used allegations of ‘rigging’ to cover their electoral reverses. I have maintained, much to the chagrin of my anti-Narendra Modi friends, that there is so far no credible evidence to suggest that the BJP’s victory in 2019 was based on EVM hacking or rigging.Let me now spell out my worry, as far as I can see it in this stage. My worry is that the 2021 election could have much more at stake than 1972. Specifically, I fear that in the coming weeks, the present regime might use the following to somehow try to win this election.First, there is some fear we could witness a virtual Governor’s rule. Given the blatantly partisan actions of the current Governor, you cannot rule out the Raj Bhawan virtually becoming the BJP headquarters. This would mean a slugfest for control of local bureaucracy during the elections.Second, the Election Commission, already battered and compromised in public perception, might take further beating. This is one election where the Election Commission’s neutrality would matter most. This is where the Commission might come under pressure from the ruling party the most.Third, the Central Government might be tempted into using the powers at its disposal to neutralise the strong-arm tactics of the TMC cadre on the ground, for which the BJP has no match at this moment. There are fears of blatant partisanship on polling day.Fourth, the BJP has already begun and is likely to pour money on a scale that West Bengal has never known before. For all its other flaws, Bengal elections have not witnessed money on a scale that is used, say in Punjab or Karnataka. This might change in the coming elections.And finally, we are going to see one of the most divisive elections in India’s recent history. The BJP has already used every possible means of communally polarising the state — a state that has more than a quarter Muslims. Bengal has had a bloody communal history and has seen clashes after Partition too. A deliberate push to create communal divide and hatred can push Bengal into pre-Partition days. This could be one of the most tragic and enduring legacies of this election.I sincerely hope that my fears and worries are unfounded. But given what I see so far, I do worry about the Bengal elections. So should you.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-we-should-worry-about-bengal-polls-217582
26-02-2021||What prompted Narendra Modi||Modi miffed with ‘babus’||I heard on an English TV channel the views of two highly respected former IAS officers for not having accepted a post-retirement sinecure from their political masters. They were Subhash Kumar Garg, a former Finance Secretary who retired prematurely after a successful career, and Anil Swarup, a former Coal Secretary, equally distinguished.The former Coal Secretary was more forthcoming than the former Finance Secretary, who I learn has chosen the spiritual path over the material. Anil Swarup, a man I personally know and admire, was very supportive of Modi, praising him for being a good listener and a boss who did not hesitate to take quick decisions. Subhash Garg was not so effusive in praise, but he too felt that it was a pleasure to work with Modiji.An IAS officer has many opportunities to interact with top politicians. It is the nature of the job. Many a minister literally eat out of the hands of bureaucrats, in a manner of speaking. If the minister has been given charge of a ministry in which he has no expertise, but is expected to learn the ropes while on the job, the bureaucrat gets a headstart, unless he himself or herself is being introduced to the subject for the first time. This does happen often because the officer is not a specialist. He is trained to take on any department of the government. His superior intellect and vast knowledge and experience help him along.Other all-India and Central services officers specialise in one subject. They have fewer occasions to meet political bosses and certainly not the top man. The only PM I interacted with on a regular basis was Rajiv Gandhi. Punjab Governor SS Ray and I would fly to Delhi from Chandigarh by a government aircraft to brief him on the course the terrorist menace was taking in the state. He was receptive and reasonable. It was only when I mentioned the guilty Congressmen of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots that he turned resentful. That did not deter me from mentioning it, at times, when the occasion arose.In Maharashtra, where I was assigned, I would meet numerous politicians, big and small. The first CM I met was Morarji Desai. As CM of the composite state of Bombay, he visited Mount Abu where IPS officers were then trained. I was introduced to him along with three other officers assigned to Bombay State. He picked on me for special attention when he heard my name. He asked if my father had served in the Postal Service and when I nodded, he told me that my father, who died when I was eight, and he were fellows of the Wilson College in Bombay at the same time, my father in the Arts faculty and he, Morarjibhai, in the science stream. This conversation, heard by my colleagues, made me a minor celebrity in the Sixth Regular Recruitment Course.Yashwantrao Chavan, Vasantrao Naik, Sharad Pawar and Vasant Dada Patil are other CMs I met quite often in the course of my duties. They were a cut above other politicians in their own party, the Congress. You could guess why they were chosen for high office. Each had his own strengths, possibly weaknesses, too, but I remember no occasion to fault them for insisting on their own wishes being treated as sacrosanct! They were men of steel but willing to listen to the truth and to reason.I have contacts in Gujarat, mostly in the IPS since I was DGP of that state for four months during the communal riots of 1985. There was a Congress government in Gujarat then. Modi was installed as CM more than a decade later. The junior IPS officers had become senior by then. They provided me with a pen picture of Modi in office.That he listened intently was a common observation. That he decided quickly and decisively was another. People appreciate a politician (or even an official) who takes decisions, right or wrong! On the debit side though, was the tendency to be ruthless with those who crossed his path, even inadvertently. If Modi wanted something to be said or done, it had to be said or done, even if the officer’s conscience was not comfortable doing so.Today, more than half of the PMO and other critical positions in the Centre are filled by Gujarat-cadre officers. The remaining slots have gone to officers from other state cadres who had found their way to the ‘approved list’ based on their ACRs. Clearance from the Intelligence Bureau is an added input that is unofficially obtained in order to clear doubts about ideology and integrity. At one time, we were told of another unofficial source of information obtained by the PMO through a system called the 180° initiative that entrusted a few retired bureaucrats of the PM’s confidence to make their own quiet inquiries about the candidates!There is no dearth of honest and competent officers in the IAS. At times, lateral entry for specialised jobs has been tried out, but even these highly valued experts have often been replaced by IAS officers of high calibre. The most striking example is of the appointment of Shaktikanta Das of the IAS as Governor of the RBI in place of the internationally acknowledged economist, Raghuram Rajan.Instances of lateral entry into the government’s top echelons have occurred even in the time of the Congress. Dr Manmohan Singh, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, noted economist, and Bimal Jalan, a finance wizard, were all brought in from academia. The present government continues with the experiment and has even taken it to the cutting edge level by recruiting Joint Secretaries from the open market.So why is Modi frustrated? Well, he is a man in a hurry. He wants results even before the task is undertaken! And he also wants undiluted loyalty and perhaps a dose of ideology thrown in. I am sure he will be able to find such marvels in this vast country without losing his cool!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/modi-miffed-with-babus-217548
