27-02-2021||---||How the police let down Delhi riot victims||ON the first anniversary of the communal riots in north-east Delhi, numerous humanitarian, administrative and judicial accounts are being updated or freshly circulated in the media. Available statistics confirm that 53 persons were killed, over 500 injured and more than 1,800 arrested. The Delhi Government claims to have disbursed Rs 26 crore among over 2,200 riot victims as compensation.Conspicuous by their absence, however, are the names of the personnel the police department would normally reward as exceptional defenders of public life and property during such riots. Not that the Centre or the state government ever bothered to officially identify and felicitate the civilian heroes either. Some of them were even targeted by the police and named in criminal cases.It seems that prevention was not foremost on the minds of the Delhi Police top brass, even though the brewing tension over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) had coincided with the much-publicised visit of the then US President Donald Trump to the national capital. Ironically, inciteful speeches were made by political leaders in the presence of cops, triggering the events that escalated into riots lasting three days.Within days of the stoppage of the bloodshed, Union Home Minister Amit Shah praised the Delhi Police in Parliament for ‘effectively containing the riot within 36 hours’, in contrast to the then prevailing narrative of partisan policing. The PCR (Police Control Room) system of the police had allegedly remained mostly unresponsive to calls from members of the minority community, and at one point, the Delhi High Court had to intervene for ensuring safe passage to ambulances in residential areas of the minority community.A recent bail order of the High Court underlined the disinclination on the part of the police to conduct a fair investigation. In one riot case, while releasing on bail three persons accused of shooting a co-religionist from close range, the judge observed that the post-mortem report indicated that the wound was caused by long-distance firing. “It is hard to believe that a communal riot can be used to cause the death of the person of their own community,” the judge said. The accused had saved the lives of some persons of the majority community (witnesses in the case) by asking them to leave the scene of the crime. “If they were really involved in this communal riot and wanted to cause harm to the members of the other community, they would not have tried to save the lives of the members of the other community,” the judge observed.The anniversary has passed off as a low-key affair, overshadowed by the ongoing farmers’ protests at Delhi’s borders. But in view of the handling of these riots, a question mark remains over the modern image of the police force. Back in December 1992, a communal flare-up triggered by rumours in the wake of the Babri Masjid demolition was quickly controlled in the Capital. Working directly under the Ministry of Home Affairs helps by way of uninterrupted flow of quality intelligence inputs from Central agencies as well. So, what went wrong this time?There is a marked shift in the character of proactive policing, from being preventive to pre-emptive, and that has clearly taken a big toll on the policing priorities. Preventive policing is that aspect of law enforcement intended to act as a deterrent to the commission of crime. It is considered a defining characteristic of the modern police, typically associated with Robert Peel’s London Metropolitan Police, established in 1829. Pre-emptive policing relies on risk assessment against select risk criteria. Drawing on algorithmic prediction, the future risk of offending is calculated and allocated a category — extreme, high, medium or low risk. Accordingly, the Delhi Police have, during the past year and a half, been constrained to pick up social activists, Left-leaning students and minorities as risk factors harmful to peace in society.As a logical corollary, their pre-emptive approach has also seeped into the investigation process. There appeared to be several menacing images of armed outsiders marching to the rioting sites, which demanded a deeper probe by investigators. However, an overview feeding a conspiracy theory has been presented through a four-tier chart in various chargesheets. It presupposes a criminal linkage between the alleged masterminds and activists, interfacing with local organisers, and, consequently, binds them to the violent acts of the rioters. According to one typical chargesheet of the Delhi riots, the local organisers are the persons who set up the protest site and the “local protesters/rioters are the people who resided in the locality of Chand Bagh, the common man who visited the protest site to support the protest which was being organised by the local organisers and the conspirators. These people were not a regular part of the protests. However, they actively participated in rioting on February 24, 2020, after being instigated by the local organisers.”The trust in policing can be restored only by the police. With the Black Lives Matter movement seriously testing the credibility of police across America, Houston police chief Art Acevedo had talked about ending ‘lawful but awful’ policing. They did move in the desired direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-the-police-let-down-delhi-riot-victims-217930
27-02-2021||---||Strategic review from Kargil to Kailash||VICENNIAL is a rarely used term, defined as ‘occurring once every 20 years’. The first two decades of the 21st century are over. Ravaged by Covid-19, India has skipped annual, let alone decadal or vicennial strategic reviews. In our context, the period from 2001 to 2020 is unique, meriting a special analysis. It triggered a slew of reforms in the aftermath of the Kargil shock in 1999 and ended with the attempted Ladakh grab by China, catalysing more reforms. On both occasions, the armed forces reacted admirably to restore the situation, notwithstanding our propensity to get surprised.This century dawned with the spectre of the looming Y2K disaster. Twenty years down the line, the threat of disruptive technologies like armed drones threaten the very relevance of existing platforms like tanks and aircraft. The raging pandemic has made public health a key ingredient of Comprehensive National Power. With the Dragon administering a rude shock on the LAC, there is belated realisation that China is indeed the biggest adversary, and the only antidote is capability-building.This period started with the NDA government till it was replaced by the UPA. The latter ruled for two successive terms, followed by the NDA, now in its second spell. In essence, both have had 10 years at the helm, yet there is an unabated tendency to pass the buck to escape accountability. It is time our political parties consider national security in the bipartisan format and forge national consensus.Most advanced countries, including even opaque ones (like China), publish white papers and reviews. The US puts out a quadrennial review, which is both educative and prescriptive. We have an annual report of the Ministry of Defence, largely a bureaucratic compilation, lacking analysis. The aim of this review is basically to flag some key trends and promote greater transparency and accountability. It is anchored in five key parameters — policy, readiness, structures, force levels and logistics.On the policy front, we continue to await the promulgation of the national security strategy, which seems to be a work in progress, albeit with no deadline. Secrecy and ambiguity seem to be the cornerstones of the current strategy. The Raksha Mantri had once even advocated ambiguity in the nuclear policy, which was later described as his personal opinion. Surprise, indeed, unnerves the enemy; credit on this score is due for the surgical strikes and pre-emptive occupation of the Kailash Range. However, in the long term, clearly articulated red lines, especially among nuclear-armed nations with certainty of response, ensure stability and deterrence. As per Clausewitz, ‘a successful commander, while leveraging deception, has to remain largely predictable to his command’.Readiness is best measured by deterrence levels achieved and the responses to enemy action. It is a function of budgetary allocations, procurement and training. Unfortunately, defence spending has remained low, leading to critical shortages. Post Kargil and during the current crisis, emergency procurement had to be invoked. Much-hyped but limited big-ticket purchases like those of Rafale, Apache and S-400 have not been able to achieve desired credible dissuasion. Our commendable response, especially in Ladakh, is largely due to the human factor honed by training and the unit ethos. It will be in order that desired deterrence levels are spelt out, backed by quantified net assessment parameters. There is urgency on the part of the government to kickstart modernisation and Atmanirbharta initiatives, but the way forward is a functional procurement policy with committed, non-lapsable funds. Defence plans, which are known more for slippages, need to be put back on the rails.During the Kargil conflict, it required a reading of the riot act by America to control Pakistan’s nuclear sabre-rattling. However, the Balakot airstrike called Pakistan’s bluff conclusively. India needs to sharpen its punitive response backed by other leverages to shackle Pakistan’s proxy war strategy.The Kargil Review Committee’s major recommendations included the establishment of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), theatre commands, intelligence structures, border management (one border, one force) and the National Defence University (NDU). After initial impetus, the reform process was put on the back burner by the UPA government. It goes to the credit of the current government that not only CDS but also the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) is in place and theatre commands seem imminent.It is high time the issues of operational control of ITBP and Assam Rifles are resolved. It is an enduring mystery why the NDU has not yet found traction. We need to critically appraise intelligence and surveillance structures to avoid being surprised time and again. A review of diplomacy is the crying need as Act East and Neighbourhood First policies have not yet found desired traction.The Kargil conflict resulted in the creation of Ladakh Corps. The current crisis has kick-started belated rebalancing to the northern borders. Reassignment of corps-sized formation to Ladakh has created the second mountain strike corps. The first one, raised during the UPA regime on a standard, unwieldy format, is now exclusively assigned to NE. It is hoped that these formations will be customised and modernised. The desired fighter strength needs an empirical revisit to factor in drones, current capabilities and costs. Concurrently, maritime capability to heighten China’s Malacca dilemma and neutralise the Gwadar advantage needs to be funded.Critical logistics have improved with enhanced ammunition stocking levels but quality control needs urgent improvement with built-in accountability. The renewed focus on connectivity (roads, tunnels and bridges) and most importantly, the removal of hurdles of environmental clearance are indeed commendable. To sum up, it will be appropriate to quote Robert Frost, “...and miles to go before I sleep”. Reviews will certainly keep the journey focused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/strategic-review-from-kargil-to-kailash-217907
27-02-2021||EARLIER this week||Clamping down on Disha Ravis||Disha Ravi’s arrest for editing a Google Document was an appalling act of crossing the line of democratic decency.Disha Ravi is a 22-year-old woman, and at best can be described as a young idealist out to change this world. Can India afford not to have Disha Ravis? Rajguru was only 22 and Bhagat Singh and Sukhdev 23 when they were hanged for idealism of the revolutionary variety. Disha Ravi’s arrest for editing a Google Document was an appalling act of crossing the line of democratic decency and deservedly, the government has invited global opprobrium. This too could be brazened out, no doubt, but only at the cost of getting our national image sullied all across the world. That, obviously, cannot be our government’s foreign policy objective.Disha Ravi’s case was a cause célèbre because of her association with globally acclaimed climate change activist Greta Thunberg. Yet, she had to spend 10 days in custody till Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana finally granted her bail, pointing at the ‘scanty and sketchy evidence’ produced against her by the Delhi Police. Any activist, or for that matter any journalist, in the normal course of work gets acquainted or even linked up with extremist elements without really knowing or participating in any of their extremist activities. As a journalist, I had the occasion to meet up with top Maoist leaders in metropolitan cities and the jungles of Bastar, but that professional engagement does not imply any kind of involvement in their violent, criminal activities.Empathy for the less privileged and a suspicion of the establishment are the hallmarks of genuine youthful idealism that burns itself to light up and change the world. Many perish in this enterprise and many others get battered by worldly-wise opportunists all around and become cynics for life. This is the normal process of evolution of an idealist and the police should not step in unless these youngsters take up arms. An all-knowing, paternalistic State is an oppressive presence in the lives of younger people trying to find their feet in the shifting sands of political or ideological discovery. Their truisms at 22 need not be the be-all and end-all of their pursuit. Then, for the State to march in and bludgeon non-violent and harmless activists like Disha Ravi into silence is the most counterproductive process that can be conceived; they just need to be told about the lurking dangers of getting used by vested interests.The Disha Ravi case ought to be the last embarrassing instance of our government refusing to sort the wheat from the chaff while invoking draconian, colonial-era provisions like the sedition law. Any wide-eyed youngster would want to get associated with a Malala Yousafzai or a Greta Thunberg, or other activists, writers, singers and performers of international repute. That in itself should not be declared seditious; in the eyes of the world, when harassed, these young activists would only be counted as victims. And that is where the government seems to have lost the plot. Sure, there are elements within and outside the country trying hard to create disaffection or to hijack local protests like the farmers’ movement against the farm laws. But it is the responsibility of the law-enforcing agencies to understand and differentiate between foreign-funded agent provocateurs and romantics. The lack of this distinction destroys the credibility of the government agencies, and by extension even the country’s institutions.The ‘foreign destructive ideology’ that the Prime Minister referred to in Parliament sounds similar to Indira Gandhi’s ‘foreign hand’ theory, which she had repeatedly used to justify the clampdown on the Opposition during the 1970s. It is interesting to note that in those dark days of the Emergency, it was the Western press and its democratic institutions that took up the cause of the jailed Opposition, including members of the RSS and the Jan Sangh. Now, in a globally connected world, there is no escape from all-round attacks —some genuine, many motivated. The way out cannot be charges of sedition, for the result is that the government’s critics are tarring the entire society with the same brush. For instance, the Post has claimed that the government has “intimidated much of the mainstream media into self-censorship”. Does the government want the world to believe that the Indian media has succumbed to self-censorship?The new guidelines for digital platforms can also lead to similar accusations. Already, advocacy groups have cried foul, insisting that the Information Technology Act is being ‘unconstitutionally' used to ‘censor’ news portals and that the entire exercise is opaque without public consultation. Some of them may move the court against the Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, but it has already triggered a storm of discontent. If only like Australia, our government had taken on Big Tech on behalf of the small Indian news content creators, the new rules would have been welcomed by one and all. Now, it seems to be only an attempt to regulate without protecting the interests of the news media. There lies the difference between the two media codes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/clamping-down-on-disha-ravis-217901
