28-02-2021||I was there in court when ACMM Ravindra Kumar Pandey read out the judgment that acquitted journalist Priya Ramani of criminal defamation against former minister MJ Akbar and upheld her right and that of every woman to speak her truth and expose sexual abuse fearlessly and publicly.||What Ramani’s win taught me about courage & solidarity||Along with others, I heard the judge say that a woman cannot be punished for raising her voice against sexual abuse. She has the right to put her grievance on any platform of her choice and even after decades. The shame is not the victim’s but of the society in which crimes and violence are perpetrated on women.I did not immediately realise how big the impact of this judgment would be. This defamation case had come as a backlash against women who — inspired by the global #MeToo movement — had shared their experiences of sexual harassment on social media. #MeToo refers to the fact that workplace harassment is so pervasive that nearly every woman, across generations, has experienced the humiliation of being targeted, even if she has stayed silent for decades.Tears were stinging my eyes and I saw another senior journalist trying to hold back hers as the judge finished reading the verdict. I assumed it was a personal quirk that was making some of us emotional in this moment of validation from a court of law. Within minutes of leaving the courtroom, the news began to break across social and mainstream media and the resonance was stunning. Just like the sharing of stories of abuse had empowered each other’s voices, this ruling too was being received as a shared triumph.Among other cases, this judgment brought back memories of the 17-year-long struggle for justice endured by IAS officer Rupan Deol Bajaj, who had been forced to file an FIR against the IPS officer, KPS Gill, when she found that her complaint of having been sexually harassed by him in the presence of other bureaucrats was not being addressed by her own seniors. In a historic judgment in 2005, the Supreme Court had convicted the celebrated police officer, holding him guilty of the charges of molestation.“Letting it go meant living with lowered self-esteem and gulping down my humiliation. I did not fight against KPS Gill. I fought against society’s mindset,” Bajaj said in an interview to the BBC that is being shared again. The line that reassures me the most is when she says, “When I fought, it was me alone, now it is #MeToo.”In a text to Ramani earlier this week, I asked her what it meant to her to witness this phenomenon of her case judgment being celebrated so inclusively.“It’s great to feel that ‘yes! we did it’ frisson of excitement run through women of all ages and socio-economic backgrounds,” she texted back. “It’s also sad because clearly we all empathise with the issue of sexual harassment at work. And after all these decades of fighting for safety in the workplace, one reason we are likely celebrating so loudly is because our victories are so few.”For me, this is also a time to applaud the support networks that have enabled a person like Ramani to fight the battle that was thrust upon her. I was witness to the rigour and hard work of her lawyer, Rebecca John, and her team, who represented Ramani pro bono. Her friends and thousands of supporters spoke up in solidarity to ensure that Ramani was never alone. Her husband, the journalist Samar Halarnkar, who wrote this in an article when Akbar had filed the defamation case against Ramani, “She has always had a strong sense of right and wrong, black and white, and she has never lacked courage. It is one reason I married her.”It is true that the onslaught of daily injustices wears us down and the victories of victims who dare to stand up to the powerful are few and far between. It is precisely this reason that we must absorb all the learnings we get from this story of triumph.“I was going to take this case to its end, whatever it was. I also knew that I had already won by fighting this battle, whether or not I won in court… because I stood up to a powerful man without feeling scared,” Ramani has said. I cannot think of a better example of how best we can all add courage and solidarity to the mix of privilege and opportunities we already have to make this world a better place for all of us. — The writer is an author & filmmakernatasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/what-ramanis-win-taught-me-about-courage-solidarity-218446
28-02-2021||How language changes and keeps up with the changing world! If one is asked||Our democracy||I must start by congratulating the BJP. They managed to get rid of both the L-G and the Chief Minister of Puducherry in one stroke. The Congress could not manage such a double whammy in 60 years. The party also has a magnet which pulls MLAs from opposing parties. That calls for a detailed sociological study. They lease out this magnet to the CBI, NIA, Narcotics Bureau, et al. With what sleight of hand do they manage it! Admirable! The Congress was reduced to 12 in a House of 30. Six guys crossed over, had tea with the BJP. V Narayanasamy the Chief Minister, resigned, but after telling the House how the BJP had used similar tactics in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. That’s a long list, sounds like one-third of India. I remember an African President or Prime Minister stating the following to his opponent after the voting: “I knew you won the election. But I won the count.” My suggestion to my countrymen is, why must we go through this rigmarole — disqualifying legislators, MLAs being secluded in hotels, voting and then being bought over — sorry, I mean won over. Why not just vote for the BJP in the first place and be done with?Here I wish to say something about political scientists — out of respect, I won’t touch on Harold Laski. Firstly, these theorists are not scientists. They have raised the cry that we are the largest democracy. Why? Because we have an election. None of the other parameters of a democracy do we fulfil. There is hardly any rule of law, godmen flourish, Baba Ramdev comes out with some mumbo jumbo vaccine and our Health Minister attends the show and supports it. We vote because of bhai-bhatija and biradari. Liquor drums were prevalent in Punjab during Partap Singh Kairon’s days. But our elections won us this title of ‘largest democracy’. I support the BJP for being so innovative, giving democracy another dimension by nullifying electoral results. What the Burmese army or the Pakistan army has always done, our polity presided over by eminent right-wingers manages so smoothly.The same goes for Sonar Bengal. One loses count of the guys in TMC ranks who basked in the Mamata sun for 10 years and have now hopped, stepped and jumped over to the BJP. I hope we are training these guys for the Olympics. Ennui must have set in with the Bhadralok members of the Assembly. The powers-that-be have also seen to it that the Enforcement Directorate does not feel neglected. With a snap of its fingers, it summoned this redoubtable outfit. In Mumbai quite recently, the party summoned the Narcotics Bureau, CBI, NIA, sent an actress to jail in aid of Sushant’s family. In Kolkata, the stakes are high. One can’t opine on a matter which is under investigation, though the timing favoured my favoured party, the Jana Sangh. A coal scam has been exhumed I am told, very rightly so, just at the moment when elections are near. None of the Opposition parties have this sense of timing.Columnists are at sixes and sevens these days. For instance, I am not sure who is conspiring in this toolkit case. Was it Disha Ravi and friends and the redoubtable Swedish activist, Thunberg, conspiring against India? Or was the state, meaning the BJP and the Delhi Police, conspiring against Disha Ravi and Greta Thunberg? After the judgment granting bail to the arch secessionist, I would not know who were the conspirators? Still, I would like to caution the aforesaid state, don’t mess with Sweden or you will have the entire poetry lobby against you. For, since 1913, every Indian poetaster who can rhyme ‘trees’ with ‘bees’ aspires to the Nobel Prize. I read a Khushwant Singh article where he mentioned that Subramania Bharati wrote to Tagore asking for the ‘mechanics’ of securing a Nobel. At the end of this rumination comes the news that Disha Ravi was communicating with an organisation called ‘Poetic Justice Foundation’. The state saw to it she met with ‘poetic justice’. The venerable judge, Dharmender Rana, granted bail to Disha Ravi after passing some strictures against the police. But there is a snag, there always is. He talked about the ‘scant and sketchy’ evidence marshalled by the police. This is an incentive for better patch-ups, slings around broken joints of the police case. Next time the patch-up will be perfect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/our-democracy-218442
28-02-2021||IN 1933||Why couldn’t Modi say no to the name||Lord Willingdon, a patron of sports, had a pavilion at the Feroze Shah Kotla cricket stadium named after him. Mumbai’s super-exclusive Royal Willingdon Sports Club still carries his name.When India became free, and hosted the inaugural Asian Games in 1951, Irwin Stadium was renamed National Stadium, and so it remained until Dhyan Chand’s name was appended to it, much after the hockey legend died.After Independence, an idealist would have imagined that with the expulsion of the British and India becoming a democratic republic, it would be a country of equals; that there would be no princes among the men who governed the country; that the days of the British potentates and their representatives in New Delhi were well and truly over.Yet, India made new princes, through vote. The country then saw a profusion of stadiums named after the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty — there are several stadiums or arenas named after Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi across the country. Some were named after towering figures from the Independence struggle and early democracy — such as the Lal Bahadur Shastri stadiums in Hyderabad and Kollam, or the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad.It’s unlikely that those named above would have given their consent to a stadium being named after them; except, perhaps Indira Gandhi, who did have a strong authoritarian streak in her character. It is a fact, though, that no stadium was named after Nehru or Gandhi or Shastri in their lifetime.Naming gameThe Nehru-Gandhi stadiums across India, perhaps deservedly, mock our ‘sporting tradition’ — a country of over a billion people gets humiliated every four years at the Olympics, trying to get its hand on a bronze or two, while countries that are a dot on the world map — Slovenia, Slovakia, Fiji — merrily took home a gold in 2016.When you walk to the Melbourne Cricket Ground, your breath is taken away by the huge statues of cricketers such as Dennis Lillee, Shane Warne, Bill Ponsford, Keith Miller and Don Bradman. The stadium also has statues of athlete Shirley Strickland and several Australian football legends.In India’s grounds, which are almost always named after politicians/administrators, we’re often greeted by statues or busts of politicians. Why can’t a politician say no?Why could not Narendra Modi say no to his name replacing that of Sardar Patel when the reconstructed cricket stadium in Ahmedabad was inaugurated? He’s said to be a modest, self-effacing man, isn’t he?Apart from the debatable propriety of a place being named after a living person, there’s also the matter of divesting the Ahmedabad stadium of the name of Sardar Patel, one of India’s greatest modern leaders — and a man revered by Modi. So, is nothing sacred any more?Those who wish to flatter a great leader will find ways and means to persuade him that it’s only right that a stadium — a great place to influence young people — is named after him. It’s very likely that it was due to the sycophants that stadiums were named after Hitler, Mussolini or Stalin in their own lifetime.Last month, the Sports Ministry had declared that all upgraded and new Sports Authority of India facilities would be named after athletes who have made the nation proud at the world stage. This declaration suggested an ambition to do things differently from the times of the old, entrenched dynasties.But democracy creates new princes and dynasties. They follow the ways of the old dynasts. The renaming of the stadium at Ahmedabad shows that in New India, we still follow the ways of Old India — 1933 isn’t all that far back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-couldnt-modi-say-no-to-the-name-218383
28-02-2021||With autumn quickly fading away in Ottawa in 1997||The wonder that is Vancouver||We flew into a sun-bathed Vancouver Airport after a five-hour flight having traversed three time zones. The woollens were doffed and we settled into easy gear suited to handling a cool breeze coming over the Pacific and occasional rain. Conclusion of official meetings by early afternoons allowed time for exploration of the Vancouver core. One day, we walked into the first Vancouver neighbourhood, established by an English seaman, in the mid-19th century, who was loquacious and had earned the epithet “Gassy”. He was to become the eponym for Gas Town, which had travelled a long way from being an agglomeration of warehouses to the centre of the city’s drinking life in the 1930s onto the venue of tony boutiques, night clubs and upscale housing by the time we visited there. In other instances of delicately executed urban regeneration, Yale Town had supplanted warehouses and with impressive housing developments overlooking marinas replete with expensive yachts. And Coal Harbour, on the opposite side of downtown, had buried its past and developed a verdant waterfront with bistros for the well-heeled and residences with breathtaking mountain views. Opposite our hotel were the Canada Place convention centre, with teflon sails forming the roof, and a terminal for cruise liners making for a pleasing sight after dusk with multi-coloured lighting.A couple of days later, an intense cloud cover over Whistler Blackcomb, the famed ski resort that was to host the 2010 Winter Olympics, and a developing squall put paid to our plans to fly to that idyllic locale by helicopter. Our quick-thinking guide, John Schneider, reckoned that a visit to Vancouver Island, then bathed in sun, would be rewarding. And so, after a pleasant drive to Horseshoe Bay followed by a 150-minute ride on a RoRo ferry, we went past the Bastion on the Harbourfront, from which cannons are fired in summer, before disembarking at Nanaimo. Known as “hub city” due to streets radiating from the shoreline like the spokes of a wagon wheel, it is famous for Nanaimo bars, a popular unbaked Canadian dessert. Our first halt was Chemainus, a draw for tourists for its 50-plus outdoor murals many of which depict the community’s past as a logging town and its fabled connection with a brave native who had survived a serious arrow injury in his chest to become the powerful chief of a First Nation band.And then we went on to see what was left of a town established by three Sikh migrants in 1916, who seem to have travelled as steerage passengers to North America. Reckoned as the first South Asian settlement and originally named Mayo, after one of its founders Mayan Singh Minhas @ Mayo, the name was changed 20 years later to Paldi, the birthplace of the trio in Hoshiarpur district. Only the gurdwara built in the 1920s and about 15 of the 250-odd homesteads remained, with occupants of others having migrated for employment. The sons of Doman Singh, one of the pioneering trio, went on to establish Doman Industries in Duncan in the early 1950s, which became a billion dollar enterprise providing lumber and associated products to Western Canada and Western USA, before showing signs of enervation under a mounting debt burden in 1989. The forested swath between Paldi and Duncan was detected by police as the venue for testing of an explosive device by Inderjit Singh Reyat, the likes of which brought down Air India 182 with more than 300 passengers off the coast of Ireland and caused casualties among baggage handlers at Tokyo’s Narita Airport in June 1985.On our way out, we coursed through the downtown core of Duncan, the site of an impressive collection of totem poles — colourful cedar pillars with carvings commemorating First Nation ancestors, and symbolising spiritual reverence, clan lineages and familiar legends. This diverse array justified Duncan’s appellation as the “The City of Totems”. Headed southwards, we made it to Victoria on the craggy southern tip of Vancouver Island. This quaint capital city of British Columbia province is marked by historic Victorian buildings set amidst parklands and, having earned “The Garden City” sobriquet, is rated among the top 20 of world cities for quality of life. Like the provincial Parliament, the chateauesque Empress Hotel built on the cusp of the 19th and 20th centuries was declared a National Historic Site of Canada. Freshly baked scones served with clotted cream and jams are the piece de resistance in the traditional afternoon tea served in the historic Lobby Lounge.With the day running out, we dashed to Butchart Gardens, an uninterrupted series of spectacular displays of nearly a thousand varieties of flowers set inside an exhausted limestone quarry, partly sunken. Aesthetes among the descendants of founder Jennie Butchart have made subtle and consonant additions, like the Ross Fountain and illumination, serving to enrapture the millions that visit this wonder each year. Reflecting during the ferry ride to Vancouver, which gingerly found its way through narrow straits, the harmonious co-existence of cultures stood out, as did conscious efforts by the province to preserve its rich and heterogeneous heritage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-wonder-that-is-vancouver-218377
