08-08-2021||Editorials||Tokyo 2020: A new era begins||India has an Olympic track and field gold. In itself, that is breathtaking. But Tokyo 2020 has been a landmark Games for India in more than one way. Even the medal tally — India’s best ever with seven — doesn’t do justice to the breakthroughs India’s athletes have made, the number of medal contenders India had, and those who opened new routes. So, along with Neeraj Chopra, Mirabai Chanu, Lovlina Borgohain, Ravi Dahiya, PV Sindhu, Bajrang Punia and the men’s hockey team — all champions — it is important to remember others. Bhavani Devi, the first fencer from India to compete at the Olympics; Nethra Kumanan, the first Indian woman sailor to qualify for the Games; Aditi Ashok, who, in a star-studded field of the world’s best women golfers, missed out on a podium finish by one shot; or the Indian women’s hockey squad who made a giant leap that almost took them to a medal. All these names suggest two heartening trends. One, it symbolises a welcome shift where women are overcoming social obstacles to shine. Two, it highlights the difference that proper training in the right kind of environment makes. India’s sport governing bodies have done well to step back from seeking to control every aspect of an athlete’s career and allowing them the freedom to choose their coaches and training bases. The federations must now build a wide base for their sport by creating infrastructure, but of the right kind, and giving access to the maximum number of young people possible. Devi almost gave up on fencing because in India, the sport has almost no presence. This is understandable— fencing’s cultural roots lie in Europe and it is expensive. But what about running tracks? Astroturfs? Wrestling mats? Punching bags? Javelins?Neeraj Chopra, a truly gifted athlete who has made the nation proud, also got lucky in some ways. He was spotted early, at 16, by a great coach; he had time to build on the fundamentals, and was then carefully nurtured by a succession of great coaches. Most athletes in most sports in India don’t get that care till they have already reached an elite level of performance. But as challenges persist, there is little doubt that India’s success at Tokyo is both visible — in terms of the medals — and invisible — in terms of progress across disciplines. The stage is set for Paris and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/tokyo-2020-a-new-era-begins-101628429237243.html
08-08-2021||Editorials||There will be more floods. Be prepared||The number of people exposed to floods worldwide has increased by almost a quarter over the last two decades, according to an analysis of satellite-based data by Columbia University’s Earth Institute. The report, published in Nature last week, has three main findings. One, nearly 86 million people, driven by economic necessity, moved to flood-prone regions between 2000 and 2015. Two, the majority of flood-prone countries are in South and Southeast Asia, but satellite data showed previously unidentified increases in exposure across Latin America and West Asia. Three, most flood events were caused by excess rainfall, followed by storm surges, snow or ice melt, and dam breaks.Floods happen due to both heavier than normal rainfall, and the limited capacity of rivers, drainage and water harvesting structures to withstand and discharge excess rainwater. The climate crisis is causing substantial disruptions in monsoon patterns, and scientists warn that floods will only become more frequent and powerful. To minimise loss, planners need to combine traditional knowledge (which saw floods as a natural process one had to find ways to live with), robust data, and innovative strategies.Conventionally, hard infrastructural solutions — such as embankments and dams — have been popular to reduce the impact of flooding. But there is now a shift towards nature-based solutions due to their co-benefits. For example, while mangroves protect coasts, they also support fisheries and food security, and act as a carbon sink. Cities are also trying out new methods such as developing a network of small- to medium-sized green areas, which can absorb and store excess water, and porous pavements to tackle urban flooding. To reduce the impact of flooding, it is also critical to go back to basic practices: Plant more trees, restore water bodies, improve soil cover with plants, and stop destroying and encroaching on the floodplains of rivers. India needs to pay heed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/there-will-be-more-floods-be-prepared-101628429111319.html
