09-08-2021||Editorials||When the political class unites||The Opposition’s decision to interrupt its disruption of Parliament to support the Centre’s constitution amendment bill to restore the powers of states and union territories to determine backward groups illustrates what ties, and divides, Indian politics. The rare all-party consensus on the bill is a reflection of how reservations have come to be the holy cow of Indian politics — no party can be remotely seen against it. It is also a reflection of the power of the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) — each party woos this heterogenous category and is apprehensive of doing anything that may come across as insensitive to their aspirations. And it is a reflection of the limits of the imagination of the political class in candidly acknowledging the need for a revision in the architecture of affirmative action in India.Also Read | Amid Pegasus row, MoD tells Rajya Sabha no dealings with NSO GroupThe immediate trigger for the bill was a Supreme Court verdict which scrapped Maratha reservations because it exceeded the 50% reservation cap. But this isn’t the issue the bill seeks to address. In the same verdict, the court underlined that the power to determine classification of backward groups rested with the Centre. But states have had their own lists of OBCs, who are then eligible for state-level education and employment benefits. The court ruling revoked this right, and a plea by the Centre went unheeded. The amendment will restore the power of states to draw and maintain their own list. And in that respect, the bill is necessary. The Centre cannot be the sole authority in determining backwardness, especially when there are widespread local variations. A caste group in one state may, due to historical reasons of backwardness, classify as OBC but not in another.But even as the bill is necessary, the political consensus on it — in the backdrop of acrimony on almost everything else — is telling. For the Bharatiya Janata Party, which has successfully cultivated a huge loyal OBC base, signalling to the community that it is sensitive to its aspirations is necessary, especially in the run up to polls in Uttar Pradesh. For the Opposition, ensuring that states retain the right to determine this list is essential to both preserving its base but also ensuring that the BJP does not walk away with coming across as championing OBC rights. But beyond the political calculus, what India needs is a careful, data-based, just affirmative action policy, for the current architecture has become a tool of power-sharing rather than actually addressing historic injustice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/when-the-political-class-unites-101628519476007.html
09-08-2021||Editorials||Act against rising communal rhetoric in Delhi||In early 2020, the national Capital witnessed its bloodiest riots in 25 years. The riots happened soon after prolonged protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, a polarised election with communal rhetoric, and the failure of the law and order machinery to anticipate and then tackle the violence. Justice for the riot victims remains elusive, and there are serious questions about the investigation process and whether it is being used to frame dissenters and let the culpable get away. But at the core of it, the riots showed that Hindu-Muslim relations in Delhi are fragile.Also Read | Delhi riots: Couldn’t find source of Tanha’s statement leak, police tells HCAnd that is why recent incidents must serve as a wake-up call for all political parties in Delhi, the Delhi government and the Delhi Police, which reports to the ministry of home affairs. On Friday, a resident federation of the capital’s Dwarka locality organised a mahapanchayat against the construction of a Haj house and wrote a letter to the lieutenant-governor, warning of riots; local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are active in the campaign. On Sunday, a former city BJP office-bearer organised a rally at Jantar Mantar, ostensibly to demand a uniform civil code. But reports and video footage show that this was marked by hate speech, targeted at Muslims, and a mob trying to force a journalist to chant a religious slogan. The police, on Monday, filed a first information report against “unknown persons” for the slogans.The primary responsibility for keeping the peace lies with the BJP, as the ruling party at the Centre. It must rein in local elements at the forefront of the politics of hate. The Delhi Police has a new commissioner in Rakesh Asthana, who must prove his professional credentials by cracking down early on such potentially volatile incidents. And the Aam Aadmi Party, which governs Delhi, must play a constructive role, along with all local stakeholders, Hindu and Muslim alike, in building trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/act-against-rising-communal-rhetoric-in-delhi-101628519055999.html
