12-08-2021||Editorials||The story of local successes in water management||Clean water and sanitation, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been rightly focused on, including through the Jal Jeevan Mission, has enormous impact on both health, economy, gender equality and education. While Indore, Surat and Puri are outliers at the moment, they can provide a road map and encouragement for others to follow suit.Indore in Madhya Pradesh was declared the first “water plus” city in the country under the Swachh Survekshan 2021, according to an announcement by the Centre. Surat in Gujarat has also received the same tag, which is provided to a city for maintaining cleanliness in rivers and drains under its administration. According to protocol provided by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, a city can be declared as “water plus” if it achieves three parameters: First, it must ensure that the dirty water from the city does not go into any river or drain; second, all public toilets must be connected to sewer lines and must be cleaned; and third, 30% of the city’s sewer water has to be recycled and reused. Earlier this month, another city, Puri (Odisha), achieved an important milestone: It became the first city to provide residents drink-from-tap facility, which means they can use water for cooking and drinking without filtration.In India, accessibility to clean water and water pollution are two big challenges. Less than 50% of the population has access to safely managed drinking water. Water pollution is a serious problem as almost 70% of its surface water resources and a growing percentage of its groundwater reserves are contaminated by biological, toxic, organic, and inorganic pollutants, says an IDFC report.Clean water and sanitation, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been rightly focused on, including through the Jal Jeevan Mission, has enormous impact on both health, economy, gender equality and education. While Indore, Surat and Puri are outliers at the moment, they can provide a road map and encouragement for others to follow suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-story-of-local-successes-in-water-management-101628778351891.html
12-08-2021||Editorials||The outcome of the Monsoon Session||The monsoon session of Parliament has ended, cut short by the continued standoff between the treasury and Opposition benches. There were three broad political takeaways from the session. One, India’s Parliament, and, by extension Indian democracy, is in crisis. The session saw disruptions on each day; unilateral passage of legislations; unprecedented scenes of Opposition Members of Parliament (MPs) snatching papers, throwing the rule book at the Chair, and sitting on the secretariat table; suspension of seven MPs; and, depending on who you believe, an assault on a woman marshal, or the use of marshals against the Opposition with women MPs alleging they were attacked. As Chakshu Roy pointed out in this newspaper, the Lok Sabha took an average of ten minutes and Rajya Sabha an average of half an hour to pass laws. Despite the almost unanimous demand of the Opposition, the government refused to send a bill which would enable the privatisation of general insurance companies to a select committee — unsurprising given that only 11% of the bills in the three years of the 17th Lok Sabha have gone to parliamentary committees. All of this indicates that Parliament is neither fulfilling its function of deliberative lawmaking nor of holding the executive accountable.Two, the session marked the return of caste as the fundamental fault line in Indian politics. With the unanimous passage of a constitutional amendment to restore the power of states to draw their own list of backward classes, and the overwhelming demand for both a caste census and a provision to allow reservations to exceed the 50% ceiling imposed by the Supreme Court, it is clear that the medium-term future of politics lies in the management of identity politics. The government will focus on the enhanced representation of Other Backward Classes and highlight its commitment to reservations to sustain its electoral coalition. The Opposition will seek to fracture the government’s multi-caste alliance by raising demands which are sure to upset the latter’s upper caste base. Instead of moving towards a political imagination which makes individual citizens with rights and universal justice key principles, India is descending further into the morass of group identity-based politics.And finally, the Opposition in Parliament indicates that despite differences over leadership and alliances, there is a fundamental convergence across regional parties and the Congress about the need to battle the Bharatiya Janata Party. In the House, the political class was already fighting the 2022 Uttar Pradesh and 2024 general elections and trying to send signals to their respective constituencies. This polarisation is set to deepen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-outcome-of-the-monsoon-session-101628771734724.html
12-08-2021||Editorials||A new Afghan war||Afghanistan’s civil war is having a tangible impact on India. After drawing down its diplomatic presence from consulates in Herat, Jalalabad and Kandahar, India evacuated personnel from its consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif on Wednesday. It also issued an advisory to all Indian citizens to return home, and Indian companies to withdraw their employees from project sites. India’s move comes in the wake of the Taliban’s capture of key provincial capitals and border posts. The Afghan government is putting up a resistance and has no intention of letting Kabul fall — but is constrained by depleted international support and a sham of a United States (US)-engineered peace process, which legitimised the Taliban without the group giving up violence.There are many moving parts to the fluid situation in Afghanistan. While there is little domestic appetite in the US to stay on militarily, the Taliban’s relative success has generated criticism against US special envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, for appeasing the militant group. A forcible Taliban takeover will force the US to make some hard choices. Iran is talking to the Taliban but is uncomfortable with its aggression in the north, and has more in common with India than publicly perceived. There are voices in Pakistan which point to how the obsession with the idea of gaining “strategic depth” in Afghanistan through the Taliban could well lead to further instability. But despite this, with Pakistan, China and Russia broadly on board, and the US in exit mode, the Taliban believes that it can change the facts on the ground enough to be able to exercise political dominance.India was acutely aware of the Taliban’s intentions, capabilities and how it would use the peace process. It was also aware of Pakistan’s game of pretending to be a responsible peacemaker while sponsoring terror. But India’s leverage was limited and Delhi could not really tell Washington to continue fighting — even though there is a legitimate debate on whether India could have reached out to the Taliban early enough to secure its own interests. India’s preference is for a stable, democratic and inclusive Afghan government which has a balanced foreign policy. But this is unlikely to happen. The war will persist and there will be instability. Whether this instability remains confined within Afghanistan’s border or spills over into Iran, Central Asia, Pakistan itself or Kashmir, or all of the above, is to be seen. India has a limited role, but must continue to support the Afghan government in this war while engaging with all relevant actors to secure its interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-new-afghan-war-101628693314076.html
12-08-2021||Editorials||The climate crisis threatens Indian agriculture and livelihoods||The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, released on Monday, has highlighted the stark reality of global warming and its dire consequences — altered rainfall patterns, rising seas and temperatures, deadlier heat waves and glacial melts. The findings have serious implications for India and its political economy, particularly agriculture, which continues to be the largest source of livelihood.India is already facing water stress, thanks to erratic monsoons, falling water table, and use of water-intensive hybrid seeds, and the rise in temperatures has made agriculture hungry for more resources such as water. According to an ongoing study of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, farming now consumes over 30% more water due to “high evaporative demand and crop duration due to forced maturity”. This will intensify. Increased temperatures and extreme rainfall can also affect soil fertility, increase incidence of pest infestation, and also impact allied sectors such as animal husbandry and fisheries. Higher temperatures also hamper productivity for outdoor workers such as farmers and labourers. The 2017-18 Economic Survey found that the climate crisis could cut farm incomes by up to 15% to 18%, and up to 20% in areas without irrigation. Nearly 60% of India’s net sown area isn’t irrigated.India must work on a war-footing to mitigate the dire consequences of the climate crisis that could push millions into poverty, and also lead to food insecurity and under-nutrition. According to an Observer Research Foundation study, India must step up public investment in development and dissemination of crop varieties that are more tolerant of temperature and precipitation fluctuations, and are more water- and nutrient-efficient. Agricultural policy should focus on improving crop productivity, water management, and developing safety nets for farmers to cope with the risks of the climate crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-climate-crisis-threatens-indian-agriculture-and-livelihoods-101628692471824.html
