17-08-2021||Editorials||The Centre must shed its ambiguity on Pegasus||The Centre has adopted an opaque approach to the Pegasus revelations. In Parliament, the new information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw’s defence rested on the fact that there has been no illegal interception. Responding to a written question, the ministry of defence said it had not procured any such software — thus washing its hands of the affair, but this left open the question of whether other government departments and agencies had done so. Another ministry cried off a question claiming the matter was sub judice. And with the Centre avoiding a discussion on the issue as demanded by the Opposition, the entire monsoon session was disrupted.In the Supreme Court, which is hearing a bunch of petitions on the matter, the Centre denied the allegations in the petitions, saying they were based on “conjectures, surmises, unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material”. It also offered to set up a committee of experts to go into all aspects of the issue.Also Read | Afghanistan will shape international normsSolicitor General Tushar Mehta, on behalf of the Centre, then used the national security argument, pleading that any public disclosure on whether or not the software was used would harm the security of the State, enable terrorists to take preventive steps, and said that the government was willing to divulge details to a committee. The court has issued a notice to the Centre and will take up the matter in 10 days again.The Centre is tying itself up in knots to evade the central question in this case — did the government of India procure Pegasus, and did it authorise its use? To suggest that disclosing this will help terrorists isn’t a smart argument, for they probably already operate based on the assumption that the Indian State has this technology. More importantly, the State owes an answer to citizens, who do not constitute a threat to it, about whether there has been an invasion of privacy, a fundamental right. The government must shed the ambiguity even if the answer is an uncomfortable one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-centre-must-shed-its-ambiguity-on-pegasus-101629198214757.html
17-08-2021||Editorials||Afghanistan will shape international norms||After the end of the Soviet Union, during the unipolar moment — of United States (US) hegemony — the doctrine of humanitarian intervention picked up. This was based on the notion that sovereignty was not sacred, and that if a regime was involved in human rights violations, the international community was within its rights to intervene in a particular country. This principle was picked up by two different streams of thought. The first were the neo-conservatives who, during George W Bush’s era, argued that promoting democracy and enabling regime change was a legitimate extension of humanitarian intervention. The second were liberal internationalists who extended the principle to evolve a doctrine of the responsibility to protect (R2P) — if a State failed to protect its population from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity, then other states could take timely, collective and decisive action.Also Watch |What Taliban Takeover means for India : On The RecordTo be sure, as many states including India had suspected, this principle — either under the pretext of humanitarian interventions, counterterrorism, R2P, or democracy- promotion — was used for strategic purposes by Western states. Interventions were often a function of the power balance that existed at the time; they were also driven by the military-industrial complex, and served ideological and commercial interests. But in itself, the idea that no regime could use sovereignty as an excuse to harm its own population marked an evolution in norms.The fall of Afghanistan may well have eroded the entire architecture of Western interventions. If the US, as Joe Biden’s speech defending the withdrawal on Monday indicated yet again, is not willing to step up to protect minority, women and human rights, and can leave Afghans at the mercy of a brutal regime which has a record of rights violations, it will be hard for Washington to justify its intervention elsewhere in the future on these principles. The rise of China has already added a protective buffer to authoritarian regimes. This does not mean that interventions won’t happen in the future — they will, dictated by narrow State interests, as has always happened. But the abrupt end of an invasion meant to counter terror, create a democratic political order and protect human rights may have ended up eroding the political, moral and legal argument for such interventions itself. The possible dilution of global military interventions is positive. But if it emboldens despotic regimes, like the one taking over Kabul, the world is headed for more turbulent times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/afghanistan-will-shape-international-norms-101629197733963.html
