19-08-2021||Editorials||A pathbreaking ruling on equality||The Supreme Court (SC)’s interim ruling allowing women to sit for the National Defence Academy (NDA) entrance exam for entry into the Army is a game-changer in eliminating gender discrimination. The court will hear the matter again on September 8 for final orders. The current landmark ruling is a logical step forward after the SC’s powerful intervention in 2020 ordering the Centre to grant permanent commission to women in the Navy and Army. Women are already being recruited through the Officers’ Training Academy and Short Service Commission. Therefore, shutting off entry through the NDA is inconsistent with the often stated claim that the armed forces have evolved on gender.The apex court has been consistently critical of the discriminatory attitude when it comes to giving women equal opportunities in the Army. On Wednesday, the SC bench acerbically observed: “Don’t make (the) judiciary intervene every time. Do it yourself rather than inviting orders from the court. You must accept the broad principle of gender neutrality and structure it to your peculiar set-up.” At present, there are only 0.56% women officers in the Army, 1.08% in the Air Force and 6.5% in the Navy — in the 1.4 million-strong armed forces.Also Read | In 100 days, sowing the seeds of a New AssamArguments to keep women out of the Army — low acceptance in leadership roles, physical constraints, vulnerability to sexual and other harassment, or lack of infrastructure — actually reflect institutional biases which need to be corrected. Women are victims of this mindset and must not be penalised for it. Since the induction of women into the Army in 1992 as officers, there has also been little evidence of women seeking special treatment.The very nature of warfare has changed. To be sure, physical fitness remains a prerequisite for both men and women, but technical expertise, decision-making skills and mental resilience are equally important, none of which are governed by gender constrains. If NDA needs to change the curriculum, create new infrastructure and provide for separate training standards to facilitate gender inclusion, then it must do so to ensure that the court’s directive is carried out in letter and spirit. At the root of all the SC’s rulings on women in the Army lies the principle of equality. This is not only important to meet a cherished constitutional value but will also make armed forces better and stronger. The court has opened yet another door to gender inclusion — the government and forces must embrace the change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-pathbreaking-ruling-on-equality-101629376845775.html
19-08-2021||Editorials||Walking the talk on climate commitments||The Union Cabinet, on Wednesday, approved the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the 1989 Montreal Protocol, which aimed at protecting the earth from ozone-destroying chemicals such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). The Protocol led to the replacement of CFCs with hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), which do not destroy the ozone layer but cause global warming. The 2016 Kigali Amendment aims to phase-down HFCs, a set of 19 gases used by the air-conditioning and refrigerant industry, by restricting their production and consumption. It is estimated that a complete phase-out of HFCs by 2050 would prevent about 0.5 degree Celsius rise in global temperatures by the end of this century. This is crucial to achieve the target of restraining the increase in global temperatures to a maximum of 2 degree Celsius from pre-industrial times. The latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report says the average temperature has risen by about 1.1 degree Celsius, leading to back-to-back extreme climate events across the world.Also Read | Can’t wait for years to take action: COP 26 president Alok SharmaAs experts have pointed out, ratifying the amendment signifies that India will compete for low-global warming potential refrigerants, which can spur innovation and attract international investments. It will help the country achieve its climate goals and cooling commitments. India already has a Cooling Action Plan, which sets domestic targets for cooling efficiency and refrigerants. The ratification will also prevent imports that utilise highly potent HFCs.On Wednesday, environment minister Bhupender Yadav also met COP-26 president-designate Alok Sharma, and reiterated that India is committed to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement. On Thursday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that India is on track to meet its Paris goals. The ratification of the Kigali Amendment is yet another strong signal that India is ready to walk the talk on its climate commitments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/walking-the-talk-on-climate-commitments-101629376065554.html
