22-08-2021||Editorials||The quest for a united front||On Friday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi convened a meeting of Opposition parties with a single message — it was time to mount a united offensive against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government. The meeting built on the coordination that was visible among non-National Democratic Alliance forces in Parliament during the monsoon session. It also saw the participation of a range of other leaders, from Mamata Banerjee whose success in Bengal has emboldened the Opposition and whose national ambitions are now quite apparent to Sharad Pawar, considered the grand old man of the Opposition with the resources, networks and skills to reach across party lines. The meeting ended with a statement critiquing the Centre’s governance — with a focus on Covid-19 and the vaccine policy, economic management, Pegasus, farm laws, the planned privatisation of public sector units, and erosion of fundamental rights, among other issues.It is clear that the most serious attempt at Opposition unity since 2014 is underway. To be sure, there have been attempts to bring disparate parties together — the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress alliance in Karnataka was motivated by a desire to keep the BJP out but lasted just over a year; in Uttar Pradesh, both the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party, and the SP and the Congress, have allied against the BJP with little success. But there appears to be a deeper recognition of the scale of challenge posed by the BJP’s dominance. It is organisationally and financially way ahead of the rest; in Narendra Modi, it has the most popular leader in the country; it has shown a remarkable ability to weave welfare, religion, nationalism and caste together; and it has the ability to cripple the Opposition.All of this has made Opposition leaders realise that preparations to mount a challenge in 2024 must begin now. Last-minute alliances and rushed campaigns aren’t enough to defeat the BJP. But three problems persist. Leadership will remain a point of acrimony — leaving the question till after elections will give the BJP an advantage; resolving it and narrowing down on a leader is difficult and can divide the Opposition even before any formal unity is achieved. Issues are hard to identify — attacking the government primarily on the economy and ignoring the politics of culture leaves the BJP in a position to appropriate nationalism while attacking Hindutva may not be electorally appealing anymore. And the Congress remains the weak link, especially in bipolar states. Until these challenges are navigated, shows of unity won’t suffice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-quest-for-a-united-front-101629642378630.html
22-08-2021||Editorials||The mixed legacy of Kalyan Singh||The politics of Hindutva has succeeded when Hindu political mobilisation has acquired social depth. This is the primary factor behind Narendra Modi’s electoral success in the past seven years — the party’s ideological worldview has gained traction among all Hindu castes, in varying degrees. But before him, even as Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s most popular face and LK Advani was its most formidable organiser, there was Kalyan Singh who succeeded in using the same formula.Singh, from the Lodh community, an Other Backward Class sub-group, combined his social roots with his commitment to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worldview. And it was this combination that enabled the BJP to come to power for the first time in the critical state of Uttar Pradesh (UP) under his leadership. It also helped expand support for the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. As chief minister, Singh left a rare bright governance legacy — seeking to tackle various syndicates in the state, from education to the crime mafia. But this was tarnished by the Babri Masjid demolition — a criminal act, as per the same Supreme Court verdict that enabled the construction of the Ram Temple. Singh was UP’s chief minister in 1992, and either due to complicity or incompetence, failed to prevent the demolition of the mosque.For a range of reasons — including the traditional upper caste orientation of the party, Singh’s own personal errors, and his difficult relationship with Vajpayee — Singh failed to retain his political power. He flirted with the Samajwadi Party but returned home to the BJP, became a governor even as his son carried on his electoral legacy. The BJP’s tributes to Singh are a recognition of his role in expanding Hindutva’s appeal, and an attempt to ensure that his support base stays with the party in the UP elections next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-mixed-legacy-of-kalyan-singh-101629642258061.html
