24-08-2021||Editorials||Oil palm plantations: Don’t ignore the environmental lens||On August 19, the Union Cabinet approved a new ₹11,040-crore National Mission on Edible Oils-Oil Palm to boost domestic production. It has identified the Northeast and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (ANI) for the project due to their favourable rainfall and temperature. On Monday, a report said that the Cabinet clearance for the project came in the face of objections raised by India’s top forestry research institute (Indian Council of Forestry Research & Education) against introducing oil palm in biodiversity-rich areas — and in the absence of a detailed study it had proposed.Also Read | Monetise assets, the right wayLast week, this newspaper reported that an official of the environment ministry told a parliamentary committee in 2009 that the existing plantation of oil palm in ANI must be phased out and the “land so released, insofar as it is forest land, be regenerated. No exotic species of fauna or flora should be introduced into the Islands”. In 2002, the Supreme Court (SC) ordered the phasing out of all “exotic plantations” to conserve the islands’ ecology, and the new push will likely require additional clearances from the SC.The government is keen to push for oil palm plantations because of the huge demand for edible oils. India is already the largest importer of vegetable oils. In 2020-21, it imported both crude and refined palm oil worth $5.8 billion. While there is an economic case for pushing for oil palm, the government must learn from the experiences in Sumatra, Borneo and the Malay Peninsula where oil palm plantations have eliminated pristine forests (carbon sinks) and pushed out wildlife. A rapid change in land use has also left a deep social impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/oil-palm-plantations-don-t-ignore-the-environmental-lens-101629798691711.html
24-08-2021||Editorials||Monetise assets, the right way||The announcement of a national asset monetisation plan, where ₹6 lakh crore of government assets across sectors such as roads, railways, power, aviation, sports infrastructure, shipping, telecom, and housing will be monetised over four years is welcome; the target for this year is ₹88,000 crore. It could, if implemented well, optimise the utilisation of assets, ensure their maintenance, provide a high level and quality of service, improve efficiencies of operation, and generate employment. And it will also free up the government’s own resources for critical social sector spending. By structuring the exercise as a partnership, and not divestment or privatisation, and by emphasising that the asset is not being sold, and no land is being transferred — land is the most political of issues in the country – the government has given the exercise a chance to succeed.Also Read | The Brahmin factor: From opinion-makers to floating votersBut the extent of this success will depend on four factors. One, pragmatism. The government has to value the assets fairly (not exorbitantly) and moderate its expectations, at least for the initial tranche of assets involved. Learnings from similar but smaller exercises in the past, including public private partnerships (PPPs), indicate that valuation can make or break. Unfortunately, in the past, it has often been the latter. Two, regulation and regulators. Many of the assets being monetised are in sectors where the government still has a dominant presence (or where it has had one until now). The regulatory regime in place, as well as the transparency, impartiality, and autonomy with which the sector’s regulator operates could either help licensees or concessionaires meet the objectives of the exercise or create a policy and legal quagmire.Three, the autonomy granted to the licensees and concessionaires to operate the asset, and manage unions (where these are involved) on their own terms. The fact that the assets involve high public-interface ones such as airports and railway stations and sports stadium, or those in politically sensitive ones such as coal mining and telecommunications, will make it difficult for the government to adopt a hands-off approach (but it must). Four, the ability of the government’s think-tank Niti Aayog to “handhold ministries” through this process, as described by the body’s chief executive officer, and the speed with which it and the ministries can finalise and formalise the fine print for the asset monetisation. With seven months remaining this financial year, a stiff target to meet, and a diverse and wide portfolio of assets across ministries, what is now needed is a proper and detailed operational plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/monetise-assets-the-right-way-101629797791262.html
