25-08-2021||Editorials||The tale of a threat, an arrest, and an old and new rivalry||Maharashtra Police arrested Union cabinet minister Narayan Rane on Tuesday, making him the first central minister in over two decades to be arrested while in office. He was later released on bail. The trigger: Mr Rane had castigated state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for his supposed ignorance of facts about India’s independence, and said that he would have slapped the CM if he was present. The Shiv Sena did not take kindly to the remark, its activists filed complaints across districts, and the police picked Mr Rane on charges ranging from threatening a public servant to provoking breach of peace.Mr Rane was wrong. Civility demands that political differences don’t manifest themselves in offensive remarks; a minister must choose his words carefully and threatening to slap anyone is wrong. At the same time, the Maharashtra government has overreacted — multiple first information reports and arrest for an offence, which, in the annals of sins committed by Indian politicians, is relatively minor, appears to stem from political considerations, although it is likely that even the party to which Mr Rane belongs would have reacted similarly had one of its popular leaders been threatened with physical violence.Also Read | Narayan Rane arrest: Will send 75,000 letters to CM Uddhav Thackeray, says BJPPolitics, both old and new, lies at the heart of the issue. Mr Rane is a former Shiv Sainik. His inclusion in the cabinet was meant to signal to the Sena that the BJP would aggressively take on its former ally. Mr Rane, by paying tribute to Bal Thackeray further riled the Sena leadership. All of this is also happening in the run-up to civic elections, where the BJP is banking on Mr Rane to weaken the Sena in its strongholds in and around Mumbai. But while the political calculation is obvious, the controversy can end if Mr Rane apologises for having used violent language and Shiv Sena pulls back from its excessive response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-tale-of-a-threat-an-arrest-and-an-old-and-new-rivalry-101629891311467.html
25-08-2021||Editorials||The art of mediating conflicts||A political party is home to colliding ambitions. For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the presence of an unchallenged national leader with electoral appeal, an institutional history where no rebel has succeeded in causing a national-level vertical split, and the presence of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as a mediator helps in resolving conflicts. But in a party where splits have benefited those exiting (think the Trinamool Congress, or YSR Congress Party in terms of parties; or Himanta Biswa Sarma, in terms of individuals), the leadership is seen as electorally incapable, organisational discipline is weak, the ability to dispense patronage is limited, and many down the political chain lack confidence in the party’s future, factional battles are harder to resolve. And that is the story of the Congress.In Chhattisgarh, the Congress leadership, after the 2018 elections, came up with a power-sharing formula — Bhupesh Baghel would be chief minister (CM) for two-and-a-half years, TS Singh Deo would take over for the remaining part of the term. Rahul Gandhi, reports say, is aware that such a promise was made; Mr Singh Deo, who has been loyal and competent, is now staking his claim. But Mr Baghel is a rare backward face of the party; removing him is hard to justify and may have costs. Or take Rajasthan. Sachin Pilot overreached with his rebellion last year. But the leadership assured him of space in the state government and the party for now, and leadership in the future. But CM Ashok Gehlot, the stronger of the two leaders, has no interest in meeting promises made in Delhi to his rival. In both these cases, the leadership, faced with strong CMs who have their own base, is finding it hard to enforce its promises.Also Read | Chhattisgarh top leaders call on Rahul Gandhi amid frictionIn Punjab, the high command went against the wishes of CM Amarinder Singh and imposed a rebel, Navjot Singh Sidhu, as state president. But this has only intensified internal battles, and the Congress is coming across as incapable of running its own party, let alone the state. In Madhya Pradesh (MP), the party threw in its lot with the then CM Kamal Nath (and ex-CM Digvijay Singh) and refused to listen to internal discontent articulated by Jyotiraditya Scindia, which led to the collapse of the government itself. All of this indicates that the Congress does not have a formula for conflict resolution — backing the incumbent (in MP) didn’t work, backing the rebel (in Punjab) isn’t working, and keeping both the incumbent and rebel hanging (in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh) isn’t productive either. Till the party finds a better internal resolution mechanism, it will continue to struggle politically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-art-of-mediating-conflicts-101629890951471.html
