30-08-2021||Editorials||With a climate action plan, Mumbai shows the way||Last week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched the first Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP). The city is part of the C40 Cities climate leadership network and the drafting of the plan, in collaboration with World Resources Institute India, is part of the C40 compliance process. The plan will focus on six areas — waste management, sustainable mobility, clean energy, urban floods and water management, urban green cover and biodiversity, and air quality. There is also a proposal to set up a climate cell within BMC for better understanding of climate needs of the city, and, more importantly, to ensure coordination among departments and the state environment ministry to properly roll-out MCAP.Also Read | Mumbai: BMC launches city’s 1st climate action planMumbai is one of the most vulnerable cities to the climate crisis-induced hazards such as sea-level rise, storm surge and urban flooding. These extreme weather events are only going to increase in the future. In fact, the Arabian Sea is becoming a cyclone hotspot like the Bay of Bengal due to increase in ocean temperature. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate (2019) warned that economic losses due to extreme flooding in coastal cities will soar 166 times more by 2050, and Mumbai will be one of the worst hit. Floods in the city between 2005 and 2015 are estimated to have led to a loss of ₹14,000 crore.Even though cities such as Mumbai are affected by the climate crisis, they are also well-placed to plan their mitigation and adaptation strategies because they are centres of innovation. This advantage, along with strong political support and strong local governance, which Mumbai has shown by kickstarting the plan, can help it become a climate resilient city, and also provide a template for other Indian cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/with-a-climate-action-plan-mumbai-shows-the-way-101630327964034.html
30-08-2021||Editorials||Afghanistan: The significance of August 31||In history books, August 15 — the day the Taliban took over Kabul — will overshadow August 31 — the date set by United States (US) President Joe Biden for the final withdrawal of the US military presence in Afghanistan. But August 31 will have its own significance. This artificially imposed deadline was the key trigger for the Taliban’s military offensive in the final phase of the war. To be sure, the original sin, in February 2020, was agreeing to a peace pact that gave the Taliban strength and legitimacy without extracting any concessions. If the desperate scenes at the Hamid Karzai International Airport and a US drone attack that killed civilians symbolised all that was wrong with the US’s mismanaged exit, the boost to jihadi groups of all hues reflected the strategic and security threat that has been created. The US will never be able to live down the consequences of its Afghan misadventure.Also Read | India is failing its Afghan friendsFor two decades, India was able to take advantage of the US security umbrella. In this period, New Delhi did well — cementing people-to-people ties, investing in symbols of democracy, providing development aid, expanding its diplomatic presence, and staying away from establishing a military presence which could have antagonised the civilian population. Given India’s history with the Taliban and its backers in Pakistan and its commitment to democratic values, New Delhi backed the Afghan government till the very end, when there was no government to back anymore. It is now time to make alternative arrangements.The Taliban is making the right noises. Its senior leader, Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, outlined India’s importance in the subcontinent, expressed a desire to continue cultural, economic and trade ties, and underlined the value of projects such as Chabahar. This is a signal that Taliban may be more autonomous from Pakistan in government than it was as an insurgent force, and provides an opening for engagement. But no one in Delhi is under any illusions. The Taliban is heterogenous; its ability or even desire to crack down on its friends — including terror groups targeting India — is in doubt; the rhetoric could well be tactical to earn legitimacy; and whether it can cross any Pakistani red lines on India remains to be seen. But Delhi now has no choice but to work with the Taliban, quietly for now and openly sooner rather than later, to secure its interests. While being alert to the threats emanating from its western neighbourhood, prepare for a new relationship with a different Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/afghanistan-the-significance-of-august-31-101630321783682.html
