14-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Will make e-passes of essential service providers in 30 minutes: Haryana to Delhi HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14After commitment from Haryana that the state government would provide e-passes within 30 minutes to essential service providers, a division bench of the Delhi High Court disposed of a petition which challenged restrictions on the Haryana-Delhi borders.The Civil Writ Petition alleged that Haryana was restricting the movement of people involved in essential services like “doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers, staff of Delhi Police, Delhi Transport Corporation, Delhi Jal Board, Municipal Corporations”.During the resumed hearing today, the state government told the court that the movement of people who man essential services as mentioned in notifications or orders or letters issued by the Centre, including but not limited to government as well as “private doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers, staff of Delhi Police, Delhi Transport Corporation, Delhi Jal Board, Municipal Corporations, High Courts, trial courts, etc., shall be allowed between Delhi and Haryana on production of e-passes and they shall not be quarantined unless and until they test positive for COVID-19 or have been found in contact with COVID-19 patient.”Haryana submitted that the Delhi-Haryana border is open and the roads near the border have not been dug up. “The said border shall be kept open and shall be manned by security personnel,” it added.According to Additional Advocate General Haryana Anil Grover, “e-passes shall be issued to all the aforesaid individuals (essential service providers) within thirty minutes of receipt of the applications.”Also, the state government added that “each e-pass shall be valid for the entire duration of the lockdown and could be used for multiple visits”.In the last hearing on May 12, the court had asked “why instead of I-cards issued by Union of India or Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi or Hospitals etc., e-passes are being insisted upon by the State of Haryana”. Then Grover, representing Haryana, had stated that while I-cards could be forged, e-passes issued by Haryana government couldn’t be forged as they bear a bar code. But then the court had said “as to how on the basis of alleged “forged” identity cards and “deep fake” letters and phone calls, foolproof e-passes could be issued”!  A number of Covid positive cases had emerged in Sonepat, Jhajjar, Gurugram and Faridabad who used to make to and fro movement to Delhi from Haryana after which restrictions were imposed on the borders. The state government had wanted that those who were working in Delhi should make arrangement of stay there only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-make-e-passes-of-essential-service-providers-in-30-minutes-haryana-to-delhi-hc-84798
14-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram police book unidentified in 14-yr-old boy suicide case||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 14Gurugram police, on Thursday, booked unidentified person for alleged abetment to suicide of a 14-year-old boy last week. The unidentified man had allegedly accused the 14-year-old of molestation posing as a girl on Instagram.The victim jumped from the 11th floor of his apartment building, hours after he was named by a girl living nearby in a “MeToo” post on Instagram.The post read that the girl was attacked by the boy two years ago and “was tired of keeping it a secret”. She went on to describe the alleged incident in the basement of her apartment complex and accused him.The ‘allegation’ was made the day “Bois Locker Room” group controversy went viral.Though the boy left no suicide note behind, sources claimed that various messages were received on his phone sent by friends warning him of police torture and media trial owing to the controversy.One of his friends was an eyewitness to the suicide but did not call the police.It was the victim’s family that demanded an FIR against both Instagram and the girl for leading to boy’s death. The girl in question refused owing any account or putting any post, claiming she was impersonated.“We are still awaiting a reply from Instagram. The girl has refused any such post and thus, we have e registered an FIR against an unidentified person, who may have made a fake account in her name. We are investigating the matter,” said ACP Karan  Goel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-book-unidentified-in-14-yr-old-boy-suicide-case-84796
14-05-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak PGIMS may become Covid hotspot, fear doctors||Doctors serving at the Rohtak PGIMS apprehend that the institute may become a COVID-19 hotspot as the sampling of suspected Covid patients and treatment of accident victims and other patients requiring urgent medical and surgical intervention are being carried out under one roof.“The Trauma Centre has been dedicated to the care and treatment of Covid patients. Still, the sampling of patients is being done in C-Block, which is adjacent to the old Emergency Wing where cases of medicine, surgery and orthopaedic emergencies are dealt with. The corridors of the old Emergency Wing are crowded with all categories of patients, which pose a major risk for spread of Covid infection,” said a doctor, requesting anonymity.Sources point out that Ward numbers 24, 25 and 26 are also earmarked for Covid patients, while the medical staff dealing with Covid cases get quarantined in Ward no. 1 and 7.“We are surrounded with suspected as well as confirmed Covid patients all the time. Suspected Covid patients usually enter the Emergency wing for testing and go to C-Block only after being directed by employees, posing a grave threat to the other patients as well as the doctors and other staffers at the PGIMS,” said another resident doctor.PGIMS Deputy Medical Superintendent Dr Sandeep admitted that the risk of spread of Covid infection had increased as the cases of medical, surgical and orthopaedic emergencies are being dealt with in the same wing where sampling of Covid patients is being carried out.“I have conveyed the concern to the PGIMS as well as University of Health Sciences authorities and offered to relinquish the charge of Emergency Wing. I have proceeded on leave as no action has been taken on my request,” he stated.On being contacted for his comments regarding the concern, Prof (Dr) OP Kalra, the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, maintained that there were separate entry points to the Emergency Wing and the Covid sampling area, and effective steps would be taken to ensure effective segregation of the two blocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-may-become-covid-hotspot-fear-doctors-84788
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Online booking, wearing masks must to board Haryana transport buses plying from Friday||Online booking and wearing masks would be must for passengers boarding the Haryana Roadways buses, which are to start plying on select routes in the state from Friday, said Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma.“No passenger will be allowed to board the bus if an online booking has not been done. The bus services will be point-to-point on select routes and wearing masks is mandatory. Thermal screening of passengers will also be done,” Sharma said on Thursday.The Haryana government had already sanitised its bus terminals and the ordinary non-air-conditioned buses which would hit the roads, he said.To ensure that social distancing is strictly followed, only 30 passengers will be allowed to board the 52-seater buses. In the bus terminuses too, passengers would have to maintain social distancing in the waiting area, he said.The buses will ply from depots in Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Narnaul, Panchkula, Rewari, Rohtak and Sirsa and ply on select point-to-point routes.Digitally addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar had announced that public transport would resume operation in the state on an “experimental basis” from Friday, with a limited number of buses plying on select routes.A government spokesman, meanwhile, said the buses, which would ply within Haryana, would not be started in areas severely affected by COVID-19.Bookings for these buses can only be done through the online portal www.hartrans.gov.in.“The buses will ply from the Haryana State Transport bus stands to the scheduled bus stands. No passenger will be allowed to board or disembark the bus on the way,” he added.He said the buses passing through worst-hit COVID-19 affected districts would pass through a bypass or flyovers. Notably, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar are among the worst-affected districts in Haryana.He said if the bus movement is not possible on any route due to any reason, then passengers would be informed two hours before the scheduled time of departure. The fare paid by the passenger would be refunded, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-booking-wearing-masks-must-to-board-haryana-transport-buses-plying-from-friday-84776
14-05-2020||New Delhi||Haryana's boxing champ Amit Panghal speaks up for distraught farmers||For India's Asian Games gold-winning boxer Amit Panghal, the lockdown hasn't been about just staying fit and enjoying time with family, it has also opened his eyes to the plight of "distraught" farmers in his village and he is appealing for government help.The 24-year-old, who hails from Mayna village which is situated 5km from Rohtak, is "for the first time in many years" spending the summer at home due to the lockdown which has brought all training camps to a halt.मेरे गांव और आस पास के गाँव की गैंहू का नुकसान मार्च के महीने में ओलावृष्टि के दौरान हुआ था।आज इन किसानों की हालत दयनीय हो चुकी है, खाने तक के गैंहू नही निकले।गिरदावरी हुए महीनों हो गए मुवावजा नहीं पहुँचा। हरयाणा सरकार कुछ करे। @cmohry  The Armyman helped his father, Vijender Singh Panghal, with the harvesting of wheat and in the process witnessed the "misery of farmers" shattered by unseasonal rains and the lockdown to contain the deadly pandemic."My village and 13 nearby villages have been affected by hailstorm and unseasonal rains that have destroyed crops," India's first silver-medallist at the world championships told PTI."I have never seen misery like this. Some farmers have not even got enough yield to sustain themselves, forget about harvest for sale," he said.Panghal had donated Rs 1.11 lakh to the Prime Minister's fund to fight the COVID-19 pandemic last month."I appeal to the Haryana government, please help these people. They are desperate," said the flyweight 52kg boxer, who is also a Commonwealth Games silver-medallist.Farmers in Rohtak have been demanding compensation for weather-caused crop damage and according to reports, a survey has been conducted to assess the cost by the state government. However, no payments have yet been made according to media reports quoting local officials.Panghal had posted his appeal on Twitter as well, tagging the official handle of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's office."There has been no response so far but I am hopeful of help. The hailstorm in March has destroyed the farmers this side. They don't have anything to fall back on. They won't be left with any food also if help doesn't come soon," he said."Our family's crops were also affected but we are fine. We use our harvest for our own consumption only. But the people I am talking about are in dire straits. They need help," he added."Being a farmer's son, it is my responsibility to raise my voice for them."Speaking about his time in the lockdown, Panghal said it hasn't been particularly difficult as he has got everything he needs to stay fit and the added incentive of mom-cooked meals."We have been provided daily schedules to follow by the coaches, I stick to that. I train at a senior's house nearby as he has all the equipment. Focus is to stay fit and increase strength," said the boxer, who has often stressed on the need to make his punches more powerful."Plus, I have managed to spend some quality time with my family which was not happening earlier. This is the first time I have been at home for so long. Aaj kal chulhe ki rotiyan kha raha hun," he added with a laughter."Mom-cooked meals used to be once in a while, getting them regularly is one positive I can count about being in lockdown."Asked what he saw as the future of a contact sport like boxing in a post COVID-19 world, Panghal said he is hopeful of things getting back to normal at some point."I don't think there will be or there should be any sparring. Social distancing is important. Training can resume without us having to do sparring because there is no competition lined up right now."For the time being, that is enough," he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-boxing-champ-amit-panghal-speaks-up-for-distraught-farmers-84731
14-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Former Haryana MLA arrested in Chandigarh for liquor theft||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 14The police arrested Satvinder Singh, former MLA of Rajaund constituency in Kaithal district, from Chandigarh on Wednesday night for his alleged involvement in liquor theft from a sealed godown in Samalkha.Satvinder Singh had contested the 2019 Assembly elections from Kalayat constituency in Kaithal district on a Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) ticket. He is considered to be close to Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala.Singh was arrested from Sector 3 in Chandigarh, near the MLA hostel, said SP Manisha Chaudhary.A crime team of Panipat police, under the supervision of DSP (Crime) Rajesh Phogat, nabbed the former MLA from Chandigarh on Wednesday night. The team had informed the Sector 3 police in Chandigarh about their raid.Accused Satvinder Rana had been arrested on the disclosure of another accused, Ishwar Singh of Shamri village, Sonepat district, who was arrested along with five other accused in a case registered in the Samalkha police station on May 10, the SP added.The case was registered on the complaint of Rajesh Rohilla, AETO of the Excise Department, on April 28.Notably, the CIA-2 team of the district police has arrested six persons, including the mastermind — Ishwar Singh — on Sunday night, allegedly for stealing liquor from a sealed godown in Samalkha of Panipat.It was revealed that during the interrogation of Ishwar that they had stolen 4,500 cases of liquor from the godown, and Ishwar and former MLA Satvinder Rana were partners in the L1-AB godown in Samalkha, which was sealed by the Excise and Taxation Department in 2016 after some irregularities found in the godown.It was revealed during the investigation that the owners of the godown had allegedly stolen the liquor cases along with their co-accused.“One of the accused — Constable Ajmer — who was arrested into the matter earlier, has been dismissed by the Jhajjar police after his arrest,” said SP Manisha Chaudhary.“I have also been directed to verify the connection of the accused arrested in the Samalkha case with accused Bhupender Singh of Sisana, who has been arrested by Sonepat police, allegedly in connection with the liquor theft from a sealed godown in Kharkhoda of Sonepat,” the SP maintained.Satish Vats, DSP Headquarter, said the CIA-2 team produced the former MLA in the court on Thursday and applied for three days police remand for further investigation. The court has allowed two days police custody on the request of the police, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-mla-arrested-in-chandigarh-for-liquor-theft-84725
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||25 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Haryana, tally rises to 818||Twenty-five fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from the worst-affected Gurgaon and Faridabad districts among others on Thursday, taking the infection tally in the state to 818.As per the state health department’s bulletin, 14 cases were reported from Faridabad, four from Gurgaon, three from Jhajjar, two each from Jind and Karnal, and one each from Mahendragarh and Rewari.Gurugram, Sonepat, Faridabad and Jhajjar are the worst-hit districts with 170, 120, 133 and 87 coronavirus cases, respectively.Faridabad reported the 14 new cases of the deadly disease, in what is the highest, single-day jump in cases in the district, taking the total to 133.New cases include a policeman posted in the sector 17 police station and a one-year-old child from Adarsh Nagar in Ballabgarh.Three members of a family in Sector 62 and three persons from SGM Nagar, who attended a Jamaat in Sangli in Maharashtra recently, have also tested positive for the disease. Another member of the Sector 62 family had tested positive for the contagion earlier.A 17-year-old girl from Shiv Sharda colony, an employee of a private hospital in sector 8, a resident each from Dabua colony and Tilpat village and a man from NIT area, who visited a hospital in New Delhi, have also tested positive.A woman of sector 10 here, who is the kin of a vegetable seller has also been tested positive, according to a report received late Wednesday night. With agency inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-haryana-tally-rises-to-818-84693
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana procure 185 lakh tonne wheat||With a bumper crop, wheat procurement in foodgrain states Punjab and Haryana has reached 185 lakh tonne amid the ongoing lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said on Thursday.The wheat procurement in Punjab is almost double than its neighbouring Haryana.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary with the Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare and Cooperation Department, said a total of 65.66 lakh tonne of wheat has been procured from 424,868 farmers in the state in the past 21 days.He said 6.25 lakh tonne of mustard had been procured till Wednesday. Also, 3114.13 tonne of gram had been procured.Punjab, which contributes 30-35 per cent wheat to the national kitty, is expecting to harvest about 185 lakh tonne and the market arrival is likely to be about 135 lakh tonne, amounting to Rs 26,000 crore, officials said.The minimum support price (MSP) of wheat is Rs 1,925. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-procure-185-lakh-tonne-wheat-84680
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to start intrastate roadways bus service||The Haryana government has decided to start special bus services on selected routes from Friday to facilitate the people stranded within the state due to lockdown, an official said on Thursday.For this, the passengers need to get an online ticket.The buses will ply only within the state and will not operate in areas severely affected with Covid-19.A government spokesperson said ticket bookings could only be done through portal hartrans.gov.in.The buses will operate from the state transport bus stands to the scheduled bus stands. No passengers will be allowed to board or disembark the bus within the journey.The buses passing through Covid-affected districts will pass through a bypass or flyovers. A maximum of 30 passengers on board will be allowed by following social distancing norms. Thermal screening of passengers will be done before entering the bus stand.Wearing of masks will be mandatory, without which they will not be allowed to board the bus, he said.If the bus movement is not possible on any route due to any reason, the bus will be cancelled and passengers will be informed two hours before the scheduled time of departure. The fare will be refunded accordingly, the spokesperson added. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-start-intrastate-roadways-bus-service-84679
14-05-2020||---||All rural houses to get tap water connection by 2022||New Delhi, May 13Haryana is on course to provide tap water connection to all rural households by December, 2022, under the Jal Jeevan Mission(JJM), much ahead of the national goal, which is 2024-25.The JJM is a Central Government initiative aimed at providing piped water to every household in the country.Presenting their action plan to the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation on Tuesday on the implementation of the JJM, state officials informed that there were about 29 lakh households, out of which 19 lakh were already provided with functional household tap connection (FHTCs).Out of the remaining 10 lakh households, the government plans to provide tap connections in seven lakh households by 2020-21.The state provided about one lakh tap connections during 2019-20.During the current year, the state is planning for 100per cent coverage of one district and 2,898 villages out of the total 6,987 villages. More emphasis has been given to cover rural households in drought prone areas and aspirational districts.Haryana is likely to get Rs 290 crore as the Central share under the JJM for the current financial year, which will be supplemented by the same amount of the state’s matching share. The state is eligible for additional allocation based on physical and financial performance.Out of the 44 water testing laboratories, the state plans NABL accreditation of 18 labs during the current year. Field testing kits will be provided at the community level for testing the water quality for taking corrective measures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-rural-houses-to-get-tap-water-connection-by-2022-84574
14-05-2020||Kurukshetra||One booked for hurting religious sentiments||The Kurukshetra police have registered a case against Malkit Singh of Kurukshetra for hurting sentiments of the Sikh community by posting objectionable posts on social media. In his complaint, Amrinder Singh, manager of Gurdwara Chhati Patshahi in Kurukshetra, said, “Malkit posted objectionable posts against the gurdwara and the Sikh community. He has hurt our religious sentiments. There are some posts on his social media account in which he is mentioned as state co-convener of IT cell of the BJP Kisan Morcha. We have brought the matter to the knowledge of the SGPC chief too.”  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-84575
14-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Over 100 labourers spend night outside police station||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 13Over 100 labourers from Madhya Pradesh (MP), including women and children, had to spend sleepless night in the open outside Shivaji Colony police station here on Tuesday. They were reportedly called by the police to facilitate their transportation to home state.The labourers alleged that they were neither given food nor provided shelter in the night. They came to the police station after vacating their rented rooms, hence could not go back. Even their landlord had also asked them not to come back, they added.Train leaves for PatnaA train with 1,400 labourers and 33 children aboard left for Patna from Rohtak on Wednesday. MP Arvind Sharma, former minister Manish Grover and Deputy Commissioner RS Verma were present on the occasion.“Over 100 people from different places of MP assembled at the police station on Tuesday afternoon on getting a message about their transportation to the home state. We waited till sunset, but no arrangement was made for our travel. The cops later asked us to return to their rooms and come again in the morning. Since we came to the police station after vacating the rooms, hence we couldn’t gone back there,” said Jamuna Patel of Damu (MP).Devi, a woman labourer, said they spent the night by sitting in the open outside the police station. They had to buy some eatables to feed their children. In the morning, a Good Samaritan distributed biscuits and bananas but that were not enough for 100-odd people, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-100-labourers-spend-night-outside-police-station-84576
14-05-2020||---||Cong gives Rs 40 lakh for migrants’ fare||Chandigarh, May 13  As per the directions of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) today sent a cheque of Rs40 lakh to Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar as contribution towards the expenses of migrant labourers on railway tickets.  The cheque was handed over to the CM by HPCC president Kumari Selja’s political adviser Ram Kishan Gujjar and treasurer Rohit Jain.  Selja said that due to the sudden lockdown in March in view of the Covid pandemic, lakhs of workers and labourers were unable to return to their homes. Most of them have lost their jobs.  “There is a big crisis of livelihood that these workers face now. Desperate and frustrated, these workers now want to go back to their native places, but they have no means, no money and no food. In such a situation, it is the duty of all of us to extend all possible help to these workers and labourers,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-gives-rs-40-lakh-for-migrants-fare-84577
14-05-2020||Rohtak||Covid +ve woman delivers baby at PGIMS-Rohtak||Doctors at PGIMS-Rohtak delivered the baby of a Covid-positive woman in the early hours of Wednesday. University of Health Sciences Vice-Chancellor Dr OP Kalra said the woman and her child were safe and under observation. “A pregnant woman of Bahadurgarh town in Jhajjar district had tested positive for Covid on May 11. She was admitted to an isolation ward at PGIMS. The woman had labour pains last night and gave birth to a baby girl,” he said. “A caesarean surgery was required by the woman and a green corridor was prepared from Ward No. 24 to the operation theatre to shift the woman and the delivery was conducted.”  The infant will be kept on formula feed for two weeks so that she does not contract the infection from her mother. Her sample has also been sent for testing, he said, adding that the report was awaited. The Vice-Chancellor congratulated Dr Smiti Nanda, Senior Professor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-ve-woman-delivers-baby-at-pgims-rohtak-84578
14-05-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Relief for cops, to get weekly off on rotation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13Haryana police personnel, who are on their toes for nearly two months, can hope for some relief with the government approving a weekly off on rotation basis for them.The decision of granting them a weekly off was taken at the behest of Home Minister Anil Vij. "The police have done a commendable job over the last two months. I had asked the DGP to explore the options of giving them some relief," he said, adding that over 40,000 state police personnel have been deployed in the field without any break. Anil Vij, Home MinisterOver 40,000 police personnel deployed in fieldThe police have done a commendable job over the last two months. I asked the DGP to explore the options of giving them some relief. Over 40,000 state police personnel have been deployed in the field without any break.Director General of Police Manoj Yadava said keeping in view with the directions of the Home Minister, orders for a weekly off for the personnel have been passed. "The police have been doing everything from lockdown implementation to nabbing bootleggers, they have been accompanying medical teams and keeping vigil to ensure quarantined persons stay indoors. They are needed for procurement and to check entry of produce from neighbouring states into the state. They have been performing multifarious duties. Since they are needed everywhere, we are giving them some relief by rotating them between less strenuous and more strenuous duties," said Yadava.Sources in the force said though the personnel deserved more, the situation and the requirement of their presence in activities which have little to do with policing does not permit such luxuries. The police, for now, will have to be content with the weekly off that has come their way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/relief-for-cops-to-get-weekly-off-on-rotation-84579
14-05-2020||---||Record 76 patients discharged||Chandigarh, May 13Haryana on Wednesday reported 13 more Covid cases and discharged 76 patients from hospitals, the state's highest single-day figure. The state's cumulative Covid tally reached 793, of which 364 cases are active.As many as 30 patients walked out of hospital from Sonepat, 14 each from Panipat and Jhajjar, eight each from Gurugram and Jind and one each from Faridabad and Palwal. The state recovery rate jumped to 52.71 per cent from 43.85 per cent in 24 hours.So far, 418 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals in Haryana, including the 14 Italian nationals. Earlier, 37 patients each got discharged on May 11 and April 20, which was the previous highest single-day figure for 24 hours.Among the fresh cases, two are Delhi Police personnel. While the highest five cases were reported from Gurugram, two each were confirmed in Sonepat, Faridabad and Rohtak and one each in Rewari and Jhajjar. Of Gurugram's cases, two were reported from Sirhaul village, taking the district's tally to 166.In Faridabad, a 45-year-old man from Bharat Colony who runs a small manufacturing unit reported to a private hospital with fever on Monday. The second case is that of a 35-year-old man who returned from Mumbai a few days ago. The district's tally has now reached 119.Sonepat's Covid tally reached 120 on Wednesday, with a 33-year-old woman of Gannaur and a 24-year-old of Murthal village testing positive. While the woman is a family member of a positive patient, the man is a rape accused and was tested on May 11.Of Rohtak's two cases, one is a 40-year-old woman of Janta Colony. The district's tally has reached seven. In Rewari, a Delhi Police constable belonging to Khatawali village tested positive, taking the district's tally to five. A Delhi cop residing in Ahri village in Jhajjar also tested positive, taking the district tally to 84.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/record-76-patients-discharged-84580
14-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Notice to sarpanch over fund bungling||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 13The sarpanch and former panchayat secretary of Hartari village in the Israna block of the district have been allegedly found involved in the misappropriation of panchayat funds of Rs1.51 crore.The then panchayat secretary Narender Singh of Didwari was awarded the Padma Shri for excellent work in veterinary field last year.BDPO submitted its report to DC Hema Sharma about the misappropriation of panchayat funds. The DC on Wednesday chargesheeted Narender and issued a show-cause notice to Gurmeet.BDPO Jitender Kumar, in his report to the DC on March 9, said he had sought record from all panchayats in the area but the sarpanch of Hartari village and the then panchayat secretary did not deposit any record.After this, the charge of Hartari village was given to panchayat secretary Satish Kumar, but even he didn’t provide any record to him, the report says. After that the BDPO sought the bank account details of the panchayat. As per the record, the village panchayat received a grant of Rs1.51 crore from the state government from April 2018 to August 2019.It was revealed that Gurmeet and Narender had withdrawn the cash from the bank. After that the BDPO along with technical officials visited the sites in Hartari village on March 2 and assessed the ongoing works.The report says Gurmeet and Narinder had reportedly caused financial loss to the village panchayat. They had withdrawn the amount from the bank account without completing the records, which were not properly verified by the SDO concerned of the Panchayati Raj Department, which is mandatory.Officials refute allegationsGurmeet and Narender, however, refuted the allegations at a press conference held in Israna on Wednesday.Narender said they had been falsely accused. “All works have been completed in the village and the BDPO had reportedly stopped the JE to complete the records.” He alleged that the BDPO was accusing him intentionally as he was jealous of his award. Narender said he stayed there only for four months i.e. from June 27 to November 19, 2019.Gurmeet said all works were completed in the village and if they had been assessed, he would have been liable to take money from the panchayat. He alleged that the action was being taken against him just because he refused to pay commissions.The BDPO, however, said Narender was also allegedly involved in the misappropriation of panchayat funds in Mandi village of Israna, the report of which was sent to the DC on February 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-sarpanch-over-fund-bungling-84581
14-05-2020||---||Farmers threaten stir over curbs on paddy cultivation||Kurukshetra, May 13Unhappy with the government decision of restricting paddy cultivation, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has threatened to launch an agitation and called a kisan panchayat on May 15 in Shahabad grain market to decide the future course of action.Rakesh Bains, spokesman of BKU (Charuni), said “We strongly oppose the Haryana Government’s decision of restricting paddy cultivation in 19 blocks. The government has put the entire blame for depleting water table on farmers, which is wrong. It has denotified Dadupur Nalvi canal, even when it is vital for recharging groundwater. There are flooded areas where no crop, except paddy, can be cultivated. The transplantation work will start from June 15 and we don’t have much time, thus it has been decided to hold a kisan panchayat.”Meanwhile, the rice millers’ association has also come out in support of the farmers and has appealed to the state government to withdraw its decision.Jewel Singla, chairman of the association, said “The decision taken by the government wouldn’t only affect the farmers but will hit the rice industry too. The government has asked the farmers to grow maize, but its demand is very poor in the market. The government should make efforts to bring SYL water rather than putting restrictions on paddy cultivation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-threaten-stir-over-curbs-on-paddy-cultivation-84582
14-05-2020||Sonepat||6 booked for Rs12 lakh fraud||A case has been registered against six persons at the local sadar police station for allegedly committing financial irregularities to the tune of Rs 12.46 lakh in the account of Kami gram panchayat, in the district. Inspector Sunil Kumar, SHO, said a case had been registered on the complaint of the new panchayat secretary against village Sarpanch Ved Pal, former panchayat secretary Surjit, owners of Malik Enterprise and Rana Enterprise and the managers of the OBC and PNB branches in Gannaur. A similar case was registered against the sarpanch and panchayat secretaries of Hasanpur gram panchayat on April 13 this year for embezzlement of Rs 1.67 crore. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-booked-for-rs12-lakh-fraud-84583
14-05-2020||---||Cancer patient, wife beat Covid||Kakrana (Rohtak), May 13An elderly cancer patient of a Rohtak village has not only defeated Covid, but is also firm on conquering cancer as well.His wife, who had also contracted Covid, has also recovered and returned home. The couple have become a source of inspiration for fellow villagers.Ramphool (58), a resident of Kakrana village in Rohtak district, has been undergoing chemotherapy for the treatment of cancer at a Delhi-based hospital. Nearly three weeks ago, he was told to get himself tested for Covid and was found positive.Subsequently, Ramphool’s wife Bimla (56) also tested positive for Covid and both of them were admitted to the isolation ward at the Rohtak Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS). Eventually, both of them defeated the disease, got discharged from the hospital and returned to their village.Ramphool asserts that willpower is the only antidote to Covid — or any other disease.“After completing my home-quarantine period, I will get my cancer-treatment resumed. But I will not go to Delhi now as it is suspected that I contracted Covid infection there. I will now get chemotherapy at Rohtak PGIMS,” says Ramphool.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cancer-patient-wife-beat-covid-84584
14-05-2020||---||In Rohtak, cops halt migrants’ march||Rohtak, May 13 Thousands of jobless migrant workers continue to walk on roads to return to their native places owing to the ongoing lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid. Scores of migrant labourers, accompanied by their families, including women and children, carrying their belongings, are seen passing through Rohtak. They allege that the cops posted at various nakas halt their movement and humiliate them every day. Similar incident was reported from Delhi bypass chowk on Wednesday where a group of migrants alleged that police officers deployed in front of the Rohtak range IGP’s office diverted them on their way to native state. The migrant workers, including Sonu, Omkar, Joginder, Poonam, Guddu and Ashok, rued that they had lost their jobs and the owners of the rented house they were living in was repeatedly asking for rent. “We have no money to feed our children, from where will we pay the rent? We got ourselves registered for train-journey to our hometowns, but there is a long waiting list. Hence, we decided to walk down to our native places,” lamented Omkar of UP. Rohtak range IGP Sandeep Khirwar said labourers were being dissuaded from proceeding to their hometowns on foot as it is an arduous journey. “Arrangements are being made to facilitate their travel to their hometowns.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-rohtak-cops-halt-migrants-march-84585
14-05-2020||---||Buses on select routes from tomorrow: Haryana CM||Chandigarh, May 13Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here today that the state government was set to further ease restrictions, including resumption of bus service on select routes from May 15, in non-containment zones.Addressing a digital press conference here, Khattar, however, said proper safety measures, including social distancing, would be followed in the operation of the bus service which would be started on experimental basis. Manohar Lal Khattar, CMTo issue 25L passesThe state is restarting economic activity, including industries, in a phased manner for which around 25 lakh passes have been issued to industrial workers.An official spokesman said bookings for these buses could only be done through the online portal http://hartrans.gov.in. No passengers will be allowed to board or disembark from the buson the way. A maximum of 30 passengers will be accommodated on the buses after thermal screening.The state would also send its report to the Centre with suggestions for Lockdown-4 beginning May 18, he said.While online classes are on for schools and colleges, modalities for starting of classes with proper social distancing would also be discussed in the coming days.The CM hoped that the Centre would announce a state-specific package asthe government couldn’t impose more taxes on people and take more loans.Talking about the state economy, Khattar said the state had taken loan of Rs8,336 crore in March, Rs5,000 crore in April and Rs2,000 crore in May to tide over the financial crunch due to the Covidcrisis and to fund Rs4,500 crore “essential expenditure” per month. However, the state got revenue of Rs336.2 crore after resumption of commercial activities.Conceding to a delay in payment to farmers for wheat procurement, he said this was on account of the new institutional mechanism under which the amount was transferred to farmers’ bank accounts and an unprecedented situation due to Covid crisis. Around Rs5,900 crore will be transferred to farmers’ accounts by tonight for wheat procurement while the full amount of Rs1,200 crore had been paid for mustard procurement.Taking about the Centre’s economic package, Khattar claimed that about 50,000 MSMEs in the state were set to benefit with the infusion of about Rs3,000 crore via collateral free loans.He asserted that so far, the state had sent over one lakh migrants to their home states on 28 trains and 2,000 buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/buses-on-select-routes-from-tomorrow-haryana-cm-84586
14-05-2020||Yamunanagar||Girl molested by stepfather||Industrial worker ends lifeSonepat: Rajesh Kumar (48), an industrial worker at a unit in the HSIIDC complex of Bari near Gannaur, committed suicide by hanging from a fan in one of the rooms of his residential accommodation in the unit. His son Ranjit found his body hanging from a fan on Wednesday morning and informed the unit owner and the police. Cops reached the spot and sent the body to the Civil Hospital. A suicide case has been registered. OCKU staff get salaryKurukshetra: The Kurukshetra University disbursed salaries of its teaching and non-teaching staff and pension on Wednesday after it received a grant of Rs21 crore from the state. Deputy Director, Public Relations of KU, Deepak Rai said, “Following continuous efforts made by VC Dr Neeta Khanna, the KU received a grant of over Rs21 crore from the state and the salaries have been disbursed.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-molested-by-stepfather-84591
14-05-2020||Karnal||Youth stabbed to death, two arrested||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-stabbed-to-death-two-arrested-84594
14-05-2020||Yamunanagar||Railway assn donates Rs 6 lakh to Covid fund||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/railway-assn-donates-rs-6-lakh-to-covid-fund-84615
14-05-2020||Ambala||Murder case cracked,  wife, paramour arrested in Ambala||The Ambala police have claimed to solve the blind murder case of Ravi Kumar (35), a resident of Sarangpur village, whose body was recovered on Monday, with the arrest of two people including his wife, and her alleged paramour.The suspects have been identified as Dimple, Ravi’s wife, and Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Shahabad.Kewal Singh, in-charge, CIA-1, said, “Dimple and Sukhwinder had extramarital relations for the past four years. Both planned to get rid of Ravi so that they could get married. Knowing Ravi was an alcoholic, both planned to kill him after intoxicating him with heavy dose of liquor. On May 10, Sukhwinder entered the victim’s house, with the help of Dimple, and strangulated him in his sleep with a wire. The duo later smothered him to death using a pillow. After killing him, they took his body on a motorcycle and dumped it in a water channel near the village”, he added.Singh said, “They both have two children each. Sukhwinder had also planned to kill his own wife, after killing Ravi.”During the investigation, the accused duo confessed to their crime. They were produced before a court today which sent them to one-day police remand. The pillow, mobiles, wire, and motorcycle have been recovered,” the police official said. A case was registered under sections 302 and 34 of IPC at the Ambala Sadar police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-case-cracked-wife-paramour-arrested-in-ambala-84525
14-05-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana relies on RT-PCR technique, conducts 65K tests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13With Haryana differing from the Centre over its tweaked guidelines on discharge of mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic Covid cases without testing 10 days after the onset of symptoms if they are not running fever for the past three days, the focus has now shifted to various tests being conducted to diagnose the virus.Haryana has so far conducted 65,785 tests using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction or RT-PCR technique ever since the Covid outbreak. Of 65,785, 59,890 samples tested negative and result of 5,102 is awaited. As many as 793, including 14 Italian nationals, tested positive.Pool samplingIn pool testing, samples from two to five people are collected and tested in a single unit. If the pool tests negative then all individuals are regarded as negative. But if the pool sample is positive each person in the pool is tested individually to find out who is affected. This helps increase the testing capacity and saves time, money and manpower.Single step, 2-step techniqueDr Chaudhary explains that the one-step technique involves subjecting the extracted RNA of the sample to reverse transcription and then PCR amplification in a single test tube while in the two-step technique, the reverse transcription and PCR are done separately. “The first one is a preliminary test, while the second is confirmatory. If the first comes negative, there is no need for the second,” Chaudhary adds.CB-NAAT machinesCartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CB-NAAT) machine is fully automatic machine and this also uses PCR technique, though not after reverse transcription.“A different cartridge is used for testing Covid by using CB-NAAT machines. Also called GeneXperts, CB-NAAT helps getting results in less than an hour, while the RT-PCR takes six to eight hours,” says Chaudhary. Why rapid antibody test failedRapid antibody test is used to find out the presence of the virus in a body. In this, blood samples taken by pricking a patient’s finger are used to find anti-bodies. Hence, this is an indirect method as it cannot find the virus, but can determine if a person has developed immune system against the virus. “Before putting these kits to use, we had put them for verification on Covid-positive cases. But the results didn’t match with the earlier tests through RT-PCR technique,” Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said.The RT-PCR methodThe Health Ministry has announced that real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction or RT-PCR is the “gold standard” frontline test for Covid-19 where a patient’s swab sample is tested.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid at PGIMS, Rohtak, says the RT-PCR test is a method of testing by taking a nasopharyngeal swab from a patient. It involves extracting ribonucleic acid or RNA, which is the genetic material of the virus. If it shares the same genetic sequence as SARS-CoV-2 virus (new coronavirus), then it is deemed positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-relies-on-rt-pcr-technique-conducts-65k-tests-84410
