24-05-2020||---||Woman hacks minor daughters to death in a fit of rage, attempts suicide||Hisar, May 24A woman stabbed her two daughters to death at Khedar village in the district on Sunday. She woman also attempted suicide and inflicted injury on his neck.The woman hailing from Rajasthan was working as construction worker in the village. The police said she was preparing flour for baking chapattis when the children who were playing close by threw dust in the flour.She got enraged and assaulted the children with knife and then inflicted injury on her neck.The deceased have been identified as Kiran (1) and Mamta (3). Their mother Charia has been admitted to hospital.Barwala SHO Kuldeep Singh said the police have registered a case on the complaint of the woman’s husband Ahmad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-hacks-minor-daughters-to-death-in-a-fit-of-rage-attempts-suicide-89414
24-05-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana CM takes cognisance of raw deal to MLAs by officials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has taken cognisance of the alleged raw deal to certain MLAs by the district-level officials.Acting on the issue raised by Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the Chief Secretary to devise an institutional mechanism under which the district officials will give elected representatives due respect and address their grievances on a priority basis.Earlier on Sunday, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta briefed Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar about the video-conference he had with the legislators on May 21 and 22.Gupta said most legislators complained to him that the district-level officials did not respond to their telephonic calls and dilly-dallied on taking action on people’s grievances brought by them.Sources said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar took a serious note of the legislators’ complaints, especially at a time when the state government was engaged in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic.“A formal order by the Chief Secretary to district officials, including divisional commissioner, DCs, SPs and MC commissioner, to extend due courtesy to the MLAs and attend to their grievances promptly will be issued soon,” the sources said.Gupta told The Tribune that since Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had already taken cognisance of the matter, legislators’ grievances about the alleged raw deal by officials would be taken care of soon.After the issue about the raw deal to legislators was raised by certain MLAs, Home Minister Anil Vij had issued a veiled threat to the officials saying that they must listen to the elected representatives if they wanted to serve in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-takes-cognisance-of-raw-deal-to-mlas-by-officials-89413
24-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||PGIMS staff give warm sendoff to Gurugram widow, Nepalese boy||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 24Two patients from Gurugram — 29-year-old widow Ishrat Khatoon and 15-year-old Sanju of Nepalese origin — were given a warm sendoff by the University of Health Sciences (UHS)/PGIMS authorities after they were cured of COVID-19 and discharged from the institute on Sunday.The UHS Vice Chancellor, Prof OP Kalra, handed over a cheque of Rs 1.51 lakh to Ishrat and a cheque of Rs 15,000 to Sanju. The said amount was collected by way of donations by Dr Varun Arora, in charge of COVID Control Room at the PGIMS.Ishrat, who works as a cooking-maid in Gurugram, recently lost her husband Mohammed Raza, who had also tested positive for COVID-19 and underwent treatment at the PGIMS. Ishrat’s father and three daughters had also tested positive for COVID and were quarantined in Gurugram at present.The Nepalese boy, Sanju, used to assist his uncle Durga at his food-stall in Gurugram. Durga had tested positive for COVID-19 and was referred to Rohtak PGIMS. Sanju, who accompanied him to Rohtak, had also tested positive and remained admitted at the isolation ward.Both Ishrat and Sanju tested negative for COVID-19 and were discharged from the PGIMS on Sunday. They left the institute with moist eyes and expressed gratitude towards the doctors and the hospital staff.“It’s so overwhelming…the doctors, nurses and other staff members of the PGIMS took good care of us and also arranged money so that I am able to look after my daughters without my husband,” said Ishrat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-staff-give-warm-sendoff-to-gurugram-widow-nepalese-boy-89390
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Over 2.6 lakh migrant labourers sent home in special trains, buses: Haryana govt||More than 2.6 lakh migrant labourers have so far been sent back to their native states by the Haryana government in 60 special trains and over 5,000 state transport buses, an official spokesperson said on Sunday.Those migrant labourers who have expressed their willingness to return to their native states during the COVID-19-triggered lockdown are being sent back, he said.On Saturday, ADGP, CID, Anil Kumar Rao interacted with passengers onboard a Shramik Special train at Ambala Cantonment Railway Station, which was going to Barauni in Bihar.Rao said that about 1,631 migrant labourers and children were sent to Barauni in the special train.He said the migrant labourers were given packed food, fruits, juice, and water for their journey after their medical check-up and thermal screening was conducted.A team comprising Anil Kumar Rao, Director, State Transport Haryana, Virender Kumar Dahiya, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Law & Order, Rakesh Arya have been deputed by the state government to monitor transport arrangements and coordinate with nodal officers of Indian Railways and Transport Department for sending migrants to their home states.Rao said migrant labourers returning to their home states were very happy and appreciated the efforts being made by the Haryana government. He said the entire expenditure of trains and buses being run to send migrant labourers to their home states is being borne by the Haryana government. Free of cost arrangements are being made by the state government to keep these migrant labourers in relief shelters from where they are later brought to the railway stations and bus stands, he said.On Saturday, five Shramik trains departed from different places in Haryana including Ambala taking migrant labourers back to their home states, the spokesperson said.As many as 1400 labourers from Gurugram were sent to Araria in Bihar, 1600 from Rewari to Purnia in Bihar, 1500 from Rohtak to Bhagalpur in Bihar and 958 labourers hailing from Agartala and Assam were sent from Gurugram to Guwahati. In addition, 284 buses took migrant labourers home in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. The spokesperson informed that apart from free tickets, the concerned district administration provided these migrant labourers with food, water bottles, masks and sanitisers so that they do not face any difficulty regarding basic necessities on their journey.Health checkups were conducted at the railway station and social distancing norms were followed inside the coaches, he said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-2-6-lakh-migrant-labourers-sent-home-in-special-trains-buses-haryana-govt-89363
24-05-2020||New Delhi||Heatwave: IMD issues 'red alert' for Punjab, Haryana and other parts of north India||With temperatures surpassing the 45 degrees Celsius-mark across several parts in north India, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a "red" warning for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan for the next two days.The IMD has also issued an orange warning for a heatwave for east Uttar Pradesh, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre.He cautioned that temperatures could soar up to 47 degrees Celsius in some parts over the next 2-3 days.This is also for the first time this summer season that a red warning has been issued for a heatwave, Srivastava said.This season, the temperatures did not rise the way it usually does in the north and central India because of significant rainfall activity during April that continued till mid-May.On Saturday, Pilani in Rajasthan recorded 46.7 degrees Celsius."Heatwave conditions over some parts with a severe heatwave over isolated pockets are very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Telangana during the next five days," the IMD said in its daily bulletin.It added that heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Gujarat, central Maharashtra and Vidarbha, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalseema and north interior Karnataka are also likely during the next 3-4 days.A heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is at least 40 degrees Celsius and the departure from normal temperature is 4.5 degrees Celsius to 6.4 degrees Celsius.For the plains, a heatwave is declared when the actual maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius and severe heatwave when it is 47 degrees Celsius or above.The IMD issues colour-coded warnings depending on the intensity of any weather system in ascending order – green, yellow, orange and red.Srivastava said the red warning has been issued to caution people not to step out from 1 pm to 5 pm when the intensity of the heat is the most.Naresh Kumar, a scientist with the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the IMD, said due to dry north-westerly winds and a trough between Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu, conditions are favourable for heatwave to severe heatwave.Kumar said relief is only expected after May 28 as a western disturbance is likely to bring some rainfall.A western disturbance is a cyclonic storm that originates in the Mediterranean and travels across Central Asia. When it comes in contact with the Himalayas, it brings rains to the hills and plains. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heatwave-imd-issues-red-alert-for-punjab-haryana-and-other-parts-of-north-india-89362
24-05-2020||Rohtak||BJP suspends Karnal leader who fell from Chandigarh flat||The BJP on Sunday suspended Chanderprakash Kathuria, a special invitee to the party’s state executive committee, from the primary membership of the party for six years.Karnal-based Kathuria’s membership was suspended by BJP Haryana unit president Subhash Barala, as per an official statement issued by Gulshan Bhatia, the office secretary at the state BJP headquarters here.Kathuria, who was the chairman of Sugarfed, recently courted controversy as he fell and injured himself while trying to descend from the second-floor balcony of an apartment in Chandigarh with the help of a cloth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-suspends-karnal-leader-who-fell-from-chandigarh-flat-89323
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 21 new cases; state tally rises to 1,152||Haryana on Tuesday reported 21 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's case tally to 1152. Faridabad reported 12 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 207. The new cases include five women. Five of the new cases have been kept under home quarantine. Karnal reported five new cases of the contagion, taking the total in the district to 29. Four of those infected are contacts of a COVID patient and belong to Chaman Garden. The fifth case was reported from Rajiv Nagar.Sonepat reported four new cases of coronavirus, taking the total in the district to 158. Three of them are from  Sevli village and one is from local Kot Mohalla. Sevli has been sealed by the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-21-new-cases-state-tally-rises-to-1-152-89276
24-05-2020||Rewari||Civil Surgeon issued notice||The visit of Congress MLA Chiranjeev Rao to a Covid isolation ward at the civil hospital on May 15 has put Civil Surgeon Sushil Mahi in trouble. Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh has served him a show-cause notice, seeking an explanation within two days as to why disciplinary action should not be taken. The Civil Surgeon has been asked to clarify under the provisions of which rules did he provide personal protective equipment from the government stock to Rao and the message that he has sent to the doctors on duty at the isolation ward. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/civil-surgeon-issued-notice-89214
24-05-2020||---||Migrants protest in Radaur, threaten fast||Yamunanagar, May 23 Migrant labourers created a ruckus in a shelter home set up at the Government Senior Secondary School in Radaur today. They demanded that they be sent back to their hometowns. They raised slogans against the governments of Haryana and Bihar. They threatened to proceed on fast if they were not sent back soon. After getting information, Radaur DSP Kushal Pal Rana and SHO Rishi Kumar reached the spot. They tried to persuade the migrants, but they continued the protest. Migrants Ramlakhan and Jai Ram said they were kept at a shelter home near Yamunanagar for 15 days and then shifted to Radaur a few days later. “I visited the shelter home and pacified the protesters. I told them that arrangements were being made to send them home,” Rana said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrants-protest-in-radaur-threaten-fast-89215
24-05-2020||Panchkula||21 US deportees test positive||As many as 21 of the 73 Haryana natives deported from the US have tested positive for Covid, Panchkula health officials said on Saturday. These 73 people, who were part of a group of over 160 Indians who had landed at Amritsar by a special flight on May 17, were brought to Panchkula on May 19. Since then, they had been quarantined at various hotels and dharamshalas, including Yadav Bhawan in Sector 12 and Gurjar Bhawan in Sector 10.  “Of all 73 who were tested for Covid, 21 have been found infected. The infected persons belong to various districts, including Ambala, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Karnal, Jind and Kaithal. Nobody is from Panchkula. As many as 16 will be isolated at Maulana Medical College, Ambala, two at Rohtak and three at Agroha. Those found negative will be quarantined in their home districts,” Panchkula Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said.  Two tests have come out inconclusive, she added. “For evaluation, these positive cases will be counted under a separate head of foreign returnees as more are set to come from abroad,” said Health Minister Anil Vij. According to officials, these people were detained for various reasons like forged documents, illegal immigration and violation of laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/21-us-deportees-test-positive-89216
24-05-2020||Sushil Manav||4% positive cases taken to ICU, just 1% need ventilator||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23Contrary to the panic Covid created across the country post lockdown, less than 4 per cent of those who tested positive in Haryana needed care in ICUs at hospitals and a little over 1 per cent had to be put on ventilator.In contrast, over 80 per cent of patients who tested positive for Covid in the state were either asymptomatic or had very mild symptoms and had they not been tested, their Covid-positive status would not have been noticed.With 16 deaths so far, the fatality rate so far was 1.41 per cent, with some patients dying before they were brought to the hospital. It was only after the samples were taken from their bodies that their Covid-positive status was known.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, said 42 patients had so far been admitted to ICUs in various medical colleges so far and only 13 were put on ventilators because of severe acute respiratory syndrome and pneumonia.“This figure is out of the total number of patients who have tested positive for Covid in the state so far. Till Saturday evening, 1,131 people had tested for Covid,” he said.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer, said over 80 per cent, rather up to 90 per cent, of patients were either asymptomatic or had very mild symptoms or were at pre-symptomatic stage throughout their isolation period.“By mild symptoms, I mean that they either had slight fever or felt fatigued without any other reason or had mild diarrhoea. Most others did not have any symptoms at all throughout their isolation period,” he said.Arora pointed out that 750 of the 1,131 positive cases had recovered and were discharged from hospital, with 44 of them having been discharged on Saturday.“We have a good recovery rate of 66.31 per cent in the state. As on Saturday, there are 365 active Covid cases in the state,”he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-positive-cases-taken-to-icu-just-1-need-ventilator-89217
24-05-2020||---||Nuh Covid-free ahead of Eid, 64 fresh cases||Chandigarh, May 23 With 64 fresh cases, including 21 deported from the USA recently, Haryana’s tally jumped to 1,131 today. A total of 76 Haryana residents were deported from the USA and were kept under quarantine in Panchkula. Meanwhile, 44 patients were discharged today, taking the tally of cured cases to 750. In what came as an Eid gift for Nuh, the district became Covid free, with the last five patients getting discharged today. The district had recorded 65 cases. Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon, credited the success to timely and pinpoint tracking of suspected cases, continued sampling, strict implementation of quarantine policy and active surveillance. The fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (12), Faridabad (10), Panipat (7), Sonepat, Jind and Hisar (3 each), Bhiwani (2) and Palwal, Karnal and Kurukshetra (1 each).   The 10 cases in Faridabad are three members of a family who are contacts of a Covid-positive person, a 25-year-old pregnant woman employed with a drug company, a 21-year-old woman having a history of visiting the local vegetable market several times, two factory workers, a 57-year-old commission agent at the Ballabgarh mandi, a 43-year-old employee of a Manesar company and a 39-year-old man employed with a Delhi-based firm.   Seven persons, including four children, tested positive at a shelter home in Panipat, taking the district tally to 53. A total of 38 children and staff members had been staying at the shelter home. Reports on nine tests were awaited.   In Jind, three members of the family of a Covid patient — son, daughter and sister — tested positive. Among the three cases in Hisar is a resident of Hansi, working as taxi driver in Delhi who returned home recently. The two fresh patients in Bhiwani are a 51-year-old woman who had come from Gurugram to Rewari Khera village to meet her daughter and a 27-year-old Haryana Police constable posted in Gurugram who had come to Tigdana, his native village.   A 25-year-old man working at the Ballabgarh mandi tested positive in Palwal, taking the district tally to 41. In Kurukshetra, a 45-year-old woman of Ladwa, who returned from Delhi on May 20, tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-covid-free-ahead-of-eid-64-fresh-cases-89218
24-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma---||Maids should not visit containment zones: MC||Tribune News Service Gurugram, May 23 After confusion between the municipal corporation (MC) and administration over SOPs for resumption of services of domestic helps, those released by the ULB Department have been adopted as a uniform code of conduct. Local RWAs and maids are at loggerheads with each other. “Initially, it was the RWAs’ discretion to allow them to work. Now, the only mandated measures are those of the MC released on Saturday. People wanting to get their maids back can do so without any restriction by ensuring they follow the directives of the MC,” said DC Amit Khatri. The MC has mandated that maids should not come from or go to containment zones and wear masks and use sanitisers. The residential areas and societies have been asked to arrange thermal screening and sanitisation and advice has been issued for lodging maids at homes of people hiring them. It has been clarified that it is an advice, not a rule. The RWAs have presented the administration with their in-house surveys, highlighting that not even 1 per cent of people want their maids back. “We are not stopping anyone, but allowing maids where the employer takes responsibility of her conduct. Only 3 out of 1,500 homes in my society have sought maids,” said Praveen Malik, representative of New Gurugram RWAs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maids-should-not-visit-containment-zones-mc-89219
24-05-2020||---||AG to take call on empowering liquor smuggling probe team||Chandigarh, May 23Haryana Legal Remembrancer (LR) has returned the file on giving opinion on empowering Special Enquiry Team (SET) invoking Section 32 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) for taking statements of witnesses. Now, Advocate General BR Mahajan will give his opinion on the matter.The SET was formed to probe liquor smuggling.According to Home Minister Anil Vij, the LR has said that the LR office doesn’t give opinion on criminal matters.“The LR has suggested taking the opinion of either Haryana AG or the Prosecution Department,” said Vij. He added, “Now, the AG will give his opinion.”When asked about the delay as the deadline (May 31) to give the SET report is approaching, Vij said that still “adequate time is available”.Earlier, Vij had written to the Home Secretary for empowering SET probing liquor smuggling under Section 32 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) immediately so that they could summon and record statements of witnesses.Section 32 talks about the mode of conferring powers. It says, “In conferring powers under this code, the High Court or the state government, as the case may be, may, by order, empower persons specially by name or in virtue of their offices or classes of officials generally by their official titles.”The SET has been formed with ACS Power TC Gupta as chairperson while ADGP Subhash Yadav and Additional Excise and Taxation Officer Vijay Singh are its members.As per the terms of reference, the SET would check the actual availability of stocks in all the warehouses or godowns that were sealed by the Excise Department during the past two years and will examine the cases of seizure of illicit liquor in Haryana from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020, both by the Police and Excise Departments separately. It will also collect and collate the result of investigation of the FIRs registered from March 15 to May 10 that have been registered in different parts of the state for pilferage of liquor from L-1 and L-13 godowns and also from ‘malkhanas’ of the police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ag-to-take-call-on-empowering-liquor-smuggling-probe-team-89220
24-05-2020||Sonepat||One shot dead in Sonepat||One person was killed and another injured seriously when five armed gangsters in two cars fired at them at a liquor vend on the Sonepat-Kurar road last night. They had gone to buy liquor for a birthday party when the incident took place. The deceased was identified as Parvinder of Jahri village and the other victim as Manish of the Jatwara locality. A team from the Murthal police station reached the spot and took the victims to hospital. Doctors declared Parvinder brought dead. Manish was referred to the PGIMS in Rohtak after preliminary treatment. A case of murder and attempt to murder was registered. Four of the accused were identified as Kunal, Rohit, Sone and Sumit. Parvinder’s body was handed over to his family after postmortem examination. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-shot-dead-in-sonepat-89221
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Payment in four days to farmers, says Dushyant||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said the payment of farmers and commission agents was being made within four days as soon as the wheat was purchased and lifted from the mandis for the warehouses.During this procurement season, the payments have been made through the pool account after the consent of both farmers and commission agents. Chautala, who is also holding the portfolio of Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department said it was the priority of the government to purchase every single grain from the mandis and the state had implemented minimum support price for food grains such as gram, barley, paddy, jowar, bajra and maize.He said even amid the nationwide lockdown, the process of systematic arrangement of procurement was the result of continuous monitoring and supervision.Till now, more than 73 lakh metric tonne of wheat and more than 8 lakh metric tonne of mustard has been successfully procured. In addition to this, more than 5,081 metric tonne of gram has also been procured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/payment-in-four-days-to-farmers-says-dushyant-89222
24-05-2020||Chandigarh||Plea seeks nod to sow paddy to prevent floods||In an out-of-the-ordinary case, six gram panchayats in Kurukshetra district have moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court claiming that the flood situation could be controlled by sowing paddy.  Not convinced by the argument, a Division Bench of the High Court has simply adjourned the hearing of the matter to next week without even issuing notice of motion. Taking up the petition filed by gram panchayat of Kanwar Kheri village and other petitioners against the State of Haryana and other respondents, the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta asserted the sole argument raised by the counsel for the petitioners was that the flood situation was likely to be controlled from July to October by sowing paddy crop-ziri.  It was added by the counsel that there would be an adverse effect in case paddy crop was not allowed to be sown. “We are not convinced even for issuing notice of motion on the argument raised by the counsel for the petitioners. However, the counsel for the petitioners seeks a short adjournment to place on record certain documents. Adjourned to May 28,” the Bench asserted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plea-seeks-nod-to-sow-paddy-to-prevent-floods-89223
24-05-2020||Panipat||Man ‘kills’ 20-yr-old wife in Panipat, held||A man allegedly murdered his 20-year-old wife by slitting her throat with some sharp-edged weapon here on Friday night.  The police handed over the deceased’s body to her relatives after postmortem examination on Saturday and the accused was arrested.  The deceased was identified as Kajal, wife of Gunjan. Indira, mother-in-law of the deceased, in her statement to the police, said her elder son Gunjan was a drug addict, who suspected his wife’s character. The couple had a quarrel over a mobile phone on Friday evening when Indira went to a neighbour’s house. When she returned around half an hour later, Kajal was lying in a pool of blood. People gathered on the spot and informed the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-20-yr-old-wife-in-panipat-held-89224
