01-02-2021||Thankfully||Heartlessness for homeless||While action has been initiated against the perpetrators, the incident highlights the pitiable neglect of the homeless in India. Just last year, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, a large chunk of the homeless people did not figure in the list of beneficiaries of lockdown relief, rations and shelter for the poor. For, they lack documents necessary to claim aid related to food, shelter, health and livelihood. That initially only Kerala, Delhi and Maharashtra talked of assistance for those without a roof is an indicator of how low the destitute figure in the governments’ schemes of things.The Modi government’s aim of ensuring a home to every citizen by next year seems a distant dream as the implementation of measures to mitigate their miseries depicts a bleak picture. An audit of funds allocated over the years for schemes under the National Urban Livelihoods Mission that aims to build homes and shelters for the poor is needed to make sure that they are not diverted or misused. Also, an investigation into why the homeless prefer to spend nights out in the inclement weather rather than in some ‘raen basera’ (as reported from Hisar by The Tribune recently) built in various cities for them is needed and responsibility fixed for the callous waste of funds. Till the lackadaisical approach in providing the basics to the poverty-stricken continues, they are condemned to a life of marginalisation and exclusion. They deserve care for a dignified existence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/heartlessness-for-homeless-206043
01-02-2021||FREE speech appears to be under attack in India. There are comedians who are in jail or are facing criminal contempt proceedings. It’s hard to miss the chilling effect. Last week||Culture of intolerance||Free speech has never been an easy proposition. Almost 24 centuries ago, Socrates was executed for corrupting the youth of Athens and showing irreverence towards the gods. The persecution and death of scientists in pre-Renaissance Europe still remain a grim reminder of the risks involved. Galileo was sentenced to house arrest at the instance of the Catholic Church for his heliocentric views, while Giordano Bruno was burned at the stake.In most parts of the Islamic world, blasphemy remains a crime punishable with death. In India, Kamlesh Tiwari was killed in 2019 for his allegedly blasphemous statements about Islam. Celebrated author Salman Rushdie’s book The Satanic Verses was banned for fear of violence. Painter MF Husain left India after several criminal cases were filed against him for his paintings that allegedly offended religious sentiments. Often, India witnesses violent protests against films. There are two main villains of free speech — the State and religion. Ironically, when it’s under threat from the religion, the State comes to the rescue of citizens. One turns to the judiciary when aggrieved by the State’s actions. Unlike the US, free speech in India is not absolute. The State can impose ‘reasonable restrictions’ on eight grounds, including contempt of court and public order. Courts decide the cases based on evidence, laws and precedents. As for citizens, it’s time to push the envelope.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/culture-of-intolerance-206042
