02-02-2021||The order of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights asking the state government to ban medically unnecessary sex change surgeries on intersex infants and ensure their bodily integrity is a reminder of the physical and psychological impairment that the quest for gender identity can lead to. In most cases||Transgender rights||The Supreme Court had some years back observed that no one should be forced to undergo medical procedures, including sex reassignment surgeries, sterilisations and hormonal therapy as a requirement for legal recognition of their gender right. The UN Committee for the Rights of Persons with Disability had also observed that governments should take measures to prevent sex normalising surgeries to secure the wellbeing of such people. While the Delhi government has constituted a committee to look at the issue, it will also need the attention of the medical regulatory bodies.The question of gender equality has been raised from time to time with varied responses. People without a hetero-normal sexual orientation have faced discrimination, abuse and stigma causing immense suffering. In 2018, the Supreme Court had struck down Section 377 of the IPC on same-sex relations. Efforts have been made, like at Panjab University, where a column for the third gender was introduced in the admission form, besides providing other facilities for them. But there have been unsavoury controversies like in the case of athlete Pinki Pramanik. Biological aberrations invite social reactions which can complicate matters. Individual choices apart, attempts should be made to ensure the social and economic wellbeing of such people, and most importantly, ensure their acceptance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/transgender-rights-206623
02-02-2021||Unarguably||Budget of tough calls||These government liabilities will be met through an unparalleled sale of PSUs and borrowings from the market. The PSU sale policy, not yet fully unveiled, promises to be more radical than the glimpse offered by Nirmala Sitharaman last year. Alongside, the stage is set for selling off nationalised banks and insurance companies. The pitfalls of rules being nudged or massaged have never before been starker as the government rushes to monetise existing public assets to live up to its outsized ambitions. And this demand on funds only partially accounts for the hardening of geostrategic circumstances along the border with China.The government has its own explanation for a particular corporate house bagging a marquee Sri Lankan project or a bunch of airports. But the hazard of a cowboy approach to the country’s crown jewels — the financial and strategic sectors — will be more profound. The government must be fair in selections but also construct a firewall against concentration of resources, especially because the ongoing farm agitation has heightened the perception of New Delhi’s fondness for a particular set of entrepreneurs. The pressure to raise money in quick time is immense. Fiscal deficit this year is nearly thrice than budgeted and must be pared as soon as possible. Already, interest rates for Indian bonds have started hardening. Keeping up a brave front is half the battle. The remaining begins now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/budget-of-tough-calls-206619
