03-02-2021||The coronavirus-ravaged 2020 exposed the infirmities in the health sector and the lockdown dealt a disproportionate blow to the middle and low income sections — marked by the marches of suffering migrant labourers||Short shrift to social sector||Then, in a worrisome trend fraught with long-term repercussions, the efforts of the poor to progress got a beating. They were pushed farther to the socio-economic fringes as the gaping digital divide meant an exclusion of their kids from online education. With the Ministry of Education’s allocation of a mere Rs 93,224 crore as against its projected need ofRs 1,03,673.66 crore, things for their uplift don’t look rosy. Reduced funds for the school midday meal scheme (Rs 11,500 crore compared to last year’s revised estimates of Rs 12,900 crore) has nutrition-related health implications and will reflect poorly on the human development index.Additionally, as millions of lockdown-hit people hobbled back to normalcy during the graded unlocking in the latter part of last year, the absence of a social security net was acutely felt. Though the government had announced relief to support those impacted by the unprecedented pandemic, it was a one-time measure. A booster dose to strengthen the social sector was expected in the Budget. But sadly, it has received short shrift as the overall allocations to the sector leave much to be desired. The sole reason for cheer in the beleaguered segment flows from the government’s focus on a 100 per cent coverage of drinking water supply — there is a 300 per cent hike in its allocation. Given the leakage during the implementation phases of most well-intentioned plans, it remains to be seen if the ambitious target is met this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/short-shrift-to-social-sector-207021
03-02-2021||INDIAN agriculture has been in the news over the past year or so for reasons right as well as wrong. Famed for its resilience||Uninspiring agri budget||The government keeps harping on its grand goal of doubling farmers’ income by 2022, but the Budget has little to offer in this direction, barring the proposal to introduce an agri cess on petrol, diesel and other items to create post-harvest infrastructure. The Finance Minister has proposed 10 per cent hike in the farm loan disbursal target to Rs 16.5 lakh crore, a move that will increase the farmers’ purchasing power but could also push them deeper into the debt trap. The decision to extend the Agricultural Infrastructure Fund to APMC mandis is clearly aimed at reassuring protesters that the existing system is under no threat from the new laws which, in any case, the government has offered to put on hold for 18 months.According to the FM, the MSP regime has been improved to ensure that the procurement price is at least 1.5 times the cost of production across all commodities. Though few and far between, such confidence-building measures are welcome. Whether these will help in putting an end to the current imbroglio is anybody’s guess.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/uninspiring-agri-budget-207020
