04-02-2021||The farmers’ agitation||Time for firefighting||Such repressive steps, initiated ostensibly for the sake of ‘public safety’, are proving to be counter-productive as world-famous celebrities like pop singer Rihanna and environmental activist Greta Thunberg have come out in support of the protesting farmers. An internal issue of the country is receiving unwarranted global attention because the government has misread as well as mishandled the situation developing after the January 26 disturbances.PM Narendra Modi’s assurance during the all-party meeting on January 30 that the Centre’s proposal to suspend the laws ‘still stands’ has cut no ice with the protesters, who are sticking to their demand for repeal of the Acts. The brazen attempts to turn the protest sites into fortresses have only widened the trust deficit. The machinations aimed at demonising and demotivating the agitators reek of desperation. The emergence of Rakesh Tikait as the ‘face’ of the agitation has put the Centre on the back foot, giving the Opposition parties — marginalised so far — a foot in the door. The onus is on the government to redouble efforts to break the deadlock by bringing the farm unions back to the negotiating table. The likes of Rihanna and Greta may have no locus standi to comment on India’s farm laws, but the government cannot ignore the groundswell of opposition triggered by their opinion among millions of social media users. A country offering solutions to the world’s problems, as claimed by the PM the other day, must not be deemed incapable of resolving its own issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/time-for-firefighting-207517
04-02-2021||If the detection of 36||Fake degree bazaar||Assets of the owner and family/associate concerns valued at Rs 194 crore have been linked to the scam proceeds; it is being touted as the biggest-ever attachment of properties of any educational institution in the country in a money laundering case. The figure may make for a good headline point, but does not absolve the accused, or those assigned supervisory tasks. Something is amiss, and hugely so. The tentacles are spread nationwide; periodical crackdowns have helped, but clearly fall short.Restoring the private sector’s credibility in higher education would be a long-drawn process in the hill state. Transparency, urgency and showing purpose of intent in the probe are prerequisites, but the regulatory authorities have their work cut out too. What has to be kept in mind is to ensure that the entire lot of students, staff and faculty of the institutions under scanner is not made to pay for the criminal path adopted by a few among them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fake-degree-bazaar-207518
