05-02-2021||As the Spiti valley finally opens its doors to tourists on February 17 for the first time since it was shut in the wake of the lockdown imposed to keep the coronavirus at bay in March-end last year||Spiti valley set to reopen||Now, as the local administration lures tourists with a two-month snow festival, it aims to keep up the good record with the slew of precautionary measures. It is equally the responsibility of the vacationers to ensure that they are armed with a Covid-negative test report from an authorised hospital or lab 72 to 96 hours before arrival. Also, ensure own safety as well as that of the hosts with masks and distancing. While the town is used to dealing with mountain sickness and extreme weather-related ailments, the virus would play spoilsport in the quest for enjoyment of the scenic mountains, glaciers and lakes and monasteries that the area is endowed with.No doubt, the task is challenging, for there is a huge surge in the number of Lahaul-Spiti-bound tourists ever since the all-weather gateway to the valley, the Atal Tunnel, was commissioned in October. Built under the snow-clad Rohtang Pass, due to which the valley used to be cut off from November to April, the tunnel holds the promise of transforming the economy of the region. However, a regulatory mechanism is imperative to preserve the ecologically fragile area. The queues of vehicles running up to 3 km in December-end call for better provisions to deal with the resultant problems of accommodation, litter, pollution and nuisance that play havoc with the sensitive region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/spiti-valley-set-to-reopen-208158
05-02-2021||Wedged between China and Pakistan||Military modernisation||Rs 22,000 crore (nearly 19 per cent). This is a welcome proposal, in tune with the government’s plan to spend $130 billion (more than Rs 9 lakh crore) on defence modernisation in the next seven to eight years.India continues to figure among the world’s biggest arms importers – this fact sticks out like a sore thumb whenever the government talks about achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. What has come as a much-needed shot in the arm for the ‘Make in India’ initiative is the recent sealing of a Rs 48,000-crore deal to procure 83 Tejas light combat aircraft from state-run aerospace major Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. Large-scale indigenisation, however, can’t happen overnight. It requires an overhaul and reorientation of the defence PSUs along with the active involvement of the private sector, leading technocrats, and top institutes of science and technology, as recommended by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence.Reducing dependence on foreign vendors is easier said than done. The armed forces can’t keep waiting for domestic equivalents during an exigency. For the record, an unbudgeted amount of Rs 20,776 crore was spent to buy military hardware amid the border standoff with China. In September last year, the government had eased FDI norms in this sector so as to attract more overseas investors. The focus, as of now, should be on facilitating collaboration between international manufacturers and Indian firms, while ensuring a level playing field that precludes favouritism. Transfer of technology by foreign players can not only help in making India self-reliant on the defence front but also boost the nation’s potential to cater to the global market through cutting-edge research and innovation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/military-modernisation-208155
