06-02-2021||For a state whose chief minister owes his eminence in public life to the mass movement that began against the Emergency to endorse an order that says those participating in violent protests||Scrutiny for passport||The police as the arm of the law had been instrumental in implementing the stringent lockdown and paying attention to the normal law and order duty is now needed, which also means tackling cybercrime, instead of merely seeking out individuals with a dissenting view. Efforts to check the entry of people with a criminal background into politics have still not been completely successful. The Bihar Police have sought to justify this by clarifying that it does not curb the democratic right to protest, but was intended only to check involvement in criminal activities during a protest. With separate legal provisions already there for dealing with criminal activities, the justification does not qualify on the grounds of logic.In Bihar, because of the lockdown, political parties chose to hold virtual meetings to reach out. With restrictions and social distancing in place because of the pandemic, technology platforms were increasingly used by the people to communicate and stay connected. Some time back, the US State Department had also stipulated that applicants for a visa would need to submit social media details for scrutiny and false information could have serious immigration consequences. For governments, there will be a need to be circumspect in the exercise of their powers when it comes to the life of an ordinary citizen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/scrutiny-for-passport-208436
06-02-2021||The third national serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research from December 17 to January 8 to check for antibodies against the coronavirus in random samples of people who did not have known infection has found that 21.5 per cent of the population (1.38 billion) has evidence of antibodies to the pathogen. This means that nearly 30 crore people have possibly had the disease||Seroprevalence up||The second serosurveillance pointed to over 6.6 per cent of the individuals having been exposed to the virus by August. It also found that for every reported case, there were 26-32 actual cases of infection. In other words, there were around 9-11 crore Covid cases when the official figure was only 35 lakh. The first serosurvey held in May-June recorded an overall seropositivity of 0.73 per cent and 82-130 cases of possible infections for every reported case.The rising seroprevalence is reassuring as it contributes to boosting immunity to the virus. A heartening reflection of this is the steady decline in the number of Covid-positive patients in the past few months, as also the reduction in the Covid-19 positivity rate from 8.89 per cent on August 4 to 5.42 per cent on February 4. But some worrisome trends continue and must be tackled. The weekly positivity rate of eight states and UTs is higher than the national average of 1.82 per cent, including that of Chandigarh (2.10 per cent). The Covid management strategy must focus on Kerala and Maharashtra — the two states that have, of late, been contributing to 70 per cent of the active cases — to contain its spread. The ongoing vaccination drive is equally essential to expedite the taming of the virus. Meanwhile, with almost 78 per cent people still vulnerable to contracting the disease, letting go of Covid-appropriate behaviour will cost dearly. Letting go of masks, sanitisers and social distancing is not yet an option.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/seroprevalence-up-208435
