08-02-2021||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah’s observation — ‘better late than never’ — sums up the sentiment as the high-speed 4G mobile Internet services have been restored across Jammu and Kashmir after almost 18 months. Suspended on the eve of abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the state into UTs in August 2019||Better late than never||While the restoration of services is bound to make life easier and act as a confidence-building measure, why the citizens were subjected to such a prolonged restriction in the first place is a question that will continue to rankle. Even the havoc wreaked on lives and livelihoods by the Covid-19 pandemic had failed to move the authorities. The period saw repeated entreaties by trade organisations, commercial houses, school bodies, even the media fraternity, in the erstwhile state for restoration of services, as they cited losses and huge practical difficulties in conducting normal activities — be it trade, business or school classes — because of the slow Internet speed. There were also complaints of subscribers being charged regular tariffs despite the restricted services.Lest we forget, Internet access being part of the fundamental right to freedom of speech was stressed by the Supreme Court itself, which also pointed out that suspension of free movement, Internet and basic freedoms cannot be an arbitrary exercise of power, and a complete ban on Internet must be considered only as an extraordinary measure. After the successful conduct of the DDC elections, the 4G restoration represents a fresh start. The trust deficit remains, but finally agreeing to a demand repeatedly put forth across several forums nationally and internationally signals a positive change. Jammu and Kashmir can do with more such outreach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/better-late-than-never-209368
08-02-2021||Lack of trust in the efficacy of the vaccines offered to healthcare and other frontline workers in the first phase of the rollout is the main cause of the hesitancy among the people in Punjab to get the shot. It is a matter of concern and must be addressed urgently||Tackling vax hesitancy||Worried by the low turnout at many vaccination centres, Health Ministry officials have sought to highlight the encouraging outcome of the vaccination drive so far: only 0.18 per cent adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) and hospitalisation rate of 0.002 per cent. No doubt, it’s a heartening trend, but more confidence-building facts are required. As a letter by scientists to the ministry has demanded, an inquiry into the cause of the deaths of 16 recipients of the Covishield vaccine till January 31 is crucial. While the deaths have been ascribed to cardiovascular problems, the vaccine can be exonerated only by a thorough investigation. The results must be shared with the public to win it over.It is this thoroughness that has rightly marked the drug regulatory authorities’ approach to the meeting of exacting standards in allowing vaccines. Pfizer had to recently withdraw its application for emergency use of Covid-19 vaccine in India as it has not yet conducted local clinical trials that are necessary to gauge its efficacy, safety and dose regimen. The decision assumes significance in the light of safety concerns raised by Norway in the wake of 29 elderly people with underlying conditions dying after receiving the Pfizer shot. Covishield and Covaxin must also pass all tests for greater public acceptance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tackling-vax-hesitancy-209367
