09-02-2021||The circumstances may have been different||Himalayan tragedy||Given the hill state’s history of natural disasters and the vulnerabilities red-flagged by locals and environmental activists over and over again, what emerges is a widening mismatch between the model of development championed by governments and the need to preserve land and water resources. Ironically, Raini, the village where disaster struck, was the cradle of the Chipko movement initiated in the 1970s to save trees. Commissioning of large hydro-power projects, involving storage structures and dams, and the resultant ecological impact is a divisive issue; the benefit-versus-loss debate has no clear winners. There are over 50 such projects that are operational, being built and proposed in Alaknanda and Bhagirathi basins. A safety and viability audit would, expectedly, be in the works, along with a rethink on bolstering the mitigation mechanism.A majority of the glaciers in the Himalayas are known to be receding, leading to the formation of several proglacial lakes. The climate change hotspot would require a generous dose of resources to monitor the region better and recommend policy changes. The course correction hopefully would be more effective than the cold treatment to suggestions, by a 2014 committee constituted by the apex court, to turn down the proposals to build hydel projects above an altitude of 2,000 metres, citing various risks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/himalayan-tragedy-209779
09-02-2021||Sticking to his stand that the new farm laws are in the farmers’ interest||PM’s outreach||The PM’s conciliatory approach is aimed at blunting criticism of his government over the ‘unilateral’ passage of the farm laws as well as the alleged mishandling of the consequent agitation. But what has struck a discordant note is his insinuation that protesters, in general, are being misled by the new ‘FDI (foreign destructive ideology)’. He has warned the country against the ‘andolan jivi’, the elements who are ready to jump into any protest, be it of the farmers, lawyers or students. Smelling a conspiracy behind every demonstration is uncalled for, particularly in the case of the farmers’ stir that has gained traction in India and abroad.The PM needs to go beyond mere assurances and engage directly with farmers on the ground. It rankles that he has been conspicuous by his absence from various rounds of talks between the government and the farm bodies. Though the government has offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, it has remained non-committal on the key demand of legalising MSP. The onus is on the PM to bridge the trust deficit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pms-outreach-209787
