10-02-2021||Any new leader’s first lot of overseas visits and phone calls||Biden-Modi phone call||The diplomatic bandwidth Biden has sought to cover with Modi is much wider than the security-defence straitjacket Trump imposed on India-US relations. Understandably, climate change and rebuilding the global economy are back in the mix. Quad, an informal group the US is promoting as a bulwark against China, should now embrace all the three pillars it espouses — political and commercial, in addition to military activity in the Indo-Pacific. Biden reiterated his commitment to work together against terrorism, but there are riders attached. The PM’s fulsome praise for Ghulam Nabi Azad in the Rajya Sabha indicates that South Block has picked up signals from the State Department about the new US dispensation’s inclination for reduction in tensions along the LoC and in Kashmir.However, the Hindutva brigade’s aggressive response to Western criticism of insensitivity in handling the farmers’ protests failed to impress the White House, which has highlighted Biden’s desire to ‘defend democratic institutions and norms’. Democrats in the past did not appreciate the CAA and the Kashmir lockdown either. With China at the gates, it may be a bit late in the day for South Block to dial down the growing strategic reliance on Washington and walk its path at the same time. The resolution of the protesting farmers’ issues may be a good cue to invigorate Indo-US ties under a dispensation with a penchant to use human rights as a diplomatic tool.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/biden-modi-phone-call-210297
10-02-2021||After the high of Brisbane comes the low of Chennai — India lost the first Test of the series against England by a huge margin of 227 runs||Laid low in Chennai||England deserve credit for their clinical performance. This outfit is one of the best-prepared visiting teams to land on India’s shores, having won 2-0 in Sri Lanka recently. Led by the exceptional Joe Root, they made the best possible use of the conditions after winning the toss and electing to bat first. Having piled up 578 runs on a wicket Ishant Sharma later described as flat as a ‘road’, with Root leading the way with a magnificent 218, England bowled India out for sub-par 337. Several Indian batsmen were guilty of playing loose strokes. After England set India a target that has never been achieved by any team in Test cricket, India’s hopes lay in the batsmen putting up a great defensive effort. That was not to be, though.India’s defeat, the fourth straight under Virat Kohli, opens up the race to the final of the World Test Championship. New Zealand have already qualified for the final, and India can’t afford another loss — they must win the series 2-1 or 3-1 to make it. But England, who must win the series 3-1 or 3-0 or better to reach the final, have shown that they are ready for the Indian challenge. We are in for more exciting cricket over the next few weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/laid-low-in-chennai-210251
