11-02-2021||The Uttarakhand flash flood disaster has given rise to concerns over hydel power projects in another hill state||Outrage in Lahaul-Spiti||Reconciling environmental concerns with development goals has always been a major challenge. The hill states, with their unique terrain, are more susceptible to natural disasters because of the geological processes involved. Landslides and cloudbursts take place with regularity. Therefore, ensuring growth and economic development in remote and less accessible areas have always been fraught with risks. Studies have shown that in Himachal, the count of glacial lakes is increasing downstream of the Sutlej, along which are located some of the biggest hydel power projects. Himachal has seen flash floods in the Sutlej and the formation of a lake in the Spiti river basin. Considering the limited capacity of the dams to hold water, the threat only gets aggravated. Though the state recently saw the completion of the Atal Tunnel, an engineering marvel of great strategic significance, a similar approach is needed for other projects too.Natural disasters can strike despite the best of efforts, but preparedness can help minimise the damage. Governments have to be cautious in allocating power projects and also ensure constant monitoring of glaciers with plans for early warning and evacuation in place. Climate change is a major worry causing as it does glacial melts resulting in massive water discharge in the rivers. With the hill states also being of strategic importance, ensuring proper management of water resources is important because of implications from economic, general well-being and security perspectives. Water sustains the ecosystem and its careful regulation is needed to curb natural disasters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/outrage-in-lahaul-spiti-210633
11-02-2021||Even more than a year after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic||Covid probe||It was only last month that the WHO team, assisted by Chinese scientists, managed to land in Wuhan after several months of negotiations. The inordinate delay in initiating the probe rightly drew flak from the international community. America, the country worst affected by the pandemic, has announced to scrutinise the WHO report, while avoiding any conclusive comment on whether the experts received ‘full cooperation’ from China or not.Transparency is a prerequisite for this investigation as the entire world is looking to the WHO to provide definitive answers. China’s role has apparently been dubious in more ways than one. India, which has lost more than 1.55 lakh of its citizens to Covid-19, is also upset about Beijing’s recent efforts to belittle New Delhi’s vaccine diplomacy, besides the supply of allegedly faulty rapid testing kits and substandard PPE (personal protective equipment) last year. With the pandemic far from over, China’s culpability or otherwise must be established beyond any doubt, and that too at the earliest. Getting to the bottom of the matter is also critical to help humankind prepare itself better for — or even prevent — such biological catastrophes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-probe-210634
