12-02-2021||While the electoral battles in Punjab are not devoid of sporadic incidents of violence||Emulate farmers||The crime is amplified in the present socio-political context of the state. Punjab has become the model of an unprecedentedly huge, but peaceful, agitation of farmers fighting democratically for the repeal of the new agriculture laws that they perceive as black. The massive goodwill earned nationally and internationally by the endless sea of masses protesting for over two months and the positive image of Punjab thereby gained stand to be squandered with senseless poll-related violence. The people, who have refrained from violence under extenuating circumstances at Singhu or Tikri, would do well to fight their political battles with equal aplomb and restraint and have faith in the power of the franchise. The grassroots have been stirred to an awakening of a fight for their survival and progress. This social arousing, tipped on the edge of violence, must sustain. Both the contestants and voters need to focus on issues of development, even as the state struggles to recoup the losses incurred in the tumultuous pandemic time.The urban local body polls in Punjab are the first to be held under the shadow of the protests at the Delhi borders. The situation on the ground is a pointer to the sinking in of a new reality as the BJP finds itself hobbling to field nominees or campaigners. Fearing an electoral backlash, many leaders have quit the party or entered the poll fray as independent candidates. The SAD has snapped ties with its long-time ally. In 2015, the Akali Dal-BJP combine had swept the civic polls. The day of reckoning, February 14, will show if the tide has turned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/emulate-farmers-211011
12-02-2021||After several rounds of talks at the diplomatic and military levels||Disengagement pact||The much-awaited de-escalation will offer some respite to the Indian troops, who have been on high alert particularly after the Galwan valley clash of June 2020, but there is no room for letting one’s guard down. India needs to constantly monitor the Chinese pullback and be on the lookout for any aberration. Rebuilding mutual trust will be a long-drawn-out process requiring sustained actions on the ground.It’s not only China’s misadventures in recent years that have tempered India’s optimism with caution. There is a bitter lesson to be learnt from history too. Back in July 1962, the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had welcomed the ‘partial’ withdrawal of Chinese troops from Ladakh. The euphoria didn’t last long. Barely three months later, China invaded Indian territory. Though India will be hoping that such treachery is not repeated, the possibility can’t entirely be ruled out. Another cause for concern is lack of transparency on the neighbour’s part. New Delhi must ensure that Beijing ticks all the boxes of the disengagement process. It should all be in plain view, and easily verifiable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/disengagement-pact-211012
