13-02-2021||The deafening silence of our cricketing legends over outlandish allegations against Wasim Jaffer||Mixing cricket and religion||This sort of a charge against anyone, let alone an India cricketer who played 31 Test matches for the country, must not be made lightly and without hard evidence. Predictably, Verma’s allegation acted as a dog-whistle to a certain section of social media users, who attacked Jaffer’s alleged religious bias. In his response, Jaffer denied the allegations and said if he had been communal-minded, he would have been sacked. ‘This is a serious allegation. And if there was indeed a communal bias, I wouldn’t have resigned, they would have sacked me,’ Jaffer said.Jaffer, 42, played in the Ranji Trophy until the 2019-20 season and is the all-time leading run-scorer in the tournament. He helped his last team, Vidarbha, to two consecutive Ranji titles. His record in public life, lasting over 25 years as a cricketer and an individual, is unimpeachable. The saddest part is that though he played for Mumbai for 18 consecutive First-Class seasons, not one among his ‘great’ teammates or former players from the city spoke for him. Anil Kumble, Manoj Tiwary and Irfan Pathan are the only cricketers who publicly expressed their support to him. His former India captains Sourav Ganguly, Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid have kept their silence, as has the Indian Cricketers’ Association. Meanwhile, CAU officials have started diluting their allegations against Jaffer. The least that Ganguly, president of the Indian cricket board, must do is to investigate the matter so that the truth is out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mixing-cricket-and-religion-211672
13-02-2021||The more things change||Fuel prices on fire||Though fuel prices are also rising in neighbouring countries such as Pakistan and Nepal, the relatively higher rates in India have given the Opposition time-tested ammunition to target the government during the ongoing Budget session of Parliament. On Wednesday, Samajwadi Party MP Vishambhar Prasad Nishad tauntingly asked the Centre why the prices of fuel were higher in the country of Lord Ram than in Sita’s Nepal and Ravana’s Lanka. Indeed, there have been reports in recent years of cheaper fuel being smuggled from Nepal into India across the border by unscrupulous elements out to make the most of the price difference.The widely shared image of Atal Bihari Vajpayee arriving at Parliament on a bullock cart back in 1973 reminds us that fuel price hike is a perennial issue that never fails to strike a chord with the masses. With petrol and diesel rates skyrocketing, Central and state governments need to strike a balance between the economic compulsion of generating resources through the taxation route and the political exigency of providing relief to the suffering populace. It’s a tough call, and the pressure to bite the bullet will only increase in the coming days and weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fuel-prices-on-fire-211673
