15-02-2021||Upholding the fundamental right of adult individuals to choose their life partners and the freedom to marry them||Irrespective of faith||However, that the subject of this inviolable liberty is legally challenged time and again underscores the disconcerting fact that we as a society are still bound by some regressively oppressive cultural and communal biases and norms. Inter-caste or inter-faith choices of our young adults are generally unaccepted and sought to be smothered in the name of religion or clan. Such couples often meet with familial or social resistance and boycott and, in extreme cases, even run the risk of ‘honour killings’. The ‘love jihad’ laws enacted by Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have the potential to widen this communal gulf with the controversial provisions of criminalising religious conversion through marriage and mandating prior official clearance in inter-religion weddings.Fortunately, the Supreme Court has agreed to examine the constitutional validity of these laws. Equally heartening is the potential of changing the societal mindset towards accepting diversity presented by many social media ‘influencers’ and ordinary men and women who share pictures of their mixed marriages, joyously sealed with ceremonies and customs of both partners and families. But the fact that inter-faith marriages are more often contracted as civil marriages is something that religions need to ponder on. It is time for the easing of rigidity. Being more accommodative will not only promote communal harmony but also bolster the flock of the faithful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/irrespective-of-faith-212506
15-02-2021||Microsoft’s support for the proposed legislation in Australia that would force rivals Google and Facebook to compensate news outlets for their journalism signals an unusual split within the tech sector. One that could well effect fundamental changes in the way the Internet functions||The Microsoft punch||Not stopping at that, Microsoft has even asked other countries to follow Australia's lead in calling for news outlets to be paid for the content published online. Canberra’s insistence on framing new rules of engagement between traditional media outlets, which are financially distressed, and the tech giants — which capture a significant share of advertising revenues without investing in news coverage, human resources or material inputs — is being seen as a creative proposal to support free press. The then US President Donald Trump had objected to the Australian proposal. How his successor tackles the issue could be crucial for the code’s global playbook.Since Google is back at the table seeking the middle ground, any deal on a revenue-sharing model that seeks to fix the ‘bargaining power imbalances’ will be seen as a victory of sorts for the news media organisations. Not just in Australia, but across the world. Microsoft’s stance may invite accusations of opportunism, but when has that not been its rivals’ core competence, that too at the cost of those who do the real hard work? The next few days could provide a template for the much-needed lifeline for the news media sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-microsoft-punch-212505
