16-02-2021||Young activist Disha Ravi’s arrest in Bengaluru in the ‘toolkit case’ and the subsequent order of a Delhi court sending her to five-day police remand have raised certain serious questions which go much beyond the usual debate over free speech and right to dissent. The proceedings before a Duty Magistrate in New Delhi in this case have exposed procedural loopholes that go against the rule of law — considered to be a sine qua non in a democracy. Allegations are that the 22-year-old woman was not represented by a counsel of her choice at the time of the hearing. If true||The arrest of Disha Ravi||The world watched Ajmal Kasab killing innocent people in Mumbai in the 26/11 terror attacks. But instead of executing him summarily, the Indian judicial system gave him a proper trial. That displays our commitment to constitutional values and the rule of law. Article 21 says, ‘No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.’ In Maneka Gandhi’s case (1978), the top court said, ‘The procedure prescribed by law has to be fair, just and reasonable, not fanciful, oppressive or arbitrary.’Notwithstanding the nature of the allegations, her rights as an accused or a detenu can’t be given the go-by. Also, procedural justice is equally important. The alleged lapses need to be looked into and corrected, if needed, by superior courts. The rule of law is not a concession given by the State to its citizens, and, therefore, it must not depend on the benevolence of the law enforcement agencies. Courts are expected to exercise checks on the misuse of powers by the executive — particularly those affecting the most cherished right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 — to ensure that the rule of law is preserved and protected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-arrest-of-disha-ravi-212974
16-02-2021||The January 6 riot at the Capitol is a shameful blot on American democracy||Clean chit to Trump||What’s beyond doubt is that Trump urged the crowd to march to the Capitol, where the Congress was meeting to affirm Joe Biden’s presidential election. Many of those charged with rioting have said that they were acting directly on Trump’s orders; some of them have even offered to testify. What could prove to be crucial is a phone conversation between Trump and House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy in which the latter pleaded with him to ‘call off’ the mob that was overrunning the Capitol. Trump is said to have replied: ‘Well, Kevin, I guess these people are more upset about the election than you are.’ This remark gives the impression that Trump knew what the rioters were up to and was not keen on stopping them.The clean chit from the Senate, however, is just a breather for Trump as he can still be held accountable by the judiciary as a private individual, no longer having protection from legal liability. A lot depends on a thorough investigation into the Capitol incident. The probe must strive for bringing closure to a sordid chapter in contemporary American history.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/clean-chit-to-trump-212967
