17-02-2021||While the clearance given by the three-judge Green Bench of the Supreme Court to a surfeit of development schemes — including hydro and hybrid power projects — in Himachal Pradesh may be a welcome sign of judicial alacrity||SC nod for HP projects||Because of its geography, Himachal Pradesh faces the dilemma of development. While tourism and horticulture have been the mainstay of its economy, the state has been trying to attract industries for which it also needs the required infrastructure. The state has immense potential for hydropower, but its cost-effectiveness and viability also need to be assessed. The incentives offered have helped in making the shift, even leading to migration of industry to Himachal from adjoining states because of the disparities. While the state has been pitching for green growth and sustainable development, it will have to tread warily when it comes to implementing the projects because of its fragile ecology.Undertaking construction on a massive scale can have its pitfalls in the shape of soil erosion, landslides and the drying up of streams. Diversification is a corollary to saturation and the transition from agriculture to industry has to be made keeping in view the fact that growth can have its limits. Harnessing nature can lead to progress but damage to ecology can prove to be counterproductive, impacting human lives, resulting instead in locational and occupational displacement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sc-nod-for-hp-projects-213333
17-02-2021||Is one’s personal data safe from prying eyes? This question is of vital significance for a digitally active India||Privacy at stake||India is sorely missing an all-encompassing legislation for protecting a citizen’s right to privacy. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, which provides a framework for safeguarding the privacy of individuals’ personal data that is processed by various entities, was tabled in the Lok Sabha on December 11, 2019, and later referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee for scrutiny. With the committee reported to have suggested 90-odd amendments, it will take time for the law to take shape.Data harvesting has become a cause for concern not only in India but all across the world. In 2018, the UK Information Commissioner’s Office had fined Facebook 5,00,000 pounds for processing the personal data of users unfairly by allowing app developers access to their information and that of their friends ‘without sufficiently clear and informed consent’. Microblogging platform Koo, projected as a counter to Twitter, is under fire from critics for allegedly leaking users’ data. In another disturbing trend, classified evidence gathered by investigating agencies is being divulged to a section of the media, such as WhatsApp chats in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. India’s data protection legislation must have a self-regulatory mechanism for government entities, besides a clearly delineated set of rules for private players. What’s more, the law should inspire confidence among the consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/privacy-at-stake-213332
