18-02-2021||Riding majorly on the wave of goodwill earned by the farmers protesting against the new agriculture laws on Delhi’s borders since November||Cong makes clean sweep||The writing was on the wall for the BJP from the beginning. The shadow of the farmers’ stir — that has a groundswell of support from all sections of people — loomed over the election campaigning as the saffron party and its workers faced public wrath. Sensing an alienation from the masses, its long-time ally, SAD, had already broken ties with it a couple of months earlier. Public ire translated into the defeat of the ruling BJP-JJP in the neighbouring Haryana too when it lost two of the three mayoral seats and all three posts of municipal committee president in December-end. Bucking the general trend of the ruling party emerging as the winner, the political shift in Haryana was a pointer to the party losing ground. The Punjab poll outcome has dented any hopes that the BJP may have nursed of making a comeback in the state.Similarly, SAD and AAP need to sharpen their strategies aimed at the progress of Punjab to reconnect with the masses and win back their trust. For, the next acid test — the Assembly election — is due next year. Meanwhile, with 50 per cent seats reserved for women for the first time in the civic body polls in Punjab, the onus of improving the wards lies equally on the new (and veteran) women councillors and mayors as the male representatives. It’s time they exerted their power and not be mere puppets of their menfolk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cong-makes-clean-sweep-213844
18-02-2021||The increasing use of the sedition law by the authorities in recent years has led to allegations that this colonial-era provision is being invoked largely to stifle the citizens’ freedom of speech and expression||Invoking sedition law||There is no denying that Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC is a powerful tool that the State can use any time for the purpose of maintaining peace and order. However, its indiscriminate application threatens to undermine its potency and efficacy. Even as the number of sedition cases registered in India has risen from 35 in 2016 to 93 in 2019, the conviction rate has been going down — from 33 per cent in 2016 to merely 3 per cent in 2019. No wonder the persons acquitted or discharged considerably outnumber those who are sentenced.In Kedar Nath Singh versus State of Bihar (1962), the Supreme Court had made it clear that ‘strong words used to express disapprobation of the measures of the Government with a view to their improvement or alteration by lawful means’ did not amount to sedition. This ruling puts the onus on law enforcers to come up with indisputable evidence of incitement to violence or disturbance of public peace. Raising the bogey of sedition on flimsy pretexts will only weaken the law and enfeeble democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/invoking-sedition-law-213843
