19-02-2021||Even as the memory of the horrific 2017 Unnao gangrape case is fresh||Unnao shamed, again||It is essential to prevent a repeat of the sequence of events of the 2017 rape case that smacks of a shoddy probe and an attempt to shield the main accused, expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar, and his accomplices. Frustrated by the tardy progress and hurdles in her quest for justice, the poor rape victim even attempted to immolate herself in front of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s residence on April 3, 2018. Her father who had been, in a bizarre twist, arrested was found dead in police custody the next day. The road to Sengar’s eventual conviction by the CBI in December 2019 was littered by another suspiciously disgraceful act: when they were headed to the court, a truck-car collision left the girl and her lawyer critically injured and her two aunts dead.Equally shameful is last September’s brutal gangrape of a Dalit woman in Hathras. The authorities’ actions, beginning with a delayed FIR, once again reeked of protection of the upper-caste accused. The late-night cremation of the victim, allegedly without the family’s approval by the UP Police, sparked nationwide protests. Hopefully, the chastised Yogi government will bring the guilty to book this time. Only certain and swift punishment can bring down the crime rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unnao-shamed-again-214445
19-02-2021||A Delhi court’s order acquitting journalist Priya Ramani in a defamation case filed by former Union Minister MJ Akbar||Watershed acquittal||The verdict is expected to embolden many other women to come forward and identify predators who misuse their positions of power to leave them scared and scarred for life. It has given fresh impetus to the #MeToo movement, which seemed to be losing momentum of late. The allegations of sexual misconduct against Hollywood movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, levelled by no less than 80 women, had unleashed the worldwide #MeToo storm in October 2017. In February-March last year, Weinstein was convicted and sentenced to 23 years in prison for sexually assaulting two women.The Delhi court’s observation that a woman has the right to put forward her grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades is also of great import. It’s the fear of infamy, besides retaliation from the influential offender, that forces many victims to keep suffering in silence for years. Priya’s acquittal, however, is only half the battle won. The victory will be conclusive only when all the Harvey Weinsteins get their comeuppance. For that to happen, we have to start with creating an enabling environment for women to speak about their ordeal. Also, there is a need to raise awareness about the legal weapon at their disposal — the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. Implementation of the law in letter and spirit can not only curb miscarriage of justice but also act as a strong deterrent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/watershed-acquittal-214446
