20-02-2021||The world’s eyes are fixed on Australia as the test case for a global thrust to force Internet giants to share some of their revenue with content providers sees a dramatic pushback. Google’s pre-emptive deals with several media outlets gave the hope of relatively smooth sailing for the proposed Australian model||Facebook faceoff||Internet platforms are used by publishers worldwide to reach out to audiences and increase their visibility. However, media organisations get only a small portion of the advertisement revenues generated from what they offer. Their survival and future at stake, the industry and regulators are closely watching how the faceoff plays out. The planned Australian legislation would require Facebook and Google to reach agreements with news outlets, or be subjected to forced arbitration to agree to a price.Facebook, in its defence, attributes the blockade to the draft law being unclear on the definition of news content. Another argument tries to make a distinction between its and Google’s relationship with content providers. On how publishers do not voluntarily provide content in the case of Google Search, but choose to post news on Facebook, and that is what explains the social media giant’s reluctance to the new code. The online media revenue-sharing dispute is far from settled; as negotiations continue, it could be a long-drawn tussle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/facebook-faceoff-214888
20-02-2021||It has taken China eight long months to admit that four of its soldiers were killed in the Galwan valley clash in eastern Ladakh. Shortly after the barbaric hand-to-hand combat in June 2020||China’s climbdown||The Chinese army’s claim that it lost only four soldiers may or may not be the whole truth, but the official acknowledgement suggests an inclination — again, unusual for the Dragon — to partly lift the veil of secrecy. So, is this a confidence-building measure aimed at mending ties with India? Considering China’s military and economic expansionism, it could well be a ploy to counter criticism from the international community. The growing clout of the Quad coalition, comprising India, the US, Japan and Australia, is certainly not music to China’s ears. Thursday’s teleconference among the foreign ministers of the member nations was held barely a month after the Biden administration took charge. Quad’s commitment to ‘uphold a rules-based international order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty’ is intended to make China see reason.Even as the disengagement is reported to have been completed in Pangong Tso area, the 10th round of the Corps Commander-level talks is scheduled to be held today to take forward the pullback process in other areas of eastern Ladakh. India needs to keep asserting itself at the diplomatic and military levels to sustain the gains and be ready for any eventuality in case China’s climbdown proves to be deceptive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinas-climbdown-214889
