22-02-2021||The landing of NASA’s rover Perseverance on Mars has been historic in more ways than one. Signalling a scientific advance||NASA’s Mars foray||The Red Planet has held great interest for the scientific community for possibilities of signs of life. Studies have indicated similarities between Mars and Earth, including signs of water. The US also plans to undertake manned missions to Mars in future, pinning its hope on the belief that observing its geological past will bring about more understanding about climate change, with which our planet is grappling. The effort to bring back rock samples from Mars is supposed to span decades. The quest for space has preoccupied nations, with missions — manned and unmanned — being sent out to planets for a better understanding of the solar system. Reaching out to this final frontier has helped make strides in the field of technology and its application to bring about development.India, too, had successfully undertaken the Mars mission to study the planet’s surface. Though its Moon mission faced last-minute glitches, the country cannot afford to lag behind in this critical field despite the resource constraints. The NASA project involved the use of sophisticated technology to land the rover on the surface of Mars, which could hold lessons for India while undertaking similar projects. Progress in the field of space technology is crucial to achieving self-reliance and the country needs to keep up its efforts while learning from its own success and shortcomings as well as that of other countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nasas-mars-foray-215740
22-02-2021||The combat against the coronavirus continues to be a hydra-headed challenge. Even as the country is preparing to fully reopen educational institutes and hospitals||Surge in Covid cases||Adding to the worry of the authorities is the detection of patients with strains of the virus believed to be more virulent — four with the South African variant, one with the Brazilian variant and close to 200 testing positive for the UK mutant strain till now. The danger of their spread cannot be ruled out even as surveillance to put a check on further transmission is on and scientists are testing vaccines for efficacy against these variants. The hurdle of vaccination hesitancy is yet to be surmounted. Doubts still float about effectiveness of Covishield and Covaxin in building immunity. Unless people queue up for the inoculation shots, the pandemic will continue to rage and ravage.India doling out vaccine doses to various countries is a booster for its image in the comity of nations. Aligning itself with any unverified claims regarding the dreaded disease would only smear this image earned by our scientists and health workers, who raced against time to produce the vaccine. Emphasis has to be laid on the fact that Patanjali’s tablet Coronil has been cleared as just a ‘supporting measure’. Any attempt to project it as a cure must be strictly dealt with.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/surge-in-covid-cases-215735
