23-02-2021||That both the government and the judiciary need to reconcile over the appointment of judges to safeguard the cause of justice is apparent from the Central Government clearing the names of only six judges out of the 16 recommended by the Supreme Court collegium. The six-month delay has taken place despite the apex court urging the government to make the appointment of judges a time-bound process. The delay in dispensing justice has long been acknowledged in India||Appointment of High Court judges||Also readJudges’ names yet to be cleared, Supreme Court irkedCrisis in HC as 4 senior judges retire in January The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown affected the judiciary also with work getting restricted. Though the courts have tried to overcome this by the use of technology like video conferencing and e-filing of cases, work and the lives of those whose livelihood revolves around was hit. Because of the lockdown, there were less new cases and lower disposal rates. With normalcy returning, a backlog of cases is expected to emerge which may need time to dispose of. The closure of business establishments, loss of jobs and wages may also result in cases requiring arbitration. Depleted strength in high courts may also affect the functioning of the subordinate courts which are under their supervision.Appointment of judges requires transparency, accountability and objectivity. While the government has the authority to send back the names or look into the objections, it should try and fill the vacancies at the earliest so as not to impede the cause of justice. The judiciary and the government need to work together for this purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/appointment-of-high-court-judges-216189
23-02-2021||With over 1.1 crore healthcare and frontline workers administered the vaccine against Covid-19 till now||Bring in private players||As the campaign is set to enter the second phase in March, when crores of citizens above 50 years will start getting the jab, the government's roping in of the private sector to complement its efforts is a step in the right direction. Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member who heads the Centre’s pandemic response team, has indicated a partnership with the private players. While IT czar and philanthropist Azim Premji’s projection, at an industry event, that involving the private sector may help cover 50 crore vaccinations in just two months may sound ambitious, but it does indicate the potential of the vast reach and expertise of the private hospitals and clinics dotting the country. The eventual aim should be for the common person to be able to walk in at the nearest centre for inoculation. A cap on pricing is a must to prevent undue profiteering by the private sector.This assumes significance in the wake of the worrisome uptick in the number of infections in the country after a lull of three months. Along with the virus striking harder with new mutating strains, it holds the potential of snowballing into a second wave. Israel's preliminary data in this context, though yet to be peer-reviewed, is encouraging. With almost half of its population having had at least one dose, Israel has the highest vaccination rate in the world. Its observation that the vaccine is 89 per cent effective in curbing the transmission of the virus holds the promise of herd immunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bring-in-private-players-216188
