24-02-2021||Karnataka||Puducherry reversal||The gradual shrinking of the Grand Old Party’s footprint across the country has coincided with the BJP’s growing presence and influence. The latter has kept chipping away at vulnerable Congress governments and managed to wrest the initiative more often than not. The Congress’ failure to set its own house in order — the party has been awaiting a full-time president since the 2019 poll debacle — has allowed the drift and indecisiveness to percolate down to the states. The new president will take charge only in June, notwithstanding the urgency lent by the upcoming Assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.The spate of resignations by Puducherry MLAs has again turned the spotlight on the anti-defection law, whose lacunae embolden opportunists to bring down elected governments and overturn the people’s mandate. According to the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, a legislator is deemed to have defected if he voluntarily quits his party or disobeys the directives of the party leadership on a vote. However, an MLA can give up membership of the Assembly any time and make himself ineligible for such a vote. A law aimed at stabilising governments by preventing floor crossings has repeatedly proved to be counterproductive. It needs stringent, airtight provisions to deter Aaya Rams and Gaya Rams from making a mockery of democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/puducherry-reversal-216594
24-02-2021||Three quarters of a century after a new nation was born||Delhi riots, a year later||Any communal incident in Delhi is a terrible reminder of the ghastly crimes of 1984 when Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s assassination triggered the killings of innocent Sikhs. 2020, the annus horribilis, began with clashes on February 23 that lasted three days, causing 53 deaths and about 500 getting badly injured. Nearly 40 of those dead were Muslims, yet the riots have been blamed entirely on the Muslim community, with the police claiming that the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act activists planned and executed the riots. The activists have all along maintained that BJP leader Kapil Mishra incited the mob, though he has vehemently denied it.It is a tragedy when miscreants have to be identified by their religion to assert the neutrality of the probe, which the Delhi Police are often forced to do. According to news reports, of the 755 cases, about 350 against 802 Hindus and 767 Muslims are progressing with 1,818 arrested and 1,165 still in jail. Over 3,000 applications for compensation are being processed and the residents of North-East Delhi are struggling to forget and move on; something that all victims of violence are forced to do to remain sane. But as a nation, we cannot afford this never-ending cycle of violence baring the ugly entrails of a diseased society. The last riots coinciding with the visit of the then US President Donald Trump had an international audience. Yet, unfortunately, bigots seem to be still finding communal pride in these episodes of national disgrace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/delhi-riots-a-year-later-216589
