25-02-2021||Just when the content on over-the-top (OTT) platforms was being hailed as an elixir for the artistic community||Alarm bells for OTT||Proposals like parental lock, rating system and even the rules that suggest that the content should not impact India’s sovereignty and unity are acceptable norms. However, much of the regulations and the qualifying words such as ‘due caution and discretion’ as well as ‘potentially offensive impact of a film on matters of caste, race, gender, religion, disability, or sexuality’ are open to subjective interpretation and could lead to a witch-hunt. Ironically, without the regulations too, producers have had to face flak. A case in point is the web-series ‘Tandav’; even after the makers edited out the scenes that some thin-skinned had taken umbrage at, the streaming platform, director and the cast have been embroiled in legal battles.In a country where mainstream cinema as a rule churns out formulaic content, OTT had become a byword for creative liberty, quality and the go-to medium for hordes of viewers seeking alternatives to syrupy dramas. For the government to play moral nanny in an age where art knows no barriers is as perplexing as unwarranted. Or maybe, the move comes riding on political agendas. One can only hope that wiser counsel prevails before proposals fructify into rules. Instead of paying heed to the hyperventilating brigade of naysayers, the government would do well to factor in the views and interests of the stakeholders, for whom OTT has been the proverbial breath of fresh air.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/alarm-bells-for-ott-217151
25-02-2021||Climate activist Disha Ravi is out on bail in the toolkit case||Bail for Disha Ravi||Calling citizens ‘conscience keepers’ of the government in a democratic nation, the court has made it clear that people cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with the State’s policies. Such observations can help counter the unwelcome trend of vilification of protesters and hopefully deter cops from invoking the sedition law at the drop of a hat. In any case, the poor conviction rate of this colonial-era legislation is a good reason for the police not to go overboard time and again.Judge Rana had been equally forthright last week when he granted bail to two persons who were booked on the charge of sedition for allegedly posting/sharing fake videos on social media regarding the farmers’ protests. He had sounded a note of caution about the misuse of the law ‘to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants’. It’s praiseworthy that the judiciary is intervening to prevent infringement of the individual’s right to dissent. The onus now is on the executive to respect difference of opinion and let protesters fearlessly have their say, as long as they don’t incite violence or disturb public peace. With India’s global ranking on the Democracy Index down from 27 (in 2014) to 53 last year, the government direly needs to make judicious use of the powerful tools at its disposal to maintain law and order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bail-for-disha-ravi-217139
