26-02-2021||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country is set to gain momentum with the Centre deciding to rope in 20||Vaccination booster||Since India has ample stockpiles and the pharma giants have the ability to produce additional doses to meet the demand, the second phase of the vaccination programme could see a decisive push, after a rather sluggish first phase of doses for frontline and health workers. Given the hold and dependence on private players in the healthcare sector, their entry is bound to be a game-changer. But a statutory warning is essential. The authorisation to vaccinate the vast population has to be seen as a national duty, not an opportunity to profiteer. The private sector will have to be its own conscience-keeper, and take the oath of acting responsibly with self-regulation.Going forward, there would arise the need to allow access to other vaccines, ramp up dose production and allow large institutions to hold camps on campuses to vaccinate the staff with strict monitoring. After a precipitous drop in daily new confirmed cases, there has been a surge in recent days. The pandemic is baring fangs at people who had declared its exit. The decision to step up the pace of the vaccination drive gives a fighting chance to stay ahead of the pandemic curve.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccination-booster-217588
26-02-2021||A MINOR was gang-raped in Kurukshetra allegedly by her friend’s cousin along with his four accomplices on February 24. A few days earlier in Hisar||Haryana’s shameful rapes||Haryana’s statistics put the state to shame. As per the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau showing the figures for 2019, Haryana recorded 159 gang-rapes, with 1.17 cases per lakh population. This is the second highest in the country, after Rajasthan. In rapes under all categories, four cases were reported daily with 1,480 cases being filed, showing a rise of 14.2 per cent from the previous year. Under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, there is an increase of 68.9 per cent, indicating a steep rise in minors being sexually preyed upon.Significantly, the offender was known to the rape victim in 97 per cent cases. Making matters worse is the low conviction rate in crimes against women. In Haryana courts, it was just 16.1 per cent, as per the NCRB report. The absence of swift action emboldens the predators to repeat offences. With 49 cases involving repeat offenders, the second highest in the country — after Madhya Pradesh — and 308 cases of repeated rape on the same women, Haryana finds itself in another disgraceful position. Even as the struggle for a safe environment for women is grim and arduous, the rising numbers of families standing by their girls and calling out the predators who have abused and violated them is an encouraging trend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/haryanas-shameful-rapes-217584
