27-02-2021||The UK Westminster Court ruling that Nirav Modi be extradited to India in the $2-billion Punjab National Bank fraud case — that almost brought the bank down — and subsequent money-laundering as well as interference with witnesses and evidence-tampering is a shot in the arm for Indian law enforcement agencies that have been trying to catch him ever since the scam emerged in January 2018. The diamond tycoon is now a step closer to facing the stringent economic offences law of India. He was incarcerated in the UK in March 2019 and remains in jail since then with all seven of his bail pleas rejected over fears that he would abscond. The CBI and the ED need to be fully prepared to counter any further appeals by the fugitive against his deportation and not let him escape their net. For||Bringing back Nirav Modi||Another high-profile fugitive, liquor baron Vijay Mallya, has managed to remain in the UK even nearly three years after the extradition order by a lower court and almost one year after the doors of the UK’s high court and supreme court closed on him when he lost appeals against the order. During the bankruptcy proceedings last month, it was revealed that Mallya had applied to British Home Secretary Priti Patel for ‘another route’ that could enable him to stay on in the UK. It is believed to be the asylum route. He is wanted for a Rs 9,000-crore fraud in borrowings from some Indian banks by his company Kingfisher Airlines, that has since become defunct.The path to enforcing the rule of law is uphill as a system riddled by corruption, fraudster-official-politician nexus, shoddy investigation and lack of transparency impedes the process of justice delivery. Unsurprisingly, India’s record in bringing back multi-crore scamsters who flee the country is rather poor. That of the 72 economic offenders who have taken refuge abroad, the government has managed to bring back just two in the past six years only emboldens the criminals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bringing-back-nirav-modi-217890
27-02-2021||POSITIVE developments happening in quick succession have brightened prospects of the restoration of peace and tranquillity along India’s northern as well as western borders. Barely a week after Indian and Chinese troops completed disengagement from the north and south banks of Pangong Tso in Ladakh||India-Pak ceasefire||The relations between India and Pakistan had gone from bad to worse after the February 2019 Pulwama attack in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed. India had retaliated with the Balakot airstrike, targeting terror camps on the neighbour’s territory. Pakistan, in league with China, repeatedly tried to raise the Kashmir issue at the UN last year, but to no avail. Against such a discouraging backdrop, a thaw is most welcome. It goes to the credit of both countries to have kept the military and diplomatic channels of communication open. The challenge from here on will be to mutually respect the ceasefire pact on the ground. Sustained peace along the LoC could lead to the resumption of trade and tourism, raising the hopes of border states such as Punjab which direly need an economic fillip.On the Chinese front too, India has made it clear that peace on the border is essential for improving bilateral ties. It is heartening that New Delhi is going all out to ensure two-front peace and build trust with its apparently hostile neighbours. As of now, India can afford to be optimistic, albeit cautiously, even as there is no room to lower its guard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-pak-ceasefire-217889
