01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Artistes demand lifting of Covid restrictions||Artistes under the banner of Bhartiya Sanskriti Kala Vikas Manch on Thursday walked in a rally in Sakchi and later staged a sit-in at the district collectorate demanding that the administration allow them to function and operate their businesses. Led by Daljit Singh Parwana, the president, and Ashutosh Tiwari, the general secretary of the cultural outfit, around 100 artistes, including singers, musicians and actors who perform in plays, held placards and banners highlighting their demands and marched to the district collectorate from the Ambagan grounds in Sakchi, covering a distance of over 1km. A delegation of the outfit wanted to meet deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar to hand over the memorandum highlighting its demands. But since they were refused, the protesting artistes squatted at the entrance of the deputy commissioner’s office. After about two hours, they were allowed to enter the deputy commissioner’s office to submit the memorandum. “The coronavirus-induced lockdown has wreaked havoc with our livelihood. All of us have been rendered jobless. We sit idle in our homes as we are unable to operate due to the restrictions. While the government has allowed the re-opening of malls and hotels, we want the restrictions imposed on us to be lifted too as it is a question of our survival,” said Tiwari. He demanded the re-opening of art galleries and that singers and musicians be permitted to perform at weddings and other events. A senior member of the outfit, a folk artiste, said: “The folk fraternity from Jharkhand has given me a lot of love and respect. They are continuously sharing their problems with me in these trying times. They do not have any money or essentials at home. Whom do I approach to highlight their plight?” He pointed out that he has a dozen folk artistes, including four instrumentalists, in his troupe and most of them are landless and depend on their art for livelihood. “They depend on monthly programmes which have not been taking place ever since the lockdown was imposed,” he said and rued that electronically generated rhythms are already overtaking folk traditions and the pandemic has only added to their problems. Another member of the organisation said: “It’s high time that the government thinks about us and provides some incentives.” There are about 4,500 artistes in Jamshedpur who have been affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro declared smoke-free||Bokaro was on Thursday declared the second smoke-free district in Jharkhand after Ranchi. Bokaro achieved the smoke-free tag following a survey by the government in compliance with various sections of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 (Cotpa 2003). The survey was conducted in all the 24 districts of the state. A declaration was signed by the senior administrative officials of the district at a meeting of the District Tobacco Control Coordination Committee (DTCCC) held at the Collectorate Hall. Deputy commissioner, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh appealed to the residents to keep the entire district smoke- and tobacco-free. Deepak Mishra, executive director of Socio Economic and Educational Development Society (Seeds), made a presentation showing how the state government and Seeds jointly run tobacco control programmes in all the districts. Seeds is a technical partner of the state government for tobacco control. Under the existing tobacco control programme, surveys are conducted from time to time to assess the status of compliance with various sections of Cotpa 2003, including Section 4 (ban on smoking in public places). Based on the compliance report, districts are declared smoke-free. In this sequence, Ranchi on Wednesday was declared the first smoke-free district in the state. Mishra said that “on the basis of the survey, we have found that Bokaro has complied 93.5% with Section 4 of Cotpa 2003, which is better than most other districts”. Civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said the campaign to make Bokaro a smoke-free district has been on since 2016-17. Today, after almost four years, the district has got the distinction of being smoke-free. The deputy commissioner appealed to all the residents to help keep the district smoke-free and keep the town completely free of tobacco. Future generations can be protected from the ill effects of tobacco, he said. He directed all the members of the anti-tobacco squad to carry out regular raids and stop shops from selling tobacco products within 100 yards of educational institutions. Singh said: “I am very happy to declare Bokaro a smoke-free district.” He said that “the general public, educational institutions, the media, district-level officials, subdivisional-level officers, block-level officials, the Chas Municipal Corporation and all the officials of the health department should ensure that Bokaro remains smoke-free”. He said that smoking is a dangerous habit. “Smoking publicly is very unsafe. Running the tobacco control programme as a campaign has yielded very good results,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM to field Hemant’s brother Basant in Dumka||Chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant will be the grand-alliance’s official candidate for the November 3 byelection in Dumka, the JMM announced on Wednesday. Basant (42), youngest of JMM patriarch Shibu Soren’s four children, who is chief of the party’s youth wing, will file his nomination on October 12. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “Following extensive deliberations across within the party, and on the guidance of party supremo Shibu Soren, JMM has decided to field Basant Soren for the Dumka byelections.” Bhattacharjee said the JMM’s coalition partners — Congress and RJD—would  actively take part in the election campaign to ensure victory of the candidate. “It has been decided that he (Basant) will file his nomination on October 12. Senior party leaders including JMM working president Hemant Soren will be present at the time,” he said. The party general secretary claimed that the decision to field Basant in Dumka, a JMM bastion and a prestigious seat from where Soren Senior began his political career, was based on popular demand by local residents and party workers. “Last month, Hemant undertook a three-day tour of Dumka to assess the ground situation. He also held extensive meetings with regard to the bypolls. Based on the feedback from the ground, the party has decided to field Basant Soren as our candidate,” Bhattacharjee said. Basant contested the 2016 Rajya Sabha as a JMM candidate but lost. Despite having the necessary numbers, he lost after a couple of MLAs remained absent during voting that saw cross voting by two MLAs. As a result, the then ruling BJP-led government clinched both seats. Bhattacharjee, however, said that the tables had turned this time and the party was hopeful of clinching both the seats in the coming byelections. Along with Dumka, voting will also be held in Bermo on November 3. While Dumka fell vacant after Hemant vacated it to retain Barhait after last year’s Assembly polls, election in Bermo was necessitated after the demise of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May this year. The Congress party is expected to announce its candidate for Bermo in the first week of October. Rajendra’s son, Jai Mangal Singh, is said to be the frontrunner for a ticket as the grand alliance’s candidate. BJP silent on candidates Opposition BJP, however, is yet to reveal its cards. But party insiders claimed that former Dumka MLA Louise Marandi, who lost to Hemant in 2019, may get another chance. The party is currently busy wooing AJSU-P, its estranged ally, to put up a united fight. In last year’s Assembly polls, both BJP and AJSU-P had fought separately after their relationship suffered a jolt over lack of consensus on seat sharing, giving an edge to the JMM-Congress-RJD’s grand alliance. A BJP insider said, “We are trying to put up a united fight along with AJSU-P in both the seats this time to defeat the ruling dispensation. Fighting individually will lead to a split in votes. “In the 2019 Assembly polls, the JMM-Congress-RJD combine got 62 lakh votes while AJSU-P managed 7 lakh and BJP close to 52 lakh votes. Had we fought together, we could have managed to prevent a split and defeat the grand alliance.” The House numbers Currently, the ruling coalition has 47 MLAs in the 81-member Assembly with an effective strength of 79. JMM has 29 MLAs, Congress 17 and RJD 1. Two former JVM-P MLAs—Bandhu Tirkey (Mandar) and Pradeep Yadav (Poriyahat) _ joined the Congress after the 2019 Assembly polls, taking the total count of MLAs of the ruling dispensation to 49. The BJP on the other hand has 26 MLAs after Babulal Marandi merged his party with the saffron camp, while AJSU-P has two seats, taking the NDA’s count to 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cross country, junior championship on the cards in East Singhbhum ||Athletes of the state who are hitherto sitting idle owing to the lockdown can look forward to getting back to competition fold in the coming months. The East Singhbhum District Athletics Association (ESDAA) has lined up two competitions – district cross country and junior championship. Depending on the Covid-19 situation in the steel city, the twin events will be conducted in November and December. While the cross country is scheduled in November, the district athletics meet is slated to be staged in December. The events are aimed at helping athletes slip into competition groove keeping in mind the state/national cross country and national inter-district athletics championship which are scheduled in January and February next year. According to ESDAA president Mathura Nath Purty, most athletes from district are off training due to the lockdown. “Some were connected with our online training programmes. But it is not enough to help athletes perform up to expectations in competitive events. It is essential they again get a feel of the competition. Our athletes can get this feel in the upcoming district meets and help in their respective preparations,” he explained. The district body has planned to stage the junior meet at Sumant Moolgaokar Stadium in Telco. It has also planned a training camp in October. “It is essential to bring our athletes back to training mode. But we would go ahead with the programmes only when the Covid-related situation in the district improves. It would not be a wise idea to put athletes at risk,” an association functionary said. Athletes from East Singhbhum have won a lot of titles while representing Jharkhand in national competitions. Meanwhile, ESDDA has re-constituted its executive committee in view of the upcoming district events. Jiren Xavier Topno (chairman), M.N. Purty (president), Keshwar Sahu, Gurbari Hembrom, Vijay Singh, Arun Prakash Dutta, Suchinder Kumar Singh (vice-presidents), Ravindra Nath Mahto (secretary), Birdhan Marandi (joint secretary), Abhay Kumar, Sarwan Kumar, Sunita Purty, Suprabha Panda (assistant secretaries), Rajkumar Banra (treasurer) and Sidhu Kisku (assistant treasurer) are the office bearers of the panel. Former international Saroj Lakra has been made the co-chairman of the selection panel while  RP Verma is the convenor. Shyam Kumar Sharma, Shanti Choudhary and Shankar Hembrom have been selected as members of this panel. The coaching panel will be headed by Jagatpal Singh while Arvind Kumar will be the co-chairman. Sanjiv Kumar is the convenor whereas as Sidhu Kisku and Chetan Majhi will be the members. The technical committee comprises Ranjit Kumar Singh (chairman), Jahanara Begum (co-chairman), Abhay Kumar (convenor), Iqbal Singh and Nimai Mahto (members).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||My Saheli to help women passengers feel safe on trains||South Eastern Railway has introduced a new initiative titled My Saheli to ensure women passengers feel safe while travelling in trains. SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh said Operation My Saheli (friend) will ensure security to women passengers during the entire part of their journey once they board a train. As a pilot project, My Saheli has been introduced on three long-distance trains. They are the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special and Howrah-Mumbai Special that travels via Tatanagar. The third train is the Howrah-Yeshvantpur Duronto Special. The CPRO said teams of women sub-inspectors belonging to RPF interact with women passengers in the train at the originating station, briefing them about necessary precautions. They are also provided emergency contact numbers. The women sub-inspectors make a note of their seat numbers and contacts of a specified number of women passengers from all coaches and remain in touch with them throughout their journey. Information is also passed to all scheduled stops and the destination station so that RPF can attend if any woman faces a problem. During night-time, RPF personnel have been asked to be present outside during train halts at night between 11pm and 6am Director of Tatanagar railway station H.K. Balmuchu said the new initiative would provide security in the real sense to women passengers from originating station to the destination. "In case of any unforeseen event, like dacoity, accident, agitations, hold-up of trains, etc, women passengers can be contacted easily. We can get a real-time picture of the situation and can help all passengers immediately," he said. The new initiative was being undertaken under the framework of  the Nirbhaya Fund, so it does not involve any additional expenditure. Balmuchu said that based on feedback on the pilot run, My Saheli may be extended to other long- distance trains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Fitness enthusiasts of Dhanbad take to cycling||Fitness enthusiasts of Dhanbad, who have been denied the pleasures of playing badminton ever since the imposition of a lockdown in March, have now taken to cycling as a way of keeping in shape. Meet Santanu Chaudhary, traders Satyam Lala and Manish Gulutia, Kunjan Sharan and Pranay Purbey, a radiologist, who are cycling for more than 90 minutes a day through various areas of Dhanbad to stay active and fit. Satyam Lala, a resident of Ajanta Para, said, "All of us used to go on morning walks at the Railway Ground or Golf Ground, besides playing badminton at the Dhanbad District Indoor Stadium. Suddenly, that stopped.” The group was “locked in” for more than 45-50 days. “Then we decided to go cycling. It is the best way to carry out physical exercise and maintain social distancing. We keep a distance of 6 feet between each cycle,” Lala, a trader by profession, said. All members of the group bought new cycles in May. Santanu Chaudhary said, "We begin our cycle rounds at 5.45am and return home by 7.30am. All of us assemble at Luby Cirular Road and go on our bikes through various lanes and bylanes. We avoid roads that have traffic." Manish Gutgutia, a Bhuli Road-based trader, said since Covid cases were on the rise, they weren’t feeling comfortable about demanding that parks and playgrounds be opened. “Cycling seemed the best option to stay fit and also maintain social distance,” he said. Kunjan Sharan, who is a government official, said Dhanbad roads used to be narrow. “But now many roads have been widened and there is enough room to cycle without the risk of accidents,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro residents protest against Hathras rape||Several residents staged a protest against the Hathras rape case in Bokaro. Members of All India Democratic Youth Organization burnt effigy demanding death sentence against the accused in Siwandih. A protester said the accused should be hanged till death. Dhanbad police on Wednesday seized cash worth Rs 91.35 lakh from a car travelling towards Asansol in West Bengal from Gaya in Bihar. Police brought the four people travelling in the car to Barawaddah police station for further interrogation. Cash worth Rs 3.5 lakh was stolen from the cash counter of State Bank of India, Jharia Bazar branch on Monday afternoon. The incident took place, when Koiribandh resident, Sanjay Harijan, withdrew the money his father’s account and handed over the money to a bank employee to be deposited in his own account and left the counter. The employee left the money on the counter unattended for a brief time. When he returned to the counter he found the money missing and immediately informed the bank manager, who in turn informed Jharia police. A total of eight Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday from Zonal Training Institute of Railway in Bhuli. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the discharged patients have been provided health kits and asked to remain in home quarantine for next 14 days. Singh said the paid isolation facility available at Wedlock Greens Hotel will end from September 30 at the request of Hotel authorities. The paid isolation facility in King's Resort at Govindpur will continue. Sub Divisional officer of Dhanbad who visited the heavily congested Purana Bazar locality expressed serious concern over the encroachment in the market and instructed shop keepers to remove them at the earliest. The officer instructed the shop keepers to maintain social distance in view of upcoming festive season and added that a Covid testing camp will be organised for them. Three people donated plasma at the PMCH blood bank based plasma therapy centre on Wednesday. Dhanbad deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said that people are gradually coming forward to donate plasma and on October 1 a total of 20 people will be donating their plasma. Arun Kumar Sao, a police constable and Dhanbad’s first plasma donor was felicitated on Wednesday. Ramgarh District Judge awarded life imprisonment on Wednesday to Naresh Mahto for poisoning his wife to death. On September 24, the court convicted the accused husband on the basis of evidence. Janaki Mahto, the father of the deceased, had lodged an FIR against his son-in-law at Patratu police station in connection with the death of his daughter. He had mentioned in his FIR that his daughter was killed by poisoning, for not giving Rs 50,000 as dowry. After registering an FIR, the Patratu police found poison in the SFL investigation report of the deceased. A truck carrying jaggery from Raipur to Patna overturned on the state's highway (NH-33) near Patel chowk in Ramgarh on Wednesday injuring the driver and cleaner. The driver Ravindra Kumar steered the vehicle to a safer side after realising the brakes had failed. Ravindra and his co-passenger Pankaj Kumar sustained injuries but are out of danger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two Jamshedpur girls allegedly abducted by their lovers||Two girls, including a minor, were allegedly abducted by their lovers in two separate incidents. In one case registered with the Birsanagar thana, the police succeeded in tracing the girl and her lovers from NH-33 leading to Hazaribagh with the help of the Hazaribag police on Wednesday. In the other case, registered with the Telco thana, a police team has rushed to Ranchi after receiving information about the girl’s whereabouts. According to police, Sangeeta Kumari (21), a resident of Zone No 1-B in Birsanagar went missing from her house on Tuesday morning. Family members suspected that she eloped with her boyfriend Vishal Kamath (from Parsudih) and lodged an FIR against him. "We came to know that the couple were on NH-33 close to Hazaribagh.  We then contacted Hazaribagh police and alerted them, giving details about the girl's appearance. They immediately started checking incoming vehicles and ultimately traced the girl and her lover on Wednesday morning.  They were in a car, and heading toward Hazaribagh town," Rajiv Kumar Jha, OC, Birsanagar thana, told The Telegraph Online. Hazaribagh police took both in custody and handed them to Birsanagar police in the afternoon. A 16-year-old girl, resident of Prem Nagar in Telco, was allegedly abducted from the marketplace on Monday evening, leading the girl's father to lodge an FIR with the Telco thana on Tuesday. Family members were aware of her boyfriend Sunil Sahni, and searched at his house in Burmamines, finding he was missing too. OC, Telco thana, Akhilesh Mandal said that they put the couple’s cell phones under surveillance, but could not trace their whereabouts. He said the girl called her father on Wednesday morning and told him that she would not return home and stay with Sahni after marrying him. "During the course of the conversation, the girl mentioned that she was ]in Ranchi. We have sent a team of police officials to Ranchi," Mandal said while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
01-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Bokaro couples start oxygen bank for patients||A group of 18 young couples have pooled in funds to start an oxygen bank for the economically challenged Covid patients in home isolation. This is the first oxygen bank in the district. The oxygen cylinders will be provided for free on prescription of a doctor. The group known as ‘Bokaro Midtown Couples’ has also arranged for a vehicle service ‘Muktivahini’ that will be used to carry the dead bodies of Covid patients to the burning ghat. The district had 472 active cases till Wednesday morning. Of these, there are about 160 patients in home isolation. Since March there were 3831 persons detected positive. Of them, 3333 residents were cured and 26 patients have died. “The recovery rate in Bokaro is above 90 per cent,” said Dr Ashok Kumar Pathak, a civil surgeon. The oxygen bank was inaugurated by director of Bokaro General Hospital, Dr A.K. Singh. BGH is a dedicated Covid hospital in Bokaro. Singh said that timely delivery of oxygen cylinders to Covid infected patients will prove to be very helpful in saving their lives. “Making oxygen cylinders available to the needy persons is really a praiseworthy step. It will help in providing relief to the Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Singh. Subhash Jain, a member of the group said, “We have purchased 10 oxygen cylinders at present. If needed, we will purchase more in second phase.” Former president of the group, Sajan Kapoor said, “it is a small step to serve the society in this time of crisis. We have assessed that people, especially positive patients, are facing problems in getting oxygen. The cylinders will be issued to the patients on prescription of a practising doctor.” The group has also floated a mobile number 9431164552 on which residents can call for oxygen cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
