02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Sindri to miss Ravan Dahan this year||The residents of Sindri will this year miss the Ravan Dahan celebration which in many ways is associated with the identity of the township and its prosperity during the heyday of its fertilizer factory. The celebration will not be held in accordance with government rules forbidding Ravan Dahan this year. The residents, however, are hopeful that the festival will return in its old glory with the start of operations at the Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd factory next year. While speaking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, former councillor Dinesh Singh, who is also the secretary of the Shiv Mandir Puja Committee, said: “Ravan Dahan started way back in 1955 during the Fertilizer Corporation of India’s heyday and reached its zenith in the 1960s and 1970s. The festival, however, started losing its sheen in the 1980s as the company started registering losses. “A large number of people from various parts of the district, including Baliapur, Kandra, Domgarh, Govindpur, Patherdih and Digwadih, would each year witness the festival that is organised after sunset in the large ground of the temple.” “Ravan Dahan would begin at Sindri during Vijaya Dashami, the 10th day of Durga Puja, around  3pm with a procession. Actors dressed as Ram, Lakshman, Hanuman and Sugriv marched through the streets of Sindri amid the beating of drums and the blowing of conch shells,” said Singh. A large number of people would gather on both sides of the road to watch the procession which would culminate at the temple. Elephants and horses would be parts of the procession, but when the fertilizer factory started registering losses, the festival lost its sheen. However, Ravan Dahan remained the talk of the town as more than 50,000 people would congregate in Sindri to witness the celebration for which an effigy of a height of 65-70ft would be erected on a 60ft frame at the Shiv Mandir ground. “Work on making the effigy would start 90 days before the festival. At least 150 bamboo poles, 200 sacks and firecrackers worth around Rs 60,000 are used,” said Singh, adding that the organisers were being asked by Sindri residents whether Ravan Dahan will take place this year. With the release of the SOPs, it has become evident that the celebration will not be held, he said. “We are hopeful that the golden days of the celebration will return as the new fertilizer factory of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd is coming up at Sindri and is likely to resume operations next year,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharia residents demand renovation of historic pond||More than 50 residents of Jharia on Friday walked in a protest march and shouted slogans demanding the renovation of the historic Raja Talab which has fallen into disrepair. The protesters, led by former councillor Anup Sao and NGO Institution for National Amity founder Pinaki Roy, raised slogans against the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and district administration and demanded a probe into the allegations of corruption in the renovation of the pond. Established by a former ruler, Durga Prasad Singh, on 8.26 acres, the pond was once the centre of all religious activity in Jharia, including the celebration of Chhath Puja and Durga Puja and the performance of last rites. The pond, however, has become polluted due to a host of reasons, including the discharge of sewage and washing of clothes, dishes and domestic animals by residents of nearby areas. A contract worth Rs 25 lakh for the beautification of the pond, including installation of streetlights, desilting, construction of roads all around the waterbody and barricading it, was awarded to Sujit Construction in 2010, but the company abandoned work in the middle of 2011 as the JCB machine engaged in desilting could not operate due to the discharge of sewage. The company was paid Rs 6 lakh only due to the non-completion of work and also blacklisted by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. A separate contract was awarded to another company in 2011 for the construction of a drain all around the pond to prevent the discharge of sewage, which was completed on time. The pond, however, remained polluted due to a lack of desilting. “Desilting of the pond was carried out by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at a cost of around Rs 56 lakh during 2016, which led to an improvement in the situation. But things got worse again due to the discharge of sewage and other waste material from the adjoining homes and shops situated on the bank of the pond,” said Sao. Meanwhile, Dhanbad municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar carried out inspection of the pond and took stock of the situation. He said that the cleaning of the pond will be carried out soon under the Mukhyamantri Shramik Rojgar Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Durga Puja organisers seek changes in state guidelines||Unhappy over the state government’s guidelines, several Durga Puja organisers have decided to meet the authorities to seek a few relaxations, especially on the height of idols that has been capped at 4 feet. The state government’s guidelines, issued on Thursday, primarily focuses on curbing chances of crowding. The government has banned loudspeakers/public address systems, theme-based pandals, light decorations, bhog distribution, dhakis, fairs/exhibitions and hosting cultural programmes. Organisers in Ranchi said while they were prepared for most of the restrictions, the specified height of idols may not be possible to comply with. Munchun Roy, convenor of Ranchi Mahanagar Durga Puja Samiti, an umbrella outfit of about 100 puja samitis, said, “At the outset, we are happy that the government has finally allowed opening of temples from October 8 and conduct of Durga puja. We are okay with most of the clauses of the guidelines but most organisers are upset with idol size. Maintaining the size of idol precisely to 4 feet may be not always be possible.” Roy said that some organisers had already ordered their idols. “Many idols are almost ready and redoing them now could be a problem. The reason why we believe that 4 feet idol may not be technically feasible is because in most cases, the goddess is seated on a lion or Mahisasur. Plus, there will be accessories. We appeal to the government to look into this aspect,” he said, adding that all puja organisers were committed to following all Covid safety norms. Sandip Maurya, joint secretary of Bandhgari Durga Puja Samiti, appealed to the government to reconsider its ban on the use of public address systems. “We can’t deny the entry of any visitor to a pandal. In case of rush, a public address system will help,” he said. For those who depend on the annual festival for their livelihood, like artisans, tent house owners and electricians, the government guidelines have come as a damper. Sujoy Ghosh, proprietor of Ghosh Tent House in Chiroundi, said, “Durga Puja is the biggest source of revenue for us every year. But with the pandemic robbing our earnings since March, the latest guidelines are a deterrent as the government has banned construction of big pandals and the use of lighting decorations. Compared to last year, I foresee a loss of more than 90 per cent this year.” Ghosh said the guidelines have come as a blow to caterers as well. “With no community feast or distribution of bhog, caterers will be further pushed to the brink as there are have been no marriage functions this year due to the cap on the number of guests at 50,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||No increase in power tariffs, rules state regulator||Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) has given consumers a reason to smile by turning down the state discom’s plea to hike tariffs for 2020-21 fiscal in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a formal announcement on Friday, the regulator said that existing power tariffs of 2019-20 would continue to be applicable for the current fiscal as well and would be effective October 1, 2020. This means, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), the state-owned distribution company, will continue to charge Rs 5.75 per unit for rural domestic consumers with a fixed monthly charge of Rs 20. For urban consumers the charges will be Rs 6.25 per unit and a fixed monthly charge of Rs 75. For industrial consumers, too, rates remain unchanged. Low-tension industrial consumers will be charged Rs 5.75 per kilo volt ampere (KVA) with a fixed charge of Rs 100 per KVA and high-tension industrial consumers will pay Rs 5.50 per KVA with a fixed charge of Rs 350 per KVA. Overall energy bills for industrial consumers will be directly linked to hours of supply, the order noted. JBVNL, in its tariff revision petition submitted to the regulator earlier this year, had appealed for a 20 per cent hike across various categories of consumers. But the regulator struck down the plea and directed JBVNL to put a stop to unmetered connections across the state from January 1, 2021, providing it a grace period of an additional three months in view of the pandemic. To ensure more accountability, the regulator directed JBVNL to provide consumers with waivers in case it failed to generate bills on time. For instance, if the discom failed to provide bills for two months, then the consumer would get 1 per cent waiver on the bill that is generated on third month onwards. The maximum waiver has been capped at 3 per cent on the overall bill. To augment digital payments, those paying bills online would get a rebate of 1 per cent while an additional 1 per cent rebate would  be given, irrespective of the mode of payment if done before the due date, the regulator said. R.N. Singh, member (engineering), JSERC said, "The decisions on power tariffs has been taken considering all aspects and interests of stakeholders… we have come to the conclusion that the power distribution company won’t be at a loss in case of no tariff hike. The new tariff would be effective October 1, 2020." On September 21, JSERC had also ordered a three-month waiver on fixed charges for all category of consumers, including industrial units, for the months of April, May and June during the nationwide lockdown. Also, it put a three- month moratorium on payments between April 1 and June 30 till September-end, directing discoms not to impose any delayed payment surcharges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Some JFC players reach Goa, to stay in quarantine for 10 days||Players from Jamshedpur FC have started arriving in Goa as the state gets ready to host the cash-rich Indian Super League (ISL) starting next month. Star winger Jackichand Singh, mid-fielder Amarjit Singh Kiyam and winger Bhupender Singh landed in Goa on Friday morning, while Issac Vanmalsawma (midfilder), Ricky Lallawmawma (left-back) and William Lalnunfela (winger) will be arriving later this evening, a member of the JFC team management informed. “The players who have landed went through mandatory Covid tests in their respective states. They straightaway proceeded to hotel Vivanta in Pananji where they were again tested for Covid. The players will stay in quarantine for 10 days and also go through three more Covid tests” the member said on condition of anonymity. This process is meant for all the Indian players who have been signed. They will be shifted to Taj Forte in Candoling (near Panjim) after their isolation period is over, he said, adding  some footballers from the JFC (Reserves) side have also arrived in Goa. The team management further informed that the foreign recruits, including head coach Owen Coyle, will be in Goa latest between October 5 to 8. “The foreign players will also arrive in Goa after undergoing Covid tests in their respective countries. They will stay in isolation at Taj Fort and will follow the same procedure as Indian players,” he added. Meanwhile, JFC's training ground, at Sangolda near Panjim, is being prepared and the work would take some time to complete. “Rain is hampering work. However, we are quite sure it would be decked up before we complete our Covid-related requirements,” another member of the team management added. Head Coach Owen Coyle will be charting out his plans once he lands in Goa. The highly-experienced mentor, who guided Chennaiyin FC to the final after taking charge mid-way through the last season, has already fixed the role for each of his players and have asked them to act accordingly. JFC has signed Coyle with great expectations and with an aim to qualify for the play-offs. “We are waiting for Coyle’s arrival and his taking charge of the training sessions. We have high expectations from him. We have so far not made it to the play-offs after making ISL debut three seasons back,” the member added. Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari said things were on tracks and players have started arriving in Goa. “Things are moving as per plans,” he added. Barring a player from  Asian Football Confederation-affilated nation, Jamshedpur FC’s team formation is complete. The Asian player has already been identified and talks with him are in final stages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts two days of heavy showers across state  ||A low-pressure area originating from the Bay of Bengal, coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation, is expected to result in heavy showers over Jharkhand during the next two days. Both Ranchi and Patna Met centres, bulletins issued on Friday afternoon, predicted heavy rain over Jharkhand due to the twin systems. "Jharkhand is under the influence of a low-pressure zone which originated from the central Bay of Bengal. This, coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation of height extending up to 5.8km above mean sea level, would result in a good spell of rain over Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. Heavy rain is expected in southern, central and north eastern Jharkhand," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met centre also issued thunderstorm and lightning alerts in Ranchi, Chatra, Palamau, Garhwa, Koderma and the districts of the Kolhan region during the next 24 hours. A senior weather analyst at IMD's Patna Met centre said the southwest monsoon was in its last phase. "Usually, low pressure formation takes place over Bay of Bengal during the withdrawal phase of the monsoon," he said, adding that the monsoon activity was normal over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. Met data revealed that several places in Dhanbad, Bokaro, Ramgarh and Koderma experienced a good spell of rain in the past 24 hours. The low-pressure resulted in heavy moisture incursion into the atmosphere. This in turn raised the humidity level in many places across Jharkhand on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Governor, chief minister Hemant pay tributes to Gandhi||Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu, chief minister Hemant Soren, Union minister Arjun Munda and others paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary on Friday. Murmu, while paying floral tributes to the Father of the Nation at Bapu Vatika in Morabadi area of Ranchi, called for a change in the mentality of people. "Today, we should ask ourselves whether we are following Bapu's path. It seems to me, after seeing some recent news, that people need to change their mentality," she said. "Now is the time for such a change by following the path of Gandhiji," she added. The governor, while paying tribute to former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his 116th birth anniversary, said leaders like him are seldom born in this country. Hemant said the absence of leaders like Gandhi and Shastri was being felt in the present times. "Their ideas can never die. We should try to inculcate their ideas in our personal and collective behaviour," he said. Munda said the country will always keep learning from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally close to 85,000, 9 more succumb to the virus||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand drew close to 85,000 on Thursday after as many as 1013 people were found to be infected in a span of 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. The number of active cases in the state, however, dropped to 11,482 as Covid recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases for the third consecutive day. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 1119 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on the day. Ranchi topped in the number of fresh cases of infection as well as the number of Covid recoveries on Thursday. As many as 448 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on the day against 266 cases of infection surfacing during the same period. The number of active cases, however, increased in East Singhbhum after 165 fresh cases surfaced in the district against only 40 Covid recoveries. As per government data, there were 2323 active cases of the infection in East Singhbhum and 3336 active cases in Ranchi on Thursday night. The Covid toll in Jharkhand also jumped to 721 on Thursday after nine patients, including three from Ranchi, died during treatment. As per government data, East Singhbhum, Hazaribag, Dhanbad, Deoghar and Bokaro reported one Covid death each. East Singhbhum has reported 301 Covid deaths so far, while Ranchi has reported 119 Covid casualties. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate further improved and reached 85.58 per cent on Thursday against the national average of 83.50 per cent. Out of the 84,664 Covid patients found in the state so far, at least 72,461 have recovered, highlights government data. Despite reporting over 700 Covid casualties, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent. As per the data, at least 538 of the 721 Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years. At least 143 victims were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, while 31 deceased were below the age of 30 years. The state government has so far collected swab samples of 22.95 lakh people and tested 22.86 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers collected swab samples of 25,537 people and tested 24,758 of them. The doubling rate of Covid infection in Jharkhand was 45.21 days against the national average of 49.99 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand in the past one week was 1.49 per cent against the national average of 1.36 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Survey on cop image in Jharkhand industry belt||Students from two private universities will be hired to conduct a survey on public perception about cops in the industrial belt, in the first such exercise by the state police since Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar. The initiative of Rajiv Ranjan Singh, deputy inspector-general of police (DIG), Kolhan range (covering East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts), will see nearly 70 post-graduate students from two private universities of Jamshedpur — Arka Jain University and Netaji Subhas University — conducting the survey in selected police station areas between October 3 and 5. “In the first phase, we have selected the police stations which serve a combination of industrial areas and residential hubs. These include four police stations in Jamshedpur — Mango, Kadma, Sidhgora and Parsudih, and two in Seraikela-Kharsawan — Adityapur and Gamharia. The survey is aimed at understanding public perception about police, especially the attitude and behaviour during the Covid-19 pandemic, position on ground relating to crime detection and prevention, performance and service delivery, and to assess citizen perception and experience about women and children’s safety. Depending on the feedback of this exercise, we might increase the number of police stations in the second phase,” said Singh on Thursday, after holding a meeting with the functionaries of the private universities in Jamshedpur. Mango, Kadma and Sidhgora police stations cover mostly residential areas and Parsudih is a suburban and rural police station, while Adityapur and Gamharia come under the Adityapur Industrial Area, one of the country’s biggest ancillary hubs. “We will be submitting the findings of the survey to the DGP (M.V. Rao) later in the month. The outcome of the survey is expected to bring out useful suggestions for stakeholders in formulating and implementing appropriate policy responses and changes in the functioning of the police and transformation in community policing and improvement in the access to justice and required reforms in different sectors,” the office said. Paras Nath Mishra, senior faculty of Arka Jain University, which has its campus in Gamharia, said that 50 students from various streams have been selected for the purpose. “The students are excited as it would be a unique learning experience for them. After the survey, they would get a certificate from the police department which will augur well for them in their professional pursuit. Each of the students will have to visit at least 20 households for the survey and there is a target of reaching out to a minimum of 500 households under each police station,” said Mishra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||Daily wage earners block Mango Chowk to protest Covid test||Around 1000 daily wage earners set up a blockade on Thursday near Jai Prakash Narayan Setu at Mango Chowk to protest mandatory Covid rapid antigen test by the district health department. The protesters blocked the Mango Chowk twice between 7am to 10am. A joint team of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme and Mango Notified Area Committee officials started taking swab samples and had already taken samples of about 65 persons, including the workers by 6.30 am when some of the labourers refused to be subjected to any test. The workers started protesting shortly. The workers who come mostly from rural pockets like Patamda, Turiabera, Bhilaipahadi and Baliguma were of the opinion that they were healthy and there was no need of undergoing any test for the virus. "We are opposing any test on us for detection of Coronavirus as we are healthy and hefty. Had we been infected with any such virus we would not be able to come here for work. We are daily wagers and let us just work otherwise our family will have to starve at home," said one of the protesters. As a result of the blockade which started at about 7am, traffic came to a standstill on either side of the bridge. The labourers dispersed after the OC of Mango thana asked them not to block the bridge. However, two hours later a large number gathered near the bridge and put up a blockade again. Special officer, MNAC said after the labourers opposed the Covid test drive, the IDSP team had shifted to Dimna Chow, about three kms away in Mango. In the past 24 hours, 123 new Covid cases were detected, thus taking the total number to 13,831 in East Singhbhum district. During this period, Covid claimed three lives, making the total number of deaths in the district to 321. Bokaro Steel Plant and Electrosteel Steel Plant celebrated Ghandhi Jayanti on Thursday. A webinar on the topic "Gandhi in Action" was organised by BSL to mark the 150th year of Gandhi Jayanti being celebrated on October, 02. The webinar was attended by director incharge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash, executive director and other officers. Biren Bhuta, a well-known speaker, gave his views on the practical aspects of assimilating Gandhiji's principles in daily lives at the webinar. ESL, a Vedanta Group Company, launched Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and cleanliness awareness programme in Siyaljori village on the eve of Gandhi Jayanti.                  Medha Kumari of ESL (Corporate Communications) said apart from spreading the message of a clean and hygienic India among the villagers, ESL team distributed bleaching powder and installed dust bins across prominent places in the village. Bokaro Congress Committee members burnt an effigy of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to protest the detention of party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra while they were on their way to meet the family of the Hathras gang rape victim on Thursday. The co-working president of state Congress, Rajesh Thakur said that the congress strongly condemns the detention of the leaders. “Narendera Modi government should take strict action agianst the rapists and should investigate that under what circumstances Hatras rape victim’s dead body was burnt by the Uttar Pradesh government in the middle of the night without her family members,” said Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
02-10-2020||Jharkhand||State government allows opening of religious places from October 8||The state government has allowed opening of all religious places outside containment zones from October 8. It has also issued Durga puja specific guidelines on Thursday, and extended the lockdown in containment zones till the end of this month. According to the notification issued by the state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, all Durga puja organizers are mandated to keep the conduct of the puja as low-key as possible. The 24-point notification bans erecting theme based pandal/mandaps, lighting decorations in and around its vicinity, setting up of food stalls, hosting any cultural programmes, distribution of bhog, or hosting community feasts among others. “Durga puja may generally be performed at temples or privately at home as far as possible. Pujas may also be performed in specially erected small pandal/mandaps, where it has been done traditionally, only with the objective of performance of ritual, without public participation,” the order read, adding that no pandal/mandap should be based on any specific themes. “The pandal/mandap shall be covered from all sides in a way to prevent any public view of the idol, pandals/mandaps shouldn’t be based on any theme, no decoration by lighting in the area allowed, or toran dwars or welcome gates be erected,” it noted. Size of the idol too have been fixed maximum at 4 ft while total ban has been imposed on hosting any fairs, exhibitions, food stalls, use of public address system or any ceremony other than the ritualistic puja by the organizers at the venue. To regulate visitor turnout at the pandal/mandap, the order read, “No more than 7 persons including organizers, support staff, priests will be allowed at any given point of time in pandal/mandap. All are mandated to use masks and follow all the safety norms to curb spread of the virus specified by central, state government and local district administration in letter and spirit.” Burning effigies of Ravan has also been banned while idol immersion must be done without any fanfare and procession. “Immersion will be done only at places specified by the administration,” read the guidelines failing which punitive actions will be taken against respective puja organizers under the provisions of the state epidemic act. Puja organizers have initially welcomed the move. Munchun Roy, an office-bearer of Ranchi Durga Puja Samiti, who was part of a delegation which met with chief minister Hemant Soren earlier in the day to demand detailed guidelines, said, “We are yet to go through the guidelines but we had already proposed to only allow us to do puja to continue with the tradition. We are happy that guidelines have come and temples are allowed to open,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-281
