03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases drop below 11,000 after recovery rate crosses 86%||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand dropped below 11,000 for the first time since August after 1,176 patients recovered from the infection across the state on Saturday, taking the recovery rate to 86.47 per cent, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, as many as 877 people were found infected during the day across Jharkhand, taking the Covid-19 tally in the state to above 86,000. Saturday’s findings take the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand to 86,277 and the number of active cases to 10,939. The number of active cases, however, increased in Ranchi after the district reported 384 cases of infection against 353 recoveries. As per government data, as many as 3,356 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi. The number of active cases reduced significantly in East Singhbhum after only 61 cases of infection surfaced in the district against 246 recoveries. The number of active cases of infection in East Singhbhum stood at 1,965 on Saturday night. Ranchi reported two of the five deaths in Jharkhand on Saturday, while East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela reported one death each. As per government data, the Covid-19 toll in East Singhbhum reached 306 on Saturday, while the toll in Ranchi jumped to 124. As per figures with the health department, Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for around 60 per cent of casualties in Jharkhand. Of the 734 Covid-19 victims in the state, at least 544 were older than 50 year, while 145 were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, the NHM highlighted. More than 80 per cent of the deceased in Jharkhand were men, government data showed. Health workers on Saturday tested swab samples of 38,327 people across Jharkhand and 877 of them came positive. The government has so far collected swab samples of 23.70 lakh people and tested 23.63 lakh of them. As per government data, Saturday’s findings took Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate to 86.47 per cent, while the mortality rate further dropped to 0.85 per cent. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was 83.80 per cent and the mortality rate was 1.60 per cent. As many as 76,604 of the 86,000-odd people infected by the coronavirus in Jharkhand have recovered so far, government data highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cheer after vultures spotted near Koderma school||News of more than 100 vultures being spotted behind a school in Koderma’s Jhumri Telaiya has been welcomed by officials and conservationists. The conservator of forests, Hazaribagh, reached the spot to confirm the news. Officials said this was a good sign as vultures are friends of humans who prey on carcasses and keep the environment clean. The officials added that they were excited to see the birds in Koderma and plan to start feeding them. Sources said that after residents spotted the vultures behind Gandhi School, they informed local journalists following which a forest department team reached the spot. The team said it was after a gap of 10-15 years that they were seeing vultures in such large numbers in the district. Hazaribagh-based wildlife expert Satya Prakash said vultures are found in large numbers in areas of Hazaribagh and its surrounding districts. He said a plan was needed for their conservation and to save them from extinction. He said the country has 10 safe zones for vultures, one of which is Hazaribagh. Koderma divisional forest officer Suraj Kumar Singh said the department was happy to see the vultures in such large numbers at one spot in the district.“We will soon send a proposal on a vulture conservation scheme to Ranchi,” he added. Singh said migratory birds visit the Telaiya dam in large numbers. However, the department has been getting reports of poaching. The department will raise watchtowers to keep an eye on poachers. Conservator Ajeet Singh said vultures are important parts of the ecosystem. He pointed out that cheap medicines used to treat animals were affecting the health of vultures who eat their carcass. “We must be very careful and save the vultures. Their absence could invite an epidemic,” he said. He said a vulture census was on in the state and efforts were being made to increase their numbers. He said a wildlife management plan will be made to save vultures in Koderma on the lines of Hazaribagh district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Munda defends farm laws, says Cong spreading misinformation||Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda defended the farm laws recently passed by Parliament and signed on by President Ramnath Kovind amid widespread protests, saying  t the acts would transform the lives of farmers in India by allowing them to sell their produce in the international market while getting maximum possible returns without having to deal with middlemen. “This law will double the income of farmers, increase yield and ensure quality production,” Munda told the media at the state BJP headquarters on Saturday. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 have been challenged by the Opposition at the Centre while some states have also decided to knock at the door of the apex court against the laws. While Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Punjab have said they might not implement the new laws, Kerala and Punjab have declared their intention to challenge them in the Supreme Court. However, Munda said that the Congress party and some other Opposition parties were spreading confusion regarding the acts in order to politicise the matter. “Farmers from Congress-ruled states were also consulted before framing the laws. The government is working in favour of farmers and aims at ensuring maximum benefit and conducive working environment for farmers,” the Union minister said. He said the Opposition was only concerned about the benefits of capitalists, while it was overlooking the benefits of farmers. “From a global perspective, this bill is in the interest of farmers. In the open market, farmers will now be able to sell their crop without any tax,” Munda added. There is immense potential of fish farming in the country, and the latest agrarian law includes fisheries. The laws, he said, will provide e-trading opportunities to farmers. “At least 10,000 farmer groups are being formed in the country. These groups will work in the direction of adding small farmers to bring their crops to market,” Munda said, adding that farmers will get an assurance of price before sowing and the price will increase as per the market value. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, provides for contract farming, under which farmers will produce crops as per contract with corporates for a mutually agreed remuneration. Opposition parties fear that investors would bind farmers in unfavourable contracts which could lead to exploitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Raiyat agitation in Barkagaon deals body blow to coal trade||A raiyat agitation in Hazaribagh’s Barkagaon against NTPC Ltd has affected business operations in the area, causing losses to the tune of crores to the central and state governments. The agitation since September 2 has resulted in losses of Rs 67.71 crore to the Centre and Rs 31.24 crore to the state, officials said. NTPC too has suffered total losses of Rs 91.2 crore. Around 5.5 lakh tonne of coal stock has caught fire, prompting NTPC to launch a major operation to save the stocks at eight different spots. A team of NTPC officials met deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand on Saturday evening, requesting that a solution be found to the impasse. NTPC’s public relation officer, Vijay Juval, said that 40,000 metric tonne of coal would be loaded every day to be sent to 21 plants of the corporation in various parts of the country. He said that apart from the losses to the Centre, state and NTPC, the railways too has suffered losses of Rs 9 crore due to the agitation. The owners of vehicles involved in the transportation of coal are facing problems in paying their EMIs, while a large number of casual labourers have been rendered jobless because of the agitation. Residents of 12 panchayats in Barkagaon have been protesting since September 2. They are being led by local MLA, the Congress’s Amba Prasad. The protesters are demanding adequate monetary compensation and jobs under the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. After the state government constituted a panel under North Chotanagpur commissioner Kamal John Lakra, the villagers had called off their agitation in July. But they resumed their protest in September after getting no concrete assurances from the government. The panel submitted its report to the secretary of the state land reforms and revenue department, Kamal Kishore Soan, on August 31. NTPC officials, who didn’t want to be named, said a high-level meeting took place in Ranchi on September 18 where a decision was taken to allow the corporation to resume work. However, the deadlock remains, and officials have claimed that they are getting threats from goons who visit the work site daily. Juval said NTPC was leaving no stone unturned in trying to save the coal stocks. On Saturday, a high-level team of NTPC officials, led by executive officer Prashant Kashyap, met deputy commissioner Anand and superintendent of police Karthik S. Anand directed Sadar subdivisional officer Vidya Bhushan Kumar to meet the agitators and find a solution at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||AJSU Party to back BJP in the two November 3 byelections||The Sudesh Mahto-led AJSU Party will extend support to the BJP nominees in the November 3 byelections in Dumka and Bermo, party leaders said on Saturday. Breaking their decades-old ties, both the AJSU and BJP had fought the 2019 Assembly elections separately, hurting each other’s prospects and making it easier for the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance to form a government. Now, ahead of the polls, the NDA constituents have decided to bury the hatchet and put up a joint fight. Announcing their stand on Saturday, AJSU spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat told the media that the decision to support the BJP was taken by the party’s central leadership. “Our party chief Sudesh Mahto has decided to support BJP candidates for Dumka and Bermo bypolls. We will extend full cooperation to ensure the NDA’s victory on both the seats,” said Bhagat. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash met with Mahto at his residence on Friday to seal the negotiations in favour of the saffron camp. “AJSU has decided to support the BJP in the interest of the state and its development. We are natural allies and will oust the ruling coalition on both seats this time.” Prakash said the ruling coalition government had failed to fulfil any of its commitments since it took charge in January this year. “Under the current regime, law and order has been hit severely, pushing the state back to jungle-raj. Rapes, murders, loots and other heinous crimes are at an all-time now. People are fed up with this government. Our wins will mark the downfall of this unpopular government,” he claimed. The saffron camp is likely to announce candidates next week ahead of the nomination process beginning October 9. JMM has already announced 43-year-old Basant Soren, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother, as its candidate in Dumka. Ally Congress will put up a candidate in Bermo. For the ruling grand alliance of JMM, Congress and RJD, the bypolls will be a litmus test of its popularity since it took charge. The Dumka Assembly seat fell vacant after Hemant vacated it to retain Barhait. A bypoll was necessitated in Bermo after the demise of sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May. Currently, the ruling coalition has 46 MLAs in the 81-member Assembly with an effective strength of 78 after the demise of JMM’s Madhupur MLA and state minority welfare minister on Saturday. In the 2019 Assembly polls, JMM originally won 29 seats, Congress 17 and RJD 1. This apart, two former JVM-P MLAs—Bandhu Tirkey (Mandar) and Pradeep Yadav (Poriyahat) joined the Congress after the Assembly polls of December 2019, taking the total count of MLAs of the ruling dispensation to 49. The BJP on the other hand has 26 MLAs after Babulal Marandi merged his party with the saffron camp, while AJSU has two seats, taking the NDA’s count to 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Adityapur puja in a fix over 15-feet Durga idol  ||Organisers of a crowd-puller Puja in Adityapur are crestfallen at the state government’s “11th-hour” guidelines that cap the height of idols at 4 feet since they have already ordered a pratima that is around 15 feet. Fearing a confrontation with local authorities of Seraikela-Kharsawan district Jairam Sporting Club members decided on Saturday to meet chief minister Hemant Soren and seek special permission. "The state government's 11th-hour directive on the idol height has put us in a piquant situation. Like every year, we have already placed orders for idols of Goddess Durga and her children with an artist in Calcutta. The idols, the highest of which is 15 feet, ready. We have also started setting up a pandal in accordance with the height of the idols. How can we be expected to alter the size of the idol now?” said Arvind Singh, president of Jairam Sporting Club. The cub’s puja and thematic pandalS are a popular attraction of the Pujas and usually draw over three lakh pandal-hoppers during the four-day-long festival. The venue is barely 2km from the heart of Jamshedpur and a large number of steel city residents makes it a point to visit the Puja at Adityapur's M-type Colony. Singh, a former Ichagarh legislator, promised to adhere to all Covid protocols specified by the state government. “We will follow the rest of the directives aimed at maintaining social distancing during the Puja. But it is extremely difficult for us to organise a smaller idol now,” Singh, popularly referred to as Malkan Singh, said. He said when they meet the chief minister on Monday, they would request him to permit Jairam Sporting Club to go-ahead with the Puja as planned. Om Prakash, president of Jan Kalyan Morcha and resident of Adityapur, agreed with Singh and said the state government should have issued Puja guidelines much earlier. "The local administration and the state government kept mum on Puja guidelines for a long time. What is the point of issuing a directive on the height of idols so late?” he said. But the Seraikela-Kharsawan district police and administration seem to have decided to enforce the October 1 guidelines strictly. Sub-divisional police officer Rakesh Ranjan said no Puja committee would be allowed to violate the directives in Adityapur, Gamharia or anywhere in Seraikela. "We will register cases under Section 188 of the IPC (violating government orders) if any Puja organiser is found to have violated the government's directive on any point," Ranjan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Minister Haji Ansari dies of cardiac arrest, 2-day state mourning||State minority welfare department minister Haji Hussain Ansari (70) died of cardiac arrest on Saturday hours after recovering from Covid-19, the first senior politician to pass away in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic. Ansari, the JMM said, died at 3pm at Medanta Hospital at Irba on the outskirst of Ranchi where he was admitted about 10 days back after testing positive for Covid-19 in addition to age related ailments. The Hemant government has declared two-day state mourning from Sunday, October 4. Monday has been declared a government holiday. Offering his condolences, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “I lost a father like figure today. Haji sahib was a stalwart among leaders of the state and played a crucial role alongside my father and JMM chief Shibu Soren during the statehood movement.” Ansari represented Madhupur constituency, part of Santhal Parganas. Although he began his political career with the Congress, he joined the JMM in the early 90s. Since then, he continued to be an integral part of the party winning from Madhupur four times since he first contested in 1995. He was the first Muslim to become minister in Jharkhand after the formation of the state in 2000. State health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said, “The hospital informed us that he suffered a cardiac arrest. He was admitted there after testing positive for Covid-19.  But last night (Friday) his report came negative.” Ansari is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter, a JMM functionary said. Party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said his demise was a huge loss to the party. “He was a guiding light for the party and often lived low-profile. He nurtured several leaders under his tutelage who later went on to contribute for this state and for the cause of tribals,” he remarked. Condolences poured in, cutting across the party lines. State health minister and Jamshedpur West MLA of Congress Banna Gupta said Ansari’s death was a great loss to Jharkhand politics. “If his popularity was beyond party lines, it was because of his simplicity. It’s a great loss to the state and its political discourse,” he said. BJP legislature party leader and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marnadi said he was at a loss for words. “My prayers to his family members in this hour of grief,” he added. Former chief minister Raghubar Das said Ansari was always keen to serve his constituency more than anything else, which helped him emerge as a popular face from Santhal Pargana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||BJP workers welcome Annapurna Devi ||BJP workers welcomed recently nominated national vice president and parliamentarian Annapurna Devi in Ramgarh on Friday. Annapurna Devi said the BJP and Prime Minister Modi were following Gandhiji's ideals. "By-elections are going to be held in Bermo and Dumka. BJP will win both these seats. The collapse of the current government will begin," she said. She said that the present state government is completely confused.The government does not know what to do and what not to do. BJP district president Praveen Mehta, former president Chandrashekhar Choudhary, Ilarani Pathak, senior BJP leaders Rananjay Kumar alias Kuntu Babu, Raju Chaturvedi, Neeraj Pratap were among those who welcomed the BJP's national vice president in Ramgarh. Two minor children aged six and seven drowned and died in Mansingh Kurba area on Friday. The mishap was reported by the elder sister of one of the deceased children. The children were taking a bath in a pond situated about 40 meters away from their home. Ashok Paswan, former general secretary of scheduled caste cell of Congress on Friday accused Santosh Singh, member of All India Congress Committee of allegedly threatening to kill him. Paswan said Singh asked him to accompany him for a demonstration at the Directorate General of Mines Safety office two weeks ago as part of a protest against a private mine excavation company. "But when i didn't participate he called me on some other pretext at his home in Sri Ram Vatika and threatened to kill me by flashing a pistol and I somehow escaped by seeking forgiveness" said Paswan. The indefinite dharna started five days back by home guard jawans came to an end on Friday after district administration team assured them their grievances were being looked into by the government. Over 100 home guard jawans sat and demonstrated at Randhir Verma Chowk demanding immediate joining since their selection process was completed in 2018. A self immolation bid by the president of Naujawan Sangarsh Morcha seeking rehabilitation of displaced persons was foiled by police on Friday. Arun Kumar Mahato has made several unsuccessful attempts at self-immolation before.As soon as him and his associates reached Bokaro Steel Plant Town and Administration building, the police had surrounded them. Mahto said,“BSL should provide job and other benefits to landlosers.If the management cannot provide jobs, then our land should be returned. Otherwise we will go to any extent.” A photo exhibition showcasing Mahatma Ghandhi life was organised in Ispat Bhawan of Bokaro Steel Plant on Friday. The exhibition highlights the essence of Ghandhian thoughts through a pictorial display. As many as 100 pictures of Mahatma Gandhi that includes his childhood, his life as an advocate and civil rights activist in South Africa, his participation in the Indian freedom struggle and the activities at Sabaramati Ashram were displayed. A digital version of the same is also being displayed in the plant intranet. The exhibition will be on display for a week, said Manikant Dhan, chief of communication, BSL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Probe into Jharkhand ex-CM role in project ||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) will probe into alleged irregularities by former Jharkhand chief minister and BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das and others in the appointment of Meinhardt Singapore Private Limited as a consultant for the Ranchi sewerage-drainage project in 2005. “Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday evening ordered an inquiry from the ACB on allegation of irregularities done by Raghubar Das, who was then state urban development minister and others, in the appointment of Meinhardt as a consultant for the drainage and sewerage project of Ranchi. “The probe will be conducted under the relevant section of the laws for alleged corruption, conspiracy and irregularities in line with the recommendation of the chairperson of the common purpose committee of state Assembly, Saryu Roy, and Jharkhand High Court directive,” said a communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office. Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Roy, who defeated five-time legislator Das in the December 2019 Assembly polls, had on August 1 this year written to the chief minister about non-compliance of the high court order issued in September 2018 on the irregularities in appointment of Meinhardt as a consultant of the project. “The high court had in 2018 clearly asked the state government to take a decision on this matter as expeditiously as possible on the basis of the preliminary inquiry done by state vigilance bureau. But the erstwhile government had sat on the high Court ruling,” Roy had said. The MLA had said that the government had not taken action on the report of the technical committee of the vigilance bureau and five engineers-in-chief of the government which had held Das responsible for the irregularities in appointing Meinhardt as a consultant way back in 2005. Roy had been cornering Das on this issue even during election campaigning in 2019. In July this year, Roy had released a book on the irregularities done in Meinhardt’s appointment as a consultant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Indefinite satyagraha to protect Ranchi's Kanke dam||As many as 30 residents started an indefinite satyagraha on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Friday to protest against pollution and encroachment of Kanke dam, one of the main sources of water supply to Jharkhand’s capital Ranchi. The residents, under the aegis of Kanke Dam Sanrakshan Samity (Kanke Dam Conservation Committee), claimed that they were forced to stage a satyagraha after failing to get any action on the ground level to either clear the waterbody of encroachment or measures to stop the flow of drainage water into the reservoir. “We have been raising our voice against the encroachment of the water body since 2016-17 and have met successive drinking water and sanitation ministers (currently Chandra Prakash Choudhary), Ranchi MLA and erstwhile urban development minister C.P. Singh and even our local (Kanke) MLA Sammari Lal. 'However, we have only received verbal assurances but nothing has happened at the ground level. The residents of Pathragonda, Hatiagonda, Laxminagar, Sonso, Hesel and Kathalgonda (all residential areas near Kanke dam) had no option but to start an indefinite satyagraha near the dam. “We would continue our satyagraha till the government gives us a deadline on starting the removal of encroachment and cleaning up the waterbody,” said Amritesh Pathak, a social activist spearheading the agitation. Incidentally, Kanke dam, spread over nearly 450 acres, along with Getalsud and Hatia dam are among the three reservoirs that supply water to the state capital. Kanke dam has a water capacity of 20 feet. Catchment areas of the dam have been encroached with concrete structures at several places. This apart, effluents from factories and drain water from residential areas flow into the dam. “The dam which was built in 1954 has not been desilted even once. One can see algal growth due to the pollution which is affecting not only aquatic species and fish but also affecting water quality. “Solid waste has reduced the water quantity and a stink emanates from the waterbody during summer. If urgent action is not carried out, we would witness a manmade water crisis right in front of us,” activist Pathak said. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) chief executive officer Mukesh Kumar said that the removal of encroachment along the waterbody comes under the purview of the district administration. Several attempts to contact Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan on his mobile phone failed to elicit any response. Jharkhand drinking water, sanitation and water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur, however, assured that the government has already started the process of removal of encroachment along the Kanke dam. “On the directive of the chief minister (Hemant Soren) around four months ago, a special committee set up by Ranchi district administration had issued notices to the encroachers to provide documents about their holdings. So far none of them have been able to produce any documents. “We will soon start eviction of the encroachers. The RMC has already started preparing a proposal on setting up solid waste treatment plants (STPs) and putting up mesh on the drain outlets to prevent pollution of the waterbody,” said Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Funds crunch prevents Bokaro hospital from installing plasma bank||A funds crunch has prevented the dedicated Covid-19 unit at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) from starting plasma therapy even as other healthcare units across the state are offering the facility. The BGH management claimed that it has asked the district administration to provide funds for the equipment needed to start a plasma bank. Health department officials, however, feel that BGH, being a unit of Maharatna Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), can easily buy the equipment. Civil surgeon Dr Ashok Pathak said that a “move to install a plasma therapy unit at BGH was undertaken but hasn’t been fulfilled yet. We are still in the process of installing it.” In the first week of August, BGH began working on a plan to soon start convalescent plasma therapy as well as plasmapheresis amid rising symptomatic and serious Covid-19 cases. The hospital had begun preparing a database of cured patients. The official in charge of BGH’s blood bank, Dr Shravan, had been asked to maintain the contact numbers, blood groups and the dates of discharge of Covid-19 patients. The database was meant to help in reaching out to cured patients for plasma donation. The hospital authorities could also administer plasma directly to serious Covid-19 patients as part of convalescent plasma therapy. “As per ICMR guidelines, a person is eligible for plasma donation only after 14 days of recovery and if tests for the coronavirus on RT-PCR come negative,” said a BGH official. He said: “People who’ve recovered from Covid-19 have antibodies, which are proteins their bodies use to fight off infections to the disease, in their blood.” Since April, more than 450 patients of the coronavirus have been admitted to BGH. Apart from a dozen deaths and cases that were referred elsewhere, other patients have been cured. Currently, there are more than 30 positive patients at BGH. A plasma bank at the hospital would have been one of the biggest in the state. A plasma bank requires a plasmapheresis machine and two freezers which cost around Rs 30 lakh. BGH’s inability to procure the machines has prompted heated debate. Convalescent plasma therapy, involving taking blood from cured patients of the same blood group and administering it to the patient after separating the plasma, has not begun though it does not require any equipment. Those who have recovered from Covid-19 can donate plasma at BGH whenever a need arises. Plasma therapy may be helpful in treating patients with Covid-19 who do not respond to other forms of treatment. Doctors believe that convalescent plasma can be given to people with severe symptoms to boost their ability to fight the virus. BGH doctors, however, do not find plasma therapy of much use in treating serious patients. Other big hospitals in the state, including RIMS in Ranchi and MGM and TMH in Jamshedpur, have plasma therapy units. In convalescent plasma therapy, there is a limitation that the blood group of the cured coronavirus positive donor and the patient to be administered the treatment should be the same, but in plasmapheresis, no particular blood group is required. “It can help in forming plasma banks,” said Dr Pathak. There are many willing donors in the district. But BGH’s unwillingness to launch a plasma bank has baffled them. Some of the donors, including CISF personnel, have donated their plasma to needy patients at places as far away as Ranchi. At least 3,981 people tested positive for the coronavirus till Friday morning. Of them, 453 cases are active and 30 of the patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
03-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city begins Durga Puja preparations||Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti, the apex body which monitors pujas in the city on Friday asked organisers to place orders for idols after the state government issued guidelines. "We welcome the government guidelines on Puja. We were in a fix in absence of the guidelines. Now, things have become clear regarding the conduct of the festival.Today, we asked the Puja committees to place orders for idols as per the government specification," said Ram Babu Singh, General secretary of JDPKS. This year’s community puja count for Jamshedpur is 320, the same as last year. No new puja has been added due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the government guidelines issued on Thursday, there shall not be more than seven persons including organisers, priests and support staff present in a pandal. The pandals or mandaps will be small where rituals could be conducted without public participation. The  mandap shall be covered from all sides to prevent any public view of the idols,  permissible height of which would be 4 ft. Puja organisers will have to do away with any theme. Moreover,  decoration by lighting, music and cultural programmes  are restricted. Barring the area where the idol is placed, rest of the Puja pandal/mandap shall be open air. There will be no food stalls around the Durga Puja pandals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-280
