04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cyber criminals siphon off Rs 3.44 lakh from retired government employee||The Jamshedpur cyber cell officials on Sunday ordered a manhunt for a gang of cyber criminals. They have allegedly used fraudulent means to siphon off Rs 3.44 lakh from the bank account of a retired government employee on Saturday. According to the FIR, Pushkar Singh Munda who is a resident of Subhash Colony in Mango had been to the local market on Saturday evening when he got a call from a man claiming to be a bank official. The caller who introduced himself as a senior official of SBI told Munda that his KYC formalities had to be completed and that he would face difficulty in making transactions with the bank.  The caller managed to eventually take his Aadhar number and bank account number. An FIR has been lodged by Munda with the Bistupur-based cyber cell on Saturday.  He said that the money that was stolen from him was the savings that he had made since his retirement in 2018. He also pointed out that he had two bank accounts with the SBI -- one is with the Rangamati branch and another one is with the Dimna Road branch of the bank from where the money was siphoned off. Inspector, cyber thana, Bistupur, Upendra Mandal confirmed the case and said the cyber criminals probably  hacked Munda’s number and succeeded to get the money transferred from his account. "The criminals have used three cell phone numbers and we are trying to trace all the numbers and the said bank account. We are trying to trace the criminals by tracing their address," he told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Spread of Covid-19 seems to be waning in and around steel city||It seems that the spread of Covid-19 is waning in and around the steel city. Though the average number of sample tests is 3,500 in East Singhbhum, the number of cases stands at double digits for the first time in the past two months. . During the last 24 hours. only 61 new cases have been reported, taking the district tally to 14,123. In the same time period, only two two Covid deaths have been registered, including one one individual hailing from West Singhbhum. A 51-year-old woman from Noamundi in West Singhbhum died at Tata Main Hospital on Saturday night. A 50-year-old resident of Parsudih, admitted at the Bramhananda Superspeciality Hospital in Tamulia, Mango breathed his last also late on Saturday night. The total number of Covid deaths in the district stands at 325. "On Saturday, only 61 new cases of Covid came up. Number of cases have been decreasing since the past 10 days, during which time 150 people tested positive in the district.  Similarly, the number of deaths has also declined considerably," East Singhbhum district civil surgeon Rajendra Nath Jha told The Telegraph Online. "Honestly speaking, we need to study this gradual waning.  The virus is still wreaking havoc in other cities of the state, including the state capital. What is different about the steel city? Maybe there will be a second wave. Hence people should continue to follow all protocols like wearing masks, sanitisation and maintaining social distancing," Jha added. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer Nitish Kumar Singh hinted at intensifying the mask checking drive in the city. "As Durga puja is round-the-corner and almost all shops have reopened will be intensified, along with ensuring social distancing," Singh told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city gets more trains for Puja, Calcutta connect restored||South Eastern Railway has decided to increase the frequency of two trains, the Howrah-Mumbai Special (02810/02809) and the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special (02834/02833) in an attempt to clear the rush of passengers during the festive season. Both trains will now run daily, instead of its current tri-weekly run. Their stops at Tatanagar railway station have also bed restored, which means steel city residents can also use them to travel to Calcutta. Though both these trains used to stop at Tatanagar when services resumed after the lockdown in June, their stoppages were withdrawn to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Also, the Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express stopped operations from September 12 due to poor occupancy. According to a circular issued by Garden Reach, headquarters of SER, the Howrah-Mumbai Special will run daily from October 6 from Howrah and from Mumbai from October 8 as per the existing timings. Similarly, the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special will run daily from October 7 from Howrah and October 10 from Ahmedabad as per existing timings. In addition, two more superfast special trains, the Puri-Anand Vihar-Superfast Special (via Adra) and Puri-Anand Vihar-Prui Superfast Special (via Tatanagar), will also be introduced. The Puri-Anand Vihar Superfast Special (via Adra) will be introduced from Puri from October 7, while Anand Vihar-Puri Superfast Special will be introduced from Anand Vihar from October 10. Both will leave from Puri and Anand Vihar on Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and stop at Balasore, Jaleswar, Hijli, Midnapore, Bankura and Adra. The Puri-Anand Vihar Superfast Special (via Tatanagar) and the Anand Vihar-Puri Superfast Special will introduced from October 9. The special trains will leave from Puri and Anand Vihar on Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays, and will stop at Soro, Balasore, Jaleswar, Hijli, Ghatshila, Tatanagar, Muri and Bokaro Steel City.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bus owners write to Union home secretary on inter-state services||Bus owners have written to the Union home ministry, seeking its intervention to allow inter-state services from Jharkhand ahead of Durga Puja. President of Bus Owners Association of Jharkhand Arun Budhia said on Sunday that they had expected the state government to allow resumption of inter-state bus services when it issued guidelines to reopen religious places. “Since that hasn’t happened, we are forced to write to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, seeking the ministry’s intervention to help bus operators of Jharkhand who are battling financial woes,” he said. While the Jharkhand government allowed intra-state bus operations from September 1, it continued to put a stop on inter-state buses in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a part of its recent unlock notification, the state government allowed reopening of temples from October 8 and issued detailed guidelines for conducting low-ley Durga Puja celebrations. Budhia questioned the logic behind not allowing inter-state buses to ply. “The Union government has clearly asked all states to not put any kind of curbs on inter-state movement of people. Moreover, people are anyway travelling using some or the other means. Then why should we be penalised,” he asked. He pointed out that in any case buses were plying within the state with 50 per cent occupancy leading to huge losses. “Although bus operators are charging double the usual fare per passenger, we are yet to recover losses suffered from the time the lockdown was imposed,” he said. Another bus operator unwilling to be named pointed out that travel between Bihar and Jharkhand was common during the festival. “By not allowing buses to operate, people are being forced to suffer,” he said. Bus operators in Jamshedpur had voiced a similar demand last week. Patron of Jamshedpur Bus Operators’ Welfare Association (JBOWA) Upendra Kumar Sharma said, “It’s high time inter-state movement of buses is allowed from Jharkhand as running buses only within the state is financially unviable.” Bus owners also rued the state government’s delay in accepting their demand for waivers pertaining to various vehicle taxes for the lockdown period. “We have been asking for road tax waivers for months. But nothing has been done so far. We hope this is taken up in the next cabinet meeting,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Artisans devastated by government cap on Durga idol height||Idol makers, who are living through one of the worst times of their lives with a ban on religious functions ever since a lockdown was imposed in March, faced another jolt when the state government came out with its guidelines and capped the height of Durga idols at 4 feet. Most of orders for idols that artisans had got for the October Pujas was of height 5 feet. Now, these are likely to go waste. Dulal Paul (65), among the most sought-after idol makers of Dhanbad, said that he had as many as 30 idols. And all of these were around 5 feet. “These can’t be used and we will have to prepare fresh idols of 4 feet as per the guidelines. This means we are looking at huge losses. It will be very difficult for us to make both ends meet with the income. All our earnings will go to pay 10 artists of Bengal who are working with us,” he said. In any case, Dulal has received orders for only 30 idols this year, instead of the usual 45 idols. “Had the guideline been issued about a fortnight ago, we would not have wasted resources on making idols of 5 feet,” said Dulal, adding that there was no point in keeping the 5-feet idols for next year as if things turned better with the coronavirus, as everyone was hoping, then there would be no customers for smaller idols. Swapan Paul (67) said he had received 15 orders of which four or five were above 4 feet. “These will go waste,” he rued, adding that instead of the usual Rs 30,000 they would earn for a 10 feet to 12 feet high Durga idol, this time, their earnings would be around Rs 6,000 as the idols are much smaller. Swapan said they suffered huge losses as there was no Chaiti Navratra, Vishwarkarma Puja and Ganesh Puja this time. “We were hoping to make up for the losses to some extent during Durga Puja. But that hope was dashed after the government came out with its Puja guidelines,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Uncertainty looms as boating for tourists in Palamau Tiger Reserve misses October 2 launch date||The proposed boating facility for tourists at Kamaldah Lake in the Betla range of the Palamau tiger reserve (PTR) which was slated to start on October 2 has been deferred, confirmed Kumar Ashish, deputy director north division of PTR. “A serious consideration is on regarding whether boating facility for tourists will be started from Kamaldah Lake or from some other lake as the Betla range has one more lake,” he said, adding that at the moment, there will be no boating from the Kamaldah Lake. Ashish said the postponement was done as the Betla National Park or tiger sanctuary which used to open on October 1 every year, continues to be shut for tourists. “We are waiting for our field director YK Das’s instruction,” said Ashish. He said he could not hazard a guess for the continued shutdown of the park and sanctuary beyond October 1 this time. On being asked if a letter from DS Srivastava, the secretary of Nature Conservation Society, who is also a noted environmentalist, has put the brakes on boating, Ashish said he was aware of the letter. Srivastava told The Telegraph Online on Sunday, “I have sent my letter to field director YK Das on September 29. Its copy has been sent to the chief wildlife warden Jharkhand and also to the deputy director North division PTR Ashish.” He urged PTR authorities to look for other lakes for boating for tourists. “My letter reads that the original plan to start boating for tourists was at Kechki forest rest house which comes under Betla range, at the confluence of the two rivers the Koyal and the Ouranga,” he said, adding that the Latehar administration had given two boats to PTR for the purpose in 2019. “The Kamaldah Lake is not suitable for boating as this lake is the favourite of all herbivores and carnivores. Betla National Park’s elephants love bathing,” he said. Srivastava said the resumption of boating there will lead to excess human interference, which will have an adverse impact on the passage and movement of wildlife near the lake, which is also under the elephant zone. Ashish said the Kechki lake is massively damaged and boating can only start here if and when this the water body is repaired and strengthened, which calls for long drawn work with lots of official procedures involved including like design, estimation, water storage capacity etc. He said there is a lake on the left side of the Betla range where possibilities are being explored. He said he too has no knowledge of the new date for boating and also from where it is set to launch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Education minister marginally better, but still critical||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week, is critical and on non-invasive ventilator at the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, authorities at the private healthcare facility said on Sunday. Dr Vijay Mishra, who is treating Mahto at Medica, said the minister’s condition had improved marginally in the last couple of days. However, Mahto was still critical, he added. “His condition has improved marginally. We had consulted doctors in Delhi, and they suggested that he should be treated in Ranchi as of now as he was not fit to travel,” said Mishra. Mahto also suffers from minor coronary artery disease and is diabetic, Mishra said. “These are the only two comorbidities he has,” the doctor added. The 53-year-old JMM leader, who tested positive last Monday, was admitted to the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) after he complained of breathlessness. The oxygen level in his body, doctors said, was alarmingly low. Mahto was referred to Medica on Friday for better treatment. Earlier, the assistant vice president of Medica in Ranchi, Anil Kumar, admitted that Mahto’s condition was frail, and his family was planning to shift him to Delhi if needed. “Doctors will take a call on whether he needs to be shifted to Delhi or not. As of now, there is no such update,” said Kumar, adding that Medica in Ranchi did not have air ambulance facility, but the minister could still be taken to Delhi by air if needed. Sources from the hospital said that Mahto’s blood oxygen level had dropped below 65 mm Hg, while it should be in between 75 to 100 mm Hg. The minister was feeling drowsy and restless when he was taken to RIMS. His condition further deteriorated there, sources from Medica said. Mahto was recently in the news for taking admission in intermediate (class 12) at the age of 53, and then gifting cars to the toppers of class 10 and 12 board exams in Jharkhand. He had first complained of vomiting tendency and weakness during a visit to his constituency, Dumri, last week and then tested positive for the viral infection. Mahto is among four ministers in the Hemant Soren cabinet who have been infected by the virus so far. State’s minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari, one of the Covid-infected ministers in Jharkhand, died of a cardiac arrest while undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital in Ranchi on Saturday. But the 70-year-old’s last test report indicated that he had recovered from Covid. State health minister Banna Gupta and drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur were also infected. But they have recovered after undergoing treatment for over a week at RIMS. JMM patriarch and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren, a septuagenarian, has also defeated the Novel Coronavirus after undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
04-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three suicides in Bokaro||Bokaro registered three seperate suicide incidents on Saturday.The victims, including a teenager were allegedly suffering from depression. 16-year-old Rajkumar failed to gather funds to fill the form of constable recruitment examination. His father said he looked upset. He went for jogging with his elder brother in the ground located in Kasia Tand, but he returned home first. Later when his elder brother reached home, he saw Rajkumar hanging in his room. Ravi Kumar Burnwal, 23, was also found hanging in his house under Balidih police station. Burnwal lived in his maternal uncle's house. His body was found in his room. He had locked the door of the room from inside and hanged himself with a rope. Baldev Das,35, a resident of Barpokhar village under Pindrajora police station area also hanged himself in his house. Baldev's wife Pramila Devi told police when she returned home repeated knocks on the door went unanswered. She sought help from neighbours and broke the door open to see her husband hanging in his room. Sadar Hospital inaugurated its blood bank on Saturday making it the fourth in the district. Bokaro,DDC Jaikishore Prasad and civil surgeon, Dr A.K. Pathak inaugurated the facility. Health department staff donated blood, said Dr Pathak. The district health department is organising a blood donation drive from October 1 to October 15 in its effort to get more donors for thalassemia patients in the district. "This blood bank contains most modern equipment in comparison with other blood banks in district," said Renu Bharti, deputy superintendent of Sadar Hospital. At present blood banks are functional at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), K.M. Memorial Hospital and Red Cross Society building. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar has said in an interview with TT Online that the CPI Maoist activities have gone down in the area but the security forces are still as cautious as before to maintain the law and order of the region. Kumar said IEDs are still the greatest challenge facing the forces as it is tricky and difficult to decipher.He said there has been a drastic scaling down of ransoms demanded by rebel splinter groups and Maoists. "Right now the hard core criminals are away from the central jail Daltonganj and are lodged in Hotwar jail in Ranchi but nevertheless we are cautious to stem their any cellular networking of crime," said Kumar. Six villagers were stung by bees in Tilra village of Ichak block,around 31kms away from Hazaribagh. The villagers have all been sent to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital for treatment. A few days ago, a villager died at the same spot after being stung by a swarm of bees. A 75-year-old man drowned in Chirwa stone mine reservoir on Saturday in Daru block situated 30 kms away from Hazaribagh. Sohan mahto went with his cattle near the mine on Friday afternoon but didn't return. Villagers informed the police who launched a search operation. On Saturday morning, divers discovered his body. Police assumed the elderly man had accidentally slipped into the water and drowned. Daru police station officer-in-charge Vijay Kumar Singh said the body was handed over to relatives after post mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-279
