05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three women dead in Jamtara while excavating for white soil||At least three women were killed and a few more feared trapped when a mound of earth caved in at Manjladih (under Narayanpur police station) on Monday. All the bodies were recovered in the evening following a daylong rescue drive undertaken by the state disaster response force (SDRF), Jamtara district administration confirmed. The accident site is situated along the Sahibganj- Govindpur state highway, over 300km from Ranchi. Deputy commissioner Faiz Aq Ahmed Mumtaj said that one of the women was identified as Sahnaj Khatun (25) while attempts are on to identify the two others. She, along with other women of the area, ventured out last midnight to excavate white-soil, a regular practice by local women to make a living, said local sources. Talking to reporters, Mumtaj said, “Three bodies were recovered, of which one has been identified. The women are from the nearby Kakdibaad area.” While the rescue mission was concluded in the evening, a few local sources apprehend that some more bodies may be trapped in the debris. A local villager said, “Usually, family members of the deceased don’t claim the body in such cases fearing police action.” According to a local journalist, women mining white-soil is a common practice in the region to earn easy money. “The soil is used for painting houses or making clay idols and is sold in the market at Rs 25-30/kg. For many in this underdeveloped region, it is the only source of livelihood round the year,” he said, accusing local police of ignoring the menace despite the looming threat on lives. The DC, however, said that the district administration conducts drives from time to time to curb the illegal practice. “We shall deploy local police in the area for regular patrolling,” he said. Jamtara Congress MLA Irfan Anasari, who also visited the site after the mishap, said that he will try to grant government compensation after speaking with chief minister Hemant Soren. He said, “Ahead of the festival, the women ventured to collect white-soil to paint their homes when the mishap occurred. It’s a sad incident and I shall soon speak with CM to extend some financial compensation to the poor family members of the deceased.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Artisans unable to cope with rush of orders for Durga idols  ||Steel city artisans are being swamped with last-minute orders for Durga idols and are now unsure whether they will be able to deliver them in time. Subodh Gorai, who used to make around 20 idols of Goddess Durga every year, had come to terms with making 15 idols this time, given the Covid restrictions on lavish Pujas. But with the state government’s Puja guidelines, issued on October 1, allowing idols but restricting their height to 4 feet, many organisers who had decided on holding pujas this time with a photograph of the goddess, have changed their minds. "All those Puja organisers who had given orders for idols earlier had asked for small idols, ranging from 4 feet to 5 feet in accordance with a decision taken locally by the Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Committee two months ago,” he explained. But after the government notification was issued on October 1, five organisers have come to him and placed orders.  “Though I have not refused them, I now realise that it is going to be very difficult to make these idols within such a short period," Gorai said, referring to the Puja that begins on October 22 with Shasti. There are over 50 artisans who make idols for 320 puja committees in and around the steel city. This time, at least 25 per cent of the organisers had decided to do away with idols, unsure whether these would be allowed in the first place. They agreed to use a symbolic “ghat” or “kalash” or photographs in keeping with the district administration’s decision to keep celebrations low-key in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. But many changed their minds after the state government came out with guidelines allowing idols if these were within 4 feet. Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Committee president Rambabu Singh confirmed that over 25 per cent Puja organisers had not placed orders for idols. "I have persuaded artisans on my behalf to somehow make the idols despite the delayed orders.  After all, that is the tradition," said Singh while talking to this website. Narayan Chandra Das, an office-bearer of the Bara Govindpur Durga Puja Committee in Govindpur, said they weren’t sure whether their idol would be ready in time. "Worshipping an idol will give us and our visitors more satisfaction. It is certainly better than worshipping a ‘kalash’," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s largest central jail now Covid-19-free||Jharkhand’s largest prison, Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, which had emerged as one of the hotspots of Covid-19 with over 300 infections is now Covid-free, prison authorities said on Monday. In all, Birsa jail has 3,625 prisoners. Since August, 1,239 prisoners have been tested for Covid-19 in the jail and none of them was found infected, said jail superintendent Hamid Akhter. “We do not have any active cases of infection. All the infected prisoners and staff have recovered, and no fresh case of Covid-19 infection has surfaced in the past one month,” Akhter said. The rapid spread of the virus among prisoners and staff at the central jail had become a cause for concern for the authorities in August. Nearly 350 prisoners and staff had tested positive for Covid-19 in the jail by the end of August, forcing the authorities to take precautionary measures and provide additional healthcare facilities to prisoners. “We conducted three Covid testing drives in the past month. Around 100 to 150 prisoners were tested in every such drive,” said the jail superintendent, adding that the jail authorities intensified testing to identify asymptomatic patients and ensure that no case of infection goes undetected. While prisoners were infected in other state jails too, Birsa Munda Jail was the only jail that reported cases in triple digits, authorities said. Of the 350 that tested positive, 221 were prisoners, while the rest were members of the staff. However, there are still a few active cases of Covid-19 infection in other jails in Jharkhand. Besides the one in Ranchi, there are four other central jails in East Singbhum, Hazaribagh, Dumka and Daltonganj, in addition to over a dozen divisional and sub-divisional jails. Owing to the explosion of cases at the Birsa Munda Central Jail, authorities took special measures to boost the immunity of prisoners. Special basil saplings were planted in the jail premises to ensure that prisoners and staff are served kadha (a therapeutic herbal drink) every day, jail authorities said. “We also served boiled eggs to the infected prisoners. Vitamin D and vitamin C supplements were also administered to the prisoners in a bid to boost their immune system,” said Akhter. Even though there were no cases of infection in the jail anymore, the authorities are still taking precautionary measures and providing a healthy diet to prisoners as well as staff members in the jail, Akhter said. “Swab samples of random prisoners will be collected even in the days to come to ensure that the virus does not enter the jail premises again,” he added. As many as five doctors were keeping a watch on the prisoners in the jail to spot symptoms. Besides, prophylaxis, vitamin supplements and paracetamols were made available in sufficient quantities to the jail administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Famous coal town family Puja devoid of usual sheen this year||The famous puja of Chatterjee family, during which more than 20 members of the extended family of Apurba Kumar Chatterjee (73) settled abroad used to participate every year, will be devoid of the usual sheen this year, as no one from abroad will participate due to the coronavirus pandemic. “We had decided on a grand get-together this year with more than forty members of our family settled in USA, UK, Australia and Canada, but fate had other plans. No one from abroad can come due to the present conditions,” said Chatterjee, a retired administrative officer of the LIC of India, talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday. “Some of our family members living in Jamshedpur and Calcutta have decided to come via car, but we are not sure whether they will be able to. However, we will organize our puja at home at Chiragora at Dhanbad on a small scale with an idol of less than four feet,” he said. Chatterjee said the 120-130 family members who come during Durga Puja every year are accommodated at their palatial home. “Some of our neighbours also help in accommodating our family members as they also participate in our puja,” he said.  Regarding the huge expense for puja, Chatterjee,  said that those having jobs have to contribute six days of their salary income while those in business contribute 10 days of their average per-day income. “But the retired persons have to contribute nothing,” said Chatterjee, and added that every year the guests from abroad as well as other parts of the country like Banglore, Goa, Jamshedpur, Calcutta arrive on Panchami, and after enjoying the puja they return on Dashami, or a day or two later. “We don’t organize any fair or anything special in our puja but since so many people of our family from across the world participate, it is quite famous in the coal town and elsewhere,” he said. The combined family puja started in 1979 during the lifetime of the septuagenarian’s father Amrit Kantha Chatterrjee, who settled here in 1921 and worked in the colliery. He later shifted to Dhanbad town after an accident in the colliery in the early 1930s, said Chatterhee, adding that the family members of all six brothers of his father as well as eight of his own brothers take part in the puja. “My elder son, an engineer settled in Houston, along with his wife and children also get the opportunity to visit his birth place during puja only,” said Chatterjee and added that his daughter, who is married to a UK-based doctor, also visits her ancestral place during Puja. “My younger son, who operates the Jack and Jill school, lives along with the family at Dhanbad,” said Chatterjee. Out of eight of his brothers, five are alive and two others besides him are living in Dhanbad and help in organizing the puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tribal girls in Jaskandih village lead the path to knowledge||They say if you educate a woman, you educate a nation, and two tribal girls in Jaskandih village in the outskirts of Jamshedpur are setting such an example.  
Laxmi Besra (23) and Laxmi Munda (19) are all set to start a community library in their village from October 7. Supported by some social organisations and individuals, the community library-cum-study centre equipped with solar lighting aims to give children a place to study in a place where daily power cuts hamper everyday studies. "Power cuts are frequent and affect education for school and college-going children. Thus, we decided to build a centre where children can come and study. The place also doubles up as a library with books on literature, science and other subjects that empowers the village youth to dream big," said Laxmi Besra, who belongs to the Santhal tribe and is a history graduate. Laxmi Munda belongs to the Bhumij tribe. Both the girls are a part of Medhavini, a tribal girl education project initiated by Jamshedpur based organisation Kalamandir CCAF and supported by the Tata Steel Downstream Products Ltd. The Medhavini project was launched to prevent school dropout and motivate tribal girls to pursue higher education. The girls say that being a part of this project gave them the freedom to think beyond their boundaries.

Though they had a dream, implementation of the idea was difficult with scarce resources. When they presented the idea to Kalamandir, they immediately agreed to support the idea. The Kalamandir CCAF and Inner Wheel Club of Jamshedpur helped the girls build the library while books were donated by Jusco School, Kadma. Some individuals from the Inner Wheel Club also donated solar lights, blackboards and furniture.

The girls wish to make the library an education hub not just for children but also for adults who are illiterate. On the inauguration day, they aim to invite the mukhiya of their village and people from nearby villages too for a low-key ceremony.

"For tribal girls in a village, this was a dream come true. We want this centre to become a hub. There are many senior citizens and elders who do not know reading and writing. Thus have decided that we will run an adult literacy programme too," said Laxmi Munda who is a second-year economics student at LBSM College. 

Those who supported them expressed their happiness.

"We had adopted this village as a part of the village adoption project. These young girls wanted the library and we were happy to support them We have already set up a retail shop that sells essential items in the village. We have more plans like building toilets and introducing women empowerment schemes which will be implemented gradually," said project coordinator of Inner Wheel Club of Jamshedpur, Alokanandi Bakshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s largest central jail now Covid-19 free  ||Jharkhand’s largest prison, Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, which had emerged as one of the hotspots of Covid-19 with over 300 infections is now Covid-free, prison authorities said on Monday. In all, Birsa jail has 3,625 prisoners. Since August, 1,239 prisoners have been tested for Covid-19 in the jail and none of them was found infected, said jail superintendent Hamid Akhter. “We do not have any active cases of infection. All the infected prisoners and staff have recovered, and no fresh case of Covid-19 infection has surfaced in the past one month,” Akhter said. The rapid spread of the virus among prisoners and staff at the central jail had become a cause for concern for the authorities in August. Nearly 350 prisoners and staff had tested positive for Covid-19 in the jail by the end of August, forcing the authorities to take precautionary measures and provide additional healthcare facilities to prisoners. “We conducted three Covid testing drives in the past month. Around 100 to 150 prisoners were tested in every such drive,” said the jail superintendent, adding that the jail authorities intensified testing to identify asymptomatic patients and ensure that no case of infection goes undetected. While prisoners were infected in other state jails too, Birsa Munda Jail was the only jail that reported cases in triple digits, authorities said. Of the 350 that tested positive, 221 were prisoners, while the rest were members of the staff. However, there are still a few active cases of Covid-19 infection in other jails in Jharkhand. Besides the one in Ranchi, there are four other central jails in East Singbhum, Hazaribagh, Dumka and Daltonganj, in addition to over a dozen divisional and sub-divisional jails. Owing to the explosion of cases at the Birsa Munda Central Jail, authorities took special measures to boost the immunity of prisoners. Special basil saplings were planted in the jail premises to ensure that prisoners and staff are served kadha (a therapeutic herbal drink) every day, jail authorities said. “We also served boiled eggs to the infected prisoners. Vitamin D and vitamin C supplements were also administered to the prisoners in a bid to boost their immune system,” said Akhter. Even though there were no cases of infection in the jail anymore, the authorities are still taking precautionary measures and providing a healthy diet to prisoners as well as staff members in the jail, Akhter said. “Swab samples of random prisoners will be collected even in the days to come to ensure that the virus does not enter the jail premises again,” he added. As many as five doctors were keeping a watch on the prisoners in the jail to spot symptoms. Besides, prophylaxis, vitamin supplements and paracetamols were made available in sufficient quantities to the jail administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Man, marooned on a hillock in a river, saved after 15-hour effort  ||A 45-year-old fisherman, who was marooned on a small hillock in the middle of a river in spate in Simdega district since Sunday evening, was rescued by NDRF personnel after a 15-hour effort that was initiated after a local resident tweeted a video of his plight to the chief minister. Wilson Madki and three others had gone fishing near Ramjol village in Bano block, over 150 km from Ranchi, on Sunday. However, he was swept away by strong currents amid a sudden rise in the water level of Koel river. He scrambled to safety atop a small hillock, while others with him managed to swim ashore. It was already 6pm and his friends raised an alarm as soon as they reached the village. Police, accompanied by villagers, tried to rescue him but the gushing waters of the river and poor visibility prevented them from making a headway. Madki was forced to spend the night marooned on the hillock in the middle of the river. Rescue efforts resumed Monday morning after a local resident tweeted a video of him to chief minister Hemant Soren’s official handle. Hemant directed Simdega deputy commissioner to mount an effort on priority. Deputy Commissioner C Sushant Gaurav said Madki was finally rescued in the afternoon. “An NDRF team was sent from Ranchi. Madki is in good health and the district authorities are taking care of him,” he said. The NDRF team, which was sent had 15 members and was led by Peter Paul Dungdung. “There were strong currents in the river which made it difficult for us to swim and reach him. We had to use ropes and boats and managed to rescue him,” said an NDRF jawan. Simdega SP Shams Tabrez said he had spoken to NDRF DG S.N. Pradhan, seeking a special rescue team. “NDRF immediately dispatched their local unit from Ranchi to Simdega. Initially, the district administration, along with local residents, tried to rescue him. But they could not,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Quarantined in Goa, JFC players focus on fitness||The Covid guidelines may have kept them in isolation but players from Jamshedpur FC are keeping themselves busy in fitness drills in their respective rooms in Goa, which will host the cash-rich Indian Super League (ISL) next month. Winger Jackichand Singh, Bhupender Singh, William Lalnunfela, mid-fielders Amarjit Singh Kiyam, Isaac Vanmalsawma, left-back Ricky Lallawmawma and defender Laldinliana Renthlei, who arrived in Goa last week, are working out at the luxury rooms of Hotel Vivanta in Panaji. The JFC players have been quarantined for 10 days at the hotel and are currently working under strength and conditioning coach Adrian Dias. “Dias is in Mangalore and is in touch with the players via digital media (whatsapp and email). The players are following his instructions,” a member of the team management said on the condition of anonymity. According to him, the Jamshedpur players have been given fitness schedule and are working out according to that. “It’s daily routine but the players have the liberty to fix their own timing of workout. After all, the fitness drills are taking place indoors. It would be different when all the players, including foreign recruits, begin their outdoor training later this month,” he added. The 10 young footballers from the JFC reserves side are also working out in their respective at the hotel. According to him, Dias is expected to land in Goa sometime next week. “Dias is an experienced strength and fitness coach who has worked with the JFC. He is very attentive on players and tries his best to keep the players in top-flight fitness. After all, fitness is the key to on-field performance,” the team management member said. He revealed that all the players who are in Goa went through Covid-19 tests are have tested negative. “So far things are good. All the players, including ones from the junior team, have tested negative. More tests would be conducted on the footballers,” he informed. He said most of the Indian and their foreign counterparts, including head coach Owen Coyle, will be in Goa later this week. “The entire squad and support staff should be in Goa by October 8. The foreign players will straightaway go into 14-day isolation at Taj Fort in Candoling (near Panjim). The off-shore players will also undergo Covid tests,” he added. The entire JFC contigent will stay in secure bio-bubble throughout the lengthy cash-rich tournament which will stretch till March next year. Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari said fitness is a main component and they want their players to be fully fit before the start of the tournament. “We want our players to be fully fit and it is good they are already working out,” he added. Senior JFC team management members are in constant touch with head coach Owen Coyle and are giving him the necessary feedback.”Coyle is being updated about the team and related matters, including preparation of training ground at Sangola,” a source said. Barring a player from Asian Football Confederation-affilated nation, Jamshedpur FC’s team formation is complete. The Asian player has already been identified and talks with him are in final stages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town girl ranks 177th  in JEE Advanced||Anushkha Singh emerged as the state topper in the JEE Advanced exams by securing an all-India rank of 177, after results were declared on Monday. Singh, who is the daughter of SN Singh, an administrative officer of the LIC of India, and Pamila Singh, a homemaker, finished high school at Doon Public School, Dhanbad this year, securing 96.4% marks. “There is no shortcut to hard work, and I relied on hard work as the lone strategy for success,” she said while talking to The Telegraph Online. “Though everybody has his own strategy for success, I followed the simple strategy of reading the content to be taught in the classroom in advance and then also carry out a revision of the same after class,” said Anushkha and added that she tried to complete the day’s assignment on the same day. When asked about who in her family helped her with the guidelines, she said, “My elder sister who is currently in her third year pursuing B.Tech in Computer Science Engineering at NIT Jamshedpur tipped me about preparation.” “Five to six hours of self-study at home is crucial besides the classroom study,” said Anushkha who also took coaching at Kota in Rajasthan. “I used to study during the morning hours instead of staying up late during the night,” she said, adding that her schoolteachers ought to take credit for her success as they helped her a lot at the crucial stage of her career. Anushkha is an ex-student Carmel School Dhanbad from where she completed class 10, secured 98.8%, and emerged state topper. “The role models in life are my parents who always supported me and provided guidelines,” said Anushkha and added that revision ahead of the examination is also quite crucial for achieving success. When asked whether she will make a career in Engineering or opt for something else she said that her ultimate aim is to go into civil services after completing her B.Tech from IIT as she is likely to get admission IIT Bombay with her current rank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad residents to enjoy Durga Puja in the dark||Dhanbad residents this year may have to enjoy Durga Puja in the dark. The puja guidelines released by the government prohibit the use of lights outside pandals, causing consternation among organisers. Samrat Chaudhary, a member of Luby Circular Road Puja Commitee said, “Ever since the puja began about 45 years ago, our committee is well known for organising attractive lighting during which the entire Luby Circular road  of more than one km is decorated with beautiful lighting arrangement but we will not put any lighting this year except for the necessary lighting inside the pandal to make the idols visible.” Chaudhary said the committee has been winning the best lighting award of the district for more than a decade. “We are, however in a fix over the bhog preparations as without bhog, puja is very difficult  to perfom although we will have to abide by the norms and bhog distribution among the pandal hoppers will not be carried out at any cost,” he said. Echoing Chaudhary’s sentiments, Ganpat Mahto, Patron of Sri Sri Durga Puja Samiti, Saraidhela (Kolakusma) in Dhanbad said, “the visitors of our puja pandal are both from rural areas like Govidpur, Baliapur as well as urban centres of Dhanbad and elaborate lighting arrangement  and extensive fair are the two major attraction for the people but people will miss both the attractions this year as any large gathering of people during fair etc will only lead to social distancing violation and resultant spurt in covid cases.” “The Puja will be strictly  restricted the Shiv Mandir Campus where a small pandal will be erected  and lighting arrangement will be carried out only inside the Temple premises and not outside the campus like Dhanbad Govindpur which is carried out from Steel gate to Big Bazar side and also towards the Koylanagar campus” said Mahto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Arjun Munda to ask finance minister for exemption of import duty on bows||Archery Association of India (AAI) president Arjun Munda on Sunday said he would speak to union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to exempt import duty on bows. Munda, who felicitated Dronacharya awardee Dharmendra Tiwary at the Circuit House, said doing away with the import duty on both recurve and compound bows will benefit the archers to get the equipment at a lower price. “I would speak to the finance minister in this regard. Exempting import duty would enable the AAI to purchase the equipment in lots and distribute the same among archers,” Munda said. An import duty of 28 per cent is imposed on bows. The union tribal affairs minister said he wants to promote archery across the country and unearth talents from hinterlands. Praising Tiwary, chief coach of Tata Archery Academy, Munda said he should have been awarded much earlier. “Tiwary is the pride of the country and Jharkhand. He has produced Olympians and Arjuna awardees with his training. I hope the country’s archers would win medals in the Tokyo Olympic Games,” the former chief minister added. Munda said he wanted to felicitate Tiwary in a grand manner but had to keep things low-key owing to the pandemic. “Getting the Dronacharya award is a great achievement by Tiwary and I wanted to honour him in a grand manner. However, the pandemic played spoilosport,” he said. Tiwary, who has coached Olympians like Deepika Kumari, Atanu Das, Jayant Lakukdar and Rahul Banerjee, was also the mentor of the Indian men’s archery team in the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janiero. “There is no dearth of talented archers in Jharkhand. The state archery outfit is doing a wonderful job in bringing hidden talents to the forefront. I thank Mundaji for honouring me,” Tiwary said. AAI joint secretary and secretary of Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association Sumanta Kumar Mohanty, JAA secretary and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahto, East Singhbhum District Archery Association chief Dinesh Kumar, coaches B.S. Rao and Harendra Singh were present at the felicitation ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19 tally in Ranchi crosses 20,000 mark||The Covid-19 tally crossed the 20,000 mark in Ranchi on Sunday after the district reported over 350 cases in 24 hours. The district reported 374 cases of infection against 291 recoveries on Sunday, which took the count of active cases here up at 3,437, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. As many as 20,053 people have been infected by the virus in the capital district so far. The total number of recoveries crossed the 75,000 mark on Sunday after as many as 907 Covid patients tested negative for the virus in a span of 24 hours, figures released by the state health department stated. However, the count of active cases saw a marginal increase, as 933 new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally up at 87,210. As many as 75531 of the 87,000-odd Covid patients have recovered from the infection so far, while 10,936 are still battling the virus. While the state has registered a recovery rate of 86.60 per cent, which is higher than the national average, the number of deaths have also been on the rise. As per government data, at least nine more Covid-19 patients died during treatment on Sunday, taking the death toll in Jharkhand to 743. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.85 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.60 per cent. Three of the nine Covid deaths on Sunday occurred in Ranchi, while two patients died in East Singhbhum. Latehar reported two casualties, while Chatra and West Singhbhum reported one death each. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum reached 308 on Sunday; the toll in Ranchi was 127. The number of active cases, however, reduced in East Singhbhum after the district reported 119 recoveries against 74 cases of infection. There were around 1800 active cases in East Singhbhum after Sunday’s findings. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 19,563 people across the state and 18,630 of them came negative. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 24 lakh people and tested 23.94 lakh of them. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 47.89 days against the national doubling rate of 49.76 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand in the past one week was 1.42 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent, stated National Health Mission (NHM) in a press communique.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||14 girls rescued near Ranchi rail station ||An RPF team rescued 14 tribal girls, including eight minors, who were allegedly being trafficked to Hyderabad, near Ranchi railway station at 11.30pm on Friday. RPF commandant, Ranchi division, Prashant Yadav, said all the girls are from Latehar district in Jharkhand. The girls were being taken by a suspected woman trafficker to Hyderabad on the pretext of getting them jobs after imparting training in stitching and embroidery, he added. “Our RPF team spotted them just in time before they could board the Darbhanga-Secunderabad Express train. After interrogation, we handed over the girls, including the minors, to the Kotwali police station. “The minor girls were then handed over to the child welfare committee of Ranchi. Suspected woman trafficker Meena Devi has been arrested by the Kotwali police station,” said Yadav. He said it was the biggest rescue of tribal girls under Ranchi railway division of South Eastern Railway so far. Sources in the Ranchi RPF said that they had received an alert from the police earlier about increased activity of trafficking groups in the state, who are targeting the migrant women workers and minor girls who had returned from various parts of the country to their villages during the lockdown and might try to lure them back to the big cities on the pretext of employment. “The RPF team had been alerted about the intelligence input from the state police and one of our women constables Khusbu Kumari saw the 14 girls herded near the Ranchi railway station gate. RPF sub-inspector Sunita Tirkey and assistant sub-inspector Mohammed W. Khan started questioning the girls who looked frightened. “The girls could only utter their names, parents’ names, age and address and that they were going to Hyderabad. “But they could not give details about their employer. The RPF team continued questioning the girls who said that they were being taken by Meena,” said an official of Ranchi RPF. The RPF team started searching for Meena with the help of the girls and located her near the station gate. “When the RPF team started interrogating Meena, 25, she could not provide any details about the firm where the girls were being taken for stitching and embroidery training, the fees, duration and placement. She could not show any documents of the firm. “We then got the contact number of the parents of the rescued girls and got in touch with them. They were also in the dark about the Hyderabad firm. We lodged an FIR against Meena and handed her over to the Kotwali police station,” said Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||BJP yet to announce bypoll candidates||The ruling Grand Alliance and the Opposition in Jharkhand have decided on parties that will contest the byelection for the two Assembly seats, Dumka and Bermo, on November 3 but only the JMM has declared its candidate. The two seats fell vacant because chief minister Hemant Soren who had won two seats in the last Assembly elections in December 2019 vacated Dumka and retained Barheit while Congress MLA of Bermo Rajendra Prasad Singh died in May. The ruling combine decided that the parties that the seats in the last Assembly elections would contest those, meaning the JMM and the Congress would contest for Dumka and Bermo respectively. The Opposition, on the other hand, announced that the BJP would contest both the seats. “Ajsu Party is an old ally and we will work together for BJP candidates to help them win both the seats,” said BJP state president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, adding that he, along with the party’s state unit general secretary Dharampal Singh had met Ajsu chief Sudesh Mahto at the latter’s Ranchi residence on October 2 when Mahto agreed on BJP contesting both the seats. The BJP, however, is yet announce the names of its candidates for those two seats though the party’s state election committee discussed the issue in its meeting on Friday. “The meeting authorised state president Deepak Prakash, leader of the party's legislature party Babulal Marandi and state general secretary Dharampal Singh to prepare a list of candidates and send that to the national leadership for their consideration,” BJP state unit vice-president and MP Sunil Singh said in a statement issued after the meeting. The political circles, however, believe that the BJP could field Louise Marandi in Dumka and Yogeshwar Mahto in Bermo. They both had won those seats in 2014 but lost in 2019. The JMM has already declared that it would field Basant Soren, chief minister’s younger brother, in Dumka that Hemant had won in 2009 and 2019 while the Congress would field its candidate in Bermo. “We all will work together for the mahaganthbandhan (grand alliance) candidates in these seats and ensure their win,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. “We are discussing it but will announce the name of the candidate only after taking the high command into confidence,” Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey replied when asked who would their candidate in Bermo. “There is still enough time left for that,” Dubey further said, reminding that filing of nomination papers would start after the notification that will be issued on October 9. Rajendra Prasad Singh won the seat six times since 1985 though he lost it twice and it is widely believed that one his sons, either Jai Mangal or Anup, will be the Congress candidate this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
05-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ansari laid to rest at Pipra in Deoghar||Jharkhand minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari was laid to rest in his native village at Pipra in Deoghar district on Sunday. The four-time MLA from Madhupur died of cardiac arrest on Saturday afternoon at a private hospital in Ranchi after defeating Covid-19 the night before. Chief minister Hemant Soren, JMM cadres, local leaders from the BJP and the Congress attended his funeral. As his mortal remains were wheeled out from his ancestral home in Pathalchapdi in Madhupur to Pipra draped in the Indian flag on Sunday morning, thousands of people lined up on both sides of the road for a final glimpse of him. Haji represented Madhupur four times since his electoral debut from this seat on a JMM ticket in 1995 and became the first Muslim to become a minister in the state government in 2010 during former chief minister Arjun Munda’s regime. Following his death, the Jharkhand government has announced a two-day state mourning starting from Sunday and declared Monday a holiday. Akash Agarwal, 20, an industrialist and partner of Renuka Ispat, a private factory at Rajganj in Dhanbad, was on Sunday allegedly abducted and then released within two hours due to police pressure in Topchanchi area. Agarwal, the son of a noted industrialist, was abducted when he was on his way to the factory around noon. Agarwal said: “When I stopped my car about 500m from the factory due to some noise in one of the tyres, five-six persons who came to the spot in a vehicle from behind took me hostage at gunpoint and covered my face. They later pushed me into their car.” “They took my mobile phone and called my father, demanding a ransom of Rs 10 lakh, but later released me after driving around for some time.” Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said: “Agarwal was released due to police pressure and no ransom was paid as we conducted extensive searches and blocked all the roads.” “We are in the process of identifying those behind the incident,” he said. Renu Modi, 64, mother of Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan, died of a heart attack on Saturday evening at his official residence in Daltonganj. She was cremated the same night. Superintendent of police Sanjeev Kumar, SDPOs Sandip Gupta and Surjit Kumar, a battery of officials and staff were present during the cremation. Prominent persons from the town, ministers and journalists have expressed their condolences. Ranjan said: “My mother had protracted illness. She was with me. On Saturday, her condition began to deteriorate. “I wanted to rush her to Ranchi but she was sinking and the doctors said nothing could be done. Her condition remained unstable.” Her family has decided to have her last rites in Daltonganj itself. Ranjan hails from village Kusmi in Godda district. He said: “My father and other family members were with me when my mother breathed her last.” Sources said this was the first time a death has occurred in the family of a deputy commissioner at the official residence in the past 40 years or so. Local residents caught an alleged purse-snatcher at Banshidih in the Chas police station area on Sunday. The accused was thrashed by the residents. The officer in charge of Chas police station, Amitabh Rai, said the incident occurred with Seema Devi, a resident of Banshidih, was on her way home from Chas. Two persons on a motorcycle came from behind, snatched her purse and began to flee. She started shouting and upon hearing her, the local residents managed to catch one of the purse-snatchers. The arrested person has been identified as Imtiaz Ansari. His bike has been seized. The police are conducting raids to arrest the other accused. The purse has been recovered. Giridih police have seized a large number of liquor bottles which were being smuggled to poll-bound Bihar at Ghodthambha Outpost in the Dhanwar police station area. Four persons have been arrested in this connection. Security had been beefed up in border areas in view of the upcoming elections. Vehicles were being checked before being allowed to pass. Amit Renu, the Giridih superintendent of police, received a tip-off that a shipment of illegal liquor was being ferried in an SUV to Bihar. While 48 bottles of liquor were found in another car, another 336 were found in the SUV. The arrested persons are Upendra Kumar Soni, Guddu Kumar Pandey, Rajkumar Saw and Lalu Saw.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-278
