06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel Plant: One dead and another injured||Steel major Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) witnessed two separate incidents in which a contract worker died and another got seriously injured. The incident occurred seven days after the director in charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash, had asked officials and employees to ensure 100 per cent safety inside the plant. Following the incident, trade union leaders raised concerns over safety violations at the BSL plant. Two separate inquiry committees have been set up by the BSL management to ascertain the cause behind the incidents. Meanwhile, Mecon Ltd and the inspectorate of factories of the Jharkhand government have also begun an investigation. While working, Nageshwar Patel probably slipped and fell down in the cellar located around minus 3m and succumbed to head injuries.
The first incident occurred in Coke Oven Battery-8 at about 12.40 pm when 51-year-old Patel, a contract worker, died in the cellar. He was employed by NP Contruction of M/S Mecon Ltd. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said: “Patel was engaged in material shifting work as part of the job of shifting of pipeline when the incident occurred." Dhan added: “The job has been taken up by Mecon Ltd from BSL for construction of Coke Oven Battery-8.” “We will visit the spot where the incident occurred inside the BSL plant on Wednesday,” said inspector of factories Dhirendera Singh Munda. Another incident occurred around 2pm in steel melting Shop-2 inside the plant. Dilip Manjhi, 33, a contract worker of M/s Janta Construction, got injured when the transverse stand of mixer crane-1 got unbalanced while being lifted. Dhan said: “Manjhi was immediately rushed to Bokaro General Hospital where he is undergoing treatment for his injuries. An inquiry committee also set up by BSL will be investigating the cause of this accident." General secretary of Jai Jharkhand Majdoor Samaj (JJMS), the trade union of JMM, B.K. Chaudhary said: “There is sheer negligence of safety inside the BSL plant. The department heads remain ignorant about the safety issues. Contract labourers are under pressure as workload is large and the manpower is less. Unskilled labourers are also adding to the rise in accidents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid toll jumps to 757 after 10 more die||The Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand jumped to 757 on Tuesday after 10 more patients, including five in Ranchi alone, died during treatment in the past 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. The recovery rate in the state rose further up to 87.86 per cent after 1,246 patients recovered from the infection against 847 fresh cases surfacing during the day, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per government data, three of the 10 Covid-19 victims in Jharkhand were from East Singhbhum, the district that accounts for nearly half of the state’s casualties. The number of Covid-19 fatalities in East Singhbhum reached 312 on Tuesday, while the toll in Ranchi jumped to 133. These two districts account for 58.78 per cent of the total deaths in Jharkhand. Giridih and Koderma reported one Covid death each on Tuesday. After Tuesday’s findings, the number of active cases reduced significantly in Ranchi but increased marginally in East Singhbhum. Ranchi, as per government data, reported 280 cases of infection during the day against 440 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases here down to 3,114. The count of active cases in East Singhbhum dropped to 1,694 after the district reported 97 fresh cases against 151 recoveries, government data stated. The number of active cases in Jharkhand dropped further down to 10,027 on Tuesday, while the number of total recoveries stood at 78,089. The government in Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 24.68 lakh people and tested 24.65 lakh of them. Of those tested, 88,873 were found infected. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 35,954 people and 35,107 of them tested negative. Government reports put Jharkhand’s Covid-19 mortality rate at 0.85 per cent on Tuesday against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per government data, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infections in Jharkhand was 65.67 days against the national rate of 55.36 days. In the past one week, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 1.06 per cent against the national average of 1.26 per cent. Of the 757 Covid-19 victims in the state, at least 566 were older than 50 years, government data highlighted. As many as 148 coronavirus victims in Jharkhand were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, while 33 deceased were younger than 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur puja committees to meet CM for tweaking guidelines ||Durga Puja guidelines, which were supposed to be issued three months ago, has now left puja committees in a fix as preparations are already underway. Although the state government announced the guidelines on Oct 1, committees say it is too late. Members of the Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity, the apex body of puja committees in the steel city, having met chief minister Hemant Soren once. has decided to meet him again to eliberate upon issues faced by them. "The problem is that puja committees have already ordered idols, some of them 9-11 ft in height. Now artisans cannot make a new idol within 17 days. We are thankful that the government heard us, but this needs a practical solution. So, we will once again meet the chief minister to regularise what is already in place," said general secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity, Arun Singh. Singh said they will also request the chief minister to allow the preparation of bhog, but as a takeaway. Members also feel that 25 people, instead of the recommended seven, be alowed in the pandal at a time.  They also seek to ask for dhakis and loudspeakers to play at the time of mantra recitation and aarti. "Food takeaway was already permitted, hence bhog shouldn't have a problem. Puja committees have ensured social distancing and we think we must cooperate with them. I believe we can enjoy the festival responsibly with a few improvisations in the guidelines. It's just that the government needs to think and consider these points," said C.N. Banerjee, president of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity. "Although our idol is only five foot, the rest of the guidelines are almost impossible to follow. Seven people in a puja pandal is too less and loudspeakers have got nothing to do with the pandemic. Also if the government can allow restaurants to open, what is the problem with bhog," said Chitrodeep Bhattacharjee, a member of the New Farm Area Sarbajanin Durga Puja Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Angry with RJD, JMM decides to go it alone in Bihar  ||The JMM will fight the Bihar elections on its own and not in alliance with the RJD, its partner in the Jharkhand government, but clarified that it will continue to honour its commitment towards the grand alliance that unseated the BJP in Jharkhand. JMM’s general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We have decided to fight alone in Bihar, on our own strength. Initially, we have finalised seven seats but since the polls are in three phases, we will announce more seats after internal discussion within the party forum.” Party sources told Telegraph Online that chief minister Hemant Soren, who is also JMM working president, held talks with RJD working president Tejashwi Yadav on Monday night, but the talks failed. No one, however, confirmed it officially. But an irked JMM posed a question to RJD supremo Lalu Prasad for his silence over his party’s double standards. “We accommodated RJD in the grand alliance in Jharkhand both during last year’s general and Assembly polls despite negligible presence of the party in this state. They only managed to win one seat in the Assembly polls in Jharkhand last year. Still we inducted their lone MLA into the cabinet. We gave them full respect but now it seems they didn’t deserve that respect. Why is Laluji, who often talks about social justice and political inclusiveness silent now?” said Bhattacharjee. The JMM spokesperson, however, clarified that the party won’t go back on its commitment in Jharkhand. “The JMM-Congress-RJD alliance in Jharkhand will stay intact as of now,” he said. In August, the JMM announced that it would fight Bihar polls as a part of the mahagatbandhan under the leadership of the RJD. Following several rounds of meetings, JMM put forth a list of 12 seats for itself. Later, JMM demanded six more seats. But the JMM maintained that it was open to negotiations with the RJD and was even ready to downsize their demand of 18 seats in the interest of the grand alliance. But Bhattacharjee said they did not hear from the RJD leadership. “We waited to hear from the RJD about a respectable number of seats. But now the scope for negotiations is over. The JMM will not compromise with the party’s self-respect for the sake of fighting polls. For us, mutual respect is more important. But perhaps, RJD doesn’t want to treat us with respect,” Bhattacharjee said. He said the JMM would emerge as a force to reckon with during government formation Bihar and went on to name seven seats in Bihar where it would put up candidates. “These are seats where we are sure of winning, namely, Jhaja, Chakai, Katuria, Dhamdaha, Manihari, Pirpainti, and Nathnagar.” Bhattacharjee said they would decide on some more seats later. The last time JMM fought alone in Bihar was in 2005 when it won only a single seat (Chakai). Bhattacharjee, however, insisted that the JMM would not go back on its commitment in Jharkhand and reminded RJD about the JMM’s contribution during the time of undivided Bihar. “When Laluji became CM for the first time, it was with our support. Later, he went on to become CM thrice. We had even supported JDU’s Nitish Kumar when he first became CM for only nine days. In the 2015 Assembly polls in Bihar, the JMM had extended support to the JDU-RJD alliance,” he said. Bhattacharjee said JMM was always a key player in government formation. “In the first polls in 1952, we were the largest in the Opposition with 32 MLAs. Since then, we maintained our stronghold in south Bihar regions (most of which is in Jharkhand now) and remained a deciding factor in the formation of governments,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||State’s largest Covid centre coming up at Ranchi Sadar Hospital ||A Covid care centre with 300 dedicated beds for symptomatic and severely-ill patients is set to come up at the Sadar Hospital in Ranchi by mid-October, officials said on Tuesday. Ranchi Deputy Development Commissioner Ananya Mittal told this correspondent that the facility will have 30 beds with ventilators, while all the remaining 270 beds will have oxygen support. Once ready it will be the largest such facility in the state. “The dedicated Covid care facility will come up on the third, fourth and fifth floors of the hospital. Only symptomatic patients will be treated in this facility,” she said. This Covid care centre will have a separate entry and exit in a bid to ensure that other departments of the hospital continue to function unhindered. Attendants and doctors visiting the Covid centre will not treat patients in the other wards of the hospital, they added. As of now, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) has the largest Covid ward for symptomatic patients in the city. There are 100 dedicated Covid beds at RIMS. There are more than 12,000 Covid beds in Jharkhand, including the ones for asymptomatic patients at private facilities, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. However, hardly 1,000 beds were available for symptomatic patients. The Sadar Hospital is located at a stone’s throw from Albert Ekka Chowk, the heart of the city, and is easily accessible from all parts of the state capital. Currently it has 200 beds. Of the existing 200 beds, 150 are for the maternity ward and the remaining 50 for paediatrics. At the time of its inauguration, the state government decided to exclusively treat pregnant women and newborns in the facility. The hospital already has a dedicated medicine OPD, a physiotherapy unit, child care OPD, an in-patient department (IPD) and ICU, female care OPD, IPD and ICU, labour room and nutrition unit. “The Covid care centre should be ready for patients by October 15. It will be the largest Covid care centre for symptomatic patients in Jharkhand so far,” said the DDC. At present, Covid patients suffering from severe symptoms undergo treatment either at RIMS or private hospitals. Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi has dedicated ICU beds for Covid patients. The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur also have dedicated wards for symptomatic Covid patients. As per latest figures with the NHM, there were 10,436 active Covid cases in Jharkhand. As many as 88,026 people have been found infected across Jharkhand so far and 76,843 of them have recovered. The virus has claimed the lives of at least 747 people in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Single-screen halls not keen on reopening in Dhanbad ||Cinema hall owners of the coal capital aren’t enthusiastic about reopening their auditoriums, their reaction coming on Tuesday, hours after the Union information and broadcasting ministry issued SOPs for screening films, specifying a host of restrictions centred around social distancing and temperature control. Nitesh Shahabadi, owner of Ray Talkies, the oldest cinema of Dhanbad, said, “People come to cinemas to be entertained and not to feel harassed. Unfortunately, with guidelines like keeping a seat empty between each viewer and mandatory wearing of masks, many will find it difficult to enjoy a movie.” He also raised another fundamental question. “What exactly will we exhibit as no big movie is being released now? Also, the occupancy at halls, which is usually around 10 per cent, will go down further if we screen old movies instead of blockbusters,” he said. Shahabadi added shopkeepers and those who ran eateries near cinema halls, most of whom have already lost their earnings, were not in a position to reopen. Notably, SOPs released on Tuesday call for entry and exit of audience members according to rows in a staggered fashion and sufficient time between shows so that there is no rush. Regarding seating arrangements, the SOP specifies a 50 per cent cap. This means, one seat will have to be kept empty between two viewers. Prashant Singh, owner of Puja Talkies in the heart of town, said, “The SOPs talk of frequent sanitisation of hall premises, including common areas that are accessed by all. This will escalate our costs.” He said although hall owners of Bihar and Bengal are gearing up to open single-screen auditoriums, they were yet to take a call. “It will be difficult to manage the expenses,” Singh said, adding that he was in any case facing difficulty to pay salaries to his staff. “Because of the lockdown we are paying 50 per cent salaries. But after reopening we will have to pay full salary. Now, we are awaiting the state government’s guidelines,” he said, adding that they would take a final call after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Special athlete in need of financial help to treat paralysed mother ||Special athlete Vijay Mishra is running from pillar to post for the treatment of his ailing mother. The 37-year-old Mishra’s mother Eva suffered brain haemorrhage some days back and  underwent treatment at Mercy Hospital in Baridih. She was discharged from the hospital on Saturday as doctors said she should undergo treatment at her home. Eva’s condition is said to be critical and she is showing signs of memory loss. Intellectually impaired Vijay, who was part of the Indian football team that claimed silver in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games held at Connecticut in the US in 1995 and later represented the country in floor hockey in the World Winter Games in Busan, Japan in 2005, said his mother’s blood pressure shot up and subsequently she suffered brain haemorrhage. “ The right side of my mother is also paralysed. I am in need of financial aid for meeting her medical expenses. She was admitted to the hospital on September 22. So far my relatives have helped us out but they also have their limitations. A sum of over Rs 20,000 has already been spent and doctors have said a further Rs 50,000 was needed for medical treatment. My mother is bedridden. I am very worried and seeking help from various quarters. But so far no help has come my way,” Vijay, a resident of zone number 4, Birsanagar said. The former international medallist lives with his 65-year-old mother at his aunt’s home. His father has passed away. Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota, who visited Eva at the hospital last week, said she (Vijay’s mother) failed to recognise him. “I think she has lost her memory. Money is urgently needed for her medical treatment,” he added. Sahota, a former international cyclist, said they have requested Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) to extend financial help to Vijay so that he can meet the medical expenses of his mother. “We have requested the SOB and have also highlighted Vijay’s financial condition,” he added. According to him, they have also requested members of SOJ to contribute Rs 1,000 each for Vijay’s help. “Some members have sent money to Vijay’s bank account. SOJ area director Bailey Bodhanwala will also chip in with Rs 10,000 from his side. After all, Vijay has made us proud by winning silver in the World Games,” Sahota, resource person (for cycling) in SOB, said. Special Olympics Bharat, a national organisation which works for the promotion of intellectually impaired, had given Rs 20,000  as financial assistance to  Jamshedpur-based special athlete Sanjeev Das who needed money for the treatment of his pregnant wife in June this year. Sanjeev, who worked at a firm in Baroda (Gujarat) lost his job in view of the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown. He returned from Baroda and went to New Delhi to be with his wife’s side at her in-law’s home. Moreover, a senior SOB functionary and a UK-based businessman had also provided Rs 10,000 each to special powerlifter Neha Rajak whose family was facing problems during the lockdown. Neha had won four bronze medals in powerlifting in the World Summer Games held in Abu Dhabi last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Recovery rate close to 88 per cent, more than 800 cases in a day in Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate drew close to 88 per cent on Monday after nearly 1300 patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours against 816 fresh cases of infection surfacing during the same period, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. The state’s Covid recovery rate of 87.29 per cent, officials said, was among the best in country, and above the national average of 84.30 per cent. However, despite the high recovery rate, over 10,000 people were still battling the virus across various districts of Jharkhand. As per government data, health workers have so far collected swab samples of 24.21 lakh people and tested 24.18 lakh of them. Of the 24 lakh-odd people tested, as many as 88,026 were found Covid infected and at least 76,843 of them have recovered, states government data. There were 10,436 active cases in the state by Monday night. The Covid toll in Jharkhand also jumped to 747 on Monday after four more patients died during treatment. The four deceased were from West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Ranchi. However, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate dropped to 0.84 per cent on Monday against the national average of 1.60 per cent. The number of active cases reduced in Ranchi as well as in East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts, after Monday’s findings. Ranchi reported 478 recoveries against 319 fresh cases, which brought the number of active cases down to 3,275. The number of active cases in East Singhbhum dropped to 1,751 after 236 patients recovered in the district and 70 fresh cases surfaced. Dhanbad reported 100 recoveries against 43 cases, while Koderma reported 45 recoveries against only three cases. The number of active cases, however, shot up in Bokaro after the district reported 50 fresh cases and not even a single recovery. There were 488 active cases of infection in Bokaro on Monday night, as per latest government data. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 50.32 days against the national Covid doubling rate of 48.76 days. The figures indicate that the number of cases in Jharkhand will double in around 50 days if the current trend of Covid cases continue. The growth rate of Covid-19 in the state was 1.46 per cent against the national average of 1.34 per cent. As per government data, out of the 747 Covid victims, at least 309 were from East Singhbhum alone and 128 from Ranchi. The figures highlight that these two districts account for nearly 60 per cent of total Covid casualties in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Armed criminals fire at mob, 2 injured||Two persons were injured seriously when a gang of armed criminals shot at a mob in Dhatkidih A - Block under Bistupur thana area on Monday afternoon. The incident took place after a gang of six turned up at their friend Mohammed Zeidy’s house to meet his parents. Zeidy was receiving treatment at Tata Main Hospital for allegedly trying to commit suicide. An altercation between the gang and the parents led to neighbours gathering outside the house. When they tried to intervene, the gang became violent and hostile. The gang had pistols on them and fired over a dozen rounds before fleeing on their bikes. Two of the neighbours sustained bullet injuries. Mohammed Salman, the gang leader, is absconding, said city SP, Subhash Chandra Jat. Jat said, one of the injured, Mohammed Mustaqeem had sustained a bullet in his chest and will be undergoing a surgery. Police have recovered five empty cartridges from the spot at A-Block in Dhatkidih and are trying to get CCTV footage related to the violence. Ghanshyam Rai, professor in charge, Training and Placement of BIT Sindri was given the best Academician of year award on Monday at the 2nd International Academic and Research Excellence Award-2020. The award is an initiative of GISR foundation of senior researchers to honour and acknowledge extraordinary talents from all walks of life. The award was given during a function held at Goa. Rai has been selected for the award for his outstanding contribution in academics. Two members of an inter-state gang allegedly involved in supplying hashish in Uttar Pradesh and Odisha were arrested with ganja (Hashish) worth more than Rs 5 lakh. Garhwa SDPO Bahman Tuti said a 23-year-old woman and a driver from Uttar Pradesh were arrested on Sunday late evening when they were going  to supply a large quantity of ‘green ice hashish’ Nagar Untari near railway crossing. The police caught the two when they were coming back from Odisha’s Jharsugoda village -- which is popular for drugs and trance parties. They were on their way to Shaktinagar (Uttar Pradesh). Police recovered 57 kg of hashish, which was hidden in the bolero jeep in a bag. Cash worth Rs. 22,120 were also recovered from them. “The recovered hashish is worth Rs 5 lakh in international market,” the SDPO said. The arrested have been to judicial custody. Himmat Singh Chauhan, the newly appointed general manager of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL), Sindri on Monday held a meeting with the officials of Fertilizer Corporation of India, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Fertilizer Corporation of India and Electrical department officers of the HURL. Chauhan has assured to address the grievances of Sindri residents by taking the matter further with the General Manager of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Paritosh Kumar, and other authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Scores of Bokaro students crack JEE Advanced||At least 70 students, majority of them from Delhi Public School (DPS) and Chinmaya Vidyalaya, cracked the Joint Entrance (JEE) Advanced Examination 2020 in the district. The results were declared on Monday. Sarthak Kumar, a student of Rainbow Public School, scored the highest in JEE Advanced in the district with an all India rank (AIR) of 432. Sarthak, who also scored highest in the JEE Mains in the district, is the son of Santosh Kumar, an employee of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). “I am elated. My ambition is to become a computer engineer and get admission in IIT, Mumbai. Regular and focused study is the mantra of my success,” said Sarthak. He was followed by Pranshu Gaur, a DPS student with an AIR of 537. Two dozen students from DPS, Bokaro have cracked the IIT JEE Advanced. Harsh Agarwal, Utkarsh Aditya, Rahul Shrestha, Suryansh Arya, Tanay Singh, Aditya Kumar Singh and others are in the list of successful candidates. Principal, DPS Bokaro, A S Gangwar congratulated the successful students and said "This is reward for relentless effort put in by our students”.  Chinmaya Vidyalaya students also cracked the entrance in large numbers. “It is a matter of great pride as Chinmaya Vidyalaya creates history with more than 35 students qualified in JEE Advanced. Our student, Uttam Kumar with AIR-661 has become one of the toppers in the district,” said Mahesh Tripathi, Secretary, Chinmaya Vidyalaya. Four students of Sree Ayyappa Public School, three students of Pentecostal School Assembly, two of MGM Higher Secondary School and one of ARS Public School have also cracked JEE Advanced. Many schools are yet to declare names of students who qualified JEE Advanced as institutions were closed. Coaching institutes have also announced good results. Several students from FIITJEE, Pace Bokaro, Bansal Classes have passed the prestigious examination. Majority of the successful candidates claimed by coaching institutes are students studying in different schools of the town.. “Bokaro is known for producing a large number of students who crack the IIT entrance tests in eastern India since the past decade,” said S S Mahapatra, Director, Sree Ayyappa Public School. Principal of Pentecostal Assembly School, Dr Karuna Prasad said students have performed well as like last year. The candidates who have cleared the exam will be eligible for admissions to undergraduate courses at the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Protesting villagers refuse to allow NTPC coal transportation||Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand and superintendent KarthiK S visited Chepakala village in Barkagaon block (35 km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter) on Monday to convince protesting villagers to allow resumption of coal transport. Villagers have been on satyagraha since September 2 at the National Thermal Power Corporation’s (NTPC) Pankri Barwadih coal mining project, demanding increased compensation, jobs and compliance with other norms. They have blocked the routes for transportation to 40 different NTPC projects across the country since then. As a result, a stock of 5.5 lakh metric ton of coal has accumulated, and smoke was reportedly seen rising up recently from the dump. NTPC officials met Anand on Friday evening, requesting immediate intervention to start transportation, fearing massive fire hazard and loss.. The meeting started at 5 in the evening and ended at 7 PM with villagers refusing to call off their agitation. Anand said NTPC has been able to control the flames for now, but it will be difficult for them to contain the risk if the entire coal stock catches fire. This will also result in an environmental disaster, apart from denting the government’s coal reserves. Taking cognizance of the villagers’ demands, Anand said the government will duly consider them, but coal transportation should resume as soon as possible. NTPC's executive director Prashant Kashyap, sub-divisional officer Vidya Bhushan Kumar, SDPO Bhupendra Raut, circle officer Vaibhav Kumar Singh and block development officer Prawesh Kumar Saw were also present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-276
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Mixed response to Jharkhand Durga Puja guidelines ||The guidelines for Durga Puja issued by the Jharkhand government have evoked mixed reactions from the organisers. They are happy that the government at least allowed them to organise Durga Puja this year but at the same time, they are disheartened that some of the restrictions are too harsh. The guidelines issued by the home and disaster management department under the signature of chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on October 1 said the government “considered it important to strike a balance” between conducting rituals traditionally and ensuring that there are no congregations which could lead to spread of Covid-19 infection. According to the guidelines, there will be specially erected small pandals “that shall be covered on all sides in a way to prevent any public view of the idols” where rituals will be performed “without public participation”. The pandals will have no theme and decoration with lights, the guidelines said. It said the idols would be less than 4 feet in height and only seven persons, including the organisersand priests, can be present at any given time who will also wear masks and maintain a distance ofsix feet. There will also be no distribution of bhog or prasad, no public address system and no function of any kind, the guidelines said, adding that violators would be prosecuted under the provisions of the law. “Most of us had apprehended the pandemic could continue and decided to make the puja a low-key affair this year,” said Munchun Rai, coordinator of Ranchi Mahanagar Durga Puja Samiti, the apex body of community pujas in the state capital. He said that they would follow the guidelines. “But there is a resentment about the height of the idols as some committees may have built them a little higher,” he said. Rai said they would approach the administration to offer leeway on the height as it was difficult to replace idols at this stage. The goddess is normally seen astride a lion and thereis also a frame behind the idol, Rai pointed out. It was difficult to restrict the height within 4 feet, he added. He, however, said that very few idols could cross that height. “We are glad that the puja has been allowed to be organised,” said Rambabu Singh, general secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti. He said that they would adhere to the guidelines. “We shall also follow the guidelines and will do away with mandatory pushpanjali (a floral offering), besides cancelling the traditional sindoor khela (Vijaya Dashami ritual) this year,” said Partha Sarathi Sengupta, an organiser of Hirapur Hari Mandir Sharadiyo Sammilani, a popular puja destination in Dhanbad. He said they were making a small idol standing at around 4 feet only. Most of the people, however, opined they could not imagine a community Durga Puja with just seven persons participating in it while making it out of bounds for all others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
06-10-2020||Jharkhand||Plea for ration card camps in Ranchi slums ||The state units of Right to Food Campaign and All India People’s Forum (AIPF) requested the deputy commissioner of Ranchi to organise ration card application camps in slum areas. A delegation comprising economist Jean Dreze, Swati Narayan of Right to Food Campaign  and Nadeem Khan of AIPF met DC Chhavi Ranjan on Monday and handed over a formal letter requesting him to organise such camps “so that all eligible persons are able to apply for green ration cards”. The Jharkhand government has recently announced it would issue 15 lakh more such green ration cards under Jharkhand state food security scheme for bringing eligible persons under public distribution system (PDS). Mentioning that “without help many of them are likely to be unable to apply”, they requested the DC to organise ration card application camps in slum areas, adding those should be held at convenient places such as schools or marriage halls. They further requested Ranjan to arrange “community level publicity and outreach such as loudspeaker announcement to spread information” about those camps. They also requested the DC to give special attention to include disabled and homeless persons,  single women,  beggars and other vulnerable persons of the community, particularly those who do not have Aadhaar numbers. They also requested the administration to help getting applicants such necessary documents as caste, disability and death certificates and Aadhaar numbers,  adding civil society organisations may also be approached for making the camps successful. “The DC agreed to arrange camps within a few days,  with due preparation and proper publicity,” Swati Narayan of Right to Food Campaign told after their meeting with the DC. “We expect those camps will be held within a week or so,” added Nadeem Khan of AIPF, clarifying their intention was to include every eligible person under the scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-277
