07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Son of daily wage labourer secures first rank in Akanksha-40||The son of a daily wage labourer has secured first position in Akanksha-40, a test conducted by Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC). Akanksha-40 is conducted for candidates unable to afford coaching for engineering and medical entrance examinations. This year, 309 candidates had appeared in the test from 24 districts across the state. Of these, 40 who have passed the exam are given coaching classes with residential facility in Ranchi. Anil Kumar always dreamed of becoming an engineer from any Indian Institute of Technology. “I was worried what he would do after schooling, as we didn’t have enough money for his studies. But as now he has cracked Akanksha, I believe he will be able to make his future nice,” said Phoolo Devi, his mother. “My father is a labourer but he never stops me from studying. We are two brothers and a sister. I always dream to study in IIT and become an engineer. Atleast hundred of students every year crack the JEE examination in Bokaro. I always wanted to be one among them. I am happy that God gave me the opportunity to prepare for the JEE examination. I will study hard and bag this opportunity,” said Kumar. In Bokaro, three students have secured rank under 40 in engineering and two in medical. The first rank in engineering is shared by two candidates. Sharan Burnwal of Jamtara district also secured first rank apart from Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Excise department destroys 6,000 cartons of beer cans at Bhilaipahadi||The excise department on Wednesday destroyed a huge stock of beer that had expired due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Over 6,000 cartons of canned beer were smashed and destroyed by an excavator that the Excise department officials of the East Singhbhum district had employed in the presence of a designated executive magistrate on the premises of Jharkhand State Beverage Corporation Ltd (JSBCL) godown at Bhilaipahadi along the NH33 about 16km away from here towards Ghatsila this afternoon. The destroyed commodity is part of the total 17,000 cartons of beer which are scheduled to be destroyed during the next two days. Excise inspector Pravin Kumar Rana said they have dug a 12X8ft pit in the premises of the JSBCL godown for the disposal of the destroyed bottles. "In the first lot, we decided to destroy the beer cans; the total stock was 12,000 of the 17,000 cartons.  The remaining 5,000 cartons are ordinary beer.  We have destroyed 6,000 cartons of beer by pressing an excavator today and as much amount will be destroyed on Thursday. The remaining 5,000 cartons of ordinary beers will be destroyed in other ways," said the excise inspector while talking to The Telegraph Online. Rana said that more pits were required for the disposal of the entire stock. Before the disposal, several youngsters hailing from the adjoining villages had gathered to retrieve the remainder of the stock. Arun Mishra, assistant excise commissioner, said the total stock of the expired beer was collected from 134 licensed liquor shops, 40 beer bars and five clubs in and around the steel city. "As beer remains consumable only for six months after its manufacturing, we had started identifying the liquor shops, beer bars and the clubs from June 1. We had also checked the stock of the beverage, especially the expired beer at the beer bars, including in the clubs which are still non-functional. The bulk of the expired stock recovered was from the JSBCL godown," said Mishra while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Congress to hold farmers' rally in Ranchi on October 10||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) has announced to organize a farmers' rally (kisan mahasabha) on October 10 in Ranchi, against the new "anti-farmer and pro-capitalist" farm laws. Congress, which is part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, has been holding a series of activities since last two weeks as part of the party’s nationwide campaign against the laws. JPCC president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also state’s finance minister said, “Kisans (farmers) will attend the rally on October 10 in Ranchi where deliberations will take place against Modiji’s farm laws, which he has undemocratically enforced to suit his corporate friends. Farmers will speak up against the dubious laws to expose the union government." The rally is scheduled at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground and over 100 farmers are expected to be invited for the event, party sourcesinformed. A host of lockdown restrictions are still in force in Jharkhand, and organizing public gatherings continues to remain banned. However, political parties of both the ruling and opposition camps have been blatantly violating the rule as of late. Oraon said, “We will hold the rally with due permission from the district administration. Restricted number of people will attend the rally and we shall ensure all covid safety norms.” The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has also been critical of the new farm laws. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who is also JMM’s working president, last month said that he will try to block the new laws, stating they will further debilitate the annadata (farmers). Sonia Gandhi to name Congress candidate for Bermo Meanwhile, state Congress unit held a meeting of its election committee, under the aegis of Oraon, on Wednesday in the wake of the upcoming bypolls in Bermo and Dumka. After the meeting, Oraon said that the party is going to authorize All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi to declare the candidate for Bermo seat. “District and block leadership recommended as many as four names to the state unit for choosing a candidate for Bermo. We have deliberated upon every aspiring candidate and will soon send our recommendation to the central leadership. The party is authoritising our national president Sonia Gandhi to take a final call,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dalma jumbo turns 11, birthday celebrated||Ranji, a female elephant undergoing rehab at Dalma wildlife sanctuary, turned 11 on Wednesday. Like every year, foresters celebrated her birthday. The celebration was kept simple owing to the pandemic, znd was attended by forest guards, a few members of eco development committees, and village chiefs. Rajni was helped to slice an 18-pound cake, as Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra and guards fed her bananas in the presence of Champa, Rajni’s 60-plus year old companion. “We celebrate Rajni’s birthday every year. It makes us happy and we also feel we care about animals. We did not invite government school children and animal lovers this time since the pandemic forced us to keep things simple,” said Chandra. Rajni was rescued from inside a well in Ichapur village of Seraikela-Kharsawan in 2010 and was subsequenty brought to Dalma for rehab. She was earlier treated for her injuries at Tata Steel Zoological Park hospital in Jamshedpur. The elephant, who loves to play with village boys and girls, lives with Champa under a shade at Makulakocha, the main entrance to the sprawling sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. Champa was rescued from the clutches of beggars in Jamtara in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi administration to not open religious places without SOPs||The Ranchi district administration is unsure about reopening all religious places from Thursday, in accordance with the state government’s unlock order. District administration officials on Wednesday said that this was primarily because of the lack of any standard operating procedures (SOPs), Earlier in the day, they issued a communiqué announcing to postpone the reopening to Saturday, but later withdrew it. Despite this, several establishments have already undertaken massive cleaning and sanitization activities over last few days. Ranchi’s ADM law and order Lokesh Mishra said, “Temple, churches, mosques etc will be opened only after we get SOP from the state government.” Earlier this month, Jharkhand government allowed opening of all religious places from October 8, but hasn’t yet detailed dos and don'ts. All the religious places were shutdown in March, the state government in August allowed reopening of Deoghar’s Baba Baidhyanath Dham temple and Dumka’s Basukinath temple following a PIL in Supreme Court. Ranchi SDO Sameera S said that even after reopening of places of worship, the district administration will continue crackdowns in case of excessive gatherings or violation of any Covid-19 safety norms. “Although we are approaching the unlocking stage, the pandemic is still far from being over. This is the time when everyone should be more cautious when it comes to personal and public safety. Hence, everyone venturing out of their homes will be mandated to put on masks, while all establishments will have to follow with compulsory provision of sanitisers, systems for crowd control, among other advisories issued by central and state government,” she said. Trains and inter-state state transport are yet to be opened even though bus owners are increasingly demanding for their recommencement citing losses ahead of the festive season. Talking to reporters on Tuesday night at Project Building, chief minister Hemant Soren didn’t make any commitment on this issue. He said, “We will be taking a call as per the need keeping all aspects in mind. We have already opened many things and the call on train and inter-state buses too will be taken soon. Government’s first focus is public safety.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||250 protesters dispersed, 30 caught and subjected to Covid tests||Around 250 decorators, demonstrating near the collectorate on Wednesday to demand they be allowed to ply their trade, had to face the East Singhbhum district administration’s wrath for violating social distancing norms: not only was the gathering dispersed, 30 protesters were detained and released on bail only after they were subjected to Covid tests. The protesters, under the aegis of All Decorators’ Sangharsh Samiti, had gathered at Aam Bagan ground in Sakchi at 10am and then marched towards the district collectorate, shouting slogans on loudspeakers fitted onto two vehicles. The protestors were standing close to each other and many of them were without masks. During the protest, ADM (law and order) Nand Kishore Lal arrived with a police force and ordered them to disperse. The police resorted to a mild lathicharge after which most protesters fled. Those who couldn’t _ around 30 _ were rounded up. The 30 protesters were lodged at a camp jail at Motilal Nehru Public School. "We took action as the protestors were not following social distancing norms. Many of them were not wearing masks. They were also shouting slogans on loudspeakers, the use of which is prohibited," Lal said. The ADM (law and order) said they needed to act as people had become lax and were ignoring safety measures. “The administration will do everything to keep people safe,” he added. Convenor of the samiti Sumeet Srivastava, who was leading the protest, said the Centre had allowed the reopening of hotels, clubs and restaurants with Covid restrictions, and had also allowed gatherings of 200 people. But the Jharkhand government, he said, was yet to open up. "We had to speak through loudspeakers because our families are on the verge of starvation. Since the past seven months, we are sitting idle at home, whereas in other states people engaged in our profession have started earning money as the government of those states have implemented the Centre’s directives,” he said. Srivastava said they were appealing to the Hemant Soren government to make it convenient for decorators to carry out their businesses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi pujas keen on delivering ‘bhog’ at home||A conglomerate of over 300 Durga Puja committees in Ranchi has decided to deliver bhog at the doorsteps of people staying in the vicinity of various pandals and is set to seek permission for it from the government, puja organisers said on Wednesday. Members of the umbrella body of Durga Pujas in the state capital, the Ranchi District Durga Puja Committee (RDDPC), said on Wednesday that all member pujas would follow all precautionary measures and ensure contactless delivery of bhog to residents of Ranchi. The president of the committee, Ashok Purohit, said that representatives of various puja committees in the city will soon meet concerned officials of the district administration and float their demand for home delivery of bhog. “Pujas cannot happen without offering bhog to Maa. We cannot throw out that bhog. It has to be consumed by devotees,” said Purohit, adding that various puja committees will take the responsibility of delivering bhog to the houses in the vicinity of their pandal. “When we can allow Swiggy and Zomato deliver food from restaurants, then why can’t we allow puja committee members to home deliver bhog?” asked Purohit. Members of the committee met chief minister Hemant Soren a day before the government issued its guidelines for Durga Puja celebrations. However, the committee members did not know then that the government would prohibit distribution of bhog and installation of loudspeakers during puja. “If we knew that the government was planning to prohibit distribution of bhog and playing mantras on loudspeakers, then we would have asked the government to make amendments in the guidelines the very day we met the CM,” Purohit said. The Mamata Banerjee-led government in neighbouring West Bengal has left it to puja organisers to decide how they wanted to distribute bhog.  Ranchi committee members said they were expecting revised guidelines from the Jharkhand government in the next 48 hours. The committee has also assured the government that all puja committees would take additional precautionary measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus during the four days of Durga Puja. “We would never want to be blamed for the spread of the virus. Therefore, we will be taking additional precautionary measures during those four days,” said Ramesh Singh, a member of the Chandrashekhar Azar Puja Committee in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Driving license issuance to resume from October 16||Preparations are being made for the relaunching of driving license issuance work done by the district transport department in Dhanbad. More than 9783 license applications are pending at the Dhanbad district transport office, out of which 6258 applications are related to license renewal, while around 2525 applications are related to the issuance of new licenses. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, district transport officer of Dhanbad, Om Prakash Yadav said, “Extensive preparations are being made for maintaining social distancing at the counters, and we are working out a module where a limited number of persons are called slot-wise for driving skill testing.” He said they are not going to increase the counters, as it will lead to more gatherings and a resultant violation of social distancing norms. "For main licenses, we will be carrying out the entire process of testing etc. at the spacious Golf Ground in Dhanbad," said Yadav. After the initial experiment with around 100 per day, they may gradually increase the number of applicants per slot if a system to follow the social distancing measure is developed. All work of the transport department, including the issuance of license, permit, fitness certificate etc were stopped after the imposition of lockdown in March. Though, some work has started, license issuance work after testing of driving skills is scheduled to begin from October 16. "I shifted to Dhanbad in February from my ancestral house in Jharia and wanted to buy a scooter, but I cannot purchase the same until I get the license, Shilpee Mishra, a homemaker from Bekar Bandh area said. “I am eagerly waiting for the license issuance work to resume, and feeling a bit relaxed after hearing the news about the relaunching of the process,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Mandatory masks, no tilaks during visits to these ancient Jharkhand temples||Two ancient and famous temples of Jharkhand are making foolproof arrangements before opening gates for devotees on Thursday. At the Ma Chhinnamastika temple in Rajrappa, Ramgarh and the Ma Bhadrakali temple in Itkhori, masks will be made mandatory for entry and priests have been asked not to touch devotees or apply tilaks on their foreheads. Subdivisional officer of Ramgarh Keerthishree G reached the Chhinnamastika temple on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. She passed directives to the temple committee, asking them to follow social distancing norms during darshan. Priests said only 150 devotees will get entry into the temple, besides a hundred in the temple campus. Only five people can enter the sanctum sanctorum at a time, they added. Priests Subhashis Panda and Asim Panda of the temple committee said all devotees will be sanitised properly at the entrance gate before entering. Deputy commissioner Sandip Singh said a police team along with a magistrate will be deployed at each gate to take action against those flouting Covid guidelines.  At  the Bhadrakali temple, devotees have been asked to enter from the main gate but leave the campus through a different gate leading towards the Mahotsava ground. Each and every devotee will have to go through a temperature check before entering. The temple management committee led by secretary Baidyanath Kamti, who is also circle officer of Itkhori, asked priests as well as devotees to come for darshan wearing masks. He added that with the coronavirus raging, it is best to follow guidelines so as not to get infected. Sellers of puja paraphernalia outside the 9th-century temple were directed not to sell anything to people without a mask on. A man from Bihar’s Nalanda, Kamlesh Yadav scaled 1575 feet to reach on the top of Kauleshwari Pahad in Hunterganj, Chatra, carrying his 100-year-old mother on his shoulders so they may worship the goddess. The hill is has several ancient Hindu, Buddhist and Jain temples. Yadav said his mother was eager for darshan, so he carried her on his shoulders and climbed the stairs from foothill to the very top. “We prayed outside the locked temple and my mother is now happy and satisfied, so we are going back to Nalanda,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Intellectually impaired students of Jeevika make diyas for festive season||The pandemic may have forced them indoors for six months, but the intellectually-impaired have not lost their touch when it comes to modelling and painting diyas for the festival of lights. Five special students of Jeevika, a Sonari-based NGO working for the promotion of the intellectually-impaired, are on the job for the past couple of days. They are presently varnishing the diyas and would later pour wax in them and also paint them. “We would gradually increase the number of students as it would not be wise to call all of them in Covid times. We have procured some clay diyas from Sakchi market but most of the consignment will be bought from a potter in Asanbani in  East Singhbhum. We have already given orders for diyas to the Asanbai potter,” said Jeevika secretary Sukhdeep Kaur. Ganga Bai, Akash Sharma, Ankit Mukherjee, Ryan Francis and Pankaj Kumar remain busy for about four hours daily at the Jeevika centre.  They are assisted by Anuradha Kumari, a temporary staff of Jeevika. “We are modelling and painting aound 2,000 diyas for Diwali which falls on November 14. Six hundred decoration pieces as well as decorative eco-friendly bags will also be made by our special students,” said Jeevika founder Avtar Singh. According to him, they would not be putting up stalls at the schools this year and hence the number of diyas would be sold in less numbers this year. “We are aware that there will be an unprecented demand for diyas since Indians are boycotting Chinese products, including diyas. We are against taking unnecessary risk since there will be rush of people if we display more numbers of diyas for sale. We need to be very cautious in dealing with the pandemic,” Singh explained. The intellectually impaired model and paint over 5,000 diyas every year in run-up to Diwali. The diyas – in various shapes and sizes, the most unique being the turtles – are a hit among people from Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The diyas invariably get exhausted much before Diwali. The diyas are also purchased by different companies and social organisations of the steel city. Ganga Bai, who won a gold and two silver medals at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Athens, Greece, in 2011, said she was happy to be working on the diyas. “Mujhe yeh kaam achha lagta hai. Mujhe painting karna bahut pasand hai (I love modelling and painting diyas. I also like painting),” she said. Three of intellectually impaired and Ganga Bai paintings had featured in 2016 annual calendar of Tata Steel. The intellectually impaired stand a chance of getting pat and cash from the special school after Diwali. “We have plans to recognise the toil of our students. Their hard work and patience should be recognised,” said Singh. Jeevika is striving hard to bring special athletes to the social mainstream. Some of its students have got married and are leading a happy live. Seven of its students have landed employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Attack on Jamshedpur home after residents complain about ‘antisocial’ elements||Two cars parked near a home at Kharangajhar near Telco Colony in the Telco police station area were damaged allegedly for revenge over a dispute regarding gambling and boozing in the locality. Jowhar Devnath’s cars were damaged after he led a group of local residents to the police station to complain about gambling and boozing in the area by some residents of adjoining Jyotinagar. Apart from damaging the cars, the accused also pelted stones at Devnath’s home. Devnath, a businessman, on Tuesday lodged an FIR against half a dozen persons and named three of them: Chhotku Prasad, Roshan Kumar and Vijay Gaunder. The spot where the incident occurred is opposite Kharangajhar Community Ground. In the evenings, the ground turns into a den of antisocial activities. This has struck fear among the children and women of the locality. “For the past five-six months, the number of antisocials has increased manifold. They often tease women and girls. This was why we, the residents of the locality, had approached the police. However, I had to pay a heavy price,” said Devnath. He said that he had called 100 for police assistance and a police vehicle had visited the locality early on Tuesday. But it wasn’t enough to stop the criminals. The officer in charge of the police station, Akhilesh Mandal, confirmed that the attack had taken place. “We have registered an FIR in connection with the incident. We will soon find those involved,” Mandal said. The subdivisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad, on Tuesday instructed sweet producers and sellers, as well as merchants like foodgrain traders, to mention the “best before” date on the packets of foodstuff. “In case of sweets kept on the tray in the shop, the ‘best before’ date should be mentioned on the tray itself,” said Prasad and added that mustard oil should be sold without being mixed with any blended oil. In Bokaro, a special administrative team on Tuesday conducted checks at more than a dozen sweets shops and restaurants to ensure that the “best before” date of the food items on sale were mentioned. The team, headed by district food safety officer Apoorva Minz, also checked whether restaurants were observing Covid-19 protocols. Minz said the team found three sweets shops, Kozy Sweets, Nutkhut and Sweet India, had mentioned the “best before date” on the sweets displayed at their counters. The other shops were warned on implementing the guidelines. The checks were conducted at Chas and Bokaro townships on the direction of subdivisional officer, Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh. She said India’s food regulator, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), had directed that sweet outlets must display the date of manufacturing and “best before” date of their products. The idea is to ensure that consumption of such products does not pose a health hazard to the consumers. The step has also been taken to control the issues of adulteration and use of sub-standard products. Dhanbad subdivisional officer Surendra Prasad on Tuesday held a meeting with the office-bearers of Dhanbad Bar Association and discussed organising a camp soon to test more than 3,000 members of the body. Prasad said asymptomatic cases detected during the camp will be given the facility to quarantine at home while more serious patients will be admitted to the hospital. He assured the lawyers that he would be the first person to be tested at the camp. “The testing of such a large number of lawyers will create a record, besides helping break the chain of spread,” he said. Police in Koderma seized a huge cache of explosives on Tuesday after a tip-off. Superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib said a pick-up van was seized on Monday in which they found power gelatins. Mumtaz Mian, the arrested driver, during interrogation gave details following which a raid was conducted at a home at Manjhaldih village in Nawalshahi police station area. Waquarib said 1,400 gelatin sticks, 600 pieces of power gel and 725 detonators were seized. An FIR has been registered in this connection. An unidentified elderly woman died during illegal mining at Jamunia colliery in the Baghmara area, about 20km from the Dhanbad district headquarters, on Tuesday morning when the coal mound under which she was working collapsed on her due to which she was buried alive. The family members of the woman who were also working with her took away the dead body before police could arrive. The officer in charge of Baghmara police station, Santosh Kumar Jha, said: “We have no information with regard to the death of any person during illegal mining.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
07-10-2020||Jharkhand||Vigilantes damage eye of wood ‘smuggler’||More than 30 villagers assaulted an alleged timber smuggler on Sunday night leading to damage in his right eye and kept him hostage for over 10 hours at a village in Shikaripara block of Jharkhand’s Dumka district, in another instance of alleged mob justice in the tribal hinterland. Police later rescued him from captivity. According to Shikaripara police, residents of Inderbani village claimed that “wood smugglers” from other parts of the district had been coming to their village and illegally cutting sonajhuri (Acacia auriculiformis) trees on private land at night for the past few weeks. On Sunday night, the villagers could again hear sounds of trees being cut by machine and they gathered and quickly reached the spot around 11.30pm to find six persons escaping on a bike. However, they managed to catch Rajkumar Gorai, 37, a resident of Saraydaha village under the same police station area. Inderbani is around 17km from the Dumka district headquarters and around 285km from state capital Ranchi. “The irate villages beat up Gorai and the assault caused damage to his right eye as there was profuse bleeding from it. They also kept him locked in an Anganwadi (rural childcare) centre with an intention to punish him further in the morning. “We got information and rushed to the spot. We rescued him around noon on Monday after a police team led by Dumka subdivisional police officer Noor Mastafa managed to convince the villagers,” said Sanjay Kumar Suman, officer-in-charge of Shikaripara police station. The police officer said that an FIR has been lodged against five villagers on the basis of the statement of Gorai on Monday evening. However, no arrest has been made even 24 hours after the rescue. Mustafa said that they found Gorai tied with ropes and kept inside a locked Anganwadi centre on Monday. “Despite the resistance of villagers we managed to rescue him and took him for treatment to a private hospital in Mohulpahadi. Doctors there referred Rajkumar Gorai to Dumka Medical College and Hospital. “On Tuesday, the doctors at Dumka Medical College and Hospital referred him for advanced treatment to Calcutta. We would be in a position to say if the vision would be restored in his right eye only after treatment in Calcutta. We sent him to Calcutta on Tuesday evening. “We will be taking stern action against all the accused named in the FIR so that such instances of mob justice are not repeated,” said Mustafa. According to data collected by Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a platform of human rights organisations, around 29 Muslims and tribal people have been allegedly lynched in the state since 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-275
