08-10-2020||Jharkhand||BSL turnaround as Covid peaked||Bokaro Steel Plant employees overcame seemingly insurmountable odds in September to surpass the monthly production target while observing all safety protocols. Apart from battling Covid-19, the company -- a unit of Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) -- was trying to cater to huge domestic and international orders which it had received with the revival of the steel market. The production target for September was 2,80,000 tonnes; the company, on the other hand, achieved a production of 2,82,030 tonnes (around 101 per cent). BSL has made a strong comeback with growth in production in September in comparison to the comparative period last year (CPLY).
September saw a peak in Covid-19 cases in the district. Achieving the production target was difficult as every day, positive cases would surface in the plant. Braving the odds, around 11,000 employees and officials focused on enhancing production to meet the demand. Till now, 156 BSL employees and officials have been infected by the coronavirus. Of them, about 100 BSL employees, including senior officials, tested positive in September. Currently, there are 13 active cases in BSL. However, the number of cases is declining in October. The chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan, said the production, which was curtailed to almost half during the lockdown, has been revamped from September. BSL has exported more than 18,000 tonnes of steel to other countries, including China and Vietnam, in a single month. “We are overcoming challenges posed by Covid-19,” he added. With demand for flat products picking up in the market, the plant is all braced up to meet the increased demands by starting operation of its four blast furnaces. BSL has five blast furnaces, but during lockdown, three of them were shut down to decrease the production. In September, two blast furnaces were revamped while one is in capital repair. Dhan said: “Almost all production units of the plant recorded growth in September compared to last year. There was a growth of 12 per cent in production of hot metal, 7 per cent growth in production of crude steel, almost 40 per cent jump in production of HR coils and an impressive 27 per cent increase in saleable steel production as compared to CPLY. BSL has achieved 101 per cent of the production target in September.” Besides, Blast Furnace-1 has made a new daily production record, producing 4,062 tonnes of hot metal in September. BSL also recorded the highest monthly granulated slag production in September. Slag is sold by BSL to cement industries. Along with a remarkable improvement in production, BSL also despatched around 2,97,000 tonnes of its products to customers in September, which includes more than 18,000 tonnes of export orders. “Ninety per cent of the steel has been dispatched to China while 10 per cent to Vietnam in September,” said Dhan. During the lockdown, China has been a prime overseas customer of BSL and had placed orders for about 1,50,000 hot roll coils and slab since June. A majority of those orders were dispatched. Apart from China, BSL also received orders from Nepal and Vietnam. The director in charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash, also joined his office in September. Before it, the BSL plant had run without a full-fledged CEO for about 10 months. Prakash after joining is all set to create new benchmarks by focusing on the quality of products and services, apart from greater efficiency in all operational parameters. He has asked officials and employees to ensure 100 per cent dedication in their work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Centre misled Hemant govt over coal transportation: Congress MLA||The Congress’s Barkagaon MLA, Amba Prasad, on Thursday targeted the Centre after coal transportation in Pankri Barwadih mines resumed. She claimed that wrong information about fire in the stocks of coal and pressure tactics had led to the resumption of transportation amid tight security. Prasad said the Centre had misled the state government. An agitation that began on September 2 stalled coal production and transportation in the mines of NTPC. As the coal was not being transported, large amounts of the stocked fuel at eight different points caught fire, prompting NTPC officials to approach the state government. Local authorities led by deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand and superintendent of police Karthik S. ensured that transportation of coal resumed amid tight security. They assured the villagers that there would be no fresh mining work and transportation would be allowed only till the stocks are cleared. The agitating villagers, who were unhappy with this decision, could do little because of the security. Prasad maintained that whatever had happened was not right. She said the agitators had been taken captive by policemen despite their demands for compensation and basic facilities like road, health and education being legitimate. She claimed that the Centre had misled the state government and transportation was resumed under pressure. Prasad said this was not acceptable and if the agitators are betrayed, the movement will be intensified in the coming days. Prasad said the state government had constituted a high-level committee led by the commissioner of North Chotanagpur. The committee has sent its recommendations after consulting both parties. She requested chief minister Hemant Soren to accept its recommendations at the earliest to resolve the issue. She also demanded that the local people participate in transportation work. The interruption in mining and transportation activities led to losses for NTPC and central and state governments. The railways too was affected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||HC censures police over shoddy probe into Giridih girl’s death||The Jharkhand High Court came down heavily on the state police for its inaction in investigating the death of minor girl in Giridih in March and drew a parallel with Hathras in Uttar Pradesh that has sparked a national outrage over unspeakable brutalities committed against a Dalit girl who died after being allegedly gang raped last month. Shocked at the death of a 15-year-old girl in Giridih over an alleged rape attempt, Justice Ananda Sen, while hearing a writ petition filed by the victim’s father, commented: “Hathras is not only in the Uttar Pradesh, but also is in the state of Jharkhand.” The court, while hearing the case through video-conferencing, directed Jharkhand director general of police (DGP) M.V. Rao to immediately constitute a special investigating team (SIT) to probe the incident. He asked the DGP to monitor the case personally and take erring officials to task, if needed. The victim’s father, Shankar Paswan of Giridih, through his writ petition to the high court, has stated that he had filed an FIR against one Pintu Paswan, a resident of Dhanwar, for trying to rape his daughter and then murdering her by setting her on fire in a room where she had been kept confined. After the incident, Pintu fled but left behind his cap and shoes, which helped identify him. Paswan accused the police of stalling investigations. He told the court that even though an FIR was lodged at Dhanwar police station on March 31, no one had been arrested yet. During the hearing, Justice Sen expressed his unhappiness over the delay in investigations, stating that the courts could not turn a blind eye over such an issue. “The progress of investigations is highly unsatisfactory and lacks seriousness by the investigating officer concerned. Even the supervising officer does not seem to be serious. But this court cannot ignore shoddy investigations,” he commented while issuing directives to the DGP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||District sports officers named to spot grassroots talent||Chief minister Hemant Soren handed over appointment letters to 24 newly recruited district sports officers (DSOs) on Thursday, the first time such a group was being hired in the state, and asked them to dedicate themselves for the promotion of sports at the grassroots level. Speaking at the function at Project Building, Hemant said, “Jharkhand is renowned in the world for its mineral richness. But it’s time to also unlock its sporting potential before the global audience by churning out national international level players from the immense pool of talent that exists in our state.” He added that soon after coming to power, his government had begun working on a new sports policy to provide jobs and cash awards to all deserving players and coaches. “I have already given my nod to the new sports policy and it is currently awaiting a cabinet nod,” he said, announcing that before Durga Puja, the sports department will also launch a dedicated portal to address the needs of the state’s sports fraternity. “The purpose of the portal is to have a holistic database of our sporting talent, coaches and technical officials and also provide them a direct interface to engage with the government for their needs. We hope to launch the portal before Durga Puja,” he said. The post of district sports officer is key to implementing government schemes at the grassroots to nurture talent. Sports secretary Pooja Singhal said that because of the unavailability of DSOs, the post was held on dual charge by non-sports officials. “As a result, we faced lots of problems in timely implementation of infrastructural schemes related to sports, conduct of games, processing of scholarships, among others. All that is expected to be resolved now,” she said. Singhal said DSOs were selected by Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC). “Today, we have also given them their place of posting which was finalised through an on-the-spot lottery in the presence of the chief minister,” she said. The entire sports fraternity of the state hailed the appointments. Jharkhand Diploma Coaches Association (JDCA) hoped that the new officers would ensure a fresh wave of sporting culture in the state. A joint secretary of the outfit, Yogesh Yadav said, “Today is a historic day for Jharkhand sports. For the first time DSOs have been appointed.” Shivendra Dubey, an official of Jharkhand Olympic Association (JOA), welcomed the appointments. “We now hope that once the pandemic is over, every district will be abuzz with sporting activities round the clock,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Big-draw Puja of steel city asks patrons not to visit pandal||The organising committee of a crowd-puller Durga Puja in Kasidih on Thursday appealed to people to not visit the pandal in view of the pandemic. Abhay Singh, patron of Thakur Pyara Singh Dhurandhar Singh Club, said the Puja at Kasidih would be celebrated in a simple manner. “We will keep things to the minimum and strictly adhere to the guidelines of the state government. We have also fixed our own guidelines keeping in mind the precautions to be taken up in Covid times,” he added. According to him, barring organising committee members, outsiders will not be allowed to enter the puja ground. “We are erecting a simple pandal to perform the ritual. I appeal to the people to not visit Kasidih during Puja. We cannot afford to risk the lives of our club members and local residents. I feel sorry to have to say this but I AM doing so in view of the spread of Covid-19 in Jamshedpur,” Singh, a senior BJP leader, said. The puja at Kasidih attracts huge crowds. The idol, pandal, decorations and an accompanying fair, make it among the big-draw pujas of the steel city. Four roads and a number of alleys leading to the Puja pandal remain chock-a-block during all the four days of the festival. Pandal hoppers from not only Jamshedpur, but also from surrounding areas, including Patamda and Potka, visit the Kasidih pandal. Revellers remain at the puja ground till the wee hours. The Thakur Pyara Singh Dhurandhar Singh Club has issued a number of guidelines for the pujas. Only 25 members of the puja committee will be allowed inside the pandal, sanitisers will be available, members will wear masks and maintain social distancing, the height of the idol will be 4 ft , lighting will be done inside the pandal only, no cultural programmes will be organised and the ground will be sealed for outsiders. Singh requested the district administration to barricade all roads leading to the puja for preventing entry of vehicles. A team comprising puja committee members would meet the district traffic wing shortly to finalise all details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tech goodies to open up online world for Dhanbad's special children||As many as 155 special students of Jeevan Jyoti, a 31-years-old school of the Inner Wheel Club of Dhanbad received some technical gear today that will improve their online training. The State Bank of India also provided five computer sets to the school management during a function held in the school at Bekar Bandh, during which the SBI administrative unit team led by assistant general manager Shivanand Prasad interacted with the students online. Talking to The Telegraph Online Prasad, said assistance has been provided as the Dan Utsav Samaroh is being organized by SBI since October 2 under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Faculty members of the school led by principal Aparna Das who were present during the function apprised the SBI officers team of the activities, including education, vocational and physical and mental training carried out in school for mentally and visually challenged, and deaf and dumb students. The faculty members comprised of chief manager Ashok Kumar Tiwari and assistant manager Somnath Chatterjee. Das informed the SBI team that all activities, which were suspended for about a month ever since the imposition of lockdown on March 22, were restarted online using the five internet-enabled computer sets already available at the institute. Ranjeet Singh, a speech therapist and special educator of the school, while interacting with the SBI officers said, “Besides organizing online training using computers, we also visit the homes some severely-affected children, particularly those who are autistic, or affected with cerebral palsy.” “As cerebral palsy affected children suffer from movement related disorders, the specially designed exercise sessions are crucial for them. Physical sessions help them maintain balance and posture and they also learn crawling or climbing,” said Singh. They visit the children once in a fortnight during which they provide training to their parents as well, so that they can continue training at home itself. “Around 10 faculty members come to school every day to carry out online training using the computer systems from 11 to 11.40am and 12 noon to 12.40pm,” he said. Art and craft training takes place on Thursday and Saturday. “The five additional computers provided to us today will help us to provide online training during the lockdown. In a post-lockdown situation as well we can upload various software like JAWS, which is helpful for providing training to visually impaired children,” said Singh. For students who are financially weak and do not have more than one smartphone at home, as family members may carry them outside during class hours, the school sends the videos of the exercises via WhatsApp. "They can watch these videos and practice at home when they can access the smartphone again,” said Singh, adding that they are seeking sponsors for some financially weak students who can be provided tabs for training.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Minister warns hospitals against over-charging||Hospitals, whose negligence causes the death of a patient, will be booked under the provisions of the Clinical Establishment Act, state health minister Banna Gupta said on Thursday, requesting private healthcare facilities to be humane during the Covid-19 pandemic and not see it as an opportunity to mint money. “This is the time to stand united and fight Covid-19. It is my humble request to all private establishments to not see this pandemic as an opportunity to mint money,” said Gupta. “Any healthcare establishment found guilty of negligence, which causes someone’s death, will be booked under the provisions of the Clinical Establishment Act,” he added. Gupta, who overcame a Covid-19 infection last month, also said that the government was regularly evaluating fees charged by private healthcare facilities for testing and treating Covid-19. The government, he added, was committed to ensure that citizens of Jharkhand get access to best possible health facilities at an affordable price. “Initially, the price for a Covid-19 test in private labs was Rs 4,500. We have regularly evaluated and revised the charges, and today, the cost of a Covid-19 test in Jharkhand is only Rs1,500,” said Gupta, adding that the treatment cost for Covid-19 at private hospitals has also been capped at Rs18,000 per day. Throwing light on Jharkhand’s fight against the coronavirus so far, Gupta said Jharkhand had one of the lowest Covid mortality rates in the country, and a majority of the Covid victims in the state either had severe comorbid conditions or were senior citizens. He said that the state's Covid recovery rate was above 88 per cent. The government, he added, expected the recovery rate to further rise in the next couple of days. “Doctors are doing a commendable job in our fight against the virus. We might soon achieve a recovery rate of 95 per cent if the current trend continues,” Gupta added. The minister also said that the government would provide life insurance benefits to health workers who die in the line of duty while treating Covid-19 patients. “The government will stand in support of Corona warriors who are risking their own wellbeing while serving the people of Jharkhand,” Gupta said. As per latest figures with the health department, nearly 90,000 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 79,176 of them have recovered. There were 9,759 active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, as per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Thursday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC coaches, foreign recruits reach Goa; to be in isolation for 2 weeks||Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle, his deputy Sandy Stewart and the club’s prized possessions Peter Hartley and Nerjijus Valskis arrived in Goa for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) on Thursday morning. The quartet assembled in London’s Heathrow airport before flying to Goa. Forward Valskis joined Owen, Stewart and Hartley after landing in from Lithuania. Indian players Mobashir Rahman, Sandip Mandi and Jitender Singh also joined their JFC counterparts. Jamshedpur-based Tata Football Academy graduate Mobashir travelled to Ranchi by road before taking a flight to Goa. Sandip, also an ex-TFA cadet, and Jitender, took flight from Calcutta. Sources in the JFC team management said other foreign recruits Stephen Eze (Nigeria), Alexandre Monteiro de Lim (Brazil), Spaniards Aitor Monroy and David Grande will be joining the squad in a day or two. Scotland-born Coyle, who guided Chennaiyin FC to the summit clash after joining mid-way last season, and the foreign recruits straightaway checked in at Taj Forte in Panaji. They also underwent Covid tests at the luxury hotel. They will remain in isolation for 14 days. Mobashir, Sandip and Jitender also went through the same exercise before holing themselves up at Hotel Vivanta in Candolim. They will be quarantined for 10 days. “Owen and his company looked very cheerful and confident after landing in Goa. The foreign players and their Indian counterparts will go through fitness drills at their respective hotel rooms from tomorrow,” a member of the JFC team management said. According to him, most of the Tata Steel-owned club players have arrived in Goa and are anxious to hit the turf for outdoor training sessions at Sangolda ground near Panjim. The greens at Sangolda is presently being decked up by LR Brothers, the Dehradun-based agency which also worked for preparing the grounds at JRD Tata Sports Complex and Flatlets greens in Jamshedpur. Jamshedpur FC, which finished fifth under Spanish head coach Antonio Iriondo in the last season, is looking to make amends under Owen Coyle who has a job at hand to help Jamshedpur qualify for the play-offs for the first time. JFC has not made it to the play-offs after making its debut in the cash-rich ISL three seasons back. The JFC management has reposed immense faith in reputation of Owen as a mentor. The head coach was allowed a free hand in selecting the foreign players. In fact, Owen’s presence in JFC made Hartley and Valskis join the squad. The latter, who won the ISL Golden Boot award last season, played for Chennaiyin FC under Owen last season. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari they players were expected to be in Goa by October 8. "Pre-seasons will commence once the self-isolation ends later this month," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Chhinnamastika and Bhadrakali temples reopen after seven months||Two ancient and popular temples of the state, the Chhinnamastika temple in Rajrappa and the 9th century Bhadrakali temple in Itkhori, Chatra, opened after seven months, with happy devotees welcoming the goddess whilst maintaining strict Covid guidelines. Deputy commisisioners Sandip Singh and Divyanshu Jha at Chhinnamastika and Bhadrakali respectively, were taking updates, as officials were asked not allow anyone flouting the rules. At the Chhinnamastika temple, deputy superintendent of police (headquarter) Prakash Soy was seen active with policemen keeping an eye on devotees. Soy gave instructions regarding Covid guidelines to those coming to the temple. A free online token for entry to the temple available on rajrappa.in/booking has been made mandatory by district administration. At the entrance, the temperature of each and every entrant was recorded. They were also asked to sanitise their hands before entering the sanctum sanctorum, where three people were allowed in at a time. Inside the temple, priests were wearing masks and hand gloves and they were following the guidelines of not applying tilak to devotees. Carrying prasad into the sanctum sanctorum was also prohibited. The temple committee was initially asked to change the location of the goat sacrifice, which is usually done at the temple campus, to a place near river. But the committee had objected and said this was a practice going on for decades and any change in this regard is against temple norms. The goat sacrifice took place at the temple campus today from 5am to 6am, and then from 12 noon to 2pm. At the Bhadrakali temple, devotees, who came from places like Hazaribagh, Chatra and the neighbouring districts of Bihar, including Gaya, were seen chanting Mata Bhadrakali ki jai, waiting patiently in queue claiming it was for their own safety. At the main gate, devotees entered after a temperature check and exited through a gate leading to the Mahotasava ground. Police ensured the parking of vehicles at a certain distance and devotees were asked to open footwear somewhere near the parking spot. Four magistrates were deployed for this purpose and priests kept telling devotees not to violate the guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Not more than 50 people can enter a place of worship at a time||The Jharkhand government has said a maximum of 50 people can enter a place of worship at a time and devotees must wear masks and maintain social distancing. The state government allowed religious institutions to reopen after more than six months on Thursday. Places of worship in areas other than containment zones can reopen and heads of these religious institutions must ensure adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, a notification issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Wednesday night said. "Not more than 50 people will gather at a time at any place of worship and a distance of six feet between each devotee must be maintained," the notification said. No fair or religious procession will be organised and only those devotees with masks will be allowed to enter the places of worship, it said. The priests or clerics will have to wear masks and devotees should not hug each other or touch the idols, sacred texts or bells, the notification said. People will have to bring mats from their homes and they cannot sit together to sing or speak. Priests cannot give prasad to devotees or sprinkle water on them, it said. Sanitisers will be kept at the entrance of the religious institutions and no person with coronavirus symptoms will be allowed to enter, the notification said. Cafeterias and shops near the places of worship will also have to follow the COVID-19 protocol, it said. Sanitisation of the floors of the religious institutions will have to be undertaken several times a day, the notification said. Strict action will be taken against those violating the COVID-19 protocol, it added. The Ramgarh district administration has made it mandatory for devotees to have online tokens to enter the renowned Chinnamastika Temple at Rajrappa and offer prayers to the presiding deity. The temple gates were opened for devotees at 5am after more than six months. Devotees can avail the tokens for free at https://rajrappa.in/booking to offer prayers to the goddess between 6 am and noon, while goat sacrifice will be allowed from 5am-6am and from noon to 2 pm, deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said. No one, even VIPs, would be allowed sans the online tokens, he said, adding adequate police personnel have been deployed at both the entry points to the temple via Chitarpur and Gola. All religious places of the state were shut down in March. But, the state government in August allowed reopening of Deoghar’s Baba Baidhyanath Dham and Dumka’s Basukinath temple following a PIL in Supreme Court. Ranchi SDO Sameera S said on Wednesday that even after reopening places of worship, the district administration would continue to monitor gatherings and crack down on violation of Covid norms. “Although we are approaching the unlocking stage, the pandemic is still far from over. This is the time when everyone should be more cautious, keeping in mind personal and public safety. Hence, everyone venturing out of their homes will be mandated to put on masks, while it is compulsory for all establishments to have provisions of sanitisers, systems for crowd control, and follow the other elements in government advisories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||31 girls rescued from bus in Jharkhand||As many as 31 girls, including at least nine minors, allegedly being trafficked to Tamil Nadu on the pretext of employment were rescued from a bus in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, Balumath police stopped the long-distance bus bearing a Tamil Nadu registration number along the Medininagar-Balumath main road around noon and rescued the girls. “Police had got a tip-off that a bus from another state was moving with girls and intercepted it at Balumath. The driver and cleaner could not speak Hindi and were speaking only in Tamil. Based on interrogation of the girls, we came to know that they were being taken to work in a thread manufacturing factory on the outskirts of Chennai on monthly wages of Rs 9,000. However, the girls could not show any document of the employer nor could the drivers show any proof. The police have detained the driver and the cleaner. However, Shanker Oraon who had convinced the girls to go to Chennai, managed to escape,” said Balumath circle officer Ravi Kumar. The officer monitored the rescue operation in coordination with local police.A police source said the traffickers had carefully hatched a plan to take the girls on a private bus to avoid detection at the railway station. “It seems they had brought the bus all the way from Tamil Nadu to take the girls to avoid detection at the railway station. Inter-state bus movement is still prohibited in Jharkhand due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said officer-in-charge of Balumath police station Rana Bhanu Pratap Singh. “We are trying to ascertain the age of the girls but prima facie nine appear to be minors. After age verification we will hand over the rescued minor girls to the child welfare committee of Latehar district. The girls are not only from Latehar district but also from other districts like Ranchi, Simdega and Lohardaga,” he added. The seized bus has been kept at the police station while the rescued girls have been lodged at the Kasturba Gandhi girls residential school in Balumath for investigation. On October 3, 14 tribal girls, including eight minors, were rescued by an RPF team at Ranchi railway station. All the girls were from the remote Manika block of Latehar district and were being taken by a suspected woman trafficker to Hyderabad on the pretext of getting them a job after training in stitching and embroidery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Woman immolates self, child||A woman allegedly immolated herself and her eight-month-old son outside her parents’ home in a village in Jharkhand’s Jamtara district around midnight on Tuesday. Preliminary investigations have found that the woman was depressed as her child was ill for the last four-five months and her husband was not sending sufficient money from Chennai, where he worked. The deceased woman has been identified as Vaishaki Murmu, 25. She was staying at her parents’ house in Suriyapani village under Nala police station of Jamtara since early this year after having come for the delivery of her first child. The area is around 230km northeast of state capital Ranchi. “Her husband Ranjeet used to work somewhere in Chennai. The woman had come for delivery of her child in early 2020 but got stuck at her parents’ house due to the lockdown. Her eight-month-old child Vishnu Murmu was constantly suffering from fever and other diseases. Though her husband used to send money every month from Chennai, the amount was not enough and this led to bouts of depression,” said officer-in-charge of Nala police station, Daya Shankar Rai. The woman came out of her room with her child around midnight on Tuesday and allegedly doused herself and her child with kerosene and set both on fire. “Her parents said Vaishaki came out of the room while others were sleeping and set herself and the child on fire. Alarmed by the smoke and the shrieks of the woman, the family members came out. After dousing them with water, they rushed both to Nala community health centre at night where the doctors declared the boy brought dead while Vaishaki died during treatment. Autopsy of both was conducted at Jamtara Sadar Hospital and the bodies were handed over to the relatives for the last rites. We have informed the husband about the incident,” said Rai. The in-laws of the woman stay elsewhere in Jamtara district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Sweet shops fined in Dhanbad||Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Wednesday imposed fines on three sweet shops in Dhanbad for selling substandard products. The samples of condensed milk taken from Govinda Sweets and Shyam Sweets did not meet standards while a sweet prepared by Radhika Sweets was found to have a higher fat content than allowed. Govinda Sweets in Jharia was fined Rs 15,000 whereas Shyam Sweets and Radhika Sweets in Sushnilewa were fined Rs 10,000 each. Food safety officer Aditi Singh also visited the Baramuri area and took milk samples from various cowsheds. She said there had been complaints of water being mixed with the milk. The samples would be sent to Ranchi and action taken if the milk was found to be adulterated. The residents of Lodna in Dhanbad on Wednesday participated in a dharna and demonstrated near Raksh Kali temple to protest alleged police high-handedness while checking vehicles. The protest began in the morning when Sachin Kumar, a resident of the Bachchu Dhaura locality in the Lodna police outpost area, who works in a private firm in Dhanbad, was beaten up allegedly by a police team during the checking of vehicles near Raksha Kali Dham, about 2km from his home, leading to head injury. The incident took place while Kumar was on his way to his office in Dhanbad on his motorcycle. Local residents and family members first admitted him to a local hospital. He was later referred to another private hospital in Jharia for better care. Enraged over the incident, the local residents of Lodna, including the family members of the victim, staged a dharna and demonstration for more than two hours near Raksha Kali temple and also blocked a road. Dhanbad police on Wednesday arrested six persons in connection with the murder of a resident of Upper Kulhi in Jharia in late September. Naim Ansari, 33, Nand Kishore Yadav, 19, Vishal Kumar Singh, 22, Arun Kumar Yadav, 22, Roshan Kumar Sao, 19, and Rukhsana Khatoon, 20, were arrested over the muder of Parwej Ali on the basis of a complaint by his widow, Samida Khatoon. Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said some of the arrested persons are relatives of the dead. The motive for the murder was personal animosity, he said. Ali’s body had been found lying in a bushy area of Kenduadih on September 30. Security has been beefed up in Garhwa following a shootout in the town on October 1. Vijay Soni, who was injured in the incident, is being treated at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi. After security was tightened, no criminal incidents have occurred in Garhwa. Following the instructions of superintendent of police Srikant Suresh Rao Khotre, patrolling is being conducted at several places in the town. Seven Tiger Mobile Patrols, four PCR vans and two police patrol jeeps are keeping a lookout for criminal activities. Preparations to deploy plain-clothed policemen are also on. Surveillance cameras will also be installed at various locations. Police teams have begun patrolling areas on foot. Checks are being carried out at the five entry points of the town. A few motorcycles and shops were damaged at Janpur village in the Domchach police station area after rumours of cow slaughter by members of a particular community. Police personnel have been deployed in the village to prevent further flare-ups. Superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib said the situation was under control. He appealed to people to not give heed to rumours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
08-10-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid-19 cases drop below 10,000||The number of active cases in Jharkhand dropped below the 10,000 mark on Wednesday after the state reported over 1000 recoveries against 829 fresh cases of infection surfacing in the past 24 hours, health department data revealed. After Wednesday’s test results, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate jumped to 88.26 per cent, which is higher than the national recovery rate of 85 per cent, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. While the number of active cases dropped significantly in the past week, the state has reported around 70 Covid casualties during the same period. As many as 10 more Covid-19 patients died during treatment on Wednesday, taking the toll up to 767. The number of active cases dropped significantly in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts, on Wednesday. Ranchi reported 502 recoveries against 388 fresh cases of infection, which brought the number of active cases in the district down to 2,995. As many as 132 Covid patients recovered in East Singhbhum against 61 cases of infection, bringing the count of active cases down to 1,620. As per government data, as many as 9,759 people were still battling the virus across Jharkhand on Wednesday, and around 45 per cent of them were from Ranchi and East Singhbhum. As many as 79,176 people have defeated Covid-19 virus so far. The government has so far collected swab samples of 25 lakh people and tested around 24.96 lakh of them. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 23,331 people and 22,502 of them came negative. The virus has infected at least four members of the Hemant Soren cabinet so far. While health minister Banna Gupta and drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur have recovered from the infection, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto was critical and undergoing treatment at Medica on Wednesday. Jharkhand’s Covid-19 mortality rate was 0.85 per cent on Wednesday against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The doubling rate of infection was 67.13 days against the national rate of 56.45 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand in the past one week was 1.01 per cent against the national average of 1.22 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-274
