09-10-2020||Jharkhand||State government sponsored Durga Puja in Seraikela||Preparations are afoot for the government-sponsored Durga Puja in Seraikela, in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, about 35 kms away from here. The grand puja, which is held as per the customs of the Seraikela royal family, will be organised in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines. Seraikela sub-divisional officer Ramkrishna Kumar held a meeting of the government Durga Puja Committee, instructing exactly how should the four-day-long festival should be observed keeping protocols in mind. Kumar, who also is the chairman of the committee, will offciate as the puja `karta', according to custom, and will participate in the rituals. The state government bears the complete exprenses of the puja, for which a separate budgetary allocation is made every year. Tapan Kumar Pattanayak, who is the conductor of the puja, said a four foot idol has been ordered in accordance with state government guidelines. "The puja will be held at a permanent structure at the Durga Temple, like every year.  No dhakis or loudspeakers will be present, and only seven people, including priests and the `karta' will be allowed at the venue," Pattanayak  told The Telegraph Online. He further informed that only five, instead of the usual nine young girls will be brought for Kumari Puja this year. Pattanayak also said that there will be no distribution of bhog  by the puja committee. The government puja committee functionary informed that last year's budget was Rs 1.09 lakh, but this year the budget will be confined to Rs 1 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three women and a man thrashed, paraded naked on suspicion of witchcraft in Garhwa||Three women and a man were allegedly stripped, paraded naked and thrashed by a mob of around 50 people who accused them of practising witchcraft, in Jharkhand's Garhwa district, police said on Friday. Two people have been arrested in connection with the incident that happened on Thursday night in Narayanpur village, while a search is on to nab the rest. "The shameful incident happened around 10 pm. Soon after receiving information, a team was sent to the village and it found that around 50 people were present at the spot. Two people were nabbed while the others fled," Garhwa Sadar's Subdivisional Police Officer Brahmin Tutti said. "The police first provided clothes to the women and the man, following which they brought the two accused – Ravi Kumar and Vasudev – to the Sadar police station," he said. The women and the man were stripped and thrashed after two daughters of one Bali Rajwar, a resident of the village, fell sick, police said. Rajwar's family members. along with Vikas Kumar Saw, Bablu Ram, Rajad Paswan, Ravi Kumar Ram and Raju Ram, among others, allegedly stripped the victims, thrashed them and then paraded them throughout the area, as per the case lodged by the police. Some villagers tried to intervene and stop the mob but they were verbally abused and threatened, police said. Narayanpur's ward councilor Sivasagar Das said that he also tried to pacify the mob but no one paid any heed to him. "We have information that around 50 people were involved in the incident and a search is on for them," said Rajiv Kumar, the inspector in-charge of the Sadar police station. "The culprits will not be spared under any circumstances. Those on the run will be arrested soon," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway kicks off Covid Jan Andolan||A campaign to ensure that railway employees and passengers comply with Covid-19 norms during the upcoming festive season was launched by South Eastern Railway on Friday. The railway zone’s employees in its Ranchi and Chakradharpur divisions on Friday took a pledge to fight Covid-19 by following protocols, including wearing masks, washing hands frequently and maintaining safe distances, as part of the Jan Andolan. Sanjay Kumar Mohanty, general manager, South Eastern Railway, along with other senior officials and employees participated in the virtual oath-taking ceremony. “The objective of the campaign is to create consciousness among railway employees and passengers to combat Covid-19 and stay protected from the coronavirus,” said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Posters and banners have been displayed all over the railway zone to create awareness about Covid-appropriate behaviour. A concerted action plan, with action items like an awareness drive to reach every railway official and passenger, putting up of banners and posters at prominent railway areas, frequent announcement about maintaining physical distancing, wearing face masks in public places, frequent washing of hands and use of sanitisers, will be undertaken as a part of the campaign. The other initiatives include deployment of Scouts and Guides to spread awareness and involvement of NGOs and other charitable organisations in the campaign which will continue for a month in four divisions of South Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Fodder scam: HC grants bail to Lalu||RJD chief and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is convicted in the Rs 970-crore fodder scam cases, was granted bail by Jharkhand High Court on Friday but the septuagenarian will not walk out of prison as yet. The court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh while hearing Lalu’s bail petition through videoconferencing allowed him bail in connection with a scam pertaining to the Chaibasa treasury. The scam in Chaibasa treasury involved misappropriation of Rs 33.67 crore towards purchase of fodder and medicines for cattle. However, Lalu will continue to serve jail term in relation to the Dumka treasury, in which he was awarded a 14-year jail term by a CBI court. In the Chaibasa case, he was sentenced to five years in jail while in the Deoghar treasury case, he got 3.5 years of imprisonment but had procured bail in 2013. He was convicted in a total of six cases related to the fodder scam involving misappropriation of public funds in various treasuries in undivided Bihar. Lalu’s counsel Kapil Sibal, the former Union minister and veteran Supreme Court advocate, during the hearing on Friday pleaded before the court that his client had already spent 30 months in custody, which is half the total sentence, and requested for bail citing his health. The court allowed the bail asking Lalu to deposit a fine of Rs 2 lakh and two sureties of Rs 50,000 each. Lalu, who is in custody since January 2018, is currently undergoing treatment for various age-related ailments at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Currently, he has been shifted to Kelly’s Bungalow, the RIMS director’s residence, over concerns of infection in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He was also made to undergo Covid-19 testing at least twice in the recent months after his helpers and security guards tested positive. Ahead of the upcoming Bihar elections, the three-time chief minister will be away from the political action on the ground but is learnt to be calling the shots and taking key decisions going by the number of ticket seekers rushing to Ranchi from Bihar ever since the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced the polls. Recently, Jharkhand chief minister and JMM’s working president Hemant Soren too met Lalu at RIMS over a seat-sharing deal between the parties for the Bihar polls, which ultimately failed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Congress to field Rajendra Prasad’s son for Bermo bypolls||Late Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh’s son, Kumar Jaimangal will be the grand old party’s candidate for Bermo, byelection for which is scheduled to be held, along with Dumka, on November 3. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The party’s state election committee after a meeting on October 7 had proposed a panel of names to central leadership. The central leadership has decided on Jaimangal.” He said the nominee would file nominations sometime next week. Congress’s ally, JMM will be contesting from Dumka, for which it had announced Basant Soren, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother, as candidate, last week. Basant will file his nomination on October 12. Opposition BJP is yet to name its candidates. Sources in the saffron camp said that the central leadership is expected to make formal announcement soon. “The central leadership is currently busy with Bihar assembly elections. It will announce names for the two bypolls here anytime now,” said a state BJP leader. Unlike last year’s Assembly elections, the BJP is upbeat after its decades-old ally, AJSU-P, extended support for the coming bypolls. For the ruling grand alliance of the JMM, Congress and RJD, the bypolls will be a litmus test of its popularity since it took charge. The Dumka Assembly seat fell vacant after chief minister Hemant Soren gave it up and retained Barhait. A byelection is necessary in Bermo since sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died in May. The JMM announced names of candidates for five seats it is contesting in Bihar. As per a party notification, Elizabeth Soren will fight from Chakai, Ajit Kumar from Jhaja, Anjela Hansda in Katoria, Fulmani Hembrom in Manihari and Ashok Kumar Hansda from Damdaha. After severing ties with the RJD in the context of Bihar elections on October 6, the JMM had announced that it would contest seven seats initially but take a call on more seats in a phased manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hospital launches post-Covid care units in steel city||A leading heart hospital on the outskirts of the steel city has launched a post-Covid care clinic to look after patients who, even after recovering from the coronavirus-induced ailment, continue to experience health issues. Brahmananda Narayana Multispecialty Hospital (BNMH), located at Tamolia, will offer the services of specialists to treat patients who continue to suffer from breathing problems or heart and/or neurological problems. The OPD of the post-Covid care clinic would operate Monday to Saturday between 11am and 3pm at the hospital premises and on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday between 5pm to 6pm at BNMH City Clinic at Sakchi. The hospital has also issued two numbers, 9708005111 and 9507202020, for appointments. A team of senior and experienced doctors, including physiotherapists, neurologist and general physicians would take care of patients at the post-Covid care centres. The pulmonology department at Brahmanand Narayana Multispeciality Hospital will help patients with respiratory problems like breathlessness on exertion, fatigue, chest tightness/ heaviness, altered sleep habit, loss of appetite, lung fibrosis and respiratory distress. Post-Covid patients with persisting psychological problems, heart issues, generalized weakness will be looked after by cardiologists, physiotherapists, nutritionists and counsellors. Facility director of BNMS Tapani Ghosh said, “The clinic will help reduce the health challenges faced by patients even after recovering from Covid-19 to enable them to recover fully. Patients who need more medical attention will be admitted to the non-Covid ward. Patients can also avail the services through video consultation.” Consultant pulmonologist Dr Jagdish Lohia said recovered patients often visited the hospital complaining of psycho-social stress along with respiratory problems, which they faced due to the re-emergence of flu-like symptoms. “Stigma is still associated with the Covid-19. Many patients again suffer from flu-like symptoms such as fever and cough. The doctors will also counsel such patients.” Brahmananda Narayana Multispecialty Hospital, a unit of renowned cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty's Narayana Health, is a150-bed tertiary care hospital, established in 2008. It caters to patients from Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. Since last month, it has been treating Covid patients at its 20-bed Covid unit on its premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Citizens, notables ask CM to intervene, secure Swamy’s release||Rights activists, intellectuals and citizens, along with the Catholic Church,  came out in support of arrested social worker Stan Swamy on Friday and issued a statement condemning the “unilateral action” of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and appealed to chief minister Hemant Soren, who has so far maintained a deafening silence on the issue, to intervene. Social worker and activist Swamy (82), known for his work for the uplift of tribals, was picked from his residence in Ranchi by NIA in a hush-hush operation for alleged links with Maoists allegedly involved in the violence at Bhima Koregaon in Pune December 2017. The statement, endorsed by over 2,000 people from all walks of life, called Swamy’s arrest an unending witch-hunt against the voices of the poor and marginalised. The statement was released to the local media by Jharkhand Jan Adhikar Mahasabha, a conglomeration of various rights groups, during the day. In the evening, members of the group and citizens held a protest march at Albert Ekka Chowk to demand that the Centre immediately release Stan and close cases against him. Economist Jean Dreze was among the first to condemn the NIA’s high-handedness. “We strongly condemn the arrest of Stan Swamy by NIA in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case,” said the architect of the UPA’s flagship rural job scheme, MGNREGS. “He is a valued and public-spirited citizen and has been working for tribal rights since decades in Jharkhand. We are demanding, to both the state and central governments, to release him.” The state’s political establishment has been surprisingly silent on Swamy’s arrest. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who never loses an opportunity to champion state rights, had not spoken a word about Swamy’s arrest by a central agency, apparently without the knowledge of the state police. The Congress party, a partner in the JMM-led state government, had not issued a statement either. Jharkhand police spokesperson Suman Gupta refused to answer questions on the manner in which Swamy was picked up and whether the state police had been kept in the dark. “You must pose whatever questions you have to NIA and not to us. Since the case is their baby, Jharkhand police can’t give any answers,” he said. Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, the auxiliary bishop of Ranchi, issued a statement, appealing to citizens to stand by Swamy in his hour of need. He appealed to the authorities concerned to release the octogenarian immediately.  “We are distressed and troubled by the manner in which such an elderly person has been treated by NIA. A clarification from NIA would be greatly appreciated,” he said. The joint statement issued by the mahasabha noted that Swamy had cooperated with the investigating officers of the NIA when they questioned him at his residence in Bagaicha for over 15 hours on two occasions between 27-30 July and August 6). “Stan has consistently denied any link with extremist leftist forces or Maoists. He had also clearly told the NIA that some so-called extracts, apparently taken from his computer and shown to him by the NIA, were fake and fabricated and that he disowned them. It is deeply worrying that the NIA arrested an 84-year-old with several health ailments during the COVID epidemic and made him travel to Mumbai,” the Mahasabha statement said. It added, “We firmly believe that the Bhima-Koregaon case, being driven by the Modi government, is a baseless fabrication. The central government, in the guise of the Bhima Koregaon case, is trying to build a false narrative of a national Maoist conspiracy against the state that involves these activists. The main objective of the case is to target and harass activists who work for the rights of Adivasis, Dalits and the marginalised… The Bhima Koregaon conspiracy case exposes the extent to which the central government is willing to undermine constitutional values and suppress dissent.” Activists also wondered why chief minister Hemant, who in January last year as an Opposition leader during the tenure of the BJP-led state government, had supported Stan, was silent now. Siraj Datta, a member of the mahasabha, questioned how NIA could forcefully pick up an elderly person without a formal warrant, and that too during a pandemic. “He has always cooperated with the investigators. The way he is being treated is inhuman and vindictive. It is beyond our understanding why the state government is silent,” he said. Vasavi Kiro of Indigenous Women India Network maintained that Swamy has been a vocal critic of the BJP government’s attempts to amend land laws, and that he had fought for the implementation of Forest Rights Act, PESA and related laws. “Swamy has been an honest and selfless person. We have the highest regard for his work,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||New rail link connecting Ranchi with Patna, with travel time cut by 2 hours||Work on the 200km Ranchi-Koderma rail stretch via Hazaribagh is running on a fast-track with railway officials confirming a New Year’s Day deadline when trains from the state capital can directly go to Patna, the capital of Bihar, cutting travel time by two hours. Officials said the foundation for this ambitious project was laid in 1999 by then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the initiative of MP Yashwant Sinha, a heavyweight leader and union minister at the time. The Hazaribagh-Koderma stretch was inaugurated by prime minister Narendra Modi on February 20, 2015. He later inaugurated the Barkakana-Hazaribagh link also. At present, the Ranchi-Patna journey takes 13 hours. The 200km-long Ranchi-Hazaribagh-Koderma stretch took 20 years to make, with a budget of Rs.3000 crore. Once completed, trains from Ranchi will not have to go through Bengal to reach Koderma from Bokaro, or Gomoh to reach Patna. They said 90 per cent of the work has been done and they are hopeful of completing the work by December. A senior railway officer said the route was in demand. Once started, it has the potential to become an important line due to its geographical importance. He didn't rule out the possibility of trains coming from Delhi and other places to use this link to go to Ranchi. He said the Koderma station was selected as a destination hub on this stretch. Perhaps the most interesting part of the journey between Ranchi and Ramgarh will be the thrill of three long tunnels amidst greenery and valleys. Two of these tunnels are of 600m long and third one is of 1080m. Goods trains can also take the new link to go to Odisha and other northern states. A railway officer said said last-minute work is going on between the Sanki and Tatisilwai stations. “After inauguration, it will become one of the busiest stretches,” he added. At present, many important trains from Ranchi are taking longer distance routes to reach Koderma via Bengal, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Betla National Park may open gates from October 15||After more than 200 days of shutdown, the Betla National Park of the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR) may open its gates on October 15, although only for tourists within Jharkhand. The park, which used to open on October 1 every year, has been delayed by two weeks due to the coronavirus pandemic. Tourists from other states will not be entertained this time. Deputy director north division of the PTR Kumar Ashish said they are gearing up for the reopening. “We are in touch with wildlife management officials and awaiting a no-objection certificate,” said Ashish, adding that they are hopeful for getting the NoC approved before October 15. With cinema halls opening doors, a national park like Betla will not create an issue, he said. The Kanha Sanctuary has been open to tourists since July. “Tourists from outside Jharkhand will not be entertained here as they do not fit the bill in these times of the pandemic. The mandatory quarantine provision is in practice,” Ashish said. Tourists will be allowed from the 24 districts of Jharkhand only. Even those from the bordering areas of Bengal, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhatisgarh will not be entertained. Sources said there used to be an acute crisis of accommodation for tourists in peak times during the festive season starting with Durga Puja, but with pandemic still raging, everyone in the PTR is waiting with fingers crossed for the inflow of tourists coming from within the state of Jharkhand. “There are around 27 rooms here in Betla including 5 new treehouses, so accommodation of tourists is not going to be a problem,” opined Ashish. He said there will be a 2-hour gap between check-out and check-in at the PTR’s lodgings to keep the rooms perfectly sanitized. The park will be open from sunrise to sunset. A tourist or a group of tourists will have to keep proof of identity without which they may be declared persona non grata, said park sources. There will be a guide assigned to every group, said Ashish. The guide will have to wear a mask, keep a hand sanitiser and maintain and be a proponent social distancing added Ashish. A family can tour the park, but for individual tourists, the upper limit is 4 in one vehicle besides the one guide, the deputy director clarified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||NIA picks up Stan Swamy from Ranchi in stealth operation ||A special NIA court in Mumbai remanded 82-year-old human rights activist Father Stan Swamy to judicial custody till October 23 on Friday, a day after his arrest in connection with the Elgar Parishad-alleged Maoist links case. The social worker was arrested by the National Investigation Agency  from his Ranchi residence on Thursday evening. He was produced before the special court here on Friday. The court remanded him in judicial custody as the probe agency did not seek his remand. NIA arrested Swamy from his Ranchi home in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune in December 2017. He was placed under arrest for his alleged links with the banned CPI(Maoist), NIA officials said. Swamy, who has been questioned twice earlier by Pune Police and the NIA, was taken from his Ranchi residence on Thursday in a cloak-and-dagger operation, leaving the local police and the administration in the dark. Swamy, known for his life-long work for the betterment of tribals, is the 16th person to be arrested in the case, in which people have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. Rights activists from across the country have condemned his arrest. In Ranchi, activists are planning to hold a solidarity march later in the day to protest against his detention and the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand Government’s silence on the manner he was picked up. In a video posted hours before his arrest, Swamy said the NIA had been interrogating him and had questioned him for 15 hours during a span of five days. "Now they want me to go to Mumbai, which I have said that I won't go," he said, citing the pandemic. The video, posted on YouTube, was recorded two days before his arrest. "I have never been to Bhima Koregaon for which I am being made an accused," he said. He added that he had asked for questioning through video conference and hoped that better "human sense" would prevail. "...what is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are all put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India,” Swamy said in the video. He said he was part of the process and, in a way, happy to be so because he was not a “silent spectator”. “I am ready to pay the price whatever be it," Swamy said. NIA officials claimed that investigations established he was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA also alleged that he was in contact with conspirators -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to further the group's activities. The agency alleged that Swamy had also received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the officials claimed. They said literature, propaganda material of the CPI(Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from his possession. The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24. Pune Police has alleged that the violence was caused following speeches given by members of the group Elgar Parishad a day before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1200 recoveries against 784 new cases in a day in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 90,000 mark on Thursday after as many as 784 tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. However, the count of Covid recoveries in the state also jumped over 80,000, as over 1200 patients recovered from the infection. As per a daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), East Singhbhum reported a spike in the number of active cases after 233 fresh cases of infection surfaced in the district against 133 recoveries. The number of active cases, however, dropped below 3000 in Ranchi after the district reported 419 recoveries against 247 fresh cases. There were 9,272 active cases in Jharkhand by the time this report was filed. The Covid tally, as per government figures, was 90,486, while the number of recoveries stood at 80,439. As many as 1263 Covid patients recovered on Thursday. Meanwhile, eight more Covid patients including five in Ranchi died during treatment on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 775. As per figures with NHM, as many as 140 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi so far. The district has reported 21,414 cases of infection till date, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum, which accounts for 313 of the 775 Covid deaths, did not report any casualty on the day. Ramgarh, Palamu and Bokaro districts reported one Covid casualty each on Thursday. The government has so far collected swab samples of 25.43 lakh people in Jharkhand and 25.38 lakh of them tested positive for Covid-19. On Thursday, health workers collected swab samples of 30,047, and as many as 32,092 including samples collected earlier, were tested on the day. The bulletin also marked Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate at 88.89 per cent against the national average of 85.30 per cent. As per the bulletin, the doubling rate of Covid-19 in the state was 68.23 days against the national doubling rate of 57.95 days. In the past one week, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 1.01 per cent against the national average of 1.17 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-272
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Camps for ration cards in Ranchi||Ranchi district administration will organise 33 special ration card application camps in the city on Friday for facilitating inclusion of downtrodden people under the Jharkhand state food security scheme (JSFSS). The move comes in response to the request from civil society organisations. The camps will be held in slums and areas having concentration of Scheduled Castes and Tribes, extremely backward classes, single women, beggars and disabled persons. The state government had earlier declared that it would issue 15 lakh new “green” ration cards to eligible persons for bringing then under JSFSS that would enable them to receive 5 kg of foodgrains per person per month at Re 1 per kg through public distribution system (PDS). A three-member delegation of the state units of Right to Food Campaign and All India People’s Forum, led by economist Jean Dreze, had met Ranchi deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjan on October 5 and requested him to hold such special camps as many eligible people were “likely to be unable to apply without assistance”. Many of those eligible people also did not have Aadhaar, bank account or mobile numbers and even birth or caste certificates required for applying online, the delegation had pointed out. Accordingly, the DC organised those special camps and deputed officials who would receive applications from such people, both online and offline. They would also receive applications from them for issuing birth, caste, residential, disability and income certificates. But the order of the DC’s office did not mention if the applications from those without Aadhaar number would also be accepted. “The district supply officer told us that they would accept application offline even from such applicants without having Aadhaar numbers,” said Swati Narayan of Right to Food Campaign, adding such applicants will have to apply for Aadhaar number so that they get the numbers before verification of application process began. They had also requested the DC to hold special Aadhaar enrolment camps in slum areas where officials with iris scanners can be deputed for the purpose, she further told, adding they would request the DC once again. “Aadhaar number is a big issue that has to be resolved,” said Siraj Dutta of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a joint forum of many activists and organisations. There are many at Malhar Kocha basti near Mousi Bari who do not have Aadhaar numbers and could not even get those because they don't have any paper to prove their dates of birth either, he added. “If the government is serious to provide subsidised foodgrains which these people actually deserve, it must do something to solve this Aadhaar issue,” Dutta further said, adding both the JMM and the Congress promised it in their manifestos before the Assembly elections. While the JMM had said Aadhaar would not be made mandatory for getting ration, the Congress made it clear that no one would be deprived from government benefits like PDS for want of Aadhaar, he reminded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar police officer carries injured man for over 600 metres||Rajiv Kumar, a police officer in Jharkhand’s Deoghar district, carried an injured man on his shoulder for over 600 metres so that he could be put in a jeep and rushed to a health centre on Wednesday morning. Deoghar SP Ashwini Kumar Sinha has praised the officer’s effort and decided to recommend his name to the DGP for an award. Rajiv Kumar, 42, the Rikia police station officer in charge, did not read much into the incident. He said he had responded to a distress call arising from an electrocution in a lane in which a person died. “When I reached the spot, I saw another man writhing in pain with his wife begging to take him for treatment…. I learnt he was also engaged in painting and had fallen from the second floor due to impact of the shock while the body of the other worker (Ravindra Das) was still dangling in the wires. No ambulance could reach the spot. He said: “On the spur of the moment, I picked up the injured man and ran to my jeep which was nearly 600 metres from the site. I felt relieved on Thursday morning when I came to know that man (40-year-old Basuki Das) is stable and would be discharged soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
09-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two minor girls found hanging from tree||Two minor girls were found hanging from a tree in a cashew jungle in East Singhbhum's Ghatshila on Wednesday evening.They were 16 and 12 years old. The girls had come out of their houses in Ghagra village on Monday afternoon for cutting grass, but did not return home.Their family members started a search operation in the adjoining areas and had on Tuesday lodged a missing person report with the Barsole thana. On Wednesday evening, both of them were found hanging from the tree, about 500 metres away from the Ghaghra village and about 12 kms away from the Bengal border. The OC of Barsole thana, Jyotilal Rajwar, confirmed the recoveries of two bodies from a tree, but did not give a reason behind their hanging, claiming they are investigating the matter. The senior SP on Thursday evening said they are probing case and said whether it is a case of suicide or murder can be established only after the autopsy report comes. "As the bereaved family members are not able to give any clue to the circumstances leading to the death of the two girls under mysterious conditions, we have to carry out an investigation by talking to the people residing in the Ghaghra village.  We are also depending on the autopsy reports which will unfold the mystery behind the deaths of the minor girls," said the police officer. Relatives of a woman who died at a private nursing home in Koderma on Thursday afternoon blocked the Ranchi-Patna highway alleging doctor's negligience that led to her death. Reena Devi, 22, of Baridih village in Barkatha of Hazaribagh was admitted to Parvati nursing home in Telaiya town and underwent C-section to give birth to twins. After the operation, her condition turned critcal as her haemoglobin went down. Doctors asked relatives to arrange blood for her but she soon died. The relatives said doctors didn't provide the required treatment on time resulting in her death. They went on rampage at the nursing home, from damaging furniture to doors. The state government has decided to take action against Koderma district education officer Alka Jaiswal for going on leave without taking permission from her senior authorities. Alka's responsibilities have been transferred to regional education officer of north Chotanagpur Mithilesh Kumar Sinha. According to Jaiswal's close aides, she was unhappy to take charge of district superintendent of education after anomalies found in recruitment of primary teachers. She went on an indefinite leave as a mark of protest. A senior officer said what Jaiswal did was gross indiscipline and she will have to face stern action. He said instead of going on leave without prior permission, she should have conveyed her problems to department. He said soon someone will also get the charge of deputy superintendent of education as well. Training and Placement Cell of BIT Sindri on Thursday organised a Webinar on 'Right Way to connect to your Alumni & Role of BIT SAA Jamshedpur Chapter' which focused on preparing the students to connect with the esteemed Alumnus of the institute spread across the world. Senior  Manager of Tata Steel, Pawan Ojha addressing over 100 participating students of BIT Sindri threw light on the significance of alumnus  for  institute  development. Ojha exhorted students to develop other qualities along with academics and techical knowledge. He talked about giving a new dimension to his program "Beti Padhao",as per which meritorious students get a chance for training and mentorship. More than 50 Jharia residents led by former councilor of ward Number 37 Anup Sao on Thursday staged a demonstration at Bata More in Dhanbad to protest against the irregular water supply due to the malfunctioning motors of Civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority at Jamadoba based Water Treatment Plant. Sao claimed that five lakh Jharia residents are facing water crisis for the last couple of years due to technical snags in the motors and repeated leakages taking place in the water supply pipelines but no body seems to be bothered about finding a permanent solution to the problem by changing the old motors with new one. A total of 64 patients were discharged on Thursday from different Covid treatment facilities of Dhanbad including 22 from Government Polytechnic Nirsa, 21 from PMCH Cath lab and nine from Sadar Hospital and six each from Regional Hospital of BCCL in Bhuli and SSLNT women's hospital of Dhanbad. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said the discharged patients have been provided medical kits and will have to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-273
