10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel rededicates Sir Dorabji Tata Park to the people of Jamshedpur||Tata Steel on Saturday rededicated the Sir Dorabji Tata Park opposite the Keenan Stadium in Bistupur to the people of Jamshedpur on the occasion of the park’s silver jubilee. Saturday also happened to be the 141st birth anniversary of Lady Meherbai Tata, wife of Sir Dorabji. Sir Dorabji Tata was the eldest son of Tata group founder J.N. Tata. On the occasion, Tata Steel CEO and managing director T.V. Narendran unveiled the renovated park comprising an illuminated diamond structure and a pavilion. Ruchi Narendran, wife of the Tata Steel MD, unveiled the statue of Lady Meherbai Tata. They were joined by senior company officials and R. Ravi Prasad, president of Tata Workers’ Union, among other guests. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all the other invitees, including employees, joined the event via videoconferencing. Spread over 2.5 acres, the renovated park now includes a statue of Lady Meherbai Tata and a resplendent steel tubular structure and a pavilion through which the legacy of the famous “Jubilee Diamond” has been immortalised in steel. Addressing the event, MD Narendran spoke about the Tata ethos and said: “It gives me immense pride to be a part of the Tata Group legacy. It is founded on strong values and exemplary leadership. Even 100 years later, we are still grounded in our ethos and stay committed to responsible and inclusive development. Sir Dorabji Tata and Lady Meherbai Tata are the embodiment of these beliefs. Both were spirited leaders and passionate individuals, who contributed immensely to our shared legacy. This park is a tribute to them and a symbol of Tata Steel’s commitment to the city of Jamshedpur.” Welcoming the guests, Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president, corporate services, Tata Steel, said: “Tata Steel since inception has been committed to inclusive development and through this rededication, we would like to honour the contributions and sacrifices of Sir Dorabji Tata and Lady Meherbai Tata towards the unparalleled legacy of Tata Steel and the steel city. The Diamond Pavilion, a marvel in steel, will be a new attraction in Jamshedpur; it will celebrate the stories of excellence, leadership and sacrifice for years to come.” In a video message, Jamshed J. Irani, former managing director of Tata Steel, said: “The Diamond Pavilion and Lady Meherbai’s statue are thoughtful additions to the Sir Dorabji Tata Park. The park as it stands today is a veritable salute to Sir Dorabji Tata and Lady Meherbai Tata for their contributions and sacrifices that helped in creating the inimitable legacy of Tata Group, Tata Steel and our city of Jamshedpur.” The design of the upgraded park is based on the principles of sustainability and best practices to ensure that all design elements come together, projecting harmony and enduring as a holistic tribute to the legacy of Tata Steel and the city of Jamshedpur. Lady Meherbai’s statue stands at the southern end of the park, directly facing Sir Dorabji's statue. The “Jubilee Diamond” became part of the Tata story in the early 1900s when the diamond was pledged along with the entire personal wealth of Sir Dorabji Tata and his wife to pull Tisco (the former name of Tata Steel) out of severe financial difficulties in the aftermath of the First World War. Designed by the architect Nuru Karim, the diamond structure and the pavilion form an integral part of the overall redesign of Sir Dorabji Tata Park. Positioned at the western end of the park, the pavilion lends to its sustainable and harmonious design, while capturing the timeless elegance of the “Jubilee Diamond”. Spanning 16m by 12m, the structure is fabricated using Tata Structura tubular steel hollow sections to create an intricate lattice. Weighing 45 metric tonnes, the structure rests on the proverbial “diamond” tip, rising outward from the ground to meet the sky. The Jubilee Diamond structure also houses a central amphitheatre. This space allows visitors to experience the brilliance of the diamond pavilion from within its interior. The splendid pavilion is another addition to the “Structures of the Future” series dedicated by Tata Steel to the country. Over the past 100 years, Tata Steel has been associated with some of the most iconic structures of India, like the Howrah Bridge in Calcutta, the Butterfly Park in Bangalore, Bandra-Worli Sea Link, an award-winning steel sculpture depicting the “Gandhian Charkha” at the Oval Maidan in Mumbai and “The Rath” at the Biju Patnaik Park in Bhubaneswar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate crosses 90% mark||Jharkhand registered a Covid-19 recovery rate of over 90 per cent for the first time after more than 1,100 Covid patients recovered from the infection across the state on Saturday and relatively fewer cases surfaced, data compiled by the health department showed. Besides the recovery rate climbing up to 90.5 per cent, the number of active cases of infection in the state also dropped below 9,000 after only 768 fresh cases surfaced against as many as 1,158 recoveries, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate, health officials said, was among the best in the country, and above the national average of 85.50 per cent. As per government data, as many as 91,254 people have been infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand and at least 81,654 of them have recovered. While the rate of recovery improved significantly in the past week, the number of Covid-19 casualties has also been on the rise. Government figures stated that at least six more Covid patients, including three in Ranchi, died during treatment on Saturday, taking the toll in the state to 781. The mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Saturday’s test results and recovery records caused marginal dip in the number of active cases of infection in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand. As per government records, as many as 314 cases of infection surfaced in Ranchi on the day against 378 recoveries, bringing the count of active cases down to 2,752. In East Singhbhum, 156 patients recovered while 103 fresh cases surfaced, bringing the number of active cases down to 1,686. All the remaining 22 districts in Jharkhand reported cases in double digits. As many as 48 cases surfaced in Bokaro, the third highest in the state. Meanwhile, only one person was found infected in Pakur. The number of active cases in Dhanbad dropped to 478 after 49 patients recovered there against 41 fresh cases. The government has so far collected swab samples of 25.80 lakh people in Jharkhand and 25.76 lakh of them have been tested. On Saturday, health workers tested swab samples of 30,524 people. As per official records, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand reached 70.23 days against the national average of 59.89 days. The growth rate of the virus in the past week was 0.98 per cent in Jharkhand against the national growth rate of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two AC special trains introduced, one of which has Tatanagar stop||Steel city got another train to Calcutta on Saturday with South Eastern Railway announcing two AC specials, one of which will travel between Howrah and Pune via Tatanagar. The AC bi-weekly special trains were announced to clear the rush of passengers. The (02222) Howrah-Pune AC bi-weekly special will run from Howrah every Thursday and Saturday from October 15. While returning, the (02221) Pune-Howrah AC bi-weekly special will leave Pune every Saturday and Monday with effect from October 17. The special train will run as per timings and stops of Howrah-Pune Duronto Express. The Howrah-Pune AC bi-weekly special will leave Howrah at 8.25 am. The train will reach Tatanagar at 11.40 am. The train will reach Pune the next day at 11.45am. While returning, the Howrah-Pune AC bi-weekly special (Dn) will leave Pune at 3.45 pm. It will reach Tatanagar at 4.30 pm. The schedule arrival time of the train at Howrah is 7.45 pm the next day. According to a circular issued by Garden Reach, headquarters of South Eastern Railway, the second new train, (02807) Santragachi-Chennai AC bi-weekly Special, will run from Santragachi every Tuesday and Friday from October 16. On its return, (02808) Chennai-Santragachi AC bi-weekly Special will leave Chennai every Thursday and Sunday from October 18. CPRO if South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said both the special trains will have one first AC, three AC two-tier and 12 AC three- tier coaches. "The specials are being run in view the festive rush. Both trains will continue to run till further notification," he said. Earlier this month, SER had increased the frequency of two trains, the Howrah-Mumbai Special (02810/02809) and the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special (02834/02833). Both trains are now running daily. Their stops at Tatanagar have also been restored, thus making convenient for steel city residents  to travel to Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tata golf championship to be held at Golmuri greens amid strict Covid protocols||The Tata Steel Tour Championship will be held at the 18-hole Golmuri golf course from December 17 to 20 following strict Covid-19 protocols. The four-day championship, which carries a prize money of Rs 1.5 crore, will be preceded by a pro-am (professional-amateur) event. “The last six months have indeed been the longest and the darkest to us all. Now with the permission to conduct tournaments within Unlock guidelines, we are going to stage five tournaments in November and December for season 2020-2021,” said Uttam Singh Mundy, CEO of the Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI). The Golmuri greens have always won accolades for top golfers who have come to the steel city for the tournament. The pro-am gives an opportunity to local golfers to play alongside professionals. Shedding light on the Covid protocols, Mundy said players must get their Covid test done 72 hours prior to their arriving at the tournament venue for the practice round. Only those with a negative test report will be allowed. Players not carrying their test reports will not be allowed to enter the tournament venue. The installation of the Arogya Setu app is recommended to update their health status. Social distancing  of at least six feet must be practiced at all times at the tournament venue, and masks mandatory in all areas except while playing on the course and during dining. Gatherings are strictly prohibited and players will be asked to leave the venue as soon as their round has been completed. No practice will be allowed after the round. If a player is showing any signs of illness he will be asked to stay home and follow health protocols as recommended by health authorities. No player other than those as mentioned in the tournament entry list or draw (practice rounds 1 and 2), and those making the cut (rounds 3 and 4) will be allowed entry at the tournament venue. Players can opt to carry their own bag. Starters must wear a mask, a face shield and gloves. Only a scorecard and hole location or local rules sheet will be distributed on the tee. They will be stapled together and given to the marker. There will be no exchange of paper between the participants. Mundy said five events are scheduled to be played in 2020 and that the current season has been extended to 2021. The season resumes with the Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship to be hosted by Panchkula Golf Club. Chandigarh Golf Club will present the same event from November 9-12. The format for the event will be the same as for the previous event, except the third and fourth rounds will be played only at Chandigarh during the week. The Jeev Milkha Singh invitational will be held from December 3-6 at the Chandigarh Golf Club, followed by the Indian Oil Servo Masters Golf at Digboi Golf Links in Digboi from December 9-12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Education minister Mahto improving gradually, says CM||Critically-ill after testing Covid positive, Jagarnath Mahto is facing minor difficulty in breathing but is able to talk to visitors and read newspapers, chief minister Hemant Soren said after meeting the education minister at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi on Saturday. Hemant said Mahto’s condition was improving gradually after he and health minister Banna Gupta visited the hospital in the afternoon and sought updates on his condition from a team of doctors treating him in the private hospital. A special team of doctors from state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) has been constituted to advise the doctors treating Mahto in Medica. During his meeting with the doctors, Hemant directed them to closely monitor all the changes in Mahto’s health condition and provide regular updates to the government. Later, the chief minister said the government was planning to send Mahto outside Ranchi for better treatment but doctors advised against it as he was not fit to travel. “The education minister has been undergoing treatment in this hospital for 10 days, and his condition is gradually improving,” said Hemant. “He is still facing minor difficulty in breathing, but he is talking to visitors and also reading newspapers,” he added. The chief minister said that Mahto was getting the best possible treatment in Ranchi. And any facility that is available in the metro cities will be provided to Mahto here itself as he had been asked not to travel. “Before being admitted to Medica, he (Mahto) was undergoing treatment at RIMS. Although he has shown improvement, the pace of recovery is quite slow,” said Hemant. Mahto was admitted in the ICU of Medica on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilator. The oxygen level in his blood had gone down to 65mm Hg. The normal reading is between 75mm Hg to 100mm Hg. Dr Vijay Mishra, who has been treating Mahto at Medica, said the oxygen level in his blood has improved marginally, but it was still lower than optimum. “We are providing the standard treatment that would be given to him in any other hospital in the country. And he is responding to it,” said Mishra. Mahto is among five ministers who have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. State minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died hours after recovering from Covid-19 last week. Besides, health minister Banna Gupta, drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur and agriculture minister Badal Patralekh have recovered without showing severe symptoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tilaiya Dam to get tourist police outpost ||Tilaiya Dam, one of the most popular and picturesque spots in Koderma district will have better security facilities for tourists who frequent this hostspot every year. Koderma superntendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib said a proposal has been sent to the state convert to convert the area into a full-fledged outpost. If given a go-ahead it will be known as Tilaiya Dam Tourist outpost. The dam, which was the first of four multi-purposed dams included in the first phase of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), constructed across the Barakar river and inaugurated in 1953 by prime minister Jawahar Lal Nehru, attracts a large number of tourists around the year from Bihar and Jharkhand as well as other states including Bengal. Filmmakers from Bengal and of the Bhojpuri film industries prefer to shoot their films at this picturesque location. Waquarib said the outpost will be made hi-tech with proposals finalized to change its name. A helpdesk will be erected to act immediately on receiving any kind of complaint. Sources in Koderma said with every passing year, tourist footfall is increasing at the dam finding it the best place to get a break from their busy schedule. They said this was the reason why many of the facilities have been improved here including security. They said the administration's plan is to provide best facilities here so as to encourage tourists. In 2017, Koderma administration, in association with the state tourism department had introduced a 32-seater double-decker boat and an eight-seater speedboat dam to draw more tourists and improve the lives of boatmen at the same time. To reach the dam, tourists can come to Koderma, is 160km from Ranchi, l a smooth two-hour drive on the Ranchi-Patna stretch on NH-33, for a memorable getaway. Administrative officials said the tourism department wants to convert the dam into a centre with facilities at par with the best of the country. In the coming days, funds will be pumped to upgrade facilities here. Waquarib said at present, efforts are on to convert Tilaiya Dam outpost into Tilaiya Dam Tourist outpost with upgraded facilities to be available soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi police step up vigil at Dhoni homes after threat on social media||Ranchi police have stepped up vigil around Former Team India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s houses here following a threat to his daughter on social media on Friday night after his team, Chennai Super Kings, lost to Kolkata Knight Riders in an IPL tie on Wednesday. Trolls threatened Dhoni’s 5-year-old daughter with rape, with a section of the media reporting that Dhoni’s wife Sakshi saw it on her Instagram feed. The incident sparked an outrage over social media with many users, including MLAs and celebrities, condemning such distasteful online behaviour. Ranchi rural SP Naushad Alam said police were on high alert. “Ever since we learnt about the rape threat, we have increased patrolling and vigil in and around both the areas where Dhoni’s houses exist in view of the safety of his family. The city police are not taking any chances even though we aren’t reading much into the distasteful tweet,” he told The Telegraph Online. Dhoni has a farmhouse in Simalia on the outskirts of Ranchi. His family, including wife, daughter and parents, moved there last year. He has another house in Harmu, named Shaurya, which he had built on land gifted to him by the state government for his achievements on the cricket field in mid-2000. With BCCI not allowing cricketers’ families to travel with them for the ongoing IPL underway in UAE this year, Dhoni's wife and daughter are currently in Ranchi. Asked about the duration of extra security, Alam said it would be in place for a few days. “Till the time we feel everything is safe, the drill will be on. We are also contacting his family in Ranchi as a part of confidence building measures, to assure them of their safety and to know if they foresaw any problem,” said Alam. As an international cricketer, Dhoni has often been unfairly targeted in his hometown after matches that do not go in India’s way. In 2007, enraged over his poor form in the first match of the World Cup, unruly fans vandalised his house and damaged a portion of the boundary wall. Fans reconstructed the boundary wall themselves once better sense prevailed. In December 2010, one of the 20 CCTV cameras at his bungalow in Harmu, was stolen. An FIR was registered at Argora police station. No one was arrested. Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) has strongly condemned the incident. JSCA vice president Ajaynath Shahdeo said, “Cricket is a game of gentlemen. And in sports, winning and losing are two sides of the same coin. Dhoni is not just the pride of the state, but he is also the toast of the country. He is a great ambassador of the game. Such a comment against his minor daughter on social media is disgraceful,” he said. In the ongoing IPL, Dhoni-led CSK is currently placed in sixth position out of the eight teams taking part in the tournament. In six games, CSK has won two and lost four so far. On Saturday, CSK is scheduled to take on Royal Challengers Bangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Chief minister defends Swamy in midnight tweet ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren broke his silence and defended Stan Swamy late on Friday night, almost 24 hours after the 82-year-old social Jesuit priest and social worker was picked up from his Ranchi home by the National Investigating Agency. Describing Swamy as a “stalwart among rights activists”, Hemant used his official Twitter handle to speak out. “Why is the Centre hellbent on stifling all the pro-poor, pro-tribal and pro-Dalit voices in the country? What message does it want to give by arresting Stan Swamy, who has been among the strongest voices of all those marginalised in the state and country,” he tweeted in Hindi. Swamy, known for working towards the uplift of tribals, was picked from his residence in Ranchi by NIA for alleged links with Maoists allegedly involved in the violence at Bhima Koregaon in Pune December 2017. Earlier on Friday, the Church and several rights organisations came out in support of Swamy and questioned the Hemant government’s silence on the manner of his arrest. They appealed to the chief minister to come out openly against the arrest of the octogenarian by the central agency at night and without a formal warrant. Activists also staged a protest at Albert Ekka Chowk holding banners and posters in support of Swamy, who was among the eight to be charge-sheeted by NIA on Friday in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence. The NIA, which is probing the case, has accused Swamy of being a part of CPI (Maoists) and one of the key conspirators behind the violence. Swamy has denied the accusations. A joint statement, issued under the aegis of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and endorsed by over 2,000 activists, stated that Swamy had cooperated with investigating officers of the NIA when they questioned him at his residence in Bagaicha for over 15 hours on two occasions between July 27-30 and August 6. They also dubbed the case against him and other activists as false and fabricated. Economist Jean Dreze, one of the firsts to condemn the NIA’s high-handedness, said, “We strongly condemn the arrest of Stan Swamy in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. He is a valued and public-spirited citizen and has been working for tribal rights since decades in Jharkhand. We are demanding, to both the state and central governments, to release him.” Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, the auxiliary bishop of Ranchi, in his statement appealed to citizens to stand by Swamy in his hour of need. He also appealed to the authorities concerned to release the octogenarian immediately.  “We are distressed and troubled by the manner in which such an elderly person has been treated by NIA. A clarification from NIA would be greatly appreciated,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Thief found hanging from tree||A hand cuffed nude body of a thief who ran away from Kalubathan Police outpost was found hanging from a tree on Friday. Prakash Gorai, 25, a resident of Upchuria area of Nirsa block was arrested on Wednesday for stealing and re-selling mobile phones. Gorai fled the station from the toilet after his arrest. “We had lodged FIR with regard his escape from the police outpost as he cut the rope attached to his handcuff and also broke the ventilator of toilet of police station while fleeing away” said Vijay Kumar Kushwaha, Nirsa DSP, and added that they had informed the family members of the deceased after his escape from the police outpost. “Though it seems to be case of suicide but we will not leave anything on chance and carry out a detailed investigation after carrying out a detailed enquiry,” claimed Kushwaha and said that the body has been sent for post-mortem to PMCH. Chairman of Dhanbad District Board, Robin Gorai said, “Since the deceased was arrested by police and his dead body was found today around 1 km from police station, it raises doubt over the role of police and a detailed enquiry is required in  the case.” A rain fed Pipra river washed away a 14-year-old boy in Barhi on Friday, around 50kms away from Hazaribagh. Vinod Hansda was returning home in Pipra village on his bicycle and tried to cross the river but was washed away by the high tide. Villagers launched a search but failed to find him. Daltonganj police and civic officials on Friday held a meeting to discuss traffic de-congestion plans during the festive season. Sub divisional police officer Sandip Kumar Gupta said the LIC road is the most congested area because of road side vendors. Gupta said the focus will be on parking and barricading to avoid bottlenecks. Lorries entering the state will be monitored so as not to cause any traffic trouble here. The entry and exit time is from 9 at night to 9 in the day. The Dhanbad Covid hospital at Jagjivan Nagar will be relaunched after its renovation on September 22. The renovation is being carried out by the district administration in association with BCCL. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said the hospital will now have a 30 bed ICU facility for seriously affected Covid patients and equipped with other state of the art facilities. Prakash Kumar, an employee of a rice mill of Giridih  who went missing on Friday morning was found by Dhanbad Police  from Bank More area. Prakash claimed that he was abducted by a Dhanbad resident,  Upendra Singh, from Bank More area while he was heading towards Deoghar in his car. Dhanbad police denied his abduction for ransom claims and said that he was held by some finance company recovery agents over non payment of EMI for his car but was later released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand temples open, wait for churches ||Many temples in Jharkhand opened their doors for the devotees on Thursday after a gap of about seven months. The state government issued a set of standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed on Wednesday night. But most of the churches are yet to be opened. The cap of 50 persons attending a place of worship at any given time, as the SOP specified, came in the way. A circular issued by the Catholic church in this regard has expressed reservations. “Those who prepared the SOP could have applied their mind a little more, specially regarding the number of persons that are allowed,” said the circular issued by Ranchi archdiocese on Thursday night under signatures of Archbishop Felix Toppo and Auxilliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas. Many churches in the region can accommodate much more people even after maintaining social distancing. The circular, however, expressed gratefulness that the government “finally issued SOP for opening of churches” and directed all concerned to follow it. It also allowed churches under Ranchi archdiocese to conduct two masses on weekdays and three or even more on Sundays for accommodating more number of faithful to attend the masses. The parish priests can decide on this after consulting with whomever they feel necessary, the circular added. The circular directed that “no church/place of worship will be opened till the basic safety measures of sanitiser and thermal scanners are in place” and also to “find, train and prepare volunteers to meet the new condition”. “Online masses will continue and big churches will conduct more than three masses on Sundays,” auxiliary Bishop Mascarenhas told The Telegraph when asked if online masses would now be discontinued. Each church will take the call individually but they will open only when they have health safety measures in place, he further informed about the date of opening the churches. The Gossner Evangical Lutheran Church, the oldest in the region that was established in 1845, was, however, expected to reopen from Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
