11-10-2020||Jharkhand||Traffic police, Jusco crack down on parking on Bistupur Main Road||The traffic wing of district police on Sunday launched a drive against those parking their vehicles on either side of the Bistupur Main Road in a bid to keep it free of congestion. The traffic police have roped in private security guards belonging to Jusco for the initiative. Over a dozen private security guards are carrying out the job of preventing vehicle owners from parking their vehicles along the road; if anyone defies their instructions, the security guards are asking the police to take necessary actions, which include fines or getting the vehicles towed to the Bistupur traffic police station. The focus of the drive is the newly set up Bistupur Public Square where the rush of people, especially youngsters, is on the rise. As more and more youngsters are turning up at the square, an increasing number of vehicles is also getting parked wrongfully there. Deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Shrivendra said: “Ideally, we would have kept the entire stretch of Bistupur Main Road free of congestion but currently, we are focusing on a 500m portion starting from Bata to Diagonal Road. No one will be allowed to park their vehicles in this stretch and if anyone is found violating the instruction, they will be penalised.” He said vehicles would be towed away to Bistupur police station if they have been left in the no-parking zone. Apart from paying a penalty (of Rs 200 for two-wheelers and Rs 500 for four-wheelers), vehicle owners will also have to pay the towing cost. The opening of the square has meant that the responsibilities of the traffic police have increased. “After the square started attracting crowds, the road in front of it also started getting congested because of the vehicles the visitors would park there. The Jusco management requested that the stretch from Bata to Diagonal Road be kept free of any parking. As there were only five cops at the Bistupur traffic police station, we requested Jusco, which is a Tata Steel subsidiary, to provide its security guards to work to address the issue of congestion. The Jusco management obliged by providing about a dozen guards for the job,” said Shrivendra. However, those turning up at the square are finding it difficult to park their vehicles. This has forced some to drop their plans of visiting the place. “Today being a Sunday, we had come here as we wanted to spend some time at the square before going for puja shopping. But due to the parking problem, we dropped our plans,” Tapas Sinha, a resident of Parsudih, told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar relaxes restrictions at Baba Baidhyanath Dham ||The Deoghar district administration on Sunday relaxed restrictions at Baba Baidhyanath Dham. The temple announced that it will allow visitors from other states, while saying it will increase the entry limit of visitors per day to 1,000 from the existing cap of 200. It has also increased the visiting hours from four hours to eight. Deoghar deputy commissioner Kamleshwar Prasad said that the decision was taken following a meeting on Saturday in the wake of Unlock 5. He said: “Earlier, we were allowing entry of 200 visitors per day which has now been extended to 1,000. Similarly, the temple will be open for darshan for eight hours against a four-hour window. All entry to the temple, however, will continue to be through online permits from the temple website.” Prasad said that the temple will be open from 6am till 2pm. He said: “While the doors of the temple are open for all, as per the government’s safety advisory, we appeal to senior citizens with comorbidities, pregnant ladies and infants to refrain from visiting.” Following a Supreme Court order in connection with a PIL filed by BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey, the Jharkhand government notified reopening of the Baba Dham in Deoghar and Basukinath temple in Dumka on August 26 allowing the twin shrines to function only for four hours a day and only for devotees of the state. However, the state government continued to impose curbs on all other religious establishments till this month. From October 8, other religious places gradually began reopening following a formal nod from the state government. While the Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh, Itkhori in Chatra and few others opened doors after seven months from October 8 itself, a majority of the temples in Ranchi began re-functioning only from October 10, after the Ranchi district administration barred their reopening till standard operating procedures were issued by the government||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||FIR over threat to Dhoni’s daughter||Police in Ranchi on Sunday registered an FIR against an unnamed person hailing from Gujarat in connection with a rape threat to Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s five-year-old daughter Ziva on social media. Police sources said they had traced the IP address from which the social media message had been posted after Dhoni’s team Chennai Super Kings lost to Kolkata Knight Riders on Wednesday night at the Indian Premier League. The IP address is from Kutch in Gujarat. Jharkhand police have also contacted their counterparts in Gujarat and it is believed that the latter have already picked up the accused. The officer in charge of Ratu police station, Rajiv Ranjan Lal, confirmed to The Telegraph Online the registration of the FIR. He said: “We have filed an FIR against an unnamed person under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 (transmitting obscene material) of the IT Act. The IP address has been traced to Kutch in Gujarat.” On the identity of the culprit, he said the force was working on it with the Gujarat police and will make an announcement after a formal breakthrough. The Ranchi police stepped up vigil near Dhoni’s houses in Simalia on the city outskirts in the Ratu police station area and in Harmu in the Argora police station area as precautionary steps following the post. Trolls threatened the former Team India captain’s daughter with rape, with a section of the media reporting that Dhoni’s wife Sakshi saw it on her Instagram feed. The incident sparked an outrage on social media with many users, including MLAs and celebrities, condemning the distasteful online behaviour. Dhoni’s family, including his wife, daughter and parents, are currently at their Simalia-based farmhouse. Several cricketers affiliated to the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) on Sunday evening staged a protest at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka Chowk holding banners and posters in support of Dhoni and his family and demanding early arrest of the accused. “Dhoni bhaiya is our idol and we can’t tolerate any harm to him or his family. The entire cricket fraternity is with him and it is probably for the first time that all cricketers have come out openly to protest in this fashion as everyone is deeply hurt by the incident,” said an Under-19 player, unwilling to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||About 50 per cent of new Covid cases from Ranchi||Nearly 50 per cent of the 574 Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on Sunday were from Ranchi. It is the worst-affected district in terms of Covid case load in the state, data compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 286 of the 574 Covid cases reported on Sunday were from Ranchi. The district also saw a rise in the number of active cases on the day after 244 recoveries were reported here against the over-280 fresh cases. Ranchi was also the only district in Jharkhand to report a triple-digit spike in Covid cases on Sunday. All the remaining 23 districts reported less than 100 fresh cases of infection on the day. The Covid-19 tally in the district reached 22,531. Government data puts the number of active cases in the district at 2,669. East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in the state, reported only 45 cases, while Bokaro reported 47 cases of infection on the day. As many as 42 people were found infected in Dhanbad, while Pakur reported zero cases of infection. Covid-19 claimed three more lives in Jharkhand on Sunday, and two of the victims were from Dhanbad. East Singhbhum reported one death on the day, which took the toll in the district to 315, government data stated. As many as 144 Covid patients have died in Ranchi so far, and these two districts account for nearly 60 per cent of the Covid casualties in the state. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped further up at 90.32 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 86.20 per cent. As per government data, out of the 92,525 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, 83,571 have recovered. As per figures with the NHM, there were 8,167 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Sunday evening. The government in Jharkhand has collected swab samples of 26.45 lakh people and tested 26.40 lakh of them. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 17,793 people and 17,219 of them came negative. As per government figures, the Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the state was 82.11 days against the national rate of 62.79 days. The growth rate of the virus in the past one week was 0.85 per cent in Jharkhand and 1.11 per cent in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM leader and wife found murdered in their Jharia house||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) Dhanbad town vice president Shankar Rawani (50), and his wife Balika Devi (45) were brutally murdered at their house on Saturday night. They were residents of Gaurkhunti,under Bhowra Police outpost, about 25 km from Dhanbad district headquarters . The incident came to light on Sunday at around 9 am, when local residents inforned the police. Neighbours noticed that doors of the single storey house were unusually locked till late morning. They weren't able to elicit any response even after knocking several times. Bhowra police aarived and broke open the door to find two dead bodies lying in a pool of blood in the courtyard. Police recovered a dagger and two 9 mm empty shells, along with some cloth and other articles from the site. An FIR is likely be registered after Karan Rawani, the deceased's son who runs a small business in Chakradharpur, arrives. Dhanbad City SP R Ramkumar who reached the site in the morning, along with Sindri DSP Ajit Kumar and Bhowra police outpost in-charge Kalika Ram, said, “We can’t say anything at the moment with regard to the incident as the matter is under investigation”. Councillor of ward number 50 Chandan Mahto said, “ The deceased were stabbed and shot in what seems to be a case of gruesome murder.” A local resident said several articles lay broken all around the house, suggesting struggle. Shramdev Singh Chandravanshi, a JMM activist close to Shankar Rawani, said, “Animosity between the families of Shankar and his cousin Dhiren Rawani, as well as other coal outsourcing contractors, is the probable cause behind the murders. Shankar had written to Dhanbad police seeking security, but his request was not entertaied." Dhiren, Shankar Rawani's cousin, who was also his business partner and former neighbour, was killed on August 18, 2017. Kunal Rawani (25), Shankar Rawani's son, an accused in the murder, was killed by an irate mob on the same day. Shankar and Dhiren started a lottery business in late 80s at Gaurkhunti. Later they founded a non-banking finance company, Nagmani, in the early 90s. Dhiren and Shankar locked in dispute and parted ways soon after, with Shankar establishing his own chit fund company Rainbow, later rechristening it as Rainbow Smart Cooperative Society. Dhiren shifted to Mithu Road in Dhanbad town after the dispute with his cousin. Both lodged several cases against each other in different police stations of Dhanbad, including Sudamdih PS. Ramesh Tuddu, JMM district president, said, “Shankar was an active JMM leader and the manner in which he and his wife were killed requires serious investigation.” Ragini, BJP leader and wife for former Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh, said, “The law and order situation in the district has dipped ever since the new government came in power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||BJP falls back on old war horses for Dumka, Bermo bypolls||The BJP will field former social welfare minister Louise Marandi in Dumka and Yogeshwar Mahto ‘Batul’ in Bermo for the November 3 bylections, the party said on Sunday. Both Marandi and Mahto lost in the 2019 Assembly elections. In Dumka, chief minister Hemant Soren (JMM) defeated Marandi, while in Bermo, Congress’s Rajendra Prasad Singh decimated Mahto. The two seats fell vacant after Hemant decided to leave Dumka and retain Barhait in January, while sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died in Bermo in May. BJP’s general secretary Aditya Sahu said, “Based on the feedback from the state leadership, BJP high command has announced Louise Marandi and Yogeshwar Mahto for Dumka and Bermo seats respectively. Both are grounded to their constituency which they had last represented between 2014-19 and are sure to undo the past loss.” Reacting to her nomination, Louise said, “I am thankful to the party leadership for showing its faith in me. People in Dumka have realised their past mistake after seeing 7 months of misrule of the present government in all sectors, be it law and order, transparency in governance or execution of schemes meant for them. An anti-JMM wave is brewing strong in Dumka.” Yogeshwar, on the other hand, did not answer calls when The TelegraphOnline tried to reach him for comments. BJP sources said that the party initially thought of fielding new faces in both the seats but fell back on old war horses owing to a lack of trusted faces. “In Dumka, certain sections within the party first proposed the name of Babulal Marandi, who is currently the leader of legislative party and Dhanwar MLA. In past elections, Babulal had defeated JMM supremo Shibu Soren and is an acceptable Santhali face in this region. He, however, didn’t wish to take the risk,” claimed a party veteran. In Bermo, the BJP had zeroed in on Yogeshwar and former Giridih MP Ravindra Kumar Pandey, who was benched in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after the seat went to AJSU-P as part of the BJP-AJSU alliance. “Yogeshwar was preferred over Pandey because of past records. In the Opposition, our focus now is to carefully capitalise on available limited opportunities to increase our tally in the state Assembly,” said the party insider. Following Sunday’s announcement, the battlelines for the November 3 byelections are clearly drawn between the ruling mahagatbandhan of JMM, Congress and RJD versus the NDA after the Sudesh Mahto-led AJSU-P extended its support to the BJP. The JMM-Congress-RJD combine has named Hemant’s younger brother Basant and Kumar Jaimangal, son of Rajendra Prasad, in Dumka and Bermo respectively. Basant will file his nominations on Monday (October 12) while Jaimangal will do so on October 14, said Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey. BJP is yet to say when it intends to file nominations of its candidates. But sources said the party was expected to do so on October 14. Currently, the ruling coalition has 46 MLAs in the 81-member Assembly with an effective strength of 78 after the demise of JMM minister and Madhupur MLA Haji Hussain Ansari on October 3. In the 2019 Assembly polls, JMM originally won 29 seats, Congress 17 and RJD 1. This apart, two former JVM-P MLAs—Bandhu Tirkey (Mandar) and Pradeep Yadav (Poriyahat) _ joined the Congress after the Assembly polls of December 2019, taking the total count of MLAs of the ruling dispensation to 49. The BJP on the other hand has 26 MLAs after Babulal Marandi merged his party with the saffron camp, while AJSU-P has two seats, taking the NDA’s count to 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||Rain likely during first two days of Durga Puja||As if the virus wasn’t enough, rain may also play spoilsport this Puja. Weathermen warned on Sunday that satellite pictures were indicating the formation of a low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal around October 15, something that could impact Jharkhand's weather. “It would result in cloud cover and moderate rain over the state between October 15 and 23," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He, however, ruled out the possibility of heavy rainfall. This year, Durga Puja begins with Mahasashthi on October 22. Dashami falls on October 26. As per the IMD forecast, there could be rain on the initial two days of Puja. A duty officer at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta corroborated the forecast of Ranchi Met Centre. “We cannot rule out the possibility of rain during Puja as the monsoon is yet to withdraw from Jharkhand, something that will happen only after October 20. Two back-to-back weather systems originating from the Bay of Bengal will extend the monsoon in Jharkhand this year," the duty officer told The Telegraph Online over phone from Calcutta. Weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre said Jharkhand would not face heavy rain, but did not rule out the possibility of intermittent showers during the first two days of Puja. "The southwest monsoon is yet to withdraw from Jharkhand. So, there is a possibility of rain during Puja," said a senior weather analyst at the Patna Met Centre. The climate analyst added that satellite study revealed chances of thunderstorm and lightning over north-west, central and southern Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. Under normal conditions, monsoon usually withdraws from Jharkhand between October 10 and 12. However, over the past few years, rain-bearing winds have been withdrawing past the scheduled date. Earlier, weathermen at Ranchi Met Centre had predicted the exit of monsoon from Jharkhand by October 10. The withdrawal process had begun on time from Rajasthan. But a prevailing depression over West Central Bay of Bengal and the upcoming low-pressure, which is expected to impact the weather in the state from October 15, has held up the withdrawal. Hence, the southwest monsoon is expected to overstay for over 10 days, beyond October 20, confirmed weathermen. Last year, the weather God was benevolent, providing a rain-less Puja to most parts of Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro. Humidity was low, and the weather was perfect for pandal-hopping. Year 2018 had also seen an absolutely dry Puja. Rains had played spoilsport on Puja days in 2017 and 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||Surgical relief for a bird in Daltonganj, who is set to fly again||In a small town like Daltonganj, where broken bones are set right only after a visit to the state capital, a bird’s fractured leg was amputated to relieve it of its pain, as our feathered friends do not use crutches. A cattle egret weighing 325g was amputated by a young touring mobile veterinary officer Jeeani Abha Melgandi, who had carried out the procedure in pets in the past. However, this was her maiden experience with a bird. “On Thursday, this cattle egret, a water bird, was brought to me. A noted wildlife lover-cum-snake and bird rescuer Jyoti Kumari had brought this bird along in her lap,” said Melgandi while talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday. “The bird was in great agony, writhing with pain. There was a severe left leg fracture. The bird had made moved with the fractured leg, further worsening her condition,” she said. Melgandi said she had first thought of bandaging the leg, but the fracture was severe. No external support could have made her miseries any lesser. “The fractured leg’s lower part was becoming almost lifeless. Reflexes were missing. Amputation was the only choice with this luckless bird. I didn’t take much time and told Kumari that I will go ahead with the procedure,” said Melgandi, adding that it was not a happy choice. “I wanted this bird to fly again and also to make her get rid of the acute trauma and shock that she was in,” she said. The procedure took about half an hour. “The bird was given a suspension of antibiotics and Jyoti took her back home like a good sister to a bird in distress,” said Melgandi. Jyoti Kumari said a boy brought the injured bird to her on October 5 from Daltonganj’s Kandu Mohalla. “I immediately telephoned a highly experienced vet doctor Vishal Patel in Gujarat and sent him the pictures of her leg via WhatsApp for advice,” she said. Patel suggested amputation. Kumari said she had called many local vets but to no avail. “I then contacted Melgandi and persuaded her to take chance and risk to save her,” said Jyoti adding that the bird’s pain brought tears to her eyes. The egret made a spectacular recovery and her recuperation has been tremendous. Kumari said this bird is still in her cage laid in one corner of her house and that she is like any other member of our family. She gets 6 to 7 pieces of small fish for food that Kumari arranges for her. “I used to work as a computer operator at the Palamau Tiger Reserve, but I have been unceremoniously laid off by its officials,” said Kumari. “The tiger reserve officials had slashed my monthly remuneration arbitrarily which I resisted, only to get out of the job and come here.” An IFS officer, the now-retired Anil Kumar Mishra whom The Telegraph Online spoke to on Sunday, has trained Kumari. “More than three dozen birds in distress, having physical afflictions ranging from blunt injuries down to fractures have been rescued from January to October this year by Jyoti and her team who are associated with our Adhikari Foundation For Nature Conservation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand|| Register online to visit Chatra temple||Devotees who want to visit the Bhadrakali temple in Chatra’s Itkhori block will have to register themselves online a day in advance. The devotees will also have to input their Aadhar details on jharkhanddarshan.nic.in. The new rule will be applicable from Monday, though registrations open a day earlier. Temple committee secretary Baijnath Kamti, who is also the circle officer of Itkhori, said that after registering on the website, devotees will also have to mention the time of visit and the number of visitors. A list of registered devotees will be displayed near the main entrance gate everyday, Kamti said. Those visiting the temple without registration will have to remain outside the sanctum sanctorum, he added. The BJP has begun its campaign in tribal-dominated Dumka ahead of the November 3 bypolls. Former chief minister Raghuabr Das conducted a mahila jan choupal programme on Saturday. Das cited how his government between 2014-19 came up with several pro-tribal initiatives and also spoke of the Union government's women friendly drives including LPG schemes, jan-dhan accounts among others for marginalised sections of the society. BJP lost to JMM-Congress-RJD alliance in the 2019 assembly polls. In Dumka, BJP's sitting MLA and minister Louise Marandi had lost to present chief minister Hemant Soren. Soren left the seat to retain Barhait making bypoll a necessary here. Ruling JMM has now named Hemant's brother Basant for Dumka election while BJP is likely to give Louise another chance. An 18-year-old girl and two minor children drowned at two spots in Hazaribagh district on Saturday. Villagers managed to find one of their bodies. Neighbours Faizan Ansari, 9, and Ainul Ansari, 10, drowned in the Barwana river near Konarkhurd Masjid Tola in Barkatha block, 65km from the district headquarters. While taking a bath, Faizan slipped into the river. Ainul jumped into the water to save him but he too went missing. Faizan’s body was found a few kilometres away. Bulbul Kumari drowned in the Kewta river in Padma block, 25km from the district headquarters, while she was washing clothes. Efforts to find her body proved fruitless. Jahida Khatoon, a 40-year-old resident of Sukudih police station area in Dhanbad’s Hariharpur, was killed when she was hit by a motorcycle at her village while crossing the road on Saturday morning around 10am. Local residents blocked the road near the accident spot for more than three hours. Italian photographer Riccardo Busi, who is president of the Federation of International Art Photography (FIAP), showcased his work during a webinar organised by the Dhanbad Camera Club on Saturday. Anil Risal Singh, former president of the Federation of Indian Photography, who is the chief advisor of the Dhanbad Camera Club, welcomed Busi and introduced him to participants. Barun Kumar Sinha, secretary-general, Federation of Indian Photography, recalled his memories with Busi at several international meets. Mukesh Srivastava, president of the Dhanbad Camera Club, surprised Busi by exhibiting a number of his photographs during visits to India in 1985 and 2010. Busi had visited iconic places such as Kashmir, Ladakh, Rajasthan and Agra in 1985. In 2010, he was the chief guest at the 15th FIAP Nature Biennial World Cup in Bangalore. Srivastava also exhibited the photographs from the 33rd FIAP congress held in South Korea in 2016, showing Busi in action as well as in discussion with delegates from India. During his conversation with Busi, Srivastava also asked about his journey as a photographer as well as about his plans. Busi was also conferred the first honorary fellowship of the Dhanbad Camera Club by Srivastava. He was also presented a certificate and memento on the occasion. The Dhanbad Camera Club has been organising webinars since August on a fortnightly basis due to constraints brought about by the pandemic. K.K. Thakur joined Bokaro Power Supply Private Company Limited (BPSCL) as chief executive officer (CEO) on Satursday. BPSCL, a joint venture of SAIL-DVC, supplies its entire electricity to Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). Thakur was the Chief General Manager in Turbo Blower Station of BSL.The CEO post of BPSCL was vacant for the last one and a half years. The senior officers of BPSCL were operating the company in the absence of a CEO. A migrant labourer of Kharbariya village in Giridih committed suicide on Saturday over unemployment during lockdown. The deceased Manoj Kumar used to work as a labourer in Surat. He had returned to his village during the coronavirus induced lockdown. With no employment opportunities, his family started facing financial problems. Two cyber criminals were caught by police in Giridih from an ATM on Saturday. The cyber police station had received information about the whereabouts of two cyber criminals in the Nagar police station area. The duo identified as Sanjay Kumar Mandal and Dilip Kumar Rai had come to an HDFC Bank ATM located near Bada Chowk to withdraw money. Police personnel deployed next to the ATM caught them. Cyber police station in-charge Sahadev Prasad said that during interrogation both the criminals have admitted to their involvement in multiple cyber crimes and confessed to have illegally earned about five lakh rupees in two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
