12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Police arrests 21 people in Garhwa mob violence incident||Garhwa police arrested 21 people involved in an incident where three women and a man were allegedly stripped, paraded naked and thrashed on suspiscion of practicing witchcraft by a mob of around 50 people. The incident took place at Narayanpur village on Thursday night, police said.  After the incident Garhwa SP Khotre Srikant Suresh Rao constituted a police team led by  SDPO Bahman Tuti to arrest the accused. "We have arrested 21 people involved in the incident after continuous raids", the SDPO said. Two people were arrested on the day of the incident. "Soon after receiving information, a police team reached the village and found around 50 people present at the spot," he added The women and the man were accused of practicing witchcraft after two daughters of one Bali Rajwar, a resident of the village, fell sick, police said. Rajwar's family members. along with Vikas Kumar Saw, Bablu Ram, Rajad Paswan, Ravi Kumar Ram and Raju Ram, among others, allegedly stripped the victims, thrashed them and then paraded them throughout the area, as per the case lodged by the police. The case was lodged under sections of 354/354b/323 IPC and 3/4 Prevention of Witchcraft Act. All arrested have been sent to judicial custody and the police are conducting raids to arrest the rest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM’s Basant Soren files nomination in Dumka||With battlelines drawn between the ruling mahagatbandhan and the NDA for the November 3 byelections in two Assembly seats of the state, JMM’s Basant Soren filed his nomination for Dumka on Monday. Accompanied by JMM central committee member Vijay Singh, Basant first  offered prayers at Disom Manjhi Than, a place of religious significance for tribals, and then drove to the returning officer  at the district collectorate without supporters in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions. Chief minister and Basant’s elder brother Hemant Soren, ministers Alamgir Alam (rural development) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture), and a host of MLAs and party workers belonging to the ruling alliance, were present in Dumka. But they refrained from crowding the venue. Dumka is JMM’s traditional stronghold. For 42-year-old Basant, this will be his electoral debut in an election although he contested Rajya Sabha polls in 2016 as JMM candidate and lost. Later, Hemant told reporters at Khajuria that the JMM was confident of retaining its bastion in the Santhal Pargana. “The results will be no different and we will clinch the seat this time too by a good margin. Dumka is the place where Baba Shibu Soren began his political journey. In the 2019 elections, people of this state rejected the BJP to give us a clear mandate for the next five years. We are committed to the people,” he said. Elections in both seats will be a test of popularity for the ruling coalition of Congress-JMM-RJD, which ousted BJP-AJSU-P combine in the 2019 Assembly elections. In Bermo, the Congress has fielded former MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh’s son, Kumar Jaimangal. He will file his nomination on Wednesday. BJP candidates Louise Marandi will file her nomination in Dumka on Tuesday while Yogeshwar Mahto ‘Batul’ will do so for Bermo on Wednesday. NDA partners BJP and AJSU-P jointly surfaced before the media on Monday, the first time after the two parties joined hands. State BJP president Deepak Prakash, Dhanwar MLA and BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi, along with Sudesh Mahto and AJSU-P’s Giridih MP Chandra Prakash Choudhary, spoke to the media together. Babulal Marandi said, “This bypoll will be significant in more ways than one. First, this will be a fight between the NDA and political dynasts (read JMM and Congress). Secondly, it will also mark the downfall of the ruling alliance as people are frustrated over mis-governance and a spurt in lawlessness.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||No bhog at Ghaghidih Central Jail Puja this year||The administration of Ghaghidih Central Jail has decided to organise Durga Puja at the jail premises, but on low-scale. The Durga Puja organising committee of the central jail has dropped the practice of preparing `bhog', a primary attraction among prisoners lodged in the jail every year. The committee has not made orders for the idols of Goddess Durga and her children this year as it has decided to buy them from the market a day before Puja begins. Talking about the puja in the central jail, superintendent, Ghaghidih central jail, NK Singh said that they have already started arranging for the four-day-long grand event. "We are going to hold the Puja in accordance with the government guidelines, so we are doing whatever necessary for hosting the Puja oon a small scale,” said Singh talking to The Telegraph Online adding that the bhog will be skipped. He said a small pandal will be set up near the jail-gate, but there will be no lighting arrangement or cultural programme as would usually be carried out by the staff of jail administration earlier. The superintendent said the Puja is organised outside the main building, and the bhog is prepared on jail premises "We do not want the bhog to enter the jail for the prisoners. If it gets contaminated with the coronavirus, the disease will spread among the 17,000-plus inmates. This is the reason we have dropped the preparation of the bhog this year with a heavy heart," the superintendent pointed out. For the Ghaghidih Central Puja committee preparation of bhog and its distribution among the prisoners and outsiders used to be the main work every year. The prisoners would get special bhog on all four days of the Puja.  The central jail Puja committee would spend as much as 80 percent of the Rs 2 lakh Puja budget of on bhog only. This year, those prisoners who would like to celebrate Navratri on an individual basis inside the jail will be allowed to do so. "Though we have dropped bhog from the Puja arrangement, those prisoners who want to hold the Puja by setting up kalash or performing Navratri on an individual basis inside the jail can do so without any restriction.  After all, it is a matter of faith," said the superintendent. Over 50 persons, including 32 prisoners, had been infected with the coronavirus at the Ghaghidih Central Jail earlier. The jail administration successfully made the central jail Covid-free by providing treatment to the infected persons in the jail hospital and MGM Medical College Hospital while at the same time taking stricter measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||FIR against 10 relatives for murder of JMM leader, wife  ||Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz visited the home of JMM town president Shankar Rawani and his wife Balika Devi at Gaurkhunti in Sudamdih on Monday to investigate their murder and also spoke to local policemen to ascertain facts about the case. Minz also took details of the killing from residents of nearby areas and later visited Sudamdih police station where he held a meeting with policemen to discuss Saturday’s (October 10) double murder. Talking to the media after the site inspection, Minz said, “Although Karan Rawani, the son of the deceased duo, had suspected the involvement of some members of his extended family as they had held a grudge, we are investigating the case from several other angles.” The SSP was alluding to deceased Shankar Rawani’s cousin Dhiren Rawani. The two had fallen out after having together started a lottery business in their village at Gaurkhunti more than two decades ago. Asked whether professional gunmen were used in the murder, Minz said they could not say for sure as investigations were still on. “There are several aspects to the case. While on the one hand, a dagger and some bullet shells have been recovered from site, suggesting that these had been used, on the other hand there is also evidence of scuffle, perhaps with Rawani’s attackers,” he said. Sudamdih police registered an FIR against 10 persons of Gaurkhunti in Bhowra on the basis of a complaint of Karan Rawani, the son of the deceased, Shankar Rawani. Those named in the FIR are Varun Rawani (brother of Dhiren), Vishnu Rawani (business partner of Dhiren), Pinki Rawani (wife of Dhiren Rawani), Abhijeet Rawani, Amar Rawani, Nishant Rawani, Tarapad Rawani, Dileshwar Rawani, Ajay Rawani and Prakash Rawani. Deceased Shankar Rawani and his cousin Dhiren also launched a chit fund company, Nagmani, in the early 90s after which there was a dispute and the two parted ways. Shankar Rawani established his own chit fund company, Rainbow, which was later renamed Rainbow Smart Cooperative Society. Dhiren, however, shifted to Mithu Road in Dhanbad town from his ancestral place at Gaurkhunti. Both Shankar Rawani and Dhiren Rawani lodged several cases against each other in various police stations of Dhanbad, including the one at Sudamdih. Dhiren Rawani was killed on August 18, 2017 outside his ancestral home in Gaurkhunti when he reached there on occasion on Mansa Puja. An irate mob suspecting the role of Kunal Rawani, elder son of Shankar Rawani, in the Dhiren’s murder, attacked him with boulders and beat him up severely. Kunal died the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi airport tops in customer satisfaction survey||The Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has bagged the top position in India in customer satisfaction index (CSI), as per a survey conducted by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) through a third-party, officials said on Monday. The largest airport in Jharkhand secured 4.79 out of five in the grading system of the survey, conducted by AAI through a third party, leaving behind Gaya, Surat, Agartala, Bhopal, Khajuraho, Vijaywada and 10 other “medium sized” airports, officials added. Director of Birsa Munda Airport Vinod Sharma said facilities at various airports were judged on 33 parameters including cleanliness, hassle-free check-in and check-out, availability of clean toilets, availability of restaurants, quality of food and beverages, shopping experience, parking and the all-round ambience. “The survey is done separately for large airports, which have a passenger density of over 25 lakh. Medium-sized airports like ours fall in a separate category, while small airports have a different category,” said Sharma. “The survey period was January to June. Birsa Munda Airport has topped among 17 airports in the survey, and we see this as an opportunity to do even better in the future,” he added. This is the first time that Birsa Munda Airport participated in the CSI survey, airport officials said, adding that additional measures were taken during the survey period to ensure hassle-free experience to passengers flying to and from Ranchi. Ranchi’s survey score was followed by Gaya airport in Bihar, which secured 4.77. Surat scored 4.64, while Agartala, Bhopal and Khajuraho scored 4.62, 4.62 and 4.61 respectively. Vijaywada secured 4.60 in the grading. The Birsa Munda Airport is fast growing in terms of connectivity with other cities. The largest airport in Jharkhand has 30 flights connecting Ranchi to cities like New Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Bangalore and Hyderabad. However, many of these flights have not resumed after the lockdown this year. The airport also has an international bay but it’s yet to get any international flights. The airport in Ranchi is also likely to extend its runway, increase the length of the basic strip and construct an isolation bay on extra land that will be allotted to the AAI once the cabinet gives its nod to the airport’s expansion plans, officials said. Currently, Birsa Munda Airport has a 75-meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The length of the basic strip, the airport director said, would be increased to 140 meter once the expansion plan is approved. He added the behaviour of staff at the airport also played a crucial role in ensuring a good CSI rating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC players on strict diet to keep themselves fit ahead of ISL||The players of Jamshedpur FC, who are in isolation in Goa for Indian Super League (ISL) starting next month, have been put under strict diet regime with spicy and oily stuff finding no place on their platter. With stakes high and the Tata Steel-owned club keen to make it to the play-offs this time, serious efforts have been made on the food front in Covid times. “From grilled meats and fish, vegetables prepared in a manner that retains most of the nutritive value , whole fruits and lentils to barring processed foodstuffs and sugar, the diet of the players may appear boring to the outside world . However, it is with performance in mind that decisions around nutrition are taken. In this regard, there is no emotion involved when taking decisions that have a potentially far reaching impact on performance,” said strength and conditioning coach Adrian Dias. He said another aspect is the nutrition that plays a critical role not only in achieving high performance but ensuring that the body is healthy to combat any potential illness let alone the deadly novel coronavirus. “Since the inception of the club, the emphasis has always been to ensure that nutrition and the nutritive value of the food consumed by the players is of the highest quality,” Dias emphasised while speaking from Goa. “Having the luxury of a chef at the team hotel who understands the importance of the adage `you are what you eat’ and the major food groups that we insist on being part of the meals served, has helped ensure that the players consume the best to play at their best. The way the food is prepared is of utmost importance to a sport which requires the players to be powerful yet nimble over the course of 90 minutes,” the JFC strength and conditioning coach added. “We have been having some staff video meetings to discuss everything required for our preseason training and I have been watching a lot of games and players having lots of video calls to their family,” said head coach Owen Coyle who has a huge responsibility in helping JFC make an impression in the cash-rich league this time. With the ISL just over a month away from commencing behind closed doors, players have started reporting for preseason going straight into quarantine to ensure safety of the individual as well as the teams. This presents the technical and support staff with unique but exciting obstacles as they work towards ensuring the players hit the tournament well prepared for the rigors during the highly competitive fixture. JFC has stitched a strong unit this time by adding top performers Peter Hartley (England), Nerijus Valskis (Lithuania) and Stephen Eze (Nigeria) to name a few. The club, which has not made it to the play-offs since making ISL debut three seasons back,  finished fifth under Spanish coach Antonio Iriondo in the last calendar. The preseason is expected to unfold at Sangolda ground near Panjim once the players complete their isolation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Foresters want trench to prevent jumbos from venturing into Chandil||A 4,000ft-long trench can well be the solution for  preventing elephants from neighbouring Bengal slipping into the Chandil forest range in Seraikela-Kharsawan. The hapless foresters of Chandil forest range, who are at their wit’s end when it comes to shepherding jumbos back to Bengal, have stuck to the idea of digging a trench along the Jharkhand-Bengal border. Chandil forest range officer Ashok Kumar said the trench was the only option to restrict the elephants to Bengal jungles. “To be honest, we are not able to prevent elephants coming to our forest range from Bengal. We had managed to drive away separate herds of 30 elephants to the neighbouring state some days back but 14 jumbos again forced their way into our forests late last night,” he added. According to him, the 4,000ft long, 10ft deep and 8ft wide trench would be dug at Biyasiserum  village along the Bengal border. The trench is perhaps the only answer when to comes to stopping the elephants. “We have to speak to the villagers as some part of the land along the border is raiyati and owned by the rurals. Some part is forest land,” the range officer said. Kumar added that herds of elephants arrive in Chandil forest range from Ayodhya hills in the Purulia district of Bengal. “The herds walk from the Ayodhya hills, pass through Bengal jungles and finally slip into Chandil. We have been trying very hard to drive them back to their home. Sometime we are successful and sometime not. It’s a tiring effort to say the least,” he said. Pointing out that digging a trench along the border was extremely necessary, the range officer said the elephants are also damaging standing crops. “The real problem will arise when the crops are harvested by the next month. Farmers will store the produce at their homes. This will attract the elephants and result in man-animal conflict. So a trench seems to be the only way out,” Kumar explained. “We would be meeting in a day or two and try to explain to villagers the importance of digging a trench. After all, they are at the receiving end of the elephant menace,” Kumar emphasised. Elephants damaged the home of Sudhir Pramanik at Ramchandarpur last month and also wiped out rice crop. Another herd destroyed and devoured vegetables grown by Bhrigu Bhagat on Asanbani the same day. Foresters get assistance from village youths for driving away herds of elephants. The forest patrol parties move in jeeps and keep the villagers armed with mashals (torches) and crackers. The patrol remain busy throughout the night. However, the villagers don’t venture out of their homes for fear of elephants. A forester said that the elephants usually don’t attack unless they are teased. ”Villagers tend to drive away elephants by throwing stones and coming close to the animals. We are lucky that the elephant herds from Bengal have not killed anyone but man-animal conflict can take place if villagers continue teasing the elephants,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Nod to poll rallies in Dumka, Bermo amid strict Covid norms  ||The state government has allowed political gatherings in non-containment zones of Bermo and Dumka Assembly constituencies, slated to go to polls on November 3, provided that strict precautionary measures are taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. A notification issued by the home, prison and disaster management department on Sunday night said that in closed spaces, a maximum of 50 per cent of the capacity of the facility will be allowed for political gatherings. The count, it further said, will have a ceiling of 200. In open areas, the political party holding the rally has to ensure that people maintain a gap of six feet during rallies. Besides, every attendee at these political rallies must wear a face mask and maintain hand hygiene. In case, a candidate calls for a rally, then he has to ensure that the due precautionary measures are adhered to, the notification stated. As per the SOP set by the government, prior permission from district authorities must be obtained for holding election rallies, and the district administration must decide the number of attendees that are to be allowed in a particular rally. Dumka and Bermo had relatively fewer cases of Covid-19 than Ranchi and East Singhbhum. As per figures with the state health department, there were 174 active cases of infection in Dumka district and 381 in Bokaro, under which Bermo constituency falls. However, thermal scanners and hand sanitizers must be made available during all the rallies. Circles must be marked on the ground to ensure distance between people, the SOP stated. For venues where attendees are expected to sit, chairs should be placed at a distance of at least six feet. All indoor venues must also be sanitized prior to such gatherings, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh autos flout Covid norms||Autos in Hazaribagh are rampantly flouting Covid-19 protocols by taking more passengers than allowed for maintaining social distance. Police have failed to take any action against the drivers of these autos. A 21-year-old youth damaged a 350-year-old Hanuman idol at a temple after getting drunk. Jitendra Saw, a resident of Karanj Mor, admitted to breaking the idol under the influence of alcohol after tension erupted in the Vishnugarh block when villagers discovered its broken pieces. Vishnugarh police have arrested Jitendra. Villagers of Vishnugarh and Kusumbha had jointly called a meeting on Tuesday to decide on the reconstruction of the idol. The placement cell of BIT Sindri on Sunday organised a webinar on ‘Career Building’. Saroj Kumar Nayak, director of Global Archer Consultancy provided tips to students who participated. Nayak laid stress on the need to focus on goals and prioritise work in college. "College life lays the foundation of professional career of an individual, and it's very essential to properly utilise it," said Naik. "During the age of globalisation, it is very important that we broaden the horizon of our thoughts and reach out to different corners of the world instead of being stagnant," tipped Nayak. He highlighted the need for the students develop skills other than academics in order to be distinguished from others. The session was followed by an interaction session with students. Family members of a pregnant woman who died during treatment at PMCH staged a demonstration in the hospital on Sunday alleging negligence in treatment. The woman, Nilu Hazra, from Kumardubi area died during treatment at PMCH on Sunday morning. Doctors in the gynaecology department denied any negligence on their part and claimed that Hazra died due to sudden rise in blood pressure. She was admitted two days ago by her husband. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Dasrath Chandra Das on Sunday carried out inspection of the Jamadoba based water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. Das supervised the repair work at the plant. He instructed officials to complete the repair work at the earliest. More the 5 lakh Jharia residents are facing acute water crisis since the last eight days due to technical snag in the motors of Jamadoba Water Plant which supplies water to Jharia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
