13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Devotees flock to Bokaro Durga temple with a wish for daughter||In a country beset with the problem of foeticide, the Durga temple at Chakuliya village in Bokaro’s Chas block is a study in contrast. Devotees have been visiting the temple for the past 170 years to pray for daughters. Several couples, many from faraway places, make the journey to the temple each year. A traditional Durga Puja is celebrated at the temple by villagers. “A local resident, Kalicharan Dubey, was the first to pray for a daughter here more than a hundred years ago, a wish which was fulfilled. Since then, many devotees have come wishing for a daughter. Dubey’s descendants still offer prayers to the deity regularly,” said Suryakant Singh, a resident of the village. Singh said: “I too had a son and offered prayers at this temple for a daughter, which the goddess has fulfilled.” Many local residents echo Singh. A growing number of devotees make their way to the temple each year. Another resident, Katayani Devi, said she had named her daughter Bhawani after the goddess. Manohar Dubey, who is the priest of the temple, said: “The number of devotees is increasing. People come from far-flung areas with a wish to have daughters and offer prayers to the goddess. A grand statue of Siddhidatri goddess Durga has been installed at the temple. The tradition continues from more than 100 years.” He added that the temple has a kalash (pot) made of copper which is more than 150 years old. “During every Durga Puja, we use the pot in puja (ghatstahapana).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Body of tribal girl, allegedly gangraped and murdered, exhumed for probe||The body of a 13-year-old tribal girl, who was allegedly gangraped and murdered in Sahibganj last week, was exhumed by district police on Tuesday for examination. Four people were also detained later in the day for questioning. Police said that the victim’s family buried the body on Sunday after it was recovered on Saturday from their neighbourhood. The police weren't informed allegedly under pressure from the village panchayat. Unconfirmed reports, however, suggested that local Ranga police didn’t lodge an FIR when the victim’s parents had initially approached them on Saturday to complain of rape and murder. They were asked to settle the matter with the panchayat. The incident occurred in Lakhipur village under Pathna block, which falls under chief minister Hemant Soren’s assembly constituency in Barhait. As the news broke, BJP went on offensive against the state government over rising instances of crime against women and children in Santhal Parganas and elsewhere. The state BJP unit also formally issued an appeal to Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu seeking her intervention in the falling law and order situtaion in the state, while the party’s Ranchi unit held a candle light protest at the capital’s Albert Ekka chowk at night. Sahibganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta talking has denied police negligence. He said they have lodged an FIR on the basis of a statement by the victim’s friend and sent a team to Lakhipur village, around 30km from district headquarters, to exhume the body for medical test. “The victim, along with her friend, had gone to Taljhari village on Wednesday last week to meet their boyfriends. They stayed there for two days. While returning on Friday (October 9), a few young men apprehended them. On Saturday (October 10), the victim’s body was found abandoned near an under construction house, few meters away from her residence in Lakhipur village,” Kispotta said. He added that soon after they learnt about the incident on Monday evening, a team was sent to the village and on Tuesday, a special team was set up under a magistrate to exhume the body to conduct logical probe and book culprits. “An FIR has been lodged on the basis of the statement from victim’s friend who said that she had escaped when some youths apprehended them on Friday. We have detained four persons for questioning. Further investigation is on,” he said, adding that the panchayat and local police's roled will also be probed. On the other hand, BJP’ Babulal Marandi claimed that the victim’s parents had gone to Ranga police station to file a complaint but were made to return asking them to sort out the issue in Panchayat. “After getting no help from anywhere, they buried the body. The role of police is questionable,” he said. State BJP president Deepak Prakash demanded the governor to intervene. “The girl’s father in his statement has clearly stated that his daughter was raped and killed; still the police didn't file an FIR. Not just Barhait (CM’s constituency), but entire Santhal Parganas and Jharkhand are shocked over the incident which once again exposes that women and children aren’t safe anymore,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Comic book on Galwan martyr Ganesh Hansda's life to be out soon||The cover page of a comic based on the life of soldier Ganesh Hansda, who martyred in a clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley on June 15, was released on his birth anniversary from his home at Kosafalia village in Baharagora block of East Singhbhum, 100 km east of Jamshedpur, on Tuesday. The simple unveiling ceremony took place in the presence of Hansda’s parents Subda and Kapra and villagers of Kosafalia. The comic ‘The fighter of Galwan Valley’ is based on Hansda’s struggle. The cover page has a picture of the martyr and other Indian soldiers protecting the border with the national flag fluttering in their hands. The script of the comic is being written by a team from Nischay Foundation, a Jamshedpur-based social outfit. According to Tarun Kumar, founder of Nischay Foundation, work on the comic has started in the right ernest. “We have started working on the comic which will have the life story and interesting incidents related to Hansda. Children love to read comics. The comic on Ganesh Hansda’s life would inspire the children and youths to fulfill their dreams by following the ideals of Hansda who parted with his life for the country,” he added. The Nischay Foundation founder, who is writing the story and dialogues, said the comic will be  designed by Jamshedpur-based artist Anupam Pal and Invincible Studio. The comic will be launched on June 15, on the death anniversary of martyr Hansda,”Kumar informed. Students of Veer Shahid Ganesh Hansda Pustakalaya at Bhandarshol and Ladhnashol garlanded the picture of the martyr and cut a cake to mark his birthday. A football tournament was also organized at Kosafalia village in which eight teams under Chingra panchayat took part. Hansda (21) was pursuing his intermediate from LBSM College in Karandih, a Jamshedpur suburb, but dropped out in the second year in 2015. He went to train with NCC for three years and was selected for the Army during a direct recruitment drive held at  Morabadi ground in Ranchi in 2018. After completing  nine months of training at Danapur in Bihar, he was posted at Leh. The martyr is being held in high esteem in the region and several youths believe in his ideals and want to follow in his footsteps. “Yeh karyakarm bahut achha laga. Bete ke jeevi par ek kitab aa rahan hai. Yeh kitab gaon ke baccho ke liye prenashrot hoga (Felt good with today’s function.  A comic is coming out in my son’s name. This comic will inspire the youths of the village),” said Hansda’s father Subda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Louise seeks divine intervention before filing nomination||Former social welfare minister Louise Marandi (55) paid a visit to over half a dozen religious places in the morning before filing her nomination as the BJP candidate for the November 3 byelection at the district collectorate on Tuesday. Marandi, a tribal Christian, will be backed by NDA partners AJSU-P, JD (U), and LJP. She began her visits with Shiv pahari followed by Dharamsthan, Durgasthan, Sai Mandir, Disom Manjhisthan, Pagla Baba mandir, Thakurbari and Rani Sati Mandir. After filing her papers, she said, “My nomination is on behalf of Dumka which is supporting the daughter of their soil this time.” BJP veterans—former chief minister and Dhanwar MLA, state party president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash _ and representatives of the Sudesh Mahto-led AJSU-P _ were among those present in Dumka while she filed her papers. However, all of them stayed away from the district collectorate in the wake of Covid restrictions. Talking to reporters at the BJP office in Dumka, Marandi reiterated the party’s poll plank. “The utter lawlessness in the state is being felt by the public and we are committed to rid Dumka and the state from the incumbent government that has given criminals a free hand,” she said, citing recent incidents of crimes like rape, murder and dacoity. Chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant will take her on in Dumka as the candidate of the JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance. Dumka is a seat reserved for scheduled tribes. In the 2019 Assembly polls, Marandi was unseated by Hemant by a margin of over 13,000 votes. After assuming charge, Hemant vacated the seat to retain Barhait paving way for the bypolls. BJP delegation at EC door A delegation of the BJP headed by state party general secretary Aditya Sahu submitted a memorandum at the office of the chief electoral officer, accusing the ruling dispensation of misusing government machinery for the elections. Citing an instance, the delegation demanded transfer of Bermo sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) from the area till the election was over. Along with Dumka, Bermo will also hold byelections on November 3. The memorandum read, “A month back, he was posted at DSP headquarters in Bokaro but was transferred as SDPO in Bermo within the same district in violation of transfer posting rules. This clearly indicates that the government is posting officials of its choice in poll-bound regions to influence elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Woman arrested for possession of fake currency notes at Chaibasa||Police booked a 35-year-old woman on Tuesday after they recovered fake currency notes amounting to Rs 30,500 from her house in West Singhbhum, about 65km from Jamshedpur. The arrested woman, identified as Malaya Hembram, wife of former BJP MLA Putkal Hembram, is a resident of Gaushala Road in Chaibasa Muffasil area. Malaya prodcued a Rs 2000 note to pay for shopping at a cloth shop on Monday evening.  The shopkeeper, a woman named Jayanti Devgam, refused to accept the note as it appeared to be fake. On getting refused, the accused got furious and started quarrelling with the shopkeeper, attracting several people to gather at the scene. The quarrel aggravated, leading to a fight.  Meanwhile, someone informed the cops, leading a police party to reach the spot. Officials searched Malaya's bag and found another Rs 2,000 denomination, similar to the one she tried to pay the shopkeeper with. She was taken into custody soon after. A joint team of Chaibasa Muffasil thana and Chaibasa Mahila thana raided Malaya's house later at night and recovered 13 more Rs 2,000 notes and a Rs 500 note. On inspecting, and getting verified by bank employees, the police found all the currency notes to be fake. OC, Chaibasa Muffasil thana, Ashutosh Kumar said preliminary investigations suggest Malaya Hembram is part an unknown gang of fake currency racketeers. "The accused hails from Assam, where here parents still live. She moved to Jharkhand afte her marriage to Putkal Hembram, a former BJP MLA from Chaibasa.  It is possible that she came in contact with some fake currency racket while visiting her parents in Assam.  We are trying to find out the source from where she obtained the fake currencies," Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The OC also said that Malaya has been sent to Chaibasa Divisional Jail on the charge of running a racket of fake currency notes. She will soon be taken into police remand and questioned. "Once we get her in police remand, we will not only try to find out the source of the fake currency notes, but also detect whether she succeeded in transacting with some of those in the market.  We will also dig into details about the single fake Rs 500 note," Kumar said. The OC further informed that during the search at Malaya's home, police found several papers related to bank transactions. He said those papers are being verified by functionaries of the local branch to find out whether she managed to slip some of the fake currency in the bank too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||What holds back tribal students in an urban milieu?  ||The Tribal Research Institute (TRI) in Ranchi will soon start holistic research on the psychological changes that tribal adolescents from rural areas undergo while studying in an urban set up and also explore the triggers that stop them from opening up and excelling in educational institutions. Ranendra, the director of the institute run by the Union ministry of tribal affairs, said the  research was aimed at exploring the psychological factors that contribute to the shy nature of tribal students, especially the ones who come to cities from villages to pursue education. The institute, he added, has roped in expert psychiatrists and psychotherapists from the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) in Ranchi to conduct the research that is being funded by the state government. “Children in the age bracket of eight to 17 years will be studied. The process has begun. We are primarily targeting schools, universities and colleges in Jharkhand,” said Ranendra said on Tuesday. “The psychological response of tribal students in at least 10 districts of Jharkhand will be studied during the course of the research,” he added. He said in order to get better results, the institute will consider students from tribal-dominated districts as well as districts where the tribal population was not sizeable. “We will collect data from Khunti and Simdega where the tribal population is quite high. We will also collect data from Koderma and Palamau where the percentage of tribal population is not that high,” said Ranendra. One of the objectives behind this research, Ranendra said, was to identify the psychological barriers that make tribal children behave in a particular way, and eventually address those issues in order to help them overcome their psychological challenges. “If you take a walk in the campus of any college in Ranchi, you will notice the difference in the body language of tribal students who come from a rural background and the ones who were born in the cities,” said the TRI director. “There has to be a psychological stimulus making them act the way they act, and nobody has ever tried to study the factors that ultimately lead to such behavioral changes,” he added. As per the 2011 census, around 27 per cent of the 3.29 crore people in Jharkhand are tribals. More than three-fourth of the tribal population, as per government data, lives in rural areas and are mostly dependent on agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||More than 500 cases, 11 deaths in a day in Jharkhand||Nearly a dozen more people died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the toll in the state close to 800, figures released by the health department stated. Of the 11 Covid casualties reported in the state on Monday, six occurred in Ranchi and East Singhbhum. Both the districts reported three Covid deaths, taking the toll in East Singhbhum to 318 and that in Ranchi to 147, government data highlighted. Ramgarh, Palamu, Giridih, Bokaro and Chatra reported one Covid death each. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 798 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand during treatment. The Covid mortality rate in the state was, however, lower than the national average of 1.50 per cent. The mortality rate in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 0.85 per cent after Monday’s findings. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on Monday, dragging the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 90.78 per cent. As many as 510 people were found infected on the day, while 890 patients recovered from the infection, the NHM bulletin stated. Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum reported a dip in the number of active cases on Monday. As many as 308 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi against 199 fresh cases in 24 hours, bringing the number of active cases down at 2,560. In East Singhbhum, 80 people were found infected against 106 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases down to 1,556. Dhanbad reported 20 cases of infection, while Gumla, Godda and Giridih reported 14, 12 and 11 fresh cases respectively. As many as 34 people were found infected in Hazaribag, but the number of active cases dropped there as well as 47 people recovered from the infection. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 28,522 people and less than 5 per cent of them tested positive. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 26.76 lakh people and tested 26.74 lakh of them. Of the nearly 27 lakh people tested so far, 93,035 were found infected. The number of active cases dropped further down at 7776 on Monday, government data highlighted. The doubling rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand reached 85.21 days against the national average of 64.03 days on Monday. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.79 per cent against the national growth rate of 1.07 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Shatabdi Express resumes operations||South Eastern Railway on Monday announced the resumption of Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi Express special from October-15. The service was suspended on March 22 due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The train will run according to its pre-pandemic schedule. According to railway sources, Ranchi-Howrah Shatabdi Express will reach Howrah from Ranchi via Muri, Bokaro Steel City, Chandrapura, Dhanbad, Asansol, Raniganj and Durgapur. The link between Bokaro and Howrah that was completely cut off with no interstate bus service, will now be restored. The state government has granted permission to hold political rallies for the Bermo by-elections. According to the order, issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, if there is an election program in a hall, then 50 percent of the capacity or maximum 200 people can be present there. There will be no compulsion of numbers during the open ground meeting, but social distancing of six feet will be mandatory. For every election programme, permission has to be obtained from the district administration concerned. The district administration will decide on the number of people who can gather. The distance between the two chairs on a podium has to be six feet. During a political meeting or rally, the candidate will have to arrange a thermal scanner, face masks and sanitisers. Face masks are mandatory for all events. Two persons died and three sustained serious injuries near Shiladih Mor on GT road in Gorhar of Barkatha block when their car hit a stationary truck from behind. Gorhar police said driver Rahul Burnawal lost control of the car which hit the truck killing Yasmatia Devi(45) and her son Sanoj Paswan(30) on the spot. Injured included Rahul(22), Manisha Kumari(10) and Chandani Kumari(22) were sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital for treatment. The victims are residents of Aurangabad in Bihar. BJP national vice president and former chief minister Raghubar Das who was in Dhanbad on Monday for a party programme. Das charged that the Hemant Soren led government has failed to fulfill any of its promises including the Rs 7000 unemployment allowance to postgraduate persons, Rs 5000 allowance to graduates and pension to widows. "People who have voted to JMM led government are now repenting over their decision as they are feeling deceived," said Das. President of Industries and Commerce Association, B.N. Singh, on Monday wrote a letter to General Manager of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited demanding improvement in the power situation. Singh pointed that Baliapur block has power for only 5-6 hours, causing difficulties in nine Hard Coke Industries operations. "Though some improvement in power supply situation took place after a similar letter written by me on September 29 for a week, the situation again turned pathetic," said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi fast against Stan Swamy's arrest||Over 60 representatives of public organisations and tribal activists staged a hunger strike near tribal icon Birsa Munda’s memorial in Ranchi on Monday to protest against the arrest of 83-year-old Jesuit priest and rights activist Father Stan Swamy while national Opposition leaders condemned the NIA’s October 8 action. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a coalition of human rights groups) member and women’s rights advocate Aloka Kujur termed the arrest an attack on Birsa Munda’s legacy. “The arrest of 83-year-old (Father) Stan Swamy by the NIA is an attack on Birsa Munda’s legacy and this is what prompted us to stage the hunger strike (between 10am and 4pm) at the tribal icon’s samadhi sthal. Everyone in the state and the country knows the role played by Stan Swamy in raising his voice for the tribals, work on displacement, land alienation and rights of gram sabhas and for innocent Adivasis languishing in jails. “The NIA at the behest of the central government has arrested him on fabricated charges. We demand his release and repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act which is being used by political parties to harass those who raise voices of dissent,” said Kujur. Tribal Advisory Committee member Ratan Tirkey, who had met Fr Swamy at his Bagaicha residence at Namkum, Ranchi, a few hours before he was taken away by the NIA, urged chief minister Hemant Soren to immediately write to the Centre for release of the elderly priest. “We know that the chief minister has voiced his support for Stan Swamy through his tweets but we would like Hemantji to also write to the Union government for the release of the priest and also to stop the misuse of NIA by the Centre and take a stand as has been taken by other Opposition-ruled states like Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Kerala,” said Tirkey. Soren had tweeted on his official handle on Friday night: “What message does the BJP government at the Centre want to send by arresting octogenarian Stan Swamy who has been raising his voice for the poor, the deprived and the tribals? Why is the Centre adamant on stifling all voices of dissent?” A few hours later on Friday, the chief minister re-tweeted the JMM Lohardaga unit’s post questioning the arrest of Fr Swamy: “What problem does the Centre have with those who raise their voice in support of the tribals? Stan Swamy, who had fought for rights of tribals throughout his life, has been arrested by the NIA at the behest of the Union government. Is it a crime to raise voice for tribals?” On Sunday, Soren told reporters in Ranchi that the arrest was a part of the BJP-led central government’s hidden agenda. “Stan Swamy has been working for the Adivasis and the poor since decades and his arrest is part of the BJP’s hidden agenda and an attack on democratic institutions,” he had said. Congress MP from Kerala and former Union minister Shashi Tharoor on Monday  condemned the arrest in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case. “Arresting an 83-year-old social worker (Fr Swamy) who has brought help to the helpless for decades is a national disgrace. It’s also eroding our country’s standing as a liberal democracy in the eyes of the world,” Tharoor tweeted. On Saturday, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh had condemned the arrest. “This is truly, truly outrageous. I have known Father Swamy and am well aware of his work with the adivasis. This is Modi Sarkar’s tactics of browbeating and intimidation against social activists. ATROCIOUS!” Ramesh had tweeted. Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Jharkhand spokesperson Smita Lakra and Mandar Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey also condemned Fr Swamy’s arrest in news conferences on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||BSL employees and workers demonstrate against management||Thousands of employees and contract workers of the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) staged a massive demonstration on Monday, with demands which incled payment of bonus, election of labour unions, improvement in health facilities and others. Under the banner of Jai Jharkhand Majdoor Samaj (JJMS), a wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JJM), they they marched to Ispat Bhawan, raising slogans and waving placards against the BSL management. The demonstration disrupted traffic on the busy road between Nayamoad to Ispat Bhawan for about an hour. JJMS believes that BSL, a unit of SAIL running under union steel ministry, is ignorant of their 9335 employees and about 15,000 contract workers dedicatedly working in the steel making process. BSL has witnessed more than a dozen demonstrations by different groups in the past 30 days. Frequent demonstrations inside the plant and township areas by displaced groups, dependent outfits, labour unions and others has virtually shown the failure of the BSL management in sorting out the issues. The workers are sad with the management's ignorance, which has registered a turnaround in September achieving more than the production target. Thousands of JJMS workers demonstrated inside the plant last month. The industrial relation department of BSL fails in pacifying the growing resentment among workers and other outfits, disturbing industrial peace. General secretary of JJMS, B K Chaudhary said “We have been asking the BSL management to conduct labour union over the past several years. Other SAIL units in Bhilai, Durgapur, Rourkela conduct regular labour union elections. But in BSL, it has not been conducted for more than three-four decades. Why does BSL not want a union election?”. JJMS said that they have submitted a 13-point demand related to welfare of employees and workers of BSL. As BSL has registered considerable profit in the last financial year and performed exemplary well during Covid-19 lockdown period, BSL employees are expecting a good bonus. “Durga puja is round the corner, but there is no announcement of bonus for BSL employees,” added Chaudhary. JJMS is demanding atleast Rs 30,000 bonus before Durga Puja, apart from wage revision, leave encashment and other allowances. Chaudhary also asserted that things have deteriorated in BSL plant and township. “BSL plant was running without a CEO for the last 10 months. We have asked the newly joined director incharge Amarendu Prakash to assess the problems faced by employees”. He pointed that “The condition of roads, streetlights, water supply has deteriorated in BSL township. Encroachment on BSL’s land is growing in all sectors. Health services in Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) have deteriorated to the extent that employees were refused admission many times." JJMS demanded that the director incharge should personally visit every department inside the plant and communicate directly with the employees. Chaudhary said, “We are preparing to intensify our agitation if our demand is not met and the situation doesn’t improve”. A massive demonstration was organised two days after the director incharge met with leaders of all the trade unions and got acquainted with the problems of workers and their demands. There are nine labour unions in the BSL, of which seven are functional. Almost all the unions are demanding a bonus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
