14-10-2020||Jharkhand||90-year-old beats Covid in Ranchi||A 90-year-old Lalpur woman has become arguably the oldest person in Ranchi so far to have defeated Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic in Jharkhand. On Wednesday, Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, a private hospital in the city, accorded nonagenarian Bela Rani Samanta a warm send-off. At a time when the state’s number of Covid-19 fatalities is looking to cross 900, and that in Ranchi having crossed 150, the successful recovery is also seen as a boost for the medical fraternity. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dr Vijay Kumar Mishra, head of Medica’s critical care unit and director of the hospital, said the elderly patient had come to them on October 6 after getting infected with the coronavirus. “She had come to us with moderate Covid-19 pneumonia. Her CT scan report had many pneumonia patches and required her to be put on complete oxygen in an intensive critical care unit for two days. Thereafter, her condition improved and we shifted her to a normal ward. Gradually, with intense care and routine medicines, she overcame the virus. As far as medicines are concerned, we gave her Remdesivir, dexamethasen, heparin, Vitamin C and zinc.” As per the state health department’s analysis, more than 50 per cent of fatalities in Jharkhand have been because of comorbidities and old age. Mishra agreed, adding that the timely administration of proper care at the hospital has led to the cure. “Treating a patient of this age is often a great challenge and lots of risks are involved because of age-related ailments. This patient had a history of high blood pressure and dementia. These apart, she has been in a constant state of confusion, which occurs mostly because of age,” he said, adding that one of the biggest challenges the medical staff faced was the patient’s problem of forgetting things. The elderly woman’s son, Surojit Samanta, 60, speaking from Delhi said that it was a Durga Puja gift for the family. “We were tense after she got Covid-19... But for the next 15 days, post-Covid-19 care will be crucial,” he said, second among four siblings. Surojit’s elder brother too lives in Delhi while their two sisters are in Calcutta. In Ranchi, the elderly woman lives at the family’s sprawling house at Burdwan compound. Surojit suspects that his mother may have contacted the virus from her caretakers. “Two of her caretakers had first got infected. It is from them that she may have got infected,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hapless Dalma workers forced to mortgage vehicles||The daily wage earners at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary continue to struggle. The 48 men and women are forced to fight for their survival and are anxiously waiting for pending dues. The wait is getting longer as the daily wage earners have not been paid for the past seven months. Some of the daily wage earners have even mortgaged their motorcycles to sustain their families. Most have even borrowed money on interest. Despite the odds, they continue to work. “Saat mahine se vetan nahin mila hain. Bahut bura haal hain. Kuch logo ne apna motorcycle girvi rakh diya hain. Lekin hamne apna kaam jaari rakha hain kyunki hamare paas koi chaara nahin hain (We’ve not been paid for the past seven months. We are having a bad time. Some of the daily wage earners have mortgaged their bikes. But we are continuing our work as we have no option),” said Shristidhar Mahato, a watchman who heads Dainik Vetan Bhogi Majdoor Sangh. The hapless daily wage earners said money would have come in handy in this festive season. “We buy clothes for our families in the run-up to Durga Puja. Though the festival is being celebrated in a restricted manner owing to the pandemic, we had plans to buy clothes like every year. But it seems not possible this year,” Mahato added. Worries about the education of the children are on top of everyone’s minds. A majority of them have discontinued tuitions. Youths belonging to the families of daily wage earners are forced to sit idle as jobs have dried up. The daily wage earners, who are engaged in maintaining accommodations, taking care of two domesticated elephants (as mahauts) and cooking and tracking (some are tasked with keeping a tab on the movement of animals at the sprawling 192sq. km sanctuary, 30km from Jamshedpur), are paid Rs 249.83 per day for their labour. They had participated in an agitation near the main entrance and also gheraoed forest range officer (west) Dinesh Chandra in July. However, nothing moved forward. Had it not been for some foresters who are providing monetary support to the daily wage earners, they would have been forced to starve. The foresters have asked some grocers in the villages to provide food on credit. But this cannot continue for long. Foresters expressed helplessness and said dues can be cleared only if money is allocated by the state forest department. “We have been requesting the state forest department for clearance of pending dues to no avail. The wages will be paid once money is allocated,” a forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Special children usher in the goddess through art||Creativity has no boundaries, and this has been proved by over forty-five special children of Jharia who took part in an online painting competition organized under the banner of Youth Concept, a social outfit and Jharia-based resource centre of the district education department, that provides training to the special children. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Akhlaque Ahmad, a speech therapist and special educator said, “We have organized the competition on the theme of Durga Puja. All 45 participants have made paintings at their home and submitted the same on via email or WhatsApp to 9709216786.” “Students from economically backward sections of the society, who do not have the smartphones at their homes have made their paintings at my home while observing social distancing protocols,” said Ahmad and added that some of the participants have also made sketches and drawings during the competition. Children in the 6-14 year age category, besides some older students of the 15-21 age group took part in the competition. Arpita Kumari (15) a mentally retarded participant of Mohan Bazar in Patherdih was declared winner, while cerebral palsy-affected Pammi Kumari (12) of Upper Rajbari road in Jharia secured the second prize.  Nasrin Parween (12), a hearing-impaired student of Chouthai Kulhi locality bagged the third prize. “We will be handing over the certificates besides prizes in the form of mementos to three winners by visiting their respective places,” said Ahmad. The online submission of painting, drawings, sketches began in the morning at around 9am and continued till 2pm. Judgement was carried out within two hours. “The basic objective of organizing the painting competition was to inculcate a sense of creativity among the children and provide them an opportunity to break the monotony of life,” said Ahmad. Ahmad added that though the resource centre is closed like other education centres, they are providing online exercise training to all the students, especially those suffering from cerebral palsy etc for whom exercises are crucial, via video calls. “The colour combination and accuracy of paintings made by the participants, prove their perfection and creativity,” said  Ahmad. Sangita Devi, mother of Arpita Kumari said, “My daughter was quite enthusiastic about the painting competition and made the painting of the goddess on her own this morning. She is very happy being declared winner”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Padyatra, protests over poor condition of NH-33||BJP party men took to the streets on Wednesday to protest against the sorry state of a 10km stretch of NH-33 between Pardih and Baliguma that passes through Jamshedpur. As per the pre-decided programme, a section of residents of Mango led by local BJP leader Vikas Singh took out a padyatra from Dimna Chowk in the morning.  They traversed a distance of about 7km to the district collectorate where they staged a protest demanding immediate repair of the damaged stretches of NH-33. A delegation of residents led by Singh later met East Singbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and handed over a memorandum highlighting the plight of commuters due to the poor condition of NH-33, considered the lifeline of the state. "The condition of the highway in the 10km stretch between Pardih and Baliguma has deteriorated. The potholes lead to mishaps. We have requested the deputy commissioner to take up the issue with the NHAI and initiate repairs. Or else we will intensify our agitation," said Singh. Singh also threatened to undertake a march with Mango residents to the Raj Bhawan in Ranchi after Durga Puja. Concerned over the poor condition of NH-33 and rising mishaps, district Congress activists burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari at the Dimna Chowk on Wednesday. "The four-lane work of NH-33 began during BJP rule. But the work is yet to be completed. The highway has turned mishap prone in the absence of repairs," pointed out Rakesh Sahu, a local Congress leader who led the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid affects pre-Puja garment sale in Dhanbad||Garment sale has been badly affected with Durga Puja Covid guidelines forbidding fairs, restricting the size of pandals and idols and a putting stopper on bhog distribution. Rough estimates suggest that only around Rs 100 -200 crore sale is expected this year, against the previous year’s sale of around Rs 1000 crore. The dull situation of the 150 old wholesale garment shops at the Karkend market presents the pitiful condition of garment sale, as very few retail owners putting up shop to carry out sale. The condition of retail garment shopkeepers at various other markets are no better. At Park Market, Bank More, Purana Bazaar, Jharia Kaprapatti, Nirsa, Kumbardubi, Chirkunda Bazar, Digawadih Mohan Bazar, Saharpura market in Sindri, Katras Market, Govindpur Upper Bazar, there is only a 10 percent footfall  of customers being seen this year. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Umesh Heliwal, a garment trader of Karkend Bazar the biggest wholesale garment market of the region where over 100 wholesale garment outlets are operating, said that the usual trade of the market till last year was around Rs 1 to Rs 5 per crore per shop, but the situation is grim this year. “Those who would earlier have a sale of Rs 1 crore are not expected to reach Rs 10 lakh this year,” he said. “The lack of savings, of liquidity in the market, the strict puja guidelines restricting fairs, forbidding theme-based pandals, lighting etc have all worked as the biggest puja sentiment dampener,” said Heliwal who is also the president of a garment traders association called Vastra Vyavsai Sangh. Echoing sentiments, Md Sohrab, president of the Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, said, “Besides the lack of money, the fear of contracting Covid is also working as a deterrent for brisk garment sale as all of around 500 garment sellers of Purana Bazar, majority of which are ready-made garment sellers are witnessing around 20 per cent of sale this year”. “Our market, which used to have no space to breathe ahead of Durga Puja, is now wearing an almost deserted look,”  said Soharab. He added that people of all sections of society have been hit by the impact of the lockdown and only some garments for children are being purchased by families, instead of the usual practice of buying of new garments for the entire family. Amit Sahu, president of the Jharia Chamber of Commerce, said as sale is less and there is lesser capital with shopkeepers, lesser stock has been purchased due to the fear of loss that if the products go unsold. “The print and design will later turn obsolete,” said Sahu. “The wholesalers are not providing stock to retailers on credit as was the usual practice. They are demanding cash for providing stock which is desisting people from purchasing new stock in sufficient quantities,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||NIT-Jamshedpur placements encouraging so far||In an otherwise gloomy job market, budding technocrats of Adityapur-based NIT-Jamshedpur aren’t not doing too badly as 250 of 500 eligible students have    landed jobs in placements that began in the last week of August. According to data available from the tech cradle, out of 500 eligible BTech students eligible for placements for the 2017-2021 batch, 250 of them had got jobs. About 40 companies had joined the process, held online, to recruit students from various streams of engineering. The online recruitment gained in momentum from the third week of September and as many as 170-odd students were selected by companies during the last three weeks. Data showed that till September 20, around 80 students were recruited through the virtual process happening for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Professor-in-charge of the training and placement cell, Prahlad Prasad said the placement scenario was encouraging. "We have completed placements for half of the batch (250 students) in a short span of time. Amazon offered the highest package of Rs 30 lakh per annum, while the average package so far has been Rs 12 lakh per annum. In the computer science engineering branch, the average package has been higher at Rs 18 lakh per annum, " he told The Telegraph Online. Prasad said 30 top-notch companies had confirmed participation in the online recruitment process scheduled for later this month. He said by the end of placements, expected to continue till July 2021, NIT-Jamshedpur was expecting participation of 150 companies in all. Apart from e-commerce major Amazon, some of the companies that have already participated in the online recruitment process are Goldman Sachs, Lowe's India, One Plus, Cargil, Tekion, Tata Steel, Paytm, Mentor Graphics, Publicis Sapient, Info Edge, Samsung (R&D), Bajaj, DMI Finance, Axeela, ZS Associates, Amdocs and Capgemini. The previous batch (2016-2020) secured 92.11 per cent placements with an average CTC of Rs 8.71 lakh per annum. Director of NIT-Jamshedpur Prof Karunesh Kumar Shukla thanked those manning the training and placement cell for such impressive placements. “We also thanked the recruiters. As per trends so far, we are hopeful of achieving cent per cent placements for the current batch," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Restrictions on bhog, height of idols impractical, says Puja body in Daltonganj||The government’s guidelines to have only four-feet high idols in Durga Puja pandals have evoked sharp criticism from the faithful said sources. Durga Johri, President of the Sri Kendriya Durga Puja Mahasamiti, the highest body for the Durga Puja here told The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, “This height rule is impractical. Idol makers here in Palamau begin to build their idols a month or so before the arrival of the goddess here.” “I have reports that over 100 idols made earlier are around 5 feet in height for the simple reason that its artisans made it a month or so before the arrival of the guidelines for the pujas,” said Johri, who is also a senior BJP leader. “These five-feet-high idols cannot be shortened. It is inauspicious to do so. The faithful will do the ‘pran partishta’ (sacred setting up) of these 5 feet high idols in the pandals.” “I wonder how the height of an idol poses danger to health?” said Johri, adding that devotees do not touch the idol with their hands, and usually pray from afar with folded hands. “After havan the germinated and grown up ‘jaiy’ is plucked and the priest offers each of its blades to the devotee who holds it between his ears on the day of Dussehra. This will be done this time too,” he said. On the restriction of bhog, Johri said, “This is another impractical decision. During the lockdown thousands of food packets were distributed among the poor and the migrant labourers when Covid-19 was at its peak. Today there is a restriction on bhog distribution which sounds quite contradictory.” “A devotee feels empty if he or she returns from puja pandal without the bhog or the prasadam and so for spiritual regeneration, distribution of bhog must be allowed as otherwise the 10 day long Durga Puja will look dry.” He urged the administration to take a liberal and practical stand with regard to these issues and let pujas be done in all sanctity and purity with stress on maintenance of health protocols and Covid cleanliness and social distancing guidelines. He said idol makers who are now readying idols after the guideline of four feet are strictly adhering to the protocol, stressing on the fact that the administration must allow five feet and four feet idols to be put up in the pandals for the pujas. Johri said more than 200 puja pandals will be set up in the district this time. A devout Hindu requesting anonymity said, “In the past, we used to build a huge Rakshas and install it in our pandal. This time it will be a small figure.” “Dussehra is the celebration of victory of good forces over evil forces and hence not much attention is being given to our pandal demon this time. The worst demon now is the microscopic Covid-19 virus,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Seven deaths in a day take Ranchi's Covid toll past the 150 mark||The Covid-19 toll in Ranchi crossed the 150 mark on Tuesday after as many as seven virus-infected patients in Jharkhand, including four from the state capital, died during treatment, figures compiled by the health department stated. As per government data, the virus has claimed 151 lives in Ranchi so far. The total number of Covid casualties in Jharkhand also jumped to 805 on Tuesday, and nearly 40 per cent of these fatalities occurred in East Singhbhum alone. However, East Singhbhum did not report any Covid casualties on Tuesday, and the toll in the district was 318, as per latest government data. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts account for nearly 60 per cent of Covid casualties in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, the number of active cases of infection also increased in Ranchi after the district reported 364 cases of infection against 289 recoveries. As per government data, as many as 2,632 people were battling the virus in Ranchi by Tuesday night. Besides Ranchi, no other district reported a significant rise in the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in Jharkhand, saw 48 fresh cases of infection against 133 recoveries. The number of active cases in the district dropped at 1,468, highlighted figures with the NHM. As many as 853 Covid patients recovered across the state on Tuesday, bringing the number of active cases in Jharkhand down at 7617. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand shot up and reached 91.01 per cent after Tuesday’s findings. The national Covid recovery rate, as per government data, was 86.80 per cent on Tuesday. Health workers in Jharkhand tested swab samples of 32,186 people on Tuesday, and 31,485 of them came negative. The government has so far collected swab samples of 27.15 lakh people from across the state and 27.12 lakh of them have been tested. Despite casualties being reported every day, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate has remained below 1 per cent in the past one month. The state’s Covid mortality rate on Tuesday was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Of the 805 people who have died of Covid infection in Jharkhand, at least 603 were older than 50 years, government data reveals. As per an NHM bulletin released on Tuesday night, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 89.12 days against the national average of 65.89 days. The growth rate of Covid infection in the state was 0.77 per cent against the national average of 1.05 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Meeting over Dhanbad flyover||Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Tuesday held a meeting with the officials of Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company and Ranchi-based consultant RDCS at the district collectorate over the proposed 3.5-km flyover from Matkuria to Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk via Ara More of Wasseypur. The proposed flyover is expected to lower the traffic burden on the Bank More flyover. Indian Railways had given a no-objection certificate to the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation for the construction of the flyover in February last year. The proposal for the construction of the flyover had been approved by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at its board meeting held on November 20, 2018. The issue of the flyover was first discussed during the high-level meeting held in Dhanbad on October 23, 2017, under the chairmanship of the secretary of road construction department, Mast Ram Meena. Chandan Pathak, 18, and Roshan Pathak, 15, sons of BCCL employee Manoj Pathak, drowned in the Damodar river in Dhanbad’s Mahuda police station area on Tuesday morning. The incident took place when the brothers were bathing before offering prayers at a nearby Shiva temple. Their parents and other family members were also there. Roshan started drowning while bathing and Chandan, who tried to save his brother, was also caught in the strong current of the river. Though Chandan was rescued from the river by local villagers, he died on the way to the hospital. Roshan’s body, however, was fished out of the river an hour after the incident. Simran Priyadarshini, a third-year undergraduate student of electrical engineering at BIT Sindri, secured the second runner-up position in the finale of Tata Steel’s Women Of Mettle competition which was held online on Tuesday. “Simran again established the fact that our students are second to none,” said the official in charge of training and placement at the institute, Ghanshyam Rai. “She will be entitled to a scholarship of Rs 2 lakh over the duration of the course with the opportunity to join Tata Steel as a management intern,” said Rai. “The Women of Mettle scholarship programme is a one-of-its-kind diversity-and-inclusion initiative not just in India’s steel sector, but across the country’s wider manufacturing spectrum,” said Rai. “For various reasons, the participation of women in the manufacturing sector has been low in India. As a pioneer in bringing in the best HR and labour practices in the country, Tata Steel continues to work towards this cause and enhance diversity in the workplace and thus organises the Women of Mettle competition,” Rai added. Protesters demanding the arrest of a homeopath accused of molesting a girl at his clinic blocked NH23 which connects Bokaro and Ranchi on Tuesday. The family members of the girl and other residents of the area staged a demonstration before the Balidih police station. They were demanding the immediate arrest of Anan Jha, the homeopath. The traffic was disrupted for half an hour. “We assured the demonstrators that we would arrest the accused soon, following which they dispersed,” a police officer said. The 21-year-old tribal girl was allegedly molested by the homeopath at his clinic on Friday. The college student told her mother about the incident only on Sunday. The police raided the clinic but the accused was missing. A local ward member was killed with a sharp-edged weapon at Sirmadih village in the Birni police station area of Giridih. Police have sent the body for post-mortem. Investigations are on to ascertain the motive of the murder. Panchayat representatives have demanded the arrest of the murderers. A land dispute could be the reason for the killing, the police said. An event was organised at the Border Security Force’s (BSF’s) training centre at Meru where jawans were asked to take a pledge to observe Covid-19 protocols. There are no active Covid-19 cases at Meru. Inspector-general Ravi Gandhi urged the jawans to maintain safe distance and always wear masks. The inspector-general asked the jawans to inform doctors immediately if they develop any symptoms. The centre has a 100-bed Covid-19 ward. It is located 11km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Garhwa police on Tuesday arrested four youths in connection with the murder of an elderly woman in Lakhana village. Sunderkali Kuar, 68, was trying to mediate in a dispute at the time of the incident, the police said. The accused have been identified as Golden Khan, 19, Mustafa Khan, 20, Gaffar Khan, 19, and Ashik Khan, 19, all residents of Lakhana village in the Garhwa police station area. The incident took place around 8pm on Friday. Niranjan Chandravanshi, the woman’s grandson, was roaming with three of his friends while playing songs on his mobile phone. A youth from a particular community took offence to the songs being played. A scuffle ensued. On hearing about the assault, the woman reached the spot and tried rescuing her grandson. However, she was also severely beaten up and injured. Her family members took her to the Sadar hospital where doctors declared her dead, subdivisional police officer Bahman Tuti said. Based on Chandravanshi’s complaint, the police lodged an FIR against four persons under Sections 147, 149, 323 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code. The placement season at BIT Sindri began on Tuesday with Hindustan Unilever selecting two BTech students, Anmol Agarwal of chemical engineering and Ashish Ranjan of mechanical engineering, at a salary of Rs 8 lakh per annum. The selection process began with the screening of 300 students; only 10 students were selected for the case study and interview processes. This year, the selection and interview was carried out online. A website to issue tokens online to devotees wishing to visit the Chinnamastika Siddhpeeth Rajrappa temple has been launched by authorities. Those wishing to visit the temple can go to jharkhanddarshan.nic.in and book their slots. Another website which was accepting bookings, rajrappa.in, has shut down the facilty. Bookings made prior to October 16 on the old site are valid. Bookings can be done for a maximum of four people at a time and Aadhar details are mandatory for those aged above 10 years. It is also mandatory to carry a copy of the token (enter printed or downloaded to the phone) and an identity card at the time of the visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||House of senior IPS officer robbed in Dhanbad||Armed criminals have robbed the Dhanbad house of senior IPS officer Atul Verma on Monday night. Verma is an officer of the Himachal Pradesh Cader and is presently on Central deputation serving as Director General of the Competition Commission of India The robbers took away a laptop, mobile phones, silver jewellery and CCTV cameras. The incident came to light when two staff members, deputed for the morning shift on Tuesday, reached the house to find both security guards tied down on the ground, with their faces covered. They informed the local police and later the house owners. Rajesh Kumar, one of the personal staff deputed at the house, told the media that around 10-12 armed criminals entered the house late on Monday night at around 12 am. They took the house guards at gunpoint, tied their hands and covered their faces. They broke open the almirah and locker, took away some silver jewellery, a laptop, and other articles from the house. “They also took away the CCTV cameras and DBR from the house and damaged the computer system attached to the CCTV system,” Rajesh said. “We are not aware of what valuables were taken from the lockers and almirah because we do not know what was in there,” Rajesh also informed. The criminals also broke the doors of several of the closed rooms, turning them upside down. A team of Dhanbad police led by DSP (law and order) Mukesh Kumar reached the house and collected evidence from the site. A dog squad was also deputed to pick up trails of the robbers  and Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz later also visited the site to note details. Talking to the media, DSP Kumar said, “We have launched an investigation into the case and an FIR will be lodged soon.” Dr PN Verma, Atul Verma’s father, was a renowned surgeon, and no family member was living in the house since his death last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Police foil bid to lynch two gang-rape accused ||Police on Monday night prevented mob lynching of two gang-rape accused in a village of Gumla district, around 150 km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi. According to police sources, a Class V girl aged 14 was taken by five youths, all residents of the same village to a nearby village field in Haradipa village of Gumla district on Sunday night and gangraped her. She was left with a warning not to reveal anything to the family. The girl, however, informed her parents. The parents informed the village head who assured justice in the panchayat. The accused youths, including two minors, then reached the girl’s house and threatened the family of dire consequences on Monday evening. The family members called up their relatives and dragged two of the accused and started assaulting them. “The police were not informed about the gang-rape by the parents and as per tribal traditions they decided to settle the issue in village panchayat. It was only when we came to know about the beating of the youths and we rescued the youths did we know about the incident. We have nabbed all the five youths involved in the gang-rape and sent the girl for medical examination at Gumla sadar hospital. We will lodge cases under the Posco Act against all the accused,” said SP Gumla H.P. Janardhanan. The five accused in the gang-rape incident include, Amarjit Tirkey (17), Iliyas Minz (23), Subhash Baraik (24), Sumit Toppo (17) and Ritesh Baraik (14). The two who have deep wounds on their legs and hands because of the beating are Amarjit Tirkey and Iliyas Minz who have been admitted in the Gumla Sadar Hospital while the remaining three have been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Protests intensify against Swamy arrest||The show of solidarity with octogenarian Jesuit priest, Father Stan Swamy, who was arrested by the NIA near Ranchi on October 8 and jailed for alleged Maoist links, continued on Tuesday in Jharkhand. Nearly 60 representatives of people’s organisations and tribal activists resumed their hunger strike near tribal icon Birsa Munda’s memorial at Kokar in Ranchi from 11am on Tuesday, while around 50 youths under the banner of Jharkhand Christian Youth Association (JCYA) burnt the effigy of the central government at Albert Ekka Chowk as a mark of protest against the arrest. “Elderly (83-year-old) Fr Stan Swamy was being hounded by the NIA for the last two years in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, though he has denied being present at the spot during the incident. The investigating agencies during these years have not been able to find anything concrete on his involvement in the incident but are now claiming that he is a Maoist sympathiser. The reality is that Fr Swamy, who has several health complications, had been fighting for rights of tribals, poor, Dalits and marginalised for decades. The NIA could have questioned Stan Swamy at Ranchi itself. But in line with a new trend set by the current BJP government in silencing voices of dissent raised by activists through police or central agencies, Fr Swamy was forcibly taken from his house at night to Mumbai amid the pandemic,” said JCYA president Kuldeep Tirkey. He demanded immediate release of Fr Swamy. He said that youths would be forming a human chain between Albert Ekka Chowk and Kantatoli (a distance of over 4km) on October 16 to demand immediate release of the Jesuit priest. “We would hold a meeting of representatives of various people’s organisations this evening at Ranchi and chalk out a strategy for holding a demonstration demanding the release of Fr Swamy. We have plans to meet different MLAs of the state and convince them of demanding the release of Fr Swamy,” said Aloka Kujur, a member of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and women’s rights advocate, who joined the hunger strike in Ranchi. Meanwhile, after Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren condemned the arrest, his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan also pointed fingers at the role of the investigating agency in arresting the rights activist. In a Facebook post on Monday night, Vijayan demanded justice for Fr Swamy. “He questioned the breach of democratic values of tribals. To view this as a crime doesn’t befit the constitution. Father Stan Swamy has been working among tribals for decades. It has already been alleged that the move against him is to suppress voices of dissent. His arrest and imprisonment is regretful. He should get justice,” the post said. “The allegation that investigation agencies are used for wrong intentions should be seriously examined,” it added. Vijayan also expressed concern over the health of the ailing Fr Swamy. There were protests across the country against the arrest of Fr Swamy who is currently in custody at Taloja Central Prison in Mumbai. There were protests on Monday near Jantar Mantar in Delhi with prominent human rights activists such as Shabanam Hashmi, Harsh Mander and Apoorvanand Jha addressing the gathering. Protests also took place on Monday in Guwahati (Assam), Bangalore (Karnataka), Kerala, Patna (Bihar) and in Trichy (Tamil Nadu), the birthplace of Fr Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Probe into electric shock torture ||Public outrage over alleged electric shock given by police on private parts of a 35-year-old person, detained on suspicion of theft inside the police station, has forced police to conduct a probe under a medical panel in Jharkhand’s Palamau district, about 177km from the state’s capital Ranchi. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar confirmed that a probe team has been initiated under a DSP rank official (DSP Sadar Sandeep Kumar Gupta) to conduct an inquiry into the complaint with help of different medical experts. “The DSP Sadar had been asked to conduct a probe into the allegation of electric shock given to a person inside Chainpur police station. He has taken help from different doctors. I am yet to get the report but prima facie the doctors have said external injuries are indicating electric shocks. However, I will be able to comment only after getting the detailed report,” said Sanjeev Kumar. According to sources in the police, Rajnikanth Dubey, 35, a resident of Sonpurwa village in Chainpur block had lodged a complaint with the SP Palamau that he was picked up by the cops on October 8 evening on suspicion of theft at the house of his neighbour Gopal Dubey held on night of October 6. “However, between 12 am and 4 am I was given third degree torture by the thana OC (Sunit Kumar) and even electric shocks were given on my private parts along with thrashing to make me confess of the crime which I did not commit. I was released on PR bond on October 9 morning with the threat of dire consequence if I report it to anybody,” Dubey has alleged in the complaint lodged with the SP Palamau on October 10. On Sunday morning, members of Dubey family and other locals blocked the Daltonganj-Garhwa Main Road for over three hours demanding suspension of the thana OC, forcing DSP Sadar to reach the spot and assured about a probe to be conducted by the police on the allegation and promised that guilty would not be spared after the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi bucks hopeful state Covid trend ||The coronavirus disease is showing a declining trend in Jharkhand but the situation in state capital Ranchi remains a cause for concern. According to data released by the state government at 9pm on Monday, Ranchi had nearly a quarter of the total positive cases — 22,730 out of 93,035 cases. It also has 32.88 per cent of the total active cases recorded in the state so far. Asked about the possible reasons, principal secretary (health), Nitin Madan Kulkarni, said: “This is because Ranchi is more populous than other cities of the state, much more outsiders visit the city and more testing has been done here.” Of the total 93,035 cases recorded in the state, 84,461 have recovered and 798 patients have died. The number of active cases was 7,776, which is significantly lower compared to the 13,934 cases recorded on September 18. In Ranchi, 20,026 out of 22,730 patients found Covid-19 positive have recovered and 147 have died, leaving 2,557 active cases on Monday evening. The recovery rate in the state has also gone up to 90.78 per cent which is better than the national rate of 86.30 per cent. Similarly, mortality rate was 0.85 per cent compared to the national rate of 1.50 per cent. In Ranchi district, however, the recovery rate was 88.10 per cent while the mortality rate stood at 0.64 per cent as of Monday though it accounted for 18.42 per cent of the total number of deaths in the state. With 318 deaths, East Singhbhum district accounted for 39.85 per cent of the total Covid-19 deaths in the state. An analysis of the mortality figures showed that 76.11 per cent of those who died of Covid-19 in the state were male and 23.89 per cent were female patients. Only 4.32 per cent of those died were below 30 years of age and 20.07 per cent between 31 and 50 years, while 75.60 per cent were above 50 years. Further, 66.89 per cent patients above 50 years of age who died of Covid-19 were between 51 and 70 years, while those aged above 70 years accounted for the rest of the casualties. “Timely hospitalisation was the reason behind these figures,” Kulkarni said, adding that those above 70 years of age were promptly hospitalised whenever they faced breathing trouble and were saved while those between 51 and 70 years were not so much careful. “One should get hospitalised when the oxygen saturation level goes below 90 per cent but many neglected it and didn’t bother to go to a hospital until it was too late,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
