15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant to Centre: Stop trying to blatantly destabilise state's fiscal health||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday attacked the union government, accusing it of ‘continuously’ and ‘blatantly’ trying to destabilize the state’s fiscal health. The CM was reacting to the union power ministry’s decision to invoke TPA (tripartite agreement clause) against Jharkhand for auto debiting of funds from the latter’s consolidated account in Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to clear outstanding dues of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). On October 12, the power ministry sent a letter to RBI to auto-debit Rs 1417.50 crore to its own coffers from Jharkhand’s account as the first quarterly installment towards DVC’s dues. It has only now forwarded a note to the state government informing of the decision. The public sector undertaking (PSU) has claimed dues amounting to Rs 5,608.32 crore, for the period of March 31, 2015 to August 23, 2017 for supplying power to about seven districts under its command areas. Hemant, in a formal statement to the media, said, “It's a veiled conspiracy by the Union government to provoke and trap the state government to increase its borrowing from markets and other instruments in these times of economic instability and fiscal difficulties being faced by the state. The previous Raghubar Das-led BJP government in Jharkhand, through a tripartite agreement (TPA) signed in 2017, laid the foundation stone towards destroying the basic edifice of cooperative federalism.” Accusing the centre of double standards, he said, “While the Union government is reluctant to pay the long-standing GST compensation dues to the states citing covid-19 pandemic and its subsequent impact on revenues, it is hell-bent on auto deduction of money from state coffers. By doing so, it is proving that cooperative federalism seems to be yet another failed slogan of the central government.” After the centre’s notice to Jharkhand seeking dues last month, principal secretary of the state energy department Avinash Kumar on September 23 had written to the union power ministry contesting the total dues amount. He also pleaded that arbitrarily resorting to auto-deduction from their RBI account will further push the state into financial darkness. Kumar’s letter, a copy of which was released to the media tonight, stated that after a meeting held with DVC, and state owned JBVNL, it was agreed on re-calculating the pending dues on several realistic parameters for which a formal agreement was also signed. “After re-assessment, the pending dues were reworked to Rs 3,919.04 crores against Rs 5,608.32 crores earlier claimed by DVC. DVC, on the other hand, owes Rs 360.36 crores to Jharkhand in lieu of mining. It was decided to adjust this amount from the total dues for which a cabinet note was also prepared. The cabinet meeting, however, couldn’t happen due to the unprecedented Covid-19 lockdown. Moreover, after the Centre announced to provide Rs 90,000 crore liquidity to all discoms under its Atmanirbhar Bharat package, JBVNL decided to borrow Rs 1841 crores under this scheme to clear the dues. A cabinet note for this is readied and is under consideration,” Kumar wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Mechanized sweepers back on track from next week||Five mechanized dust sweeping machines purchased at a cost of Rs 2.5cr in 2019 and lying unused since the imposition of lockdown in March 2020 will now be used from next week to tidy up the streets ahead of Durga Puja. The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has decided to issue a letter to Pay and Clean, the operating agency for mechanized sweepers, to run all five machines in a day or two and resume operations from next week. These include three truck-mounted large machines and two tipper-mounted small machines. Uday Kachhap, DMC assistant engineer, who is in charge of the transport department said the five dust sweeping machines were lying unused during the lockdown as since they were focussing on the sanitisation of containment and high-risk zones in view of the Covid pandemic. “Though it will incur extra costs for us, we will manage the same with a gradual increase in the revenue,” said Kachhap. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Huban Mallick, director Pay and Clean, said, they had a meeting with municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar, who was quite positive about the relaunch. “A fund crunch is the major issue affecting the smooth of operation of the machines, as none are working in full capacity. If allowed to run in full capacity the town will have an altogether different look,” said Mallick. He said as per the agreement, each machine has to operate for 40km per day but none of the machines were operating for more than 20km during the operational phase also. “Ever since we began operation during December last year, we could not operate for more than four months with a restricted capacity of two or three vehicles, since all five machines were seldom operated simultaneously,” he said. High fuel and maintenance cost is major hurdle with regard to regular operation of the sweepers. Funding of around Rs 20-25 lakh per month is required for the unhindered operation of the machines. Due to non-allocation of separate funds for purpose, the vehicles are not operating regularly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway announces Puja specials||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to run several special trains to tackle the rush of passengers during the festive season. Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway, on Thursday announced the 02829 Howrah-Tatanagar Special. The train will run between the two destinations daily between October 16 and November 30. The special will run as per the timings and stoppages of the 12813/12814 Howrah-Tatanagar Steel Superfast Express. Steel Superfast Express, the most popular train between Jamshedpur and Calcutta, stopped operation ever since the Covid-19-induced lockdown was enforced in March. The chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway, Sanjay Ghosh, said: “The special between Howrah and Tatanagar will benefit passengers immensely during the festive season. We are expecting good occupancy.” There is also good news in store for those planning to travel to the south of the country. The railways announced a weekly special between Tatanagar and Yeshwantpur (Bangalore). The train (02889) from Tatanagar will run on Fridays between October 23 and November 27. In the other direction, the Yeshwantpur-Tatanagar Weekly Special (02890) will run every Monday from October 26 to November 30. The special will run as per the timings and stoppages of 12889/12890 Tatanagar-Yeshwantpur Express which too stopped operation in March due to the lockdown. SER also announced a special between Howrah and Ranchi. The 02804 Howrah-Ranchi Special will start from Howrah at 10.10pm everyday between October 18 and December 1 and will reach Ranchi at 5.50pm, the next day. In the other direction, the 02803 Ranchi-Howrah Special will leave Ranchi at 9.30pm everyday between October 17 and November 30 and will arrive at Howrah at 05.10pm the next day. The special will have one first AC, two AC two-tier, four AC three-tier and 11 sleeper class coaches and will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar and Muri. Ranchi will also get a weekly special to Mumbai. The 02812 Hatia-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) special will run between October 23 and November 27 every Friday. There will be six trips in all. As per a schedule released by SER, the train will leave Hatia railway station on Friday at 9.40am. It will reach LTT the next day at 1.35pm. The return train (02811) will leave LTT every Sunday from October 25 at 12.15am. The train will reach Hatia station the next day at 4am. The train will have two SLR coaches (luggage vans), 15 second-class sleeper coaches, four AC three-tier coaches and one AC two-tier coach. SER also announced a Puja special between Hatia and Yeshwantpur (Bangalore). The train -- Hatia-Yeshwantpur Special (02835) -- will run between October 20 and November 24, making six trips in all. The special with 22 coaches will leave Hatia railway station every Tuesday at 6.25pm. The train will reach its destination station -- Yeshwantpur -- the next day at 5pm. The return train (02836) will leave Yeshwantpur every Friday from October 23 at 8.30am. It will reach Hatia railway station the next day at 7.05pm. The Ranchi-Howrah Shatabdi special started running on Thursday. Except Sundays, the train will run on all the other days of the week between the two destinations -- Ranchi and Howrah. SER on Thursday also announced the Santragachi-Pune Special (02817) every Saturday from October 24 to November 28. The train will travel via Tatanagar railway station. In the return direction, the Pune-Santragachi special (02818) will leave every Monday between October 26 and November 30. The special train will run as per the timings and stoppages of Santragachi-Pune Express. SER had earlier announced Puja specials between Howrah and Pune via Tatanagar, as well as others between Howrah and Yeshwantpur, Shalimar and Secunderabad, Santragachi and Chennai, and Howrah and Digha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Church plans 5km-long human chain for Stan Swamy||The Catholic Church here organising a 5km-long human chain in Ranch on Friday to escalate the demand for the release of Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old Jesuit priest and rights activists who was arrested by National Investigating Agency (NIA) on October 8 for alleged links to the 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence in Pune. Father Theodore Mascarenhas, the auxiliary bishop of Ranchi, told the media on Thursday that thousands of Christians and like-minded rights activists will descend on Albert Ekka Chowk to form the human chain. “Starting from Albert Ekka Chowk, the human chain will pass through Sarjana Chowk, Dangratoli,  and Kantatoli to express solidarity with Stan and demand his immediate release,” said Mascarenhas in the presence of priests and officials of Catholic churches of Ranchi at XISS auditorium. NIA picked Swamy from his residence in Bagaicha in Namkum at night on October 9. He was flown to Mumbai the next day. The central agency, in its chargesheet in court on the ongoing probe in the Bhima Koregaon case, has accused him of harbouring links with CPI (Maoist) groups. His arrest, however, triggered a nationwide uproar, with citizens, activists, and even some politicians accusing the Union government of attempting to silence dissent. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren also spoke out against Stan Swamy’s arrest. Mascarenhas said they had formally appealed to the Jharkhand government to intervene and seek the release of Swamy. About Friday’s programme, he said, “We believe he is innocent and his decades-old work for the rights of tribals and the marginalised stands unparalleled. The way such an elderly person is being harassed should evoke strong reactions from everywhere.” Mascarenhas revealed that they would also hold a silent prayer meeting for Swamy on Friday evening. “We have informed the district administration and will abide by all the safety norms in the wake of covid-19,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tribals step up Sarna code demand, hold protest march across capital||Tribal groups held protest marches across the state, including several parts of Ranchi, on Thursday in support of long-pending demands for a separate Sarna code ahead of the 2021 national census. The protest marches in Ranchi, held under the aegis of two organisations — Kendriya Sarna Samiti (KSS) and Adivasi Vikas Parishad (AVP) — led to traffic disruptions at various places through the day, at times leading to crowding. As per the last census, there are 32 tribal groups in the state. Of these, eight are particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG). A few converted to Christianity over the years while others practice Sarna religion which is the worship of nature. The demand of tribals for a separate Sarna code, also known as religion code, is centred around a separate identity. Currently, they are either included as Hindus, Christians or Muslim in the census, that does not have a separate column for their religion. Thursday’s protest march began at 8am with at least 10 groups of 30-40 tribals fanning out to various parts of the city, carrying banners and posters in support of their demand for a separate Sarna code. Many were shouting slogans against the state and Centre. Several protesters were without masks and social distancing norms were violated at a number of public places. Phulchand Tirkey, president of KSS, accused the Hemant Soren government of duping tribals by not passing a resolution in favour of their demands during the monsoon session of the Assembly. “Both the state and Centre have been duping tribals in the name of a Sarna code,” he said, adding that the marches were a prelude to more protests in the coming days. “The 2021 census is just months away and we won’t be quiet anymore,” he said. Secretary of AVP Satyanand Lakra said that on October 20, tribals would form human chains across the state to press for their demands. “In December, we will resort to a ‘rail-roko’ agitation,” he said. Officials of the district administration conceded the demonstrators did not have valid permission for the marches. But no one was arrested till the evening when this report was filed. Ranchi SDO Sameera S said: “A few groups had applied for permission for a protest march. But permission wasn’t granted. We will see what action can be taken after consultation with senior officials.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two factions take root in steel city puja watchdog  ||A rift, brewing within the Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendra Samity for a week, came out in the open on Wednesday, with the suspension of the general secretary and two factions claiming authority over the apex body that monitors and coordinates 320 pujas in the steel city. The decision to suspend general secretary Rambabu Singh, for six years no less because of alleged high-handedness, was taken by the outfit’s president, Chandra Nath Banerjee, after a nod from the executive committee late Wednesday evening. “The decision to suspend Singh was taken by the executive committee. Singh had made the outfit his pocket organisation. He was also functioning without taking me into confidence,” said Banerjee. Banerjee claimed Singh went ahead and issued Covid guidelines for pujas and filled vacant posts in the samity without consulting him. “I was nominated working president in 2018 president. I was kept in dark over decisions taken by the general secretary,” he said. Banerjee said a showcause notice was issued to Singh but he did not reply, after which there was no option but to suspend him. Singh could not be contacted despite several attempts. But the samity executive president Ashutosh Singh denied that that the executive committee had decided to suspend Rambabu Singh. “We don’t believe in issuing statements but the process to suspend the general secretary is against the by-laws of the samity. The executive committee has not adopted any resolution to suspend the general secretary,” he claimed. Senior functionaries of the outfit also said Rambu Singh’s suspension had to be ratified by the 11-member executive committee. They said they were with Rambabu Singh and would remain with him in future. The factionalism has left puja organisers in a quandary. They are confused about whose directives to follow. Banerjee said the onus was on the puja organisers. “The puja organisers have to decide. Sentiments are attached to pujas and we believe that the festival should be celebrated in a hassle-free manner by following the guidelines issued by the state government. The samity is functioning with this objective,” he added. A member of the Telco puja organising committee said Covid restrictions had already dampened the Puja spirit this year, and that the infighting could not have happened at a worse time. “There is already little joy left in the Pujas because of Covid. The infighting in the samity has left us confused. We are yet to decide whom to support,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||One-legged bird goes for her maiden flight after a week of surgery||A week after the amputation surgery of a cattle egret in Daltonganj, the bird went for a short maiden flight after it was released on the bed of the Koel river on Thursday by its rescuer Jyoti Kumari. The bird’s left leg was amputated by touring veterinarian Jeeani Abha Melgandi in Daltonganj last week, after it was brought to her by wildlife lover and rescuer Jyoti Kumari. Since then, the bird has been living in Kumari’s home. Kumari said the bird, who re-entered into the lap of nature for little over an hour, must have felt it had the guts within to change its life with just one leg. The rescuer and her bird were both happy. “The one-legged bird flew from one place to another. The span was small. It appeared she was testing her own energy & mettle for this,” she said. “The bird was not morose, but at the same time she was not all cheerful. She seemed to be pondering over the ways of the world. Walking down the wet river bed with just one leg having a bodyweight of 325g is no easy thing for a bird that underwent surgery for amputation just seven days ago,” said Jyoti Kumari. Kumari said she had tied a 100ft long rope to her leg. “This was with a purpose. It was to ensure the bird did not go very far or did not face any unforeseen situation,” said Kumari. She said the bird spent some time on the riverbed and made small catches like flies, insects. With the currents of the river water, standing on one leg standing is an arduous task. Jyoti Kumari said the bird will not be left to fend for herself. The egret will be taken out for such jaunts everyday till she makes a long enough flight. DS Srivastava, an environmentalist said that nature is itself is therapy for flora and fauna, and that such wounded birds learn to cope with their lives, even after losing a leg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Demonstation for Father Stan Swamy’s release||Several leading figures on Wednesday demanded that Father Stan Swamy, arrested in connection with the Elgar-Parishad case, be immediately released. The demonstrators, belonging to various Muslim and social organisations, held up placards to highlight their demands at Paramveer Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi and said they stood in solidarity with activists arrested across the country, including Jharkhand. The demonstrators also protested the continued persecution of rights activists, including Umar Khalid, by implicating them in false cases. The demonstrators maintained that they support the ongoing protests in Ranchi against the oppression. They also demanded that the attacks on people's democratic rights be stemmed and abuse of laws be stopped. The protesters said they support the government of chief minister Hemant Soren in its fight against the detention of Swamy. A joint team of district administration and police led by ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar on Wednesday conducted a raid at Tetlmari area and seized around 10 tonnes of smuggled coal. The team also seized a truck in which smuggled coal was loaded for transport. District Mining officer, Nishant Abhishek later lodged an FIR in Tetlmari police station against the truck owner and diver. A tree situated on GT road is creating havoc for commuters travelling during the night. The four lane road is being widened to six lanes. Congress vice president of Barhi, Yamuna Yadav Wednesday asked the construction company to remove the tree. He said if demand was not met soon, he will not hesitate to launch an agitation in this regard. A total of 30 patients were discharged from different Covid Treatment facilities of Dhanbad on Wednesday. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner,  Uma Shankar Singh said, "All the discharged persons have been provided medical kits and asked to remain in home quarantine for next for next 14 days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||UPA and NDA file candidature for Bermo bypolls, hold gatherings||The Bermo assembly constituency witnessed two political functions on Wednesday, organised by the NDA and UPA after their candidates filed nominations for the upcoming bypolls. Chief minister Hemant Soren attended the Jainamoad congregation in support of Congress candidate Kumar Jaimangal. Speaking at the event, he termed the former BJP government of Raghubar Das as “nalayak" (incompetent). He also said that “the BJP central government fosters a step-motherly attitude towards Jharkhand by not providing any help in the time of Covid-19 crisis”. Congress state president Rameshwar Oraon said the BJP harbours "napak" (nefarious) intent for labourers and farmers. On the other hand, BJP state president Dipak Prakash branded the UPA alliance as “thugbandhan” (coalition of thugs). Prakash even went ahed to promise residents a change in the present state government, if the BJP won the two seats (Bermo and Dumka). AJSU-P MP from Giridih, Chandraprakash Chaudhary targeted Hemant Soren and JMM saying they are running a government which is full of “corruption”. The NDA-backed BJP candidate Batul and Jaimangal of the Congress (UPA) filed their nominations at the Bermo subdivision office in Tenughat. The two leaders submitted their candidature to electoral officer Anant Kumar at his office. After filing nomination, Jaimangal said he will carry forward the work done by his father. “My father has worked in this assembly for 50 years. I promise to carry forward his vision of development with everyone's support." Batul, who is former MLA from Bermo, said that people are feeling cheated in nine months of the JMM-Congress government. He said the party is confident that people will vote for BJP in this election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Four workers die of septic tank suffocation||Four construction workers, including a father and a son, died allegedly because of suffocation while working inside a new septic tank in Garhwa district of Jharkhand on Wednesday morning. After getting the news of the death of four persons, residents blocked the Kandi-Garhwa Main Road demanding action against the absent doctor at the Kandi primary health centre and adequate compensation for the relatives of the deceased workers. The workers were initially rushed to the primary health centre but due to the absence of a doctor and an ambulance, they had to be taken to a referral hospital in Manjhiaon, around 20km from the spot, in a private van. According to the residents, the four workers — Mithilesh Kumar Mehta, 40, his son Nagendra Mehta (19), Anil Kumar Mehta, 25, and Satyendra Mehta, 20 — were working inside a septic tank in the newly built house of one Akhilesh Dubey in Dumersota village under Kandi police station. They were removing the shuttering over which the top cover of the tank is cast in cement. However, when they did not come out for a long time, other workers peeped inside the septic tank to find them unconscious and somehow managed to bring them out. The area is around 210km from state capital Ranchi. A police source said, “The four persons were rushed to the nearby Kandi primary health centre but the doctor-on-duty Govind Seth was not present at the time. They were asked to take them to the Referral Hospital at Manjhiaon. There was no ambulance and they had to arrange a private van to take them to the referral hospital. When they reached the referral hospital, the doctor (Dr Kamlesh Kumar) after examination declared them brought dead. This made the people angry and they started burning tyres near the hospital and blocked the Kandi–Garhwa Main Road around noon demanding action against the absent doctor and suitable compensation for the deceased workers’ families.” The road blockade was continuing at the time of filing of the report, while senior administrative officials were trying to persuade the residents. Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kujmar Pathak assured action against the doctor at the Kandi primary health centre but doubted that the death was due to suffocation from poisonous gases. “It was a newly constructed unused septic tank and emanating of poisonous gases is not likely. However, the real reason of death could only be ascertained after the post-mortem report comes. We have come to know about a doctor not being present at Kandi primary hospital and action will be initiated against him. We will also give compensation as per social security norms of the government,” he said. In July this year a similar incident had occurred when three men, including a father and a son, died allegedly due to suffocation while working inside a newly constructed septic tank in Pipra Kala locality of Garhwa district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
