16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Warning to Bokaro private schools over fees||After complaints of private schools arbitrarily charging school fees during the pandemic, Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh issued a directive to the institutions. He held a meeting on Friday with the principals of more than a dozen reputed schools during which he clearly stated that non-compliance with the directives issued by the Jharkhand government regarding fees collection will not be tolerated. He warned the schools that the administration will freeze the bank accounts and cancel the no-objection certificates issued to schools found violating the government directives regarding fees collection. He constituted a panel of senior officials led by Chas subdivisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh to submit a report on the fee structure of each school. Residents and parent associations have been raising their voices to demand fee waivers and change of the payment mode to instalments. They want the unnecessary pressure created by schools over fees during the pandemic to be addressed. The principals of the schools spoke about their difficulties to the deputy commissioner, including how even affluent parents were demanding fee waivers and their difficulty in paying teachers their salaries as many guardians were yet to deposit tuition fees. Chas subdivisional officer Singh said that “all the schools have been asked to submit their fee structures of last year’s session and the present session in a transparent manner as the committee will examine it”. The deputy commissioner added: “The administration will recommend the cancellation of the NOC issued by the state government and freeze bank accounts of those schools which will be found arbitrarily charging fees against the government directives. We will also take legal action against them.” The parents now can submit their complaints or plea letters to the panel. The committee also comprises district education officer Neelam Eleen Toppo and the deputy development officer. The administration has given a written order to all the schools asking them to follow the guidelines strictly. The schools were told by the administration that there will be no increase in school fees for the 2020-21 academic session. The tuition fees will be charged equally as it was taken before the start of this year's session. Under no circumstances will the enrolment of any student be cancelled due to the non-payment of tuition fees. The facility of an online educational system will not be denied. It will be the responsibility of the school head to provide IDs and passwords and online learning materials to all the students enrolled in the school without any discrimination for online education. Any type of annual fees, bus fees, etc. for the duration of school closure should not be charged from parents. It can be taken from the parents on a proportional basis after the commencement of classes. Under no circumstances will parents be charged late fees. There will be no deduction/withholding of salary of teachers and non-teaching staff working in the schools. At the same time, additional financial pressure should not be created on parents by creating new charges by the school management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||High court questions govt on gutka ban||Taking a dig against the state government’s claim of a total ban on gutka, Jharkhand High Court on Friday held a mirror to law enforcement after Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan’s subordinates produced several pouches of gutka bought from nearby shops in the city during the course of hearing a public interest litigation (PIL). A two-judge bench, comprising Chief Justice Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan, was on Friday hearing a PIL through videoconferencing on the ban on gutka. A social outfit — Fariad Foundation — had filed a PIL before the court seeking a complete ban in the state and accused government officials of poor enforcement. The petitioner in its PIL had informed the court that while the state government imposes a ban from time to time, it lacks teeth because of a lack of enforcement on the ground. During the course of the hearing, special secretary of the state food and civil supplies department, Chandra Kishore Oraon, informed the court that the state government had already put curbs on the sale of gutka, which will remain in force till next year. Upon hearing this, the Chief Justice asked a staffer posted at his official residence to go out and procure gutka packets. Within no time, he returned with pouches of the prohibited products. Producing them in the court during the hearing, the bench mock-questioned the official: “What kind of a ban is it where gutka is available easily everywhere in the city?” The court added: “A mere ban without enforcement will do no good.” Oraon promised a probe and immediate action to prevent sale of gutka in the city and elsewhere in the state. Upon hearing it, the court asked him to furnish a detailed action-taken report and posted the matter for hearing in November. This was the second instance in a week when the court came down heavily on the state. Last week on Thursday, irked over police’s inaction in investigating the death of a minor girl in Giridih, the high court drew a parallel with the Hathras atrocity. Shocked at the death of a 15-year-old girl in Giridih over an alleged rape attempt, Justice Ananda Sen, while hearing a writ petition filed by the victim’s father, had commented: “Hathras is not only in the Uttar Pradesh, but also is in the state of Jharkhand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three inspiring women share their life journeys at Kaleidoscope ||The second session of Kaleidoscope organised online on Friday evening focussed on the latent courage within women and celebrated the inspiring stories of some who broke barriers within and without to create a better, more beautiful 'new normal'. Kaleidoscope is a series of five webinars, co-hosted by Tata Steel Foundation and CII-Indian Women Network, Jharkhand chapter, which looks to bridge the disconnect of women from deep rural hinterlands of India and women professionals and entrepreneurs who are setting benchmarks in urban and peri-urban areas. The first session of the webinar series was organised last month. Friday’s session was in conversation with Maharashtra-based Varsha Rahase, who ended her abusive marriage despite social stigma and went on to become a self-defence trainer and an inspiration for young girls. Varsha is also an alumni member of the Tribal Leadership Programme of the Tata Steel Foundation. Malti Singh  hailing from Jharkhand, who had experienced the ill-effects of alcoholism, found collective strength in the women around her and campaigned to make her village free of illegal liquor shops. Swarnlata Dalai from the neighbouring state of Odisha, has scaled Mount Everest under the mentorship of Ms Bachendri Pal defying all odds. These inspiring stories were beautifully woven together by Pragya Singh, the founder and secretary of ‘Atijeevan Foundation’, one of India’s foremost not-for-profit organizations engaged in creating dignified, equitable opportunities for acid attack survivors to earn their living with their own skills and talent, and also help them to become economically independent in their lives. Pragya, an acid attack survivor herself, has now dedicated herself to the cause, providing relief and rehabilitation to acid attack and burn survivors for the past six years. Swastika Basu, chairwoman, CII-IWN Jharkhand chapter and chief-enterprise risk management Tata Steel, welcomed the panellists and participants. “These women of substance have forged paths not only for themselves but also portrayed success stories for their peers. Theirs were stories of grit, determination and positivity, and the courage that is inherent in every woman to face the challenges of life. The courage to break stereotypes and the courage to not limit their ambitions,” she said.. Sourav Roy, convenor, CII Jharkhand CSR and the skill development panel, who is also chief-corporate social responsibility, Tata Steel was also present. “We are extremely fortunate to have met these extraordinary women in the course of our work and continue to be inspired each time we hear them recount how they turned their lives around. In the last seven months, we have heard more such stories of vigour and Pragya is a living example. The ‘new normal’ in their lives is akin to the entire world finding its ground again as we step into a post-Covid era, and there is much to learn. With three more conversations ahead of us as part of this series, we hope that Kaleidoscope is able to meet its purpose,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad DTO resumes driving tests after six months||The process of issuing driving licences began on Friday, more than six months after it had been suspended because of a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. District transport officer of Dhanbad Om Prakash Yadav said only a limited number of applicants were being called for driving tests at Golf Ground and for paperwork and photography to maintain Covid protocols of social distancing. More than 9,000 applications for licences are pending with the Dhanbad district transport office of which 6,258 applications are for renewals. Md Faizan (20), a BTech (electrical engineering) student of K.K. College of Engineering who arrived at Golf Ground Dhanbad for a driving test, said, “I had applied for a licence last year. I have been facing a lot of difficulty without one.” Md Eltas (24), another applicant for a learner’s license, who came for a driving test from Govindpur said, “I had applied for a learner’s licence on January 11 and was allotted a date for a driving test on April 11. But the closure of the office during lockdown delayed the entire process.” Those who came to the DTO counter to submit documents had a similar experience to narrate. Sanjay Kumar Mandal (21), a Life Insurance Corporation of India agent, said, “We had applied for a learner’s license before the beginning of the lockdown. We could never imagine that it would get delayed for such a long period.” Deepak Kumar Verma (25), a driver who uses his own car as a private taxi, said, “I wanted a licence for driving heavy vehicles in order to get a job as a truck driver in a transport company operating for BCCL. But I could not get the licence because of the lockdown. Thank God the process has finally begun.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Archbishop of Ranchi leads human chain to demand Stan Swamy’s release||Members of the Catholic Church, including priests, nuns and citizens, formed a 5km-long human chain in Ranchi on Friday, holding posters denouncing the arrest of Stan Swamy, a 83-year-old Jesuit priest, for alleged links with those involved with the 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence. Many of the over 1,000 protestors, who had lined up along Albert Ekka Chowk, Kantatoli Chowk, Sarjana Chowk and Dangratoli from 4.30pm, also lit candles, terming it a symbol of hope against the attempts to silence intellectuals and rights activists. Friday’s congregation, part of ongoing protests by various groups, was led by Archbishop of Ranchi Felix Toppo and auxiliary bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, who stood outside the church at Purulia Road, holding banners and wearing masks in accordance with Covid-19 protocol. Toppo’s banner read: “We demand justice”. Among the other slogans printed on posters were “Stop terrorizing activists”, “Stan is a worker for Dalit and Adivasi rights and not a terrorist”, “Everyone has human rights, stop branding them as terrorists” and “Release Stan Swamy—the voice of the oppressed”. “The way such an elderly person was arrested by NIA at night last week on false charges is beyond condemnation,” said Mascarenhas. “We demand his release,” he said. Tribal rights activist Dayamani Barla said, “Stan’s body of work for the cause of tribals is well documented. The recent action against him is a strategic attempt to silence all such voices who stand for the cause of the marginalised.” Nadeem Akthar of Lalu Bolega, another social outfit, added, “There is a need for another uprising against the Union government for using central agencies for its anti-people and anti-poor agenda.” Later, special prayers were also held for Swamy at St Mary's Cathedral from 5.40pm onwards. But the Opposition BJP accused the Church and its affiliates of questioning the Constitution and the judicial process. "The way missionaries and the Church are criticising a democratically elected government testifies that they don't have faith in the judicial process. They are trying to interfere in an independent probe conducted by NIA,” said party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo in a statement. Swamy was picked up from his residence in Bagaicha in Namkum last Friday and was flown to Mumbai the next day. The central agency in its chargesheet in connection to the ongoing probe in the Bhima Koregaon case has charged him with harbouring links with CPI (Maoist) groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Teenager stabbed to death by cousins over property dispute in Mango||A teenager was stabbed to death by one of his male cousins over a prolonged property dispute at Daiguttu in Mango on Friday morning. One of his family members made the fatal attack on the victim, identified as Uttam Kumar Sahu, after a minor altercation over dumping household garbage on disputed land in the morning. The incident took place in front of the victim's house at Teli Line at the densely-populated Daiguttu at about 8am. According to bereaved family members, Uttam, who was the only son of Madan Sahu, had indulged in the altercation with his cousins Sujeet, Sumeet, Monu and Sonu. In a spur of the moment, one of the cousins, Sumeet, took out a dagger and started attacking the victim. When Madan Sahu tried to save his son from the clutches of the attackers, three others attacked him and inflicted injuries. Having injured Madan, the accused, Sumeet thrusted the dagger in Uttam's chest, causing him to fall down. The family members said after Uttam fell down, Madan Sahu rushed him to MGM Medical College Hospital where the doctors on emergency duty declared him dead. Soon afterwards, a police party led by Mango OC Mithilesh Kumar reached the medical college hospital for investigation. "The murder took place in sequel to a dispute over landed property of the Sahu family.  We have taken Anirudh Prasad Sahu, who is the elder brother of Madan Sahu and one of his sons in custody.  There were three more attackers who have absconded soon after the murder took place.  We are trying to trace them," said Mithilesh Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said Madan Sahu's brothers Anirudh and Nandlal were not giving the property's share to Madan, and that a case had been filed by the victim's family. "Some members of Madan's family dumped domestic garbage in a plot of disputed land, triggering reaction from the families of Anirudh and Nandlal. After the situation became aggravated, the former’s sons attacked Madan and his son with a dagger,  In the attack, Madan's son was killed and Madan himself sustained grievous head injury," said the police officer. The search for the absconders has been intensified. The murder victim's younger sister, Sujita Kumari said that her cousins and their wives would always quarrel with them over trifle matters as they wanted to oust them from their share of landed property. "But it seemed they were awaiting for an opportunity and were prepared to kill my brother. This is why they started to attack my brother with a dagger in front of my eyes.  As I tried to save him, the attackers pushed me away.  They also hit my father with a stick and subsequently stabbed my brother," said Sujita while talking to this website. In this connection, the police have registered a case of murder against Sujeet, Sumeet, Monu and Sonu besides others, based on a statement made by Madan Sahu, with the Mango police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Man opens fire at relatives after quarrel, four injured  ||A finance company employee fired at his relatives after a clash, injuring four persons early on Friday in what was a fallout of a longstanding dispute triggered by a quarrel with his aunt. Upendra Singh (32) was got into an altercation with his aunt Meera Devi (58) which soon led to the involvement of others at Martkuria Railway Colony at bank More. The verbal duel escalated into a physical fight in which fisticuffs were exchanged and sticks used. Upendra then took out his pistol and fired indiscriminately. Meera and her sons Pintu Singh (30) and Sintu Singh (22) received gunshot injuries. Upendra's father, Markandey Singh (65), was also injured in the attack. Upendra fled the spot soon after the incident. Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said the incident was a result of animosity among relatives. “Three persons received gunshot injuries. We are conducting raids to arrest the main accused, Upendra Singh," he said. Meera and her son Pintu are said to be critical. They are undergoing treatment at Mission Hospital, Durgapur. Sintu, who sustained bullet injuries in the abdomen, is being treated at the ICU of PMCH, Dhanbad. He is said to be out of danger. Updendra’s father, Markandey, a retired banker, received head injuries after being beaten with sticks. He is undergoing treatment at a private clinic, Patliputra Nursing Home, in Dhanbad. He is out of danger. Both Upendra and his cousin Pintu are recovery agents. They have a history of disputes. Upendra's wife Uma had in March 2018 lodged an FIR against Pintu and others in connection with an attack on him. Upendra was seriously injured after he was fired upon on March 22, 2018 near Skylark in the Bank More area. Police sources said Upendra faces several cases pertaining to threats and extortion. Last week, on October 9, Giridih resident Prakash Kumar, who was driving down to Ranchi, went missing for four hours. Later, he accused Upendra of abducting him since he had pending EMIs of a loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Owen was instrumental in getting me on board, says JFC's goal machine ||Nerijus Valskis is spending his time eating, sleeping and watching movies in isolation at his hotel room in Goa but the lethal striker is aware that he carries a huge expectation on his shoulders when it comes to turning the tide in favour of Jamshedpur FC in the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) next month. Like others, the 33-year-old Lithuanian is in secure bio-bubble and will hit the turf for outdoor training session later this month. Vakskis is raring to exhibit his prowess in the cash-rich tournament to be played sans spectators. Valskis does not seem to believe that living in the bio-bubble can affect him mentally. “I hope no. But it will be very hard on the psychological front to stay five-six months alone without family. But I sleep, eat, watch movies and read some magazines. That’s how I am spending time in isolation,” he said from Goa. On his thoughts on playing behind closed doors, Valskis, the ISL Golden Boot winner last season, said it is sad to play without spectators. “We are playing for the fans and want them to be happy. They support us and push us to play better and better. But we need to understand about the present situation in the world,” the JFC goal machine said. On why he decided to join JFC, the ex-Marina Machan forward said the management showed great interest in him and he had a word with head coach Owen Coyle about it. “Owen was the most significant influence for me. It’s a new challenge, because they (JFC) have never been in the top four. And playing again under Owen Coyle made sense to me as I share a great camaraderie with him,” Valskis added. Valskis said his target is to help JFC win games and he's not looking at individual prowess at the moment.  "Even if I’m scoring eight goals but manage to win maximum games, that’s perfect. That’s my sole target,” he pointed out. The forward is very impressed about JFC having its own facilities. "They have everything that one needs as a professional football player – the training ground, gym swimming pool, a stadium with amazing support always coming in full. The grass quality is number one in India.  Jamshedpur, as a city, is breathtaking as well. It’s clean and small with amazing people,” Valskis remarked." On his thoughts about Jharkhand being a football-loving state, Valskis said: “Jharkhand is very passionate about football. Over 3,000 kids across the state enrolled in the grassroots programme, I read it somewhere and also saw some posts about it on social media. The fans are so passionate as well. I remember seeing so many people who came to watch the matches, over 20,000 people every game. It’s simply spectacular. This is passion,” Valskis, who played for Chennaiyin FC under Owen Coyle last season, said. He called upon the Jamshedpur faithfuls to be patient and believe in them. “We are here to make some good memories with you. And I hope to be successful along with you all,” Valskis said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases drop below 7000, more than 500 infected in a day ||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below 7,000 in Jharkhand on Thursday after as many as 873 Covid patients recovered from the infection against 583 fresh cases surfacing in 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6,892 people were battling Covid-19 infection across the state on Thursday night. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 91.87 per cent on Thursday, as 87,240 of 94,952 people infected by the mysterious virus have recovered in the state, government data highlights. Despite the improvement in recovery rate, Jharkhand continues to witness Covid-19 casualties every day. At least eight more Covid patients died during treatment on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 820. Four of the eight Covid victims, who died on Thursday, were from Ranchi. The remaining four were from Bokaro district. The Covid-19 toll in Ranchi alone reached 157 on Thursday, while in Bokaro, the toll reached 39. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand, as per government records, was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent on Thursday. Even though the number of active cases reduced in Ranchi on Thursday, it continues to be the only district in Jharkhand with over 2000 active cases of Covid-19 infection. As many as 219 cases of infection surfaced in the district on Thursday against 353 recoveries. However, there were 2,461 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi by Thursday evening, highlights government data. All the remaining 23 districts in Jharkhand reported less than 100 cases of infection on Thursday, with Bokaro reporting 74 cases, the second highest among all the districts. There were around 1300 active cases in East Singhbhum after the district reported 135 recoveries against 56 cases on Thursday, stated government data. Health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of around 27.73 lakh people for Covid-19 test so far, and tested around 27.67 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 23,399 people and 22,816 of them came negative. As per figures with the NHM, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 92.02 days against the national doubling rate of 69.39 days. In the past one week, the viral infection grew at a rate of 0.69 per cent in Jharkhand, while the national Covid-19 growth rate was 0.99 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Truck overturns on GT Road, goods looted by villagers||A truck carrying mustard oil packets overturned on GT road in Siyarkoni Ghati spilling the goods on the road. Local villagers gathered at the accident spot and started picking up the packets strewn on the ground. Labourers were sent to the spot who loaded the remaining packets on another vehicle. The driver and helper of the truck sustained minor injuries but were out of danger. Police officials said villagers residing near GT road keep looting trucks carrying goods. Garhwa police arrested BJP leader Santosh Keshari on Thursday following a non-bailable warrant that had been issued against him. Keshari was sent to judicial custody. According to police, the warrant was issued in a case wherein a cheque from 2018 issued by him was dishonoured by a bank. Police said the warrant had been issued against him  in a court case filed under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 of the IPC which pertains to dishonor of cheque for insufficiency of funds in account. “Accused Keshari took Rs. 5.90 lakh as a loan to a trader Nandu Soni on the promise he will pay soon. But the money was not returned by him for a long time. On September 30,2018 accused handed over a cheque to Nandu's son Pancham Soni, with an amount of Rs 5.90 lakhs. Pancham filed  an FIR  against the accused when the cheques bounced,” said Garhwa thana in-charge Rajiv Kumar Singh. The warrant was issued after Keshari failed to turn up in court despite several summons. Two masked men stole goods worth Rs 40,000 from Sonu Monu readymade garments shop in Itkhori of Chatra on Wednesday night. The owner of the shop said the criminals broke in through the main entrance. Itkhori police station officer-in-charge Sachin Kumar Das said investigation started on the basis of available clues from CCTV footage and the thieves will be arrested soon. He said efforts are on to identify the two thieves. Around 59 cadets of Sainik School Telaiya have cleared UPSC(NDA) written examination-2020. Group captain Rahul Saklani, principal of this school said these successful cadets have written new history in the illustrious saga of Sainik School, the premier institution. He said this school is a stepping stone to the National Defence Academy. He praised teachers for their able guidance which made cadets crack this examination. Saklani expressed confidence that this result will motivate the upcoming batches to perform better. He informed that all India Sainik schools entrance examination will take place on January 10, 2021.He said application will be available from October 20 on website aissee.nta.ac.in. The newly renovated dedicated Covid hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar was inaugurated on Thursday by Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh and BCCL CMD, Gopal Singh. The hospital has a 30 bed ICU facility and 40 bed non ICU facility. The facilities were developed within a record 15 days. The oxygen pipeline, installed for uninterrupted supply, was inaugurated by general manager of Sindri unit of  Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited, Himmat Singh Chauhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
