17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally draws close to 96,000||The Covid-19 tally drew close to 96,000 in Jharkhand after as many as 542 people, including 242 in Ranchi alone, were found infected on Saturday, figures released by the health department stated. The tally in Ranchi, which accounted for nearly half of the cases on Saturday, shot up to 23,948. Despite achieving a recovery rate close to 90 per cent, Ranchi had around 2,300 active cases of Covid-19 infection on Saturday evening. Eight more people died of the viral infection on Saturday, taking the toll in the state up to 832, government data said. At least four of the eight Covid victims were from East Singhbhum, the district which has seen 323 casualties so far, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum, however, reported only 66 fresh cases of infection and 55 recoveries, taking the number of active cases in the district to 1,360. Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday met doctors who are treating Jagarnath Mahto at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi, and sought updates from them on the medical condition of the education minister. Hemant also sought suggestions from doctors regarding alternative treatments that could help Mahto recover faster. At least five ministers in Jharkhand have been infected by the Covid-19 virus so far. Health minister Banna Gupta, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur have overcome Covid-19 infection. Minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died a day after testing negative for Covid-19, while Mahto is said to be critical and admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Medica hospital. The Jharkhand government has so far collected swab samples of 28.42 lakh people and tested 28.27 lakh of them for Covid-19. On Saturday, health workers collected swab samples of 22,569 people and tested 20,952 of them. While 95,967 people have tested positive for Covid-19 so far in Jharkhand, 88,559 of them have recovered. As many as 6,576 people were battling the infection across Jharkhand on Saturday, as per latest figures with the state health department. As per government data, Jharkhand’s mortality rate was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The recovery rate in the state was 92.28 per cent against the national recovery rate of 87.80 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 113.5 days against the national average of 80.78 days. The growth rate of the infection in Jharkhand during the past one week was 0.61 per cent against the national average of 0.86 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Sahara City rape case: CID seeks narco tests||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has sought a narco analysis test of the alleged victim’s employer Nanak Chand Seth and his wife Mamta in the Sahara City rape case. The CID on Friday prayed in the court of additional district judge V. Subhas for permission to subject the Seths to the test to help reach a conclusion on whether the minor girl who used to work as a maid had been raped by, among others, two officers at the MGM police station as had been claimed by the victim. CID inspector Jyotshna Kumari, who is the investigating officer in the case, confirmed that the agency had approached the court with the request. “We approached the court for permission to subject Nanak Chand Seth, the employer of the alleged rape victim, and his wife Mamta to the test. The court has asked us to take consent of the Seths,” said the CID inspector while talking to The Telegraph Online. Jyotshna, when queried whether they would also go for the narco analysis test of the alleged rape victim, said there’s no need for it. Nanak Chand Seth confirmed that he had received a notice from the CID on the narco analysis test, but pointed out that their consent will be conditional. “We will be ready for the narco analysis test only when the court allows our family doctor and a media person to be part of the process,” he said. The rape case was registered with the Mango police station on January 19, 2018, after the mother of the 17-year-old maid alleged that three men, Indrapal Singh Sainy, Shiv Kumar Mahto and Srikanth Mahto, sexually exploited her over a span of a year. After the case was registered, the police arrested all the three accused within a week and sent them to jail. The case became sensational after the victim revealed to a section of the media that apart from Indrapal, Shiv Kumar and Srikanth, two police officers had also sexually abused her and that too in a police station. After the names of police officers Imdad Ansari and Ajay Karketta came to the fore, the police authority concerned suspended the duo and started investigations into the case afresh. During the investigations, the police had sought permission from the court for subjecting Indrapal, Shiv Kumar and Srikanth to narco analysis tests. The three were even taken to a forensic lab at Gandhinagar in Gujarat from the Ghaghidih central jail where they were lodged.  But the narco analysis test was done only on one accused, Shiv Kumar, whereas two others skipped the test on the grounds of medical and language issues. Currently, Indrapal and Shiv Kumar are still in jail, whereas Srikanth was granted bail last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases drop below 100 in seven districts||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection has dropped below 100 in at least seven of the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while two of these seven districts have less than 50 active cases of infection, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Backward districts, which are home to mostly poverty-stricken tribal families, have reported fewer active cases of Covid-19 infection than the districts that have a strong urban population, health officials said. As per the latest data with the NHM, Lohardaga, a largely rural district about 80km northwest of Ranchi, had only 20 active cases of Covid-19 infection on Saturday, the lowest among all the districts in Jharkhand. Sahibganj in Santhal Pargana had only 49 active Covid-19 cases. Pakur had 60 active cases, while Palamau had 62 active cases of infection and Garhwa had 90 active cases, the NHM figures further highlighted. Doctors attributed the rapid fall in the number of active cases in backward districts to a lack of pollution and healthy lifestyle among residents. “Villagers do not socialize as much as urban residents. Their immune systems are also stronger than those living in concrete jungles, so it is not surprising that the number of active cases has dropped below 100 in the rural districts,” said Dr Ajay Singh, state coordinator of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Most of the districts in the Santhal Pargana division had fewer active cases of Covid-19 infection than the districts in other divisions of Jharkhand. Government figures highlighted that at least four of the six districts in the Santhal Pargana division had less than 100 active cases of infection. The remaining two districts in the division, Dumka and Jamtara, had 131 and 106 active cases of Covid-19 infection, respectively. There were 65 patients of Covid-19 in Deoghar, a district in Santhal Pargana, on Saturday. Pakur and Sahibganj also fall in the Santhal region of Jharkhand. Godda, another district in the division, had 90 active cases of Covid-19 infection. As per government records, all these districts have reported more than 1,000 cases of Covid-19 infection, and registered a recovery rate of more than 90 per cent. However, urban districts like Ranchi and East Singhbhum still had more than 1,000 active cases of Covid-19 infection. As per the latest figures with the government, as many as 2,457 people were battling the virus in Ranchi and 1,374 were battling it in East Singhbhum. There were 6,543 active cases across Jharkhand, as per NHM figures updated on Saturday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM threatens economic blockade against Centre||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the lead alliance partner in the ruling dispensation in the state, threatened the Union government with an economic blockade in the coming months for trying to “destabilise the state through non-cooperation and fiscal penalties”. Addressing the media at the JMM party office, party general secretary Vinod Pandey said, “Right from Day One, since the JMM-Congress-RJD government assumed charge, the BJP-led Union government has started non-cooperation. We inherited almost an empty treasury from the previous BJP government because of its faulty policies and extravagant spending. Despite the challenges, the Centre has begun imposing fiscal penalties arbitrarily only to hurt the state.” He said Jharkhand would not be a mute spectator. “We will block everything to make entities owned, run or supported by the Union government, bleed. JMM will not shy from resorting to a full economic blockade in the coming months once Covid-19 stabilises,” he said, adding that the party had asked chief minister Hemant Soren to speak with Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his immediate intervention. The JMM attack comes two days after Hemant accused the Centre of similar charges when the latter invoked TPA (tripartite agreement) against Jharkhand for auto-debit funds from its account in RBI to clear outstanding dues of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Union ministry of power has apprised the state government of having directed RBI to debit Rs 1417.50 crore out of Rs 5,608.32 crore that is due to DVC, a public sector undertaking. The state government, however, had contested the total dues, which according to it, stood at Rs 3,919.04 crore and requested the Centre for time to clear it in part, citing the ongoing pandemic. It has also asked the Centre to clear crores of funds that it owes to Jharkhand. Upping the ante on Saturday, JMM said that the Centre’s approach towards non-BJP ruled states was condemnable and that Jharkhand would not sit idle to injustices anymore. The state government has been crying hoarse about pending GST dues to the tune of around Rs 2,000 crore. This apart, the chief minister had said in the past that the Centre owed around Rs 5,000 crore in royalties from mining, besides other dues pending with PSUs operating from Jharkhand. Pandey questioned the Centre’s reluctance to clear dues. “Give us our rights and dues or else this state, which is born out of long struggle, knows how to take it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Left parties, tribal activists join ‘Nyay March for Swamy’s release||Representatives of rights groups, Left parties and parties belonging to the ruling alliance took out a 2km-long long “Nyay March (march for justice)” on Friday to demand the immediate release of Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old priest and social worker of Ranchi, and other political activists. The march that saw the participation of over 1,000 people began around 11.30am with protestors walking with banners and posters against the Union government and culminated into a dharna at Raj Bhavan around two hours later. A delegation of protestors also sent a memorandum addressed to the governor during the dharna. The memorandum demanded the immediate release of Stan Swamy and all political prisoners. It also called for the “closure of the  Bhima-Koregaon case and revocation of false cases related to Delhi riots filed against CAA-NRC activists, and repealing of sections 124A (sedition) & 499 (criminal defamation) of the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities (Preventions) Act (UAPA) and National Security Act (NSA) against all of them.” On Friday, several members of the Catholic Church formed a 5km-long human chain seeking the release of Swamy, who was arrested by National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 8 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence in Pune in 2017. The NIA has accused Swamy of having links with CPI (Maoists). Praful Linda of Adivasi Adhikar Manch said, “Swamy is in prison amid inhuman conditions without having access to basic rights.” Sanjay Pandey, the district Congress secretary, added, “Swamy’s arrest is part of the Union government’s strategy to increase its loot of Jharkhand’s natural resources. He has been a leading voice for the oppressed which earned him the Centre’s ire.” Former chairperson of the state women’s commission and JMM member Mahua Manjhi condemned Swamy’s arrest. “NIA could have interrogated him at his residence in Bagaicha. What was the need to keep him behind bars?” she said. CPI(ML) MLA from Bagodar Vinod Singh spoke of “growing attacks” against human rights activists, intellectuals and others who speak up for people’s rights. “On the lines of Bhima Koregaon, the government is now accusing political and student leaders opposing CAA-NRC of inciting the riots in Delhi,” he said, appealing to all Opposition parties to join hands to demand the release of Swamy and others in the Bhima Koregaon case. Ratan Tirkey, a former member of the state’s Tribal Advisory Council, said that until the Modi government came to power, no political leader stooped so low as to accuse Swamy with fake charges. “The BJP government has created an atmosphere of fear, but there is an uprising happening against it everywhere now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city Puja watchdog splits amid charges, counter-charges||The battle of oneupmanship continued in the Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS) on Saturday with the two warring factions not willing to concede with barely a week left for the annual festivities to begin. Both factions – one led by the outfit’s president Chandra Nath Banerjee and the other by Rambabu Singh – are at daggers drawn. On Friday night, three days after the Banerjee faction suspended Singh for six years, the rival group hit back by removed Banerjee from his post alleging anti-samity activities. “The executive committee of the samity was unanimous in its decision to remove Banerjee from the post of president. He (Banerjee) has been tarnishing the image of the outfit. The decision to remove Banerjee has been taken on demand from the 11-member executive committee,” said samity executive president Ashutosh Singh. Ashutosh alleged that Banerjee had formed a new outfit (Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samity) and his supporters had met chief minister by using the letterhead of the new organisation. He has also changed the name and registered address of the samity without consulting the executive,” Ashutosh claimed. According to him, Banerjee conspired to tarnish the image of a registered body and also that of Rambabu Singh. “As per the by-laws of the samity, a member should not have family ties with other members but Banerjee has included his family members in the outfit,” Ashutosh explained, adding that they would initiate disciplinary action against Banerjee. He admitted that infighting was against the very purpose of the formation of the samity. “The outfit was established to monitor the festival and try and solve problems (if any) faced by the puja committee and liaise with the district administration. But Banerjee and his men wanted to hijack the outfit and run it in his whims and fancies,” Ashutosh asserted. The executive committee also set aside the suspension of Rambabu Singh. Arun Singh, secretary of the outfit headed by Banerjee, said they would take legal action against Rambabu Singh who has made the samity his pocket organisation. "A resolution was passed on August 21 last year to nominate Banerjee as president. Names of other office-bearers and a 74-member executive panel was also approved at that meeting. Rambabu Singh has been functioning without taking the president or secretary into confidence. We would move court against him," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Heavy rain likely across Jharkhand from Tuesday||A low-pressure area developing over the Bay of Bengal is expected to result in widespread rain over Jharkhand after from Tuesday, which means that the beginning of Puja is likely to see heavy showers. Deputy director of IMD 's Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said on Saturday that the low-pressure system is expected to gain momentum around Tuesday, October 20. Tuesday. "The low-pressure developing over the Bay of Bengal will further delay monsoon departure from the state. We are expecting a good shower show in Jharkhand next week due to the impact of the low pressure," said Anand. He went on to say that the withdrawal line of the Southwest Monsoon was still far away from Jharkhand. IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met centres issued an alert of thunderstorms and lightning in Jharkhand during the next two days. The Met offices also issued a nowcast (short term forecast) of thunderstorm and lightning in Ranchi, Garhwa and several other districts in the next 24 hours. Met data revealed that several places in the Kolhan region, including Ghatshila and Chandil, experienced light to moderate showers during the past 24 hours. Places like Jamshedpur, Khunti, Ramgarh and Chaibasa have already witnessed formation of convective clouds which trigger thunder and lightning. Weatherman said they were expecting rain in the first two days of Puja (October 22 and 23) due to the influence of the low-pressure system. IMD New Delhi has also issued an alert of heavy rain in neighbouring Odisha due to the impact of the low-pressure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Home for rescued victims of human trafficking inaugurated in Palamau||Rescued victims of human trafficking will now have an address of their own until they are taken back by their families said sources. Deputy commissioner Palamau Shashi Ranjan told The Telegraph Online that an 18-room house at Birsa Nagar in Shahpur, named Ujjawala Grih, will now be a home for the survivors. The home, which was put up by an on-probation IAS employee Dilip Pratap S Shekhawat, will be the first of its kind here in Palamau. Sources said Palamau was infamous in the eighties and nineties for bonded labour (bandhuwa mazdoor). Bengal-based writer Mahashweta Devi and Swami Agnivesh used to frequent the place to campaign for the cause of anti-bonded labour. The administration is being cautious while running Ujjawala Grih, due to its experience with two of their children’s homes for boys and girls often being in the news as children have escaped from there. The NGO Gramin Samaj Kalyan Vikas Manch has signed an MoU with the administration to run Ujjawala Grih. NGO head Hashmat Rabbani said his team will work hard to make this Ujjawala Grih a ‘home’ for the rescued victims of human trafficking. “Rescued people of human trafficking of the three districts Latehar, Garhwa and Palamau will be housed here,” said the DC. Sources said illegal cattle smuggling and second human trafficking plague these three districts. Rescued cattle being ferried in high containers, re-designed oil tankers etc. are given to the nearby locals for them to keep in their fields. However, humans who have been trafficked are far less wanted. “We have found that families are reluctant to take them back. This becomes a very piquant and tight situation for us as we wonder where to put up such unclaimed rescued ones,” said Ranjan. Many do not reveal their addresses or their family’s locations. It will be now far easier to carry on legal procedures for the survivors with the help of paralegal volunteers (PLVs). However, sources said Ujjawala Grih has one drawback so far privacy of the survivors is concerned. Most rescued boys and girls are in their teens and will be housed together, sharing washrooms, kitchens, bedrooms etc. This has been a cause for worry as sexual exploitation has been found to be rampant in identical shelter homes in places like Bihar. “We will see what best can be done for the rescued ones, with males and females living separately,” said Ranjan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Armed miscreants open fire at Gola railway siding, 2 injured||Two bike borne miscreants opened fire at Gola railway siding under Muri-Barkakana railway section on Friday night. Two security guards on duty sustained injuries. The injured were immediately rushed to the Community Health Center in Gola. One of the security guards, Vinod Ram, sustained scratches from a bullet shot and is getting treatment in a local community health center, while another security guard Md. Akhtar was hit in the thigh. Headquarters DSP Prakash Soy, Inspector Sanjay Gupta along with the station in-charge B.N. Ojha reached the spot and started investigation. Eye witnesses said that two criminals, riding in a Pulsar bike without a number plate, arrived here and ran away after firing at the security guards. The incident is the result of extortion demand or dominance in the siding. A few months ago the railway siding was closed by the district administration. However, the railway siding was started. Coal and iron ore are dumped here through racks in railway siding. It is then transported to various factories with the help of Hywa. DSP Soy has confirmed the firing incident. He said that the police reached the spot and are investigating the matter. The chairman of Vidyalaya Management Committee inspected Kendriya Vidylaya Hazaribagh on Friday in post Covid unlock period. In his maiden visit, Ravi Gandhi, who is also the Inspector General of Border Security Force's Training center and school situated in Meru Camp, was given a warm welcome by the Vidyalaya's principal P. Mandal along with other senior teachers of the school. During the inspection, he motivated the students to join online classes in more numbers. He joined a maths online class. The principal drew his attention towards the scarcity of electricity in the Vidylaya and the need for building renovation. He assured the issues will be addressed in the near future. A group of eight to ten armed men set two dumpers and a coal loading machine on fire at CCL's Bachrarailway sidings under the  Piparwar police station of ​​the district on Thursday midnight. Bachra is situated 72kms away from Chatra district headquarter. According to sources, armed men identifying themselves as extremists opened fire at the site, sparking fear among workers present there. They stayed at the spot for half an hour before escaping into a forest. A team led by Tandwa subdivsional officer Ashutosh Satyam brought the fire under control. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha ordered raids in the area. He didn't confirm as whether Maoists or criminals were behind the incident and said that it will be clear after an investigation. Suresh Kumar, a non teaching employee on Friday lodged a complaint against a police officer and assistant sub inspector of Dhanbad police station for beating him during a vehicle checking drive. Kumar in his complaint said that the policemen signalled him to stop, and before he could halt his bike by reaching road side they started beating him. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh on Friday held a meeting with all puja committee members and instructed them to observe all the puja related guidelines and SOPs of the state government. Singh asked them not to hold massive immersion ceremonies,no entry to devotees inside the pandal and strict observance of immersion routes.He warned against any posting or forwarding of sensitive news or rumours on social media platforms by anyone without verifying the same from the district administration and police. Singh siad the administration will act against sale or production of illicit liqour during puja and will carry out raids to arrest those engaged in such activities. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner on Friday held a meeting with representatives over the construction of flyovers including the  proposed flyover from Matkuria to Birsa Munda Chowk and discussed its feasibility. Dhanbad MP, P.N. Singh who was present, demanded the broadening of railway underpass near the Rangatand Chowk of Dhanbad. Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha said the proposed flyover from Matkuria to Birsa Munda Chowk will not make a difference as it will divert the heavy vehicle on the flyover which already do not enter the town due to no entry during the day time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Minor tribal girl gangraped and murdered in Dumka||The gangrape and murder of a tribal girl, a fifth standard school student, rocked poll-bound Dumka on Friday, resulting in a string of protests in the district. Opposition BJP went on an offensive against the Hemant Soren led government on social media, citing growing lawlessness in the state. Taking cognizance of the incident, the CM in a tweet prompted state DGP MV Rao and local police to ensure quick action, directing them to put the case in a fast track court, and asking to keep him apprised of developments. The incident took plaxce in Bhalsumar village under Ramgarh police station in Dumka. The girl left home around 7 am for tuitions on her bicycle. Hours later, her battered body was found from an abandoned place on the Bhalsumar-Dharmpur road. A local journalist said, “According to the girl’s parents, she went for tuitions in neighbouring Dharmpur at 7 am. Around 10 am, when she didn't return, her parents began looking for her. An hour later, her cycle was found abandoned on the Bhalsumar-Dharmpur road followed by her body in the bushes nearby.” An official fromk the Ramgarh police station informed that they learnt about the incident around noon when protests began. “Prima facie, it seems to be a case of gangrape and murder, but we can only be sure after formal medical examinationm,” he said, adding that a few condoms were also recovered from the spot. Dumka SDPO Animesh Nathani said that the body was sent for postmortem. “Preliminary reports indicate gangrape and murder. She seemed to have been strangulated,” he said. This is the second incident of such nature in the Santhal Parganas over a week. The body of another minor girl was exhumed by police in Sahibganj two days ago for probing alleged gangrape and murder. Four people have been taken into custody in the case. Ahead of the upcoming byelection, BJP has aaccused the Hemant Soren government of failing to provide a safe and secure environment for women and children since it took charge earlier this year. Lois Marandi, BJP’s Dumka candidate tweeted: “Tribal girls and women in Jharkhand aren’t safe anymore going by the rate of crimes against them. The JMM-Congress-RJD alliance, which claims to work for the rights of adivasi-moolvasis, has failed to protect their asmita (dignity). Shame on the Hemant government.” Replying to the CM's directives, DGP Rao tweeted: “Senior police officers have been directed to reach the scene of crime and expedite investigation. Persons involved in this horrific crime will be arrested soon. Trying hard to contain such crime with a campaign to create public awareness apart from ensuring fast track trials.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
