18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Officials, police conduct raid at Dhanbad jail||A high-level team of district officials and police on Sunday conducted a raid at Dhanbad divisional jail and seized tobacco, cash, chess pieces, playing cards and other material. The team, led by city superintendent of police R. Ramkumar, comprised officials including ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar and subdivisional officer Surendra Prasad and others. The raid was conducted after a tip-off regarding the presence of illegal arms in the jail. Ramkumar said: “The raid was part of our regular drive at various jails.” When asked about the articles seized from the jail, he said: “We have seized only small amounts of cash and tobacco from the jail and no other objectionable material was found.” The raid began around noon and concluded around 2.30pm during which all the 34 wards of the jail situated over 15 acres were thoroughly searched by six teams. This is the second raid at the jail in the recent past. On August 27, a similar raid was conducted at the jail under the leadership of Ramkumar and SDO Raj Maheshwaram after the death of BJP leader Satish Singh, who was close to Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha. The five accused in the murder of deputy mayor Niraj Singh — Aman Singh (arrested on May 3, 2017, from Mirzapur), Quarban Ali alias Sonu and Sagar Singh alias Shibu or Vijay (arrested from Varanasi cantonment area and Pratapgarh police station area, respectively, on June 23), Satish Singh alias Chandan Singh (arrested from Varanasi on July 9) and Pankaj Singh (arrested on September 16, 2017) — are lodged in the jail. Former Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh, who is believed to be the key conspirator in the case, is also lodged in the jail. The special branch of Jharkhand police recently informed the prisons department about the possibility of shooters lodged in the jail and the possibility of their causing a major incident. Following this, inspector-general of prisons Birendra Bhushan instructed the authorities to shift all the five accused to different jails. The plan is to shift Aman Singh to Hotwar jail, Sagar Singh to Gaghidih jail in Jamshedpur, Qurban Ali to Medininagar jail in Palamau, Satish Singh to Dumka jail and Pankaj Singh to Hazaribagh central jail. The five prisoners had petitioned seeking a stay on their shifting but additional district and sessions judge Alok Kumar Dubey on Friday dismissed their petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Puja organiser to honour nine parents of girl children through Navaratri||A prominent Durga Puja organizer in Ranchi has decided to honour parents of newborn girl children from underprivileged backgrounds, one on each day of Navratri this year, as a symbolic gesture to promote the girl child and government’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign. The move by the Rajasthan Mitra Mandal, established in 1979, comes at a time when crimes against women and children seem to be on the rise both in Jharkhand and in other parts of the country. On the first day of Sharodiya Navratri on Saturday, the organizers zeroed in on one Vikash Chandra Choudhary, a resident of Ratu road, who became the father of a baby girl on Saturday after his wife delivered at the Sadar hospital. Choudhary is an electrician working in different places to run his family. Talking to The Telegraph Online, president of the Puja Samiti, Ashok Purohit said, “We will select one parent or family on each day a girl is born to provide them token financial assistance publicly.” “Initially, we thought of giving Rs 5,100 to the newborn on a daily basis through a formal programme but now we have decided to bring all nine parents together on the occasion of Dashami at our Puja venue to felicitate them with the cash amount as a thank-you gesture for bearing a girl child,” he said. There can’t be a better way, said Purohit, than to honour the girl child as we celebrate the arrival of Ma Durga. “More than the financial assistance, the idea is to encourage girl children and their good upbringing. Beti bachao, beti padhao, beti padhao,” he reiterated. Asked how are they selecting beneficiaries, Purohit said that since their target is financially underprivileged people, their team is finding out about deliveries at the Sadar hospital or places where affluent people usually don’t go for delivery. He added that unlike earlier years, they are doing a very low-key puja this time in wake of the restrictions placed by the government due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, their budget too has been trimmed drastically. “We are doing puja with barely Rs 5-6 lakh this time, which is just 10 per cent of our earlier puja budgets,” he said, adding that they are also relaying all the puja proceedings through social media pages as part of the crowd control initiative. Purohit, who also happens to be the president of the Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti, an umbrella outfit of over 100 puja organizers, said that they have also asked other Samitis to roll out online streaming facilities to restrict crowds at pandals and mandaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto back on ventilator, experts being flown in||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, battling Covid-19 for over a fortnight at a private hospital here, was put back on ventilator on Sunday after his condition deteriorated and chief minister Hemant Soren took it upon himself to talk to doctors and plan the next course of his treatment. Hemant said experts were being flown in to help with Mahto’s treatment and indicated that the 52-year-old minister may require lung transplant. “We are on our toes… doing all that is possible for his recovery,” he said. Speaking to the media outside Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital where Mahto is being treated, Hemant said: “Lung experts from Chennai are scheduled to come tomorrow (Monday), but we have requested them to come tonight (Sunday) itself. As advised, decision to shift him to Chennai or to any hospital in any other state for possible lung transplant will be taken on Monday after his check-up by visiting doctors.” On insistence of the chief minister, Medica authorities had consulted two experts from Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon on Saturday, via a zoom call, to explore other treatment possibilities. Sources said that Mahto’s oxygen saturation level fell below 60 per cent, lower than the prescribed limit of 90 per cent on Sunday which forced doctors to shift him on full ventilator support. Medica’s director and critical care head Dr Vijay Mishra said Mahto’s radiological and pathological reports were fine, but that these weren’t reflecting on his health condition. “After assessing the situation, we are taking every critical decision promptly. Although he is holding on, he is critical, which prompted us to put him on ventilator,” he said. After testing positive for the coronavirus on September 28, Mahto was initially treated at state-owned Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Later, on October 1, he was shifted to Medica since his condition did not improve. Subsequently, the state government formed a medical team comprising experts from RIMS and Medica to work in tandem and treat him. Mahto is the fifth minister in the 11-member state cabinet to have tested positive for Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic in Jharkhand in March. While state minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of cardiac arrest last month arrest hours after testing negative for Covid -19, other ministers—Banna Gupta (health), Mithilesh Thakur (water resources) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture) _ have recovered and resumed duties. Over a dozen MLAs cutting across party lines, who were also infected, were cured too. Mahto made headlines in August after he got himself enrolled in a college in Bokaro to complete his intermediate studies. He also earned applause from many quarters when he gifted cars to this year’s Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) toppers in matric and intermediate exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Senior citizens miss 10-day long Ramleela at Sakchi maidan||For the first time in years, the Sakchi Ramleela Maidan will not host its popular 10-day long Ramleela. Shambhu Singh (75) looks at the Maidan and sighs “Kabhi socha nahi tha ye bhi din dekhna padega (Never thought will have to witness this day).” Ramleela during Navratri has been an integral part of Singh’s life since childhood. A resident of Flour Mill Road, about 1.5 km  from the iconic Ramleela Maidan, Singh reminiscences how he has never missed the performance even for a single year. A generation that swears by Netflix and  Amazon may not be bothered with the Ramleela, but for senior citizens, the pandemic has taken away an integral part of their lives. Abhay Kumar Chakraborty (61), who now resides in Kadma, said, "I was not that regular but Ramleela is close to my heart because it was the only mode of entertainment in the city a long time ago. There were very few pujas and the Ramleela. That is how we celebrated our Durga Puja. Things were simpler then." The Ramleela Utsav Samity did not want to take a chance by organising the performance this year, but are upset with the break. This would have been their 98th year. For many, the Ramleela Maidan in Sakchi looks barren. Usually, performances would begin on the first day of the Navratri festival, concluding on Vijaya Dashami with Ravan Dahan. The Samity has hosted Ramleela troupes from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Even with financial struggles, the Samity has managed to run the show with donations annually. Apart from the threat of Covid spread, cash has been low and donations almost nil this year. "This year there neither will be proper pandals, nor idols and bhog distribution. There are also social distancing norms in place. Organizing the Ramleela wasn't feasible and safe. Also, it would have been a risk for the performing team. We didn't want to take that responsibility. The sad part is that senior denizens and us because will miss it terribly as we are so emotionally attached to this event. For some of us, organizing the festival has been there for generations even with financial struggle," said Manoj Mishra, president of Ramleela Utsav Samity. Mishra added, "We pray everything takes a positive turn within the upcoming months and we shall celebrate better next year for sure."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tirkey writes to President, PM and home minister on Swamy||Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey joined the league of protestors fighting for the release of 83-year-old tribal and social rights activist Stan Swamy on Sunday by writing letters to the President, Prime Minister and Union home minister, demanding revocation of cases against the octogenarian priest in the interest of healthy democratic values. Tirkey also called for amendments in NIA’s rules and regulations so that the state government’s consent is made mandatory before any coercive action is taken against anyone in future. Backing Swamy and his body of work, Tirkey, who joined the Congress this year, stated that whoever knows Swamy, or has worked with him, would vouch for his integrity and commitment towards tribals, Dalits and other marginalised sections of society. “He has dedicated his life fighting for the oppressed and has been at the forefront of their causes. He has also been a strong advocate of Panchayats Extension to the Scheduled Areas (PESA) Act in the state, which is aimed at empowering tribals and forest dwellers. Not only this, through decades-old research and work at the grassroots, he has been sensitizing people about basic constitutional rights. Charging him with anti-national cases to silence and threaten voices of dissent is a black mark on democratic values,” he wrote. Tirkey also accused Maharashtra police and NIA for wrongly implicating Swamy, and many like him, under the influence of their political masters. “All cases filed against intellectuals, writers, social workers and rights activists in the name of Bhima Koregaon probe should immediately be revoked and they be released,” he pleaded. Ever since Swamy’s arrest, several rights bodies have been holding protests and demonstrations across the state to demand his release. The Catholic Churche in Jharkhand has also thrown its weight behind Swamy, denouncing NIA’s action by forming a 5km-long human chain on Friday as a symbolic protest against the actions of the Centre and its agencies. Chief minister Hemant Soren has also criticised the Union government, hailing  Swamy as a stalwart of tribal rights activism in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two men on bike snatch a woman's gold chain in Sakchi||Two bike-borne men snatched a gold chain worth over Rs 1.5 lakh from a woman near her home in the Sakchi thana area on Sunday morning. The woman, Gayetri Devi (55), also sustained injuries in her legs and her neck as she fell down when the snatchers attacked her. The incident took place close to Jail-gate on Dhalbhum Road, about 50 metres away from Gayetri’s house, at 7.30 am while she was out for a morning walk with her husband Dr AN Jha. According to her, both she and her husband were out for a morning walk at 6.30 like everyday. "We were returning home after the walk.  My husband went to a medical store near the Jail-gate to buy some medicine, while I moved to pick flowers from nearby houses. That is when two young men on a bike came very close to me.  Before I could even react, I felt a jerk on my neck and the next moment I was falling down.  I soon realised that they snatched my chain," Gayetri told The telegraph Online. She said she saw the two speed away and disappear after taking a turn toward Sakchi market. "No one around, my screams fell on deaf ears.  As I got up, I felt pain in my legs.  Later, on reaching home, I found bruises on both my legs.  There was a scratch on my neck too," she added. Soon after Dr Jha, who is posted at the MGM Medical College Hospital, reached Sakchi thana along with Gayetri and lodged an FIR. A police team led by Sakchi OC Kunal Kumar inspected the spot and also collected footage  from CCTV cameras  installed along the road and in front of the Jail-gate. "There has been an incident of chain snatching on Dhalbhum Road.  We have identified the criminals and hope to nab them soon," Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The OC said police are aware of chain-snatchers in the areas and has arranged for patrolling in certain pockets. "We did not anticipate that such criminals would attack morning walkers on a busy street like Dhalbhum Road," the OC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Villagers angry over frequent jumbo attacks in East Singhbhum||Villagers in Chakulia block of East Singhbhum, who are upset with local forest officials for not doing enough to prevent regular elephant attacks, have now threatened to hold an agitation at the range office. The villagers, under the banner of Janadhikar Suraksha Samiti (JSS), met range officer Ashok Singh on Sunday and handed him over a demand letter. They said elephants from neighbouring Bengal were testing their patience and were continuing to damage standing crops. Villagers feared coming out of their homes at night in view of marauding elephant herds Among the demands voiced in their letter are proper compensation for crop damage, increased compensation to the family of those killed in elephant attacks _ from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 10 lakh _ and a government job to the next of kin. They also wanted forest officials to ensure that bushes along roads leading to jungles be trimmed regularly, install high-mast lights in jumbo-affected villages and set up watch towers and corridors for elephants. The members of the samiti said they would hold an agitation at the range office if the foresters did not find a remedy to regular elephant attacks within a month. “Job opportunities have shrunk due to Covid-19 and we are somehow managing to sustain our family with farming. But elephants are damaging our standing crops and wiping out vegetables. Chakulia block is experiencing elephant menace for nearly two years now but the foresters are doing little to find a remedy,” JSS secretary Kanhai Gope said on phone from Chakulia. Range officer Ashok Singh said they were alert and trying their best to shepherd elephant herds to Bengal. “We are aware about the problems faced by the villagers. We are doing our best to prevent elephant herds from venturing into farmlands. However, the elephants make it a point to return to Chakulia block. Elephants are moving animals and don’t remain at a particular place for long,” he added. Singh said they were operating with quick response teams to drive away elephants to Bengal. Village youths are also helping foresters who move in jeeps. Vvillage youths are armed with mashals (torches) and drums. The forest range office has also distributed crackers among the villagers Apart from herds, a lone tusker is giving sleepless nights to villagers near Amlagora. The jumbo with two large tusks has been in Chakulia block for over three months now.  The tusker is part of a herd but stays aloof. It is temperamental and has taken a liking to venturing into villages, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Masks distributed, peace meets held as Daltonganj gears up for festive season||The Sri Kendriya Durga Puja Mahasamiti in Daltonganj has set an example here on the very first day of 9-day festival of Durga Puja on Saturday, when the club’s president and other members in collaboration with traffic police distributed masks among pedestrians and bikers who were found not wearing them. Sources said the Mahasamiti members and cops asked people to live every moment of life while following health protocols, so as not to contract Covid-19. BM Pandey, a member of the Mahasamiti and chief train ticket examiner at the East Central railway said, “Our president Durga Johri and our team, along with traffic police-in-charge Saras and his team distributed masks among pedestrians and bikers who were without masks and looked most unconcerned about Covid-19.” “It hurt us to find people throwing caution to the wind when there is no room for any complacency in this pandemic,” he said. “When we asked them why they weren’t wearing masks, they just grinned toothily!” Pandey added. No puja organizations here have launched such a drive to make people aware of the lurking health hazards that come with flouting Covid norms. The Mahasamiti has taken this bold initiative in creating Covid awareness before the onset of Saptami, Ashtami and Navami, when hordes of people come onto the street to see the pandals. “Last year we went hopping from one puja pandal to another to see which one is the best decorated, but this time we will be moving around to find which of the puja pandal here in our town is most simple,” said English Honours student Sweetie Kumari, adding that the background to the Pujas this year is most austere. There was a tinge of deep sadness in her voice when she made this comparison. The Telegraph Online spoke to SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar who said that police along with civic officials have conducted peace meets of people drawn from both Hindu and Muslim communities in all of 25 police stations. “The two communities have resolved to have an incident-free Puja here in this district,” he said. DC Palamau Shashi Ranjan said, “We are soon going to have a central peace committee meeting with Sri Kendriya Durga Puja Mahasamiti to drive the point home and also to hear from them at length.” Sources said Palamau district, which has seen frequent bouts of communal eruptions during Durga Puja in the past, ironically has a good tag about it as well. During Muharram, the Mahavir Nav Yuvak Dal, popularly known as the Ramnavami Committee, holds a reception in honour of the members of the Muharram Inteezamiya Committee and felicitates them with shawls and mementoes. Similarly, during Ramnavami, the Muharram Inteezamiya Committee reciprocates in the same fashion and warmth. On Sunday a peace committee meeting was held under the joint venture of SDO AS Baraik and SDPO Sadar Sandip Kumar Gupta, where members of the two social outfits, besides elites of the town, participated and reiterated to celebrate this Puja in a restrained manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Raghubar Das uses foul language against government||BJP's national vice president and former chief minister Raghubar Das on Saturday termed the leaders of JMM-Congress government as ‘chotta (a petty thief)’ ruling the state. Das was in Bokaro for a campaign for Yogeshwar Mahato in the Bermo Assembly by-election. He was addressing a Mahila Chaupal organised at the Tiro Mor of Jainamod. He also stated that the Hemant Soren government is “Nikkami (useless)” and that it's every lie is coming out. Co-working president of Jharkhand Congress, Rajesh Thakur said BJP has now started using abusive words against them as they are fearing defeat. "The kind of language being used by the former Chief Minister is not at all tolerable. Today, the way Raghubar Das has used abusive words among women about the government is disgraceful. Before saying such wrong words Das should first realise that many cases are still pending against them in the Anti-Corruption Bureau.” Deputy Commissioner, Rajesh Singh held meetings with traffic officials and directed them to prevent road accidents by placing rambles breaker and signage boards on the roads. Receiving complaints about unsystematic parking of trucks and trailers making the road accident prone specially near Weigh Bridges, the DC ordered necessary legal action against the heavy vehicles parked chaotically on roadside. Many vehicles were found parked in the wrong direction said district transport officer, Sanjeev Kumar. Assistant sub-inspector, Vijay Tirkey posted at Nagar police station committed suicide on Saturday. The wife of the deceased informed the city police that her husband was not picking up the phone. After this, a constable was sent to Vijay's house from Nagar police station. When the policeman reached Tirkey’s house, he saw him hanging and informed the police station. An SUV overturned near the Hazaribagh wildlife sanctuary on Ranchi-Patna highway on early Saturday morning killing the driver on the spot. Two persons present in the SUV in which one Kundan Kumar died on the spot and another Kunal Kumar sustained severe injuries. The body was sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. The two were residents of Bokaro and were going to Aurangabad in Bihar. Police officials said the driver Kundan lost control on the vehicle and it overturned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
