19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Director General of Police visits Dhanabd to assess law and order situation||Director General of Jharkhand Police MV Rao visited Dhanbad on Monday and held a meeting with senior police officers to review the law and order situation and discuss ways to improve crime control scenario in the district. Talking to the media before the meeting, Rao dismissed charges of deteriorating law and order situation in the state levelled by opposition parties. He said isolated incidents can’t be used for effective assessment. When asked about recent incidents of crime against women, especially those of rape and murder in Dumka and Sahebaganj, Rao said, “ Police is working on every case with all earnestness - be it rape, extortion, or attempts to disrupt communal harmony - and will make arrests as soon as possible. “As policemen under government service, we can’t make political comments. But, what we can say with conviction is that we are making all attempts to control all kinds of crime like we were doing earlier. Yet some people are analyzing things through different prisms, to which we have nothing to say as they are entitled to their opinions,” Rao said. “Police always act as per the law and no attempt to create disturbance will be tolerated, and those attempting to create disturbance will be dealt with firmly,” he added. When asked about resource constraints of Dhanbad police, he said, “We will be trying our level best to improve the resource availability for the police force in Dhanbad”. Earlier, after landing at Barwaddah air strip via helicopter, the DGP was presented with guard of honour by policemen. Senior police officials led by SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz and others welcomed him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC players ready for Indian Super League pre-seasons in Goa||Indian players of Jamshedpur FC have started sweating it out at the gym, as they are all set to hit the turf for some much-needed outdoor training this week in Goa. Some have completed their 10-day isolation at the hotel, and are ready for the pre-seasons in a lead-up to edition VII of the Indian Super League (ISL). The league kick-starts at three venues– Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Margao, GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim, and Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco. The likes of Jackichand Singh, Mobashir Rahman, Sandip Mandi, Amarjit Singh Kiyam, Bhupender Singh, Issac Vanmalsawma, Ricky Lallawmawma, Laldinliana Renthlei, Jitendra Singh, Karan Amin, Rehenesh TP, Aniket Jadhav and Joyner Lourenco, who were in isolation at hotel Vivanta in Panaji, have already hit the gym in the right earnest. The JFC players, including the foreign recruits, will be completing their respective isolation periods by October 25 and begin the pre-seasons at Sangolda ground near Panaji, a team management member said on call from Goa. The venue has been decked up for the training sessions. Some members of the team management have inspected the ground last week and are somewhat satisfied with the condition of the greens. “It would not be right to compare the training ground here with the one in Jamshedpur. But our main priority now is to put players in training mode,” a member said. According to him, some of the Indian players, who will start training from Wednesday or Thursday onwards will train under assistant coach Noel Wilson. “Head coach Owen Coyle is yet to complete his isolation. So, Wilson will take charge in his absence,” he added on condition of anonymity. Another member of the team management said the pre-season has already been delayed due to the pandemic and it is time the players start outdoor training. “The tournament is not far away and our players need adequate time to train. Training holds the key to any competition,” he added. Some of the Indian players, who arrived in Goa earlier this month, have been training at their respective hotel rooms and keeping themselves fit. Sources said head coach Owen Coyle, who helped Chennaiyin FC make it to the summit clash after taking charge mid-way in the last season, has set his priorities and would be gradually putting his wards into hard work during the training sessions. The Scotland-born mentor, who replaced Spaniard Antonio Iriondo as head coach, has a huge responsibility on his shoulders when it comes to helping JFC put an impressive show in the cash-rich league. Given his record of accomplishment, Owen, an experienced hand is expected to make a turnaround to the fortunes of the Tata Steel-owned club, which has not made it to the playoffs since making its debut three seasons back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Govt jobs for sportspersons from next month, promises Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren launched two portals dedicated to sportspersons of Jharkhand on Monday, promising to begin recruiting medal-winners into state government jobs from next month. At the launch of Jharkhand sports registration portal and sports directorate’s portal at the Project Building, Hemant recalled how soon after coming to power, he had said that development of sports and players was one of the key priorities of his government. He said that in the first phase of promised recruitments, 33 national and international medal winners, who were initially shortlisted by the department couple of months back, would be inducted after which others awaiting jobs and assistances would be helped. “It feels bad to come across news of medal winners working as maids, vegetable sellers or doing other menial jobs for survival. Equally depressing is when we hear about miseries of past medal winners or coaches who groomed our athletes living in penury. Therefore, we thought of coming up with a dedicated portal to create databases of all our sporting treasures of the state and work towards their betterment.” The chief minister iterated his government’s commitment towards sports. Last month, the state government inducted 24 district sports officers to promote sports and players at the grassroot levels. “Our new sports policy too is ready. In the next one month, we are going to provide jobs to 33 shortlisted players in the first phase and will continue to do so thereafter,” he said. Explaining the idea behind a dedicated portal, sports secretary Pooja Singhal said it was aimed at creation of a database of players, their current status and other requirements for taking action from time to time, both for their betterment and the uplift of sports. “The portal for players is simple. A player needs to log on to the website, put in his/her mobile number for authentication and then fill a self-explanatory form. Even past players and coaches can join. The portal will offer various services, right from requisitioning cash awards to scholarships, financial assistance, among others. From time to time, the government will hold meetings to approve their requirements.” Till Monday evening, 553 sportspersons had already registered on the portal. “The portal will also serve as a repository of sporting legends of the state, details about existing facilities of training and coaches along with necessary phone numbers,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto flown to Chennai in air ambulance||Critically ill minister Jagarnath Mahto, who tested Covid positive on September 28 and has been hospitalised since then, was flown to Chennai from here in an air ambulance on Monday for better treatment, doctors treating him at a private hospital said. State education minister Mahto, who is on ventilator support, left Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi at 4.45pm on Monday. The air ambulance carrying the minister took off from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi at 6.30pm. It is expected to land at Chennai International Airport around 9pm, confirmed Ranchi airport director Vinod Sharma. A two-member team of lung experts from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai visited Ranchi to examine Mahto on a special request from chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday. After a thorough medical examination and a series of meetings with local doctors and government representatives, Mahto was allowed to travel by air despite being critically ill, officials said. “He is critical and somehow fighting. The team from Chennai examined the minister and gave a go-ahead for shifting him to MGM in Chennai,” said Dr Vijay Mishra, who has been treating Mahto at Medica since October 1. There has been speculation that Mahto may have to undergo a lung transplant. But Dr Mishra clarified that there were no such plans as of now. “The doctors at MGM will take a call on the future course of action,” he added. The chief minister has been frequenting Medica in Ranchi and meeting doctors after Mahto’s health deteriorated. Hemant, quoting doctors, had said earlier that Mahto was not fit to travel, but that the team of doctors in Ranchi was in touch with experts from Chennai to provide the best possible treatment. Earlier in the day, Hemant said every minute detail related to Mahto’s health was thoroughly monitored by the team from MGM before taking the decision to shift him to Chennai. “He is stable now, but we want the best possible treatment for him,” said the chief minister. The 53-year-old minister, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator from Dumri constituency, has been in the news for taking admission in an inter college and gifting cars to class 10 and class 12 toppers of Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) exams. He had also won appreciation for providing fee relaxations to children studying in private schools during the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||After lockdown lull, traders pin hope on Durga Puja||After six months of lull in business activities owing to a lockdown, the Durga Puja rush in the market has brought hope for traders in Jharkhand. The footfall of customers has increased since mid-October, and tradesmen in the state capital are expecting bumper sales that would help them cope with the loss incurred during the nationwide lockdown. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), which is the largest trade body in the tribal state, has been watching the changes in the market lately, and is optimistic about the revival of small and medium businesses during the festive season. Kunal Ajmani, the president of FJCCI, said that based on the inputs the trade body received from the market, it is clear that the footfall has increased in various shops and people are buying things from the market. “Production will also increase once the demand increases during the festive season. It is good news for the traders that people are visiting shops and malls to shop for the festivals, but I would also like to request the customers to follow Covid-19 precautionary measures while they are out for shopping,” Ajmani said. Since the reopening of the markets, the textile and the automobile industries have seen the highest demand in Jharkhand cities, Ajmani added. He said that the textile industry is expected to do well during Durga Puja and Diwali, while the automobile industry may see bulk bookings on Dhanteras. Rahul Minocha, one of the owners of Shopper’s Mart in Ranchi said that the footfall increased in the shops selling readymade clothes. However, the rush was still less in comparison with last year, he added. “The textile industry was worst-hit during the lockdown. We were also the last to resume our business post lockdown. The footfall is gradually increasing. Let’s hope that we make up for the loss,” he said. Ashok Mishra, an employee at Nexa Arena, said that the showroom has already started getting bookings for Dhanteras. Around a dozen cars, he added, were booked so far. However, tourism, hospitality, tent houses and event industries need time for revival. Sources said that the biggest setback was for the tent house and catering business. Vishal Singh of Chottanagpur Tent house said, "We were expecting some orders and contracts during Durga Puja, but we are yet to get major orders this time as the government has decided to have lowkey Durga Puja celebrations."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to revert to paid parking system by Wednesday||The steel city is re-enforcing its pay-and-park rules, gone haywire during the prolonged lockdown, with the civic authorities beginning work on issuing fresh parking contracts to agencies that man the parking lots. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the civic body under whose watch parking fees are collected, began issuing tenders for the process on Monday. JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar said, “Over a dozen interested parties have expressed interest. Once the successful bidders are shortlisted, we will give out the contracts." said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The new parking system would be in place by Wednesday. The fresh parking contracts will remain valid up to March 31, 2021. Asked if new localities would be added, Kumar said they were looking into. Parking at public places is maintained by the JNAC through contractors at Bistupur and Sakchi areas only. At Bistupur, paid parking was in place on Bistupur Main Road, near Jubilee ark, Ram Mandir branch of HDFC Bank, near PM High-tech Mall on OC Road, General Post Office, State Bank of India and Kamani Centre. At Sakchi, the parking system was implemented on Kalimati Road, Sakchi Market and the Sakchi branch of HDFC Bank. The charges were Rs 10 for two-wheelers and Rs 20 for four-wheelers. The system was welcomed by all. "Keeping my vehicle parked under the watch of an attendant was always safe. But now, I find it risky to park my bike unguarded before going shopping at Sakchi," said Amit Kumar Jha, a resident of Mango. JNAC sources said the existing parking system ceased to function during the lockdown as the existing contracts lapsed on March 31 and no fresh tenders could be issued. Some contractors would continue to collect parking charges in Bistupur and Sakchi, but this system too fell through.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Migrant labourers help clean up Dhanbad’s many ponds||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is busy cleaning ponds, at least 90 of which are spread across 55 wards of five circles of the city, engaging migrant labourers in many of the water bodies. Among the ponds that are being cleaned are those in Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand. Smaller ponds are being cleaned using DMC’s own labours. But the larger ones, say, Raja Talab of Jharia, are being cleaned with help of migrant labourers under the Mukhyamantri Shramik Kalyan Yojna. DMC’s Swachh Bharat Mission project in-charge Prem Prakash said the first round of work was likely to be completed by October-end by which time hyacinth would be removed from the water. “We began by cleaning some of the smaller ponds with our own labourers. Gradually, we will be engaging migrant labourers under the Mukhyamantri Shramik Kalyan Yojna,” Prakash said, adding that the second round of cleaning would begin after Durga Puja and would be completed on November 14 ahead of Diwali. The final touches to ponds will be given after Diwali with sprinkling of bleaching powder, alum etc on ghats. “Besides the pond cleaning we have also started repairing street lights in all 55 wards ahead of Durga Puja,” he said and  added that night sweeping in all commercial places of the district, like Bank More, Part Market, Hirapur, Saraidhela, Jharia Bazar, Saharpura Market, was also in progress. DMC sanitary inspector of Dhanbad circle Arjun Ram said, “We have13 ponds in Dhanbad circle of which cleanliness of two is in progress with 15 labourers. Each pond will take around two-three days to be completely cleaned.” DMC project officer of Jharia circle Kunal Kumar said they had started work at Raja Talab, spread over 8.64 acre, with 29 migrant labourers three days ago. “We expect work to be completed ahead of Chhath on November 19,” he said. Jharia residents, led by former councillor of ward 37, had taken out a protest march on October 2, demanding cleanliness and renovation of Raja Talab, the historic pond developed by the erstwhile king of Jharia estate Raja Durga Prasad Singh in early 1920.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||NIT smart classes to debut after 2-year wait||Already delayed by over two years now, the ambitious Rs 140cr Diamond Jubilee Lecture Hall complex with smart classrooms and new faculty chambers will debut at the Adityapur-based National Institute of Technology (NIT-Jamshedpur) campus on October 20. The four-storeyed air-conditioned complex with a spacious canteen and parking lot will be inaugurated online by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' and Sanjay Dhotre, the state minister for education on Tuesday. NIT director Karunesh Kumar Shukla and other senior officials and faculty members will attend the inaugural function which will be held on-campus. The ambitious lecture hall complex was slated to become functional by July last year, but construction work way delayed due to the Lok Sabha polls. Later, the Covid pandemic delayed the completion of the project even further. The lecture hall complex built on an area of 22,380 sq.m comprises 36 smart classrooms equipped with a large touchscreen LED display panel, computers, specialised software, audience response technology, assistive listening devices, networking, high-end audio-visual facilities and other hi-tech teaching gadgets for BTech, MTech and MCA students. Each classroom has a seating capacity of 120. The air-conditioned lecture hall complex also has 160 faculty chambers. The building is equipped with solar panels, LEDs and sensor-based lighting system. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had offloaded the work to Bokaro-based infrastructure development firm Kamla Aditya Constructions, which executed the multi-crore project. NIT sources said that out of Rs 140cr, Rs 68cr is being spent for civil construction work including wall panelling and false ceiling work while the rest of the amount is being spent on the installation of a centralised AC system and electrical fittings. NIT spokesperson Nishant Sinha said the online inauguration will take place at 3 pm on Tuesday. "The lecture hall complex has been built as per the specifications of the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). Classes are expected to resume in November," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Less than 400 Covid cases in a day for the first time since August||The number of Covid-19 cases surfacing in a day across Jharkhand dropped below the 500 mark for the first time on Sunday since August, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 385 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Sunday, while 452 Covid patients recovered on the day, causing a further rise in the Covid-19 recovery rate in the state, government data stated. On an average, the state reported around 1000 cases of Covid-19 infection daily throughout September and October. However, the low count of fresh cases surfacing on Sunday could also be attributed to fewer tests conducted on the day. As per government data, health workers on Sunday tested swab samples of 16,638 people. Throughout this month, the government has been testing more than 20,000 people for Covid-19 every day, government records show. While the Covid-19 recovery rate shot up at 92.38 per cent in the state on Sunday, casualties continued to haunt residents and doctors. At least seven more Covid patients, including three from Ranchi, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 839, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Ranchi on Sunday accounted for more than half of the fresh Covid cases surfacing in Jharkhand. Of the 385 cases, as many as 198 were from Ranchi, the district which has a Covid tally of 24,146, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum on Sunday reported only 20 cases, while Dhanbad and Bokaro reported 17 and 23 cases respectively. As per government data, there were 2355 active cases of Covid-19 in Ranchi on Sunday night. As many as 6502 people were battling the lethal virus across Jharkhand and over 1300 of them were from East Singhbhum. Government figures also highlight that Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for nearly 60 per cent of active cases in the state. The seven deaths on Sunday caused a minor increase in the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand, but it was still lower than the national average. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate, as on Sunday evening, was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The national Covid recovery rate was 88 per cent against Jharkhand’s 92.38 per cent. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 28.64 lakh people and tested 28.48 lakh of them. As many as 96,352 of the 28.5 lakh people tested in Jharkhand were found Covid positive. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 0.59 per cent, while the doubling rate was 115.8 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Raghubar Das attacks Hemant Soren, calls him 'incapable'||BJP national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das on Sunday targeted Hemant Soren on his recent remark that the union government is attempting to destabilise the financial health of the state on DVC issue. Das stated that his former government has paid around Rs 13,000 crore to Damodar Valley Corporation under the Uday Yojana scheme in its five-year tenure. “I want to ask from Hemant Soren that when he had left the CM’s chair in 2014 had the state exchequer was full. He should tell the residents that when the JMM government had left 2014 what was the position of state exchequer and what was the due amount of DVC. We have run a transparent government and paid Rs 7000 crores to DVC and Rs 6000 crores in Uday Yojana in our five years tenure,” said Das, waiving the documents of payment made to DVC in his tenure. Soren had recently registered his protest against centre’s decision to auto debit 1417.50 crore from the state consolidated account in the Reserve Bank of India for payment of outstanding dues to the DVC. Das was addressing a press conference in Bokaro on Saturday while on an election campaign for BJP candidate Yogheshwar Mahto in Bermo by-election. Das said that Soren is the most 'incapable chief minister' as he has no vision, no policy, no wisdom and also no mentality to do anything better for the state. He also hinted that after this by-election in two assembly seats the political scenario in the state will change. Das said, “though we cannot achieve the magical figure to form the government this time, the residents have accepted our ideology. In the last held 2019 assembly election, BJP has scored 33 percent votes alone while alliance parties JMM, Congress, RJD and Communist parties have got 35 percent. We lost as AJSU-P cut 6-7 percent votes separately. However this time AJSU-P is strongly supporting us in the by-election." Das also took a dig at Soren for his non-performance in controlling Covid-19 virus from spreading. “See one of JMM’s government ministers Haji Hussain Ansari left us and now state education minister Jagarnath Mahto is battling with life after getting infected with the virus. Mahto's condition would not have deteriorated if he would have been shifted to some big medical centre in Delhi. Soren failed in saving his minister what he will do to save the residents.” He also pointed out that over 13 lakh migrant workers who had arrived during lockdown in Jharkhand have not got any job. They are returning back from where they had come.  He asserted, "If Soren cannot able to run the government, he should give resignation from the post." Maoists shot a woman in her forties in Lalkimati village in Pathalgaddha block of Chatra on Sunday evening. Police have recovered a Maoist pamphlet claiming responsibility of the incident and branding the woman as a police informer. Subdivisional police officer Vachandev Kujur said raids were on to nab the culprits. The woman has been sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. 17 Btech students of BIT Sindri on Sunday cleared the TCS digital recruitment process of which three received TCS Digital offer of Rs 7 lakh per annum while 14 other secured TCS Ninja offer of Rs 3.36 lakh. Training & Placement Cell in charge of BIT Sindri Ghanshyam Rai said," Altogether 216 students appeared for the test conducted earlier this month out of which 17 were selected."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bomb hurled at Dhullu associate’s house||Unidentified persons on Sunday hurled a bomb at the house of a close associate of Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto in Nichitpur area around 6am.  No one was injured in the incident. Dhullu, who reached the incident spot soon after, protested the attack on Rajesh Gupta’s house. He demonstrated at the Katras police station. Dhullu ended the sit-in after the arrival of Baghmara DSP Nitin Khadelwal, who assured the MLA of swift action. This was the second attack on Gupta’s house. On September 13 around 10.30pm, unidentified persons fired at the house, following which police found some empty bullet shells. Later, Dhullu claimed that the attack had been carried out at the instance of Congress leader and former water resources minister Jaleshwar Mahto. “The police have assured me that those behind the incident will be arrested within three days. We will resume our agitation if the police fail to arrest Mahto soon,” said Dhullu. Gupta is a coal trader and considered close to Dhullu. The police had lodged a case against Dhullu and five others for releasing Gupta (who had been accused of extortion) from police custody in Nichitpur area on May 12, 2013. Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh along with more than 50 party workers also demonstrated at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters in Dhanbad against deteriorating law and order in the state, including in the town, under chief minister Hemant Soren. Singh said that incidents of rape have increased. “While looting, burglary, dacoity, robbery and snatching have increased manifold in the state due to unemployment, the government is busy fighting the Centre,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
