20-10-2020||Jharkhand||WhatsApp helplines to curb crime||Jharkhand’s director-general of police M.V. Rao has announced that WhatsApp-based helplines to report cases will be rolled out for the public in all 24 districts on Wednesday to help curb crimes against women and children in the state. Following a review of the law and order in the districts, Rao said: “I have directed all the superintendents of police to set up WhatsApp helplines from tomorrow specifically for any sort of crime against women and children. Once the numbers are made public, people can report their problems. Dedicated personnel will be assigned to man the helplines and coordinate with the officials concerned.” He appealed to people, especially girls and women, to come forward and report all kinds of harassment for timely action. “In many cases, people approach the police a long time after the incident, leading to delays in action. We will assure protection to victims/complainants in sensitive cases if need be,” said Rao. He stressed on the role of effective parenting for a civilised society. “The role of parents assumes importance for any civilised society, more so in today’s fast-paced world. We will soon also roll out both online and mass campaigns to sensitise people on ways to prevent crime.” The efficiency of the police has been questioned by many in recent months due to the incidents of rape, murder, harassment and other crimes being reported daily from across the state. Moreover, the police have been under pressure following the twin cases of gang-rape and muder of two minor girls in Dumka and Sahibganj in the Santhal Parganas within a span of just a week. The incidents sparked uproar in the state. On Sunday, a 40-year-old woman was gunned down by Maoists in Chatra’s Pathalgada area. The rebels branded her a police informer. The violence, coming after a gap of several years, has triggered a sense of insecurity among local residents. Again on Tuesday night, a youth was shot dead allegedly by Maoists in the Mayurhund police station area in Chatra district. The Opposition BJP, on the other hand, has been running campaigns against the state government and the police both on social media and on the ground claiming total lawlessness. Last week, a delegation of the BJP also met governor Droupadi Murmu seeking her intervention. The delegation cited how in the 10 months since the Hemant Soren government came to power, over 1,200 cases of rape and murder have taken place. DGP Rao, however, claimed that the police were working to the best of their capabilities without any prejudice and denied any major law-and-order problems in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dumka gangrape and murder: One arrested and sent to judicial remand||A 21-year-old man named Paulus Hembrom was arrested and forwarded to judicial remand in connection with the gangrape and murder of a tribal girl last week, Dumka police informed on Tuesday. An 11-year-old girl from Bhalsumar village, under Ramgarh police station, was gangraped and killed by unidentified criminals when she was returning home from tuition last Friday. Her body was found from an abandoned location on the Bhalsumar-Dharampur road, triggering a series of protests in poll-bound Dumka district. Talking to reporters on Tuesday evening, Dumka SP Ambar Lakra confirmed the arrest but didn’t divulge any information about other detainees and suspects. “We have sent one suspect to judicial remand. He was arrested based on substantial evidence collected so far during the probe. A few more are being interrogated and a formal announcement will be made once we crack the case,” Lakra said during a press meet convened regarding an arms haul. The incident was the second of such nature in a week in the Santhal Parganas. On October 10, a 13-year-old girl was allegedly gang-aped and killed in the Barhait police station area in Sahebganj district. Police exhumed her body three days later to begin a probe. Four people have been arrested and jailed in the case. About the arms haul, Lakra said 50 pieces of electric detonators, 79 pieces of Neo Gel, 10 cartridges and a rifle were recovered from a forest under Masalia police station area. “The arms were buried in the forest by naxals with an intention to create disruptions ahead of the bypoll in Dumka on November 3. Combing operations are on to sanitize the region,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Durga Puja traffic plan for Jamshedpur announced||The East Singhbhum district administration came out with a traffic management plan for the pujas on Tuesday. The plan aims to ensure smooth movement of heavy commercial and private vehicles from October 22 till immersion on October 26. The plan, drawn up jointly by the deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior SP M Tamil Vanan and deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Shrivendra, focuses on maintaining social distancing and streamlining vehicular movement during the puja period. Movement of heavy vehicles will remain restricted in the steel city from 11 am to 4 am from October 22  till October 25.  On October 26, day of immersion, the movement of heavy vehicles will remain restricted from 6 am and 11.30 pm. From 4 am till 11 am, there will be no restrictions on heavy vehicles entering and leaving the city. During the restriction period, heavy vehicles seeking to enter the steel city need to be parked in the Transport Nagar in Mango.  Buses have been exempted from the restrictions and will operate as usual.  No heavy vehicles can be parked along the Marine Drive during the restricted period and if any truck or trailer is found parked there, the owner or the driver will be heavily penalised. "We have given seven hour relaxations for the movement of heavy vehicles because by doing so industrial activities in and around the steel city will remain unaffected," Shrivendra told The Telegraph Online. Pillion riding will remain strictly banned, thus movement of two-wheelers on the road will decrease considerably. "Double-riding will remain banned and those riding two-wheelers will have to wear masks.  Even those who wish to move around in a car or on foot also will have to wear masks compulsorily.  We have decided this in view of maintaining Covid norms," Shrivendra added. He also said that the administration expects very few people to be on the streets this year. Nevertheless, parking zones have been set up across the city, and several important roads will become one-way. "Parking zones have been earmarked at the Ganesh Puja maidan in Kadma, near the Ravindra Bhavan in Sakchi and near the JNAC office in Sakchi.  The roads which have been made one-way include Kalimati Road and Bistupur-Sonari Road," the DSP (Traffic) informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Over 2,000 tribals march across Ranchi for Sarna code||For the second time in less than a week, around 2,000 tribal under the aegis of Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad (ABAVP) took out protest marches and held demonstrations across Ranchi district on Tuesday to press for their demand of a Sarna code ahead of the 2021 census. The protests led to traffic bottlenecks in the capital at several places at different points of time despite the district administration’s ban on protests and dharnas in the wake of ongoing covid-19 pandemic. With shoppers too out on the streets ahead of Durga Puja, the protests led to disruption of traffic at Main Road, Piska More, Ratu Road, among a few other places as rallyists, comprising men and women, marched with banners and posters. Senior Congress leader and former minister Geetashree Oraon, who is the president of ABAVP, said they wanted the state government to pass a resolution in favour of their demands in the Assembly and forward it to the Centre prior to the upcoming winter session.  “Tribals want Sarna code and we won’t sit calmly till we get this before the next census in 2021. Sarna code is key to our distinct identity and recognition. Tribals are neither Hindus nor Christians or Muslims but have a separate identity,” she said, adding that they planned to further intensify their protests in coming days until the state government agreed to their demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city’s Circuit House Area gives Puja a miss this year||No pandal, no idols, no Puja this year at the posh Circuit House Area of Jamshedpur. The Northern Town and Circuit House Area Durga Puja Committee, that decided to skip this year's festivities because of the pandemic, issued a brief notice on Tuesday. Signed by president Amitava Bakshi and secretary Biswanath Roy, the notice informed residents that the executive committee had come the conclusion about not celebrating Durga Puja this year in consultation with its members. Umesh Dubey, joint secretary of the committee, said: "We decided to skip this year's Puja as we want people to stay safe. Pandal hoppers, especially all VIPs make it a point to visit our Puja. Apprehending a rush, we decided to skip this year's Puja. This is for the first time in the last 73 years that we decided to skip the annual festival." He, however, said that  Puja rituals would be organised in a simple manner at Sakchi Durgabari on Chenab Road, about 2km from the Circuit House Area ground. The community puja at the Circuit House Area ground organised by Northern Town and Circuit House Area Durga Puja Committee started way back in 1947.  It is one of the oldest pujas of steel city. Apart from bhog, a beautifully decked up pandal and gorgeous idols, the Puja is known for cultural events like plays, musical evenings, magic shows and the traditional dhunuchi naach of members. "Sitting at the pandal, chatting with friends and listening to Bengali songs and bands create a perfect Puja ambience at the Circuit House Area. But this year, we will miss all of this,” rued Anamika Singh, a tacher who lives in Sonari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi to roll out mobile vans for Covid testing at pandals  ||The Ranchi district administration will roll out mobile vans for Covid-19 testing at major pandals, among the major initiatives it is working on to limit the spread of the virus and detect super-spreaders during the four days of Pujas starting with Mahasaptamai on Friday. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan, who held a meeting with district health department and other stakeholders on Monday, said, “We are planning to roll out mobile vans for Covid-19 testing outside major puja venues to scan vendors and visitors as a part of an early detection plan to prevent the spread of the virus. I have asked officials to identify potential hotspots.” To encourage compliance of Covid safety guidelines, the district administration has also announced awards puja pandals. “Puja committees will be graded and awarded on the basis of Covid safety compliance parameters and how innovatively they follow them,” he said, adding that all pandals/puja samitis will also have to give the administration an undertaking that they would indeed adhere to all norms. The district administration has also launched a crackdown at markets and sweet shops with the twin purpose of enforcing Covid norms and checking food adulteration. The administration slapped showcause notices to five eateries and shops in Lalpur on Monday for violation of social distancing norms. They are Rahul Bakery, VK Vending, Hotel Sher-e-Punjab, Sardar Food Plaza and Roman Famous Chinese Food. Ranjan said that checks on markets would continue till the end of Puja. “This is the time when we need to be more vigilant to ensure that the festival doesn’t turn into a reason for worry,” he said. The daily count of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand has shown a downward trend for the last few days but Ranchi continues to register triple digit spikes with a total of 440 cases reported on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Garba on WhatsApp for Gujratis of Dhanbad||Members of the Coal Field Gujrati Samaj are organizing garba at their respective homes, and posting photos and videos on WhatsApp groups to foster the collective nature of this celebration. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Yamesh Trivedi, former president of  the Samaj, said, “We are not organizing a group or collective garba this year at any of the designated places because of the pandemic. To maintain tradition, we are celebrating at our respective homes with our family members.” “The garba began at my place on August 18, with a young girl from our family (Devanshi Trivedi) taking the from the temple as per the tradition, followed by women and children of the family performing the garba,'' Trivedi said. They posted videos and photos in the WhatsApp group of their society (Coalfield Gujrati Samaj), kickstarting garba celebrations at other homes. “The chain continued in Jharia, Katras, and Dhanbad where a large number of Gujratis are settled,” Trivedi informed. Deepak Udani, another member of the Samaj, said “We are organizing garba at our homes observing social distancing norms. We have a 100-year-old tradition of holding group performances at different places like Satyanarayan Mandir in Jharia, Gujrati School Campus at Shastri Nagar in Bank More, and Garbi Chowk of Bhagat Muhalla of Katras with 500-1000 participating every year.” “For this year, we have appointed two women coordinators for each of the three places who were leading garba performers and posting photos and videos of the same on WhatsApp groups,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi pujas in a fix as govt refuses to revise guidelines||Distribution of face masks and hand sanitisers outside pandals will be prohibited during Durga Puja in Ranchi, the government said in a press communique on Tuesday, further stating that all restrictions specified in earlier guidelines will have to be followed strictly during the festival in the state capital. The government’s move of sticking to the guidelines comes at a time when several puja committees, as well the ruling JMM, had sought revisions in the guidelines. As per the guidelines issued by the Hemant Soren-led government on October 1, not more than seven persons should be allowed inside a pandal at a time. Besides, pandals cannot have loudspeakers, play devotional songs and organize theme-based pujas, the guidelines stated. Distribution of bhog has also been prohibited. However, there are several pujas in Ranchi that do not seem to be adhering to the guidelines, especially the ones that had made elaborate arrangements. Most puja committees in Ranchi have installed speakers to play mantras and devotional songs, and made idols taller than eight feet, organisers admitted  on Tuesday. The president of Ranchi District Durga Puja Committee (RDDPC), Ashok Purohit, said it was practically impossible to make 4-feet-tall idols, and therefore, most puja committees had resorted to idols that were roughly 8-feet-tall. According to Purohit, loudspeakers were installed in pandals only to play devotional songs and mantras during the holy rituals. “How do you expect us to fit Ma Durga, Ganesh ji, Kartik Ji, Mahisasur and Ma’s lion in a four feet tall structure? It is impossible. We have installed speakers too, so the people living in the vicinity of the pandals can listen to the mantras and devotional songs,” said Purohit, who is also a member of the Rajasthan Mitra Mandal Puja Samiti that has opted for a 8-feet idol and is also using loudspeakers in the pandal. The Station Road Durga Puja Samiti has given loudspeakers a miss in adherence to the government orders. However, the idol in this puja pandal too is close to eight feet. “Technically, the height of Ma Durga’s idol is four feet. But she is standing on the buffalo in our pandal, which makes the idol taller than eight feet,” said Munchun Rai, president of the samiti. The Bakri Bazar Puja Samiti, one of the oldest Durga Puja committees in Ranchi, will not be distributing bhog this year. However, the idol of Ma Durga, in this pandal too, is close to eight feet, said puja committee member Ashok Choudhary. The Ranchi district committee members had submitted a memorandum to the chief minister’s office in the first week of October seeking revisions in the guidelines issued to prevent further spread of the coronavirus. Many committees here were hopeful of minor changes, but now they are disappointed. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya wrote to the chief minister on Monday requesting him to allow at least 25 people in a puja pandal at a time and provide permission for installing loudspeakers. He was not available for comment on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||UN rights official asks govt to defend rights of activists, NGOs  ||UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet has appealed to the Union government to safeguard the rights of human rights defenders and NGOs, and their ability to carry out their work on behalf of the many groups they represent, with specific reference to the arrest of 83-year-old Ranchi priest Stan Swamy. In her statement, issued on Tuesday and released to the media by Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a collective rights organisations, Bachelet said that activists and human rights defenders had come under mounting pressure in recent months, particularly because of their engagement in mass protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act that took place across the country earlier this year. More than 1,500 people had reportedly been arrested in relation to the protests, with many charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act - a law which has also been widely criticized for its lack of conformity with international human rights standards, she said. Charges have also been filed under this law against a number of individuals in connection with demonstrations that date back to 2018. “Most recently, the 83-year-old Catholic priest Stan Swamy, a long-standing activist engaged in defending the rights of marginalized groups, was charged and reportedly remains in detention, despite his poor health,” she noted. “I urge the Government to ensure that no one else is detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly – and to do its utmost, in law and policy, to protect India’s robust civil society,” the High Commissioner said, adding that she also appeals the authorities to carefully review the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) for its compliance with international human rights standards and to release people charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for simply exercising basic human rights that India is obligated to protect.     Swamy was arrested from Ranchi on October 8 by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection to 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence in Pune, Maharashtra. Bachelet also expressed regret at the tightening of space for human rights NGOs in particular, including by the application of vaguely worded laws that constrain NGOs’ activities and restrict foreign funding. “India has long had a strong civil society, which has been at the forefront of groundbreaking human rights advocacy within the country and globally. But I am concerned that vaguely defined laws are increasingly being used to stifle these voices,” she said. Bachelet also expressed worry over the use of FCRA, which a number of UN human rights bodies have also expressed concern. The Act prohibits the receipt of foreign funds “for any activities prejudicial to the public interest.” “The Act, which was adopted in 2010 and was amended last month, has had a detrimental impact on the right to freedom of association and expression of human rights NGOs, and as a result on their ability to serve as effective advocates to protect and promote human rights in India,” she said citing that most recently, Amnesty International was compelled to close its offices in India after its bank accounts were frozen over alleged violation of the FCRA. “The FCRA has been invoked over the years to justify an array of highly intrusive  measures, ranging from official raids on NGO offices and freezing of bank accounts, to suspension or cancellation of registration, including of civil society organizations that have engaged with UN human rights bodies,” Bachelet said. In Jharkhand, the home state of Swamy, rights groups continued protests to demand the release of the priest and activist. After a series of protests in Ranchi, by activists and members of the Church over the last week, a daylong protest was held in Chaibasa (West Singbhum) on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries close to 90,000 in Jharkhand||The total count of Covid-19 recoveries in Jharkhand drew close to 90,000 on Monday after as many as 769 more patients overcame the viral infection in 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. While the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand is close to 1 lakh, the state has achieved a Covid recovery rate of 92.70 per cent, which is better than the national average of 88.30 per cent. As many as 490 fresh cases of infection also surfaced across the state on Monday, taking the Covid tally to 96,842. However, the number of active cases in Jharkhand dropped to 6,220, government data stated. At least 152 cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Ranchi on Monday against 338 recoveries. Despite recoveries outnumbering fresh cases in the district, Ranchi still had over 2000 active cases, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 2,166 people were battling the virus in Ranchi on Monday night. There were 1319 active Covid cases in East Singhbhum, while all the remaining 22 districts had less than 1000 active cases, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Ranchi and East Singhbhum accounted for more than 50 per cent of active cases in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand also jumped to 842 on Monday after three more patients died during treatment. Bokaro, Deoghar and East Singhbhum reported one Covid casualty each on the day. As per government records, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum alone reached 324 on Monday, which is close to 40 per cent of the total Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand so far. Less than 500 Covid cases surfaced in Jharkhand for the second consecutive day on Monday despite close to 30,000 people being tested. The government tested swab samples of as many as 28,908 people on the day and 28,418 of them tested negative for Covid-19 virus. On Sunday, less than 400 people were found infected, but only 17,000-odd tests were conducted. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 28.97 lakh people and tested 28.82 lakh of them. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.57 per cent in the past one week against the national average of 0.79 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 120.2 days against the national average of 92.7 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||DMK adds voice to Swamy release plea||Support continues to pour in from Opposition MPs along with social outfits and tribal activists for the release of octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, arrested by the NIA earlier this month near Ranchi for alleged Maoist link and involvement in the Bhima Koregaon case. DMK MP and former Union minister Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, who attended a meeting organised by Christian Rights Movement at Santhome High School in Chennai on Sunday, condemned the arrest of Fr Swamy, who was born in Tamil Nadu. “Father Stan Swamy has been imprisoned on false accusation. The Jesuit priest has been agitating for the rights and welfare of the Adivasis of Jharkhand state and also demanding the withdrawal of the cases registered against them. He should be released,” Kanimozhi tweeted on Sunday night. Another Tamil Nadu MP, Karti Chidambaram of the Congress, in a tweet on Monday morning expressed concern over the 83-year-old Fr Swamy’s arrest. “The arrest of Father Stan Swamy is a cause for grave concern. I condemn the arrest and support the demand for his immediate release. Fr Stan Swamy has spent most of his life as a fierce defender of the rights of Adivasis and their land, labour and resources. The NIA appears to have given no consideration to any of this, or to his advanced age and multiple health complications, including Parkinson’s Disease. The arrest is a reminder of the grave dangers of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, whose capacity to centralise and override is eroding federal independence and personal liberty,” said Sivaganga MP Karti. Earlier on Sunday evening, Congress MLA from Mandar in Jharkhand, Bandhu Tirkey, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Union home minister Amit Shah condemning the arrest of Fr Swamy and sought his immediate release. “Father Stan Swamy has vehemently opposed the allegation that he had a hand in the violence in Bhima Koregaon, a place he claims never to have even visited. The series of arrests around the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case have targeted activists and intellectuals who have raised voices for tribals and marginalised them. Through the UAPA they are being treated as terrorists. We hope that immediate steps would be taken to stop such acts against the basic values of our democracy and release Father Swamy,” wrote Tirkey.Rights advocate Mihir Desai, the legal counsel for Fr Swamy, told The Telegraph on Monday that his bail petition would be heard by the special court in Mumbai on Tuesday. “It is an interim bail petition by Stan Swamy on medical grounds and would be taken up for hearing tomorrow,” Desai said. Sources said the bail plea referred to the guidelines given by the Maharashtra government’s high-powered committee appointed on the directions of the Supreme Court recommending decongestion of jails during the pandemic and also states Fr Swamy’s susceptibility to the virus given his age and other health conditions. Fr Swamy, who was arrested on October 8 from his residence in Namkum in Ranchi and taken by the NIA to Mumbai, is currently under quarantine in judicial custody at Taloja Central Jail in the Maharashtra capital till October 23. Senior Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan are amongst the few prominent leaders who have condemned the arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three killed and two injured in car chase at Chakulia||Three people, including two women, were killed, and two others injured as bikes they were riding on were hit by a speeding car at Chakulia in Ghatshila sub-division of the East Singhbhum district (about 90 kms from Jamshedpur) late on Monday afternoon. The car, carrying illicit country-made liquor, was being chased by a raiding party jeep of the Excise department. The victims were riding two motorcycles coming from opposite directions when they were hit by the car. Soon after, local residents set up a blockade on a connecting road to NH-33, demanding the arrest of the illicit liquor trader.  The blockade was lifted after the Chakulia OC Ranjit Oraon convinced protestors that the police would take up the matter with the Excise department. So far, only one of the victims have been identified. Sunita Gope, wife of Jagat Gope, was a resident of Malkundi village in Chakulia.  The police are trying to identify the two other bodies. It was learnt that Jagat Gope was riding a bike with his wife Sunita and granddaughter as pillion riders from their home at Malkundi to a relative's house in Kolbadhia village at about 4.30 pm.  Jagat and his granddaughter escaped miraculously with minor injuries whereas Sunita was killed on the spot. "Preliminary investigation has revealed that a liquor-laden car started speeding after seeing an Excise department vehicle.  Spotting the car, department officials also started chasing it for some distance, but in the process, the car hit two motorcycles, causing three people to die and two more, including a minor girl, to sustain injuries," Oraon told The Telegraph Online. The OC said the driver of the car, identified as Nageswar Singh, abandoned the vehicle at Dighi village and fled the scene on a bike.  The car which was seized later and was filled with jars containing country-made liquor. Excise assistant commissioner, East Singhbhum, Arun Mishra confirmed that a raiding party from his department had gone to Chakulia, but returned empty handed. "Suspecting that a car was involved in transporting illicit liquor, the raiding team chased it, unfortunately causing accidents.  I have been apprised of the deaths of three people and am trying to find out details," Mishra informed The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
