21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally close to 25,000 in Ranchi||The Covid-19 tally in Ranchi drew close to 25,000 on Wednesday after as many as 647 people, including 163 in Ranchi alone, tested positive for the virus in 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department stated. However, despite reporting the highest number of fresh cases among all districts in Jharkhand during the day, the number of active cases in Ranchi dropped close to 2,000, as the district also reported 225 recoveries, a daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) said. As per government records, as many as 24,657 people in Ranchi have been infected by the coronavirus so far, and at least 2,023 of them were still battling the disease on Wednesday night. Ranchi also reported one casualty during the day, which took the toll in the district to 163, government data stated. Jharkhand on Wednesday reported two Covid-19 deaths. The second casualty occurred in East Singhbhum, a district that accounts for 326 of the 851 Covid-19 fatalities reported across the state so far. The mortality rate of Jharkhand, as on Wednesday night, was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The number of active cases of infection shot up in East Singhbhum after the district reported 97 fresh cases against 46 recoveries on Wednesday. As per government data, there were 1,339 active cases of Covid-19 infection in this district. As many as 619 Covid patients recovered from the infection in Jharkhand during the day. However, Jharkhand’s recovery rate was still higher than the national average of 88.80 per cent. The recovery rate in Jharkhand was 92.80 per cent on Wednesday. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 29.88 lakh people and tested 29.75 lakh of them. Of the 29.75 lakh people tested, 98,061 were found to be positive. At least 91,004 Covid patients have defeated the virus in the state, while 6,206 people were still infected, figures compiled by the NHM highlighted. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 56,226 people and 55,579 of them tested negative for the virus. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.55 per cent in the past one week against the national average of 0.64 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid infections in Jharkhand was 126.43 days against the national average of 108.65 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Congress files complaint with EC against Raghubar Das||The Jharkhand State Congress Committee has lodged a complaint against BJP national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das for using foul language against leaders of the JMM-Congress alliance during the Bermo by-election campaign. They have also produced a video clip that went viral, and shows Das using unparliamentary language. A team of Congress leaders, headed state co-working president, Rajesh Thakur submitted a complaint letter to election officer cum SDO, Bermo, Anant Kumar. The letter requests to register a case of violation of model code of conduct against Das. “Congress leaders have complained against Raghubar Das for using foul language during the campaign. I have initiated an inquiry in which the video footage of the function will be examined. We will take appropriate action in this connection once the report comes,” the SDO told The Telegraph Online. The complaint letter mentions a ‘Women Chaupal’ organised by BJP in Tiro village under Jaridih block of Bokaro on Saturday, October 17. Das, while addressing voters, said “It’s because you keep quiet these chottas (petty thieves­) are ruling.” Thakur said BJP has now started using abusive words as they are in panic fearing defeat. “The way Raghuvar Das has used abusive words during election campaigns organised exclusively for women is disgraceful,” he remarked. Congress spokesperson Amulya Neeraj Khalko said Das is trying to humiliate the elected coalition government by making statements that are irrelevant. Congress state president Rameshwar Oraon said, “Das does not have the proper language to speak. He uses foul words indiscriminately. When he was CM, he used foul words against bureaucrats and officials. During his tenure, many IAS and IPS officers have been disrespected. I strongly condemned his statements.” In retaliation, Das said that he can’t help if his words pinch someone. He alleged that JMM-Congress leaders have been calling PM Modi ‘chor’ (thief) in their campaigns. “If the word ‘chor’ is parliamentary, what’s the problem with ‘chotta’?” he remarked. “I have been vocal about rising corruption and lawlessness in the state, may it be the illegal mining of coal and sand, transfer postings done in exchange of money, or the numerous incident of rapes and violence against women. And they are trying to get me investigated,” Das exclaimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||‘Padman of Jharkhand’ to contest Bihar polls||A 33-year-old hotel management graduate turned social activist, who won the “Padman of Jharkhand” title for distributing sanitary pads among impoverished rural women and spreading awareness about menstrual hygiene in suburban Ranchi, is set to contest the upcoming Bihar Assembly polls from the Harlakhi constituency. Mangesh Jha, whose independent efforts have led to the acceptance of sanitary pads in more than 600 rural households on the outskirts of Ranchi, has got a ticket from the Plurals Party in Bihar and is banking on the support of socially aware youths and women in his maiden shot at politics. After working with top hotels in the country, Mangesh quit his job in 2014 with the intent to serve and uplift the rural society, especially women and children. “I know that only distribution of sanitary pads cannot serve the larger purpose of making it a habit in rural areas. But we have to start somewhere,” Mangesh told this correspondent in 2018 during a visit to Rasabera village in Ranchi, where he distributed sanitary pads for over a year. In 2020, Mangesh aims at making menstrual hygiene a priority not only for activists but also for the government. Influenced by the ideologies of Swami Vivekananda and the teachings of Ramakrishna Paramhansa, this youth with no political history strongly believes in Vivekananda’s famous quote: “Arise, awake and stop not until the goal is achieved.” Menstruation, he said, was still a taboo in Bihar. Hygiene and health of women needs to be a priority for the government, he added. His poll agenda, however, is not only restricted to issues related to women, but also covers other aspects of the society. “So many migrants have returned to Bihar during the lockdown and are practically struggling to meet ends now. Unemployment is a major issue here,” he said. “There has been no real development in Bihar in the past several decades. And I strongly believe that we will see development only when we overcome our prejudices based on caste, community, colour and sex,” added Mangesh. The poor state of affairs in Bihar encouraged him to enter active politics. “Be it Bihar or Jharkhand, our issues are more or less similar. Challenges in the health, infrastructure and education sectors continue to hold us back,” Mangesh said over phone after filing his nomination for the elections. Winning and losing, he said, was a part and parcel of life, and the election results will not deter him from achieving his goals. “I obviously want to win. But even if I don’t, I will continue working for my people in whatever way I can. This is the time to change. We need more participation of youths in active politics in order to bring positive changes,” he added. Originally from Bihar, Mangesh calls Ranchi his second home. He has spent more than seven years in the city and keeps frequenting the Jharkhand capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Financial help for struggling former international cyclist||Two ex-Loyolians have extended financial assistance to Swaran Singh, a former cyclist who represented India at the 1970 Asian Games. Siblings Jaswinder Singh and Baldev, who live in Canada, were kind enough to help the 70-year-old Singh who works as a security guard at Vijay Homes and lives in a dingy room at the Baridih locality of Jamshedpur. Both are sons of Amar Singh, an Arjuna awardee and an ex-manager of the Tata Steel sports wing in Jamshedpur. Amar Singh, on his apart, had also helped out his cycling mate Singh by generating an amount of  Rs 1 lakh through contributions from ex-Haryana cyclist Pyara Singh and Amarjit Singh earlier this year. Amar Singh, who was in the city for some months, has left for New Delhi to join the national cycling camp as co-ordinator of the National Cycling Academy. “I am extremely thankful to Jaswinder and Baldev for helping me out in a crisis. I am also thankful to the sports fraternity who had earlier come forward to provide me financial assistance,” Singh, who worked as a senior sports assistant at Tata Steel’s welfare department before opting for voluntary retirement said. After taking voluntary retirement, Singh started a transport business but incurred losses and had to sell shares of his ancestral house in Birsanagar to sustain his family, including his wife, two daughters and a son. Singh earns a salary of Rs 10,000 out of which Rs 2,500 is paid as rent. Cyclists from Jamshedpur had also helped the struggling Singh by pooling in Rs 55,000 which was handed over to him in May. Moreover, Randhir Singh, an ex-national cyclist who lives in Baridih-based Vijaya Homes also generated around Rs 20,000 through his friends and well-wishers before handing over the amount to Singh. Satbir Singh Sahota, a former international cyclist and ex-secretary of Jharkhand Cycling Association who also worked hard to generate financial help for Singh, said the sports fraternity has done a noble job by helping Singh who was a top-class pedal star in his time. “I am sure more cyclists will come forward to lend much-needed help to Singh,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||3 special trains to Bihar for Chhath from Ranchi, Jamshedpur ||South Eastern Railway will run three superfast specials on the Ranchi-Patna, Ranchi-Jaynagar (in Bihar) and Tatanagar-Patna routes in an attempt to clear the rush of passengers for the Chhath festival on November 21 and 22. According to the office of the chief passenger traffic manager (CPTM) of SER based in Calcutta, the 02849 Ranchi-Patna Special will leave Ranchi at 11.45pm on November 18. The train will reach Patna at 8am, the next day. While returning, the 02850 Patna-Ranchi Special will leave Patna at 9am on November 19. It will arrive in Ranchi at 5.25pm on the same day. The special train will have one AC 2-tier, four AC 3-tier and 15 sleeper class coaches. The train will stop at N S C Bose Gomoh, Koderma, Gaya and Jahanabad between Ranchi and Patna. The second train, 02870/02869 Ranchi-Jaynagar Superfast Festival Special, will leave Ranchi at 4.10 pm on November 18. It will reach Jaynagar at 5 pm the next day. While returning, the 02869 Jaynagar-Ranchi Special will leave Jaynagar at 9am on November 19. It will arrive at Ranchi railway station at 11.40 pm the same day. The special train will have one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, and 10 sleeper class coaches. The train will stop at Dhanbad, Chittaranjan, Madhupur, Jasidih, Jhajha, Kiul, Barauni, Samastipur and Darbhanga between Ranchi and Jaynagar. The third train, 02860/02859 Tatanagar-Patna Superfast Festival Special, will leave Tatanagar at 4am on November 18. It will reach Patna at 2.05pm on the same day. While returning, the 02859 Patna-Tatanagar Special will leave Patna at 11.55pm on November 18 and arrive at Tatanagar at 9.20 am, the next day. The special train will have one AC chair car and 11 second class chair car coaches. This train will stop at Asansol, Chittaranjan, Madhupur, Jasidih, Jhajha, Kiul, Mokama and Bakhtiyarpur between Tatanagar and Patna railway junction. SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh said "Passengers are requested to strictly observe Covid-19 protocols while undertaking the journey." The Chhotanagpur Passenger Association and several other passenger welfare outfits welcomed the railway's decision to announce special trains to ease the Chhath rush.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC add Aussie firepower with Nicholas John Fitzgerald||Jamshedpur FC on Wednesday signed up proven Australian player Nicholas John Fitzgerald, fondly known as Nick, for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21 season. With this signing, JFC fulfilled the league’s criteria for an AFC Asian player among foreigners in the squad. The 28-year-old is a winger and is the club’s seventh foreign signing for the season. The club has also completed its team formation Nick comes with a trophy-laden career, having won the A- league twice, first in 2011-12 with Brisbane Roar, and again in 2012-13 with Central Coast Mariners. He has also won the FFA Cup with Melbourne City in 2016. Upon signing the dotted line, Nick was pumped up to play for the club. He said: “I am really glad to start this new adventure with Jamshedpur FC. I promise to give my best to the club and play my heart out for fans. I am looking forward to play under the tutelage of a coach like Owen Coyle’s calibre,  something every player dreams of. We will give our best shot to get the team to win the ISL trophy.” The Aussie has a tallied a total of 218 appearances and 23 goals in 10 years across all competitions in Australia. He began his career as an under-21 player for Central Coast Mariners in 2010 where he also made his senior team debut. Later, he broke into the senior team of A-League club Brisbane Roar in 2011 and went on to represent A-League clubs like Central Coast Mariners, again, Melbourne City, Western Sydney and NewCastle United Jets. The winger has also played in the coveted AFC Champions League during his time in Australia. Head coach Owen Coyle was ecstatic about the Aussie winger;'s inclusion in JFC. “Fitzgerald adds a new dimension to our attack with his versatility. He is a quality player and has a proven track record in Australia’s A-League. He can make quality runs down the  flank and can be a great provider to the strike force. We are confident about his attacking prowess and abilities and I am really looking forward to work with him.” Nick will don jersey No. 22 in ISL 2020-21 and is expected join the squad in Goa soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||New clothes for coal picker children||New clothes were given to 18 children of coal pickers in Dhanbad, to brighten Durga Puja at a time when Covid has dulled festive charm. Chanda Kumari (11), resident of the Khilan Dhaura area of Katras was overjoyed when BCCL officer Dev Kumar Verma, who is also the founder of her school, Pathshala, at Bhaga Basti area of Katras, arrived at her home along with other students in an SUV, to take them out shopping. Verma bought the children their clothes from Ladli Dress, a clothing shop in Nawagarh. Eight-year-old Chandan Kumar, son of a construction site daily wager from Bhaga Basti, picked a t-shirt and a pair of jeans for himself. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Verma, the BCCL Barora area manager said that all the children were quite happy after receiving the new clothes of their choice. Verma runs three schools in Katras including one at Katras Bazar, and others two at Matari and Bhaga Basti area of Katras, which impart free-of-cost education to children of the financially weaker sections of society, especially the children of coal pickers. “A sum of around Rs 10,000  was provided to us by Tapas Sethi, a manager of Western Coalfields Limited in memory of his brother Varun Vishwa Bhushan who died in an accident a few years ago and whose birthday was on October20,” said Verma. Verma’s team also contributed some funds from their own resources while the shop owner also provided them rebate and provided the clothing on an almost no-profit no-loss basis. “We have plans to provide similar clothing to around 10 other students,” said Verma and added that though all his three schools have been closed since the imposition of lockdown, they are running online classes for these children and conducted half-yearly exams recently. “Nothing can be more joyous than bringing happiness to the faces of these children, who are often compelled to work with their parents to eke out of a living,” said Verma, son a retired group D employees of BCCL, Rajendra Sonar who did his MBA from NIT-Durgapur and then joined BCCL in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||It’s official, southwest monsoon withdraws from Jharkhand||The southwest monsoon withdrew from Jharkhand on Wednesday after overstaying for 11 days, according to a Ranchi Met Centre special bulletin issued in the afternoon. The bulletin said the southwest monsoon had withdrawn from the northern parts of the state and conditions were favourable for it to pull out further from the remaining parts of Jharkhand in the next 24 hours. "The southwest monsoon has started withdrawing from Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar. The withdrawal process got delayed due to formation of two back-to-back low-pressure systems," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Patna Meteorological Centre too confirmed the withdrawal of monsoon. "Monsoon has retreated from Jharkhand. IMD Delhi, officially, declared it today (Wednesday)," said a senior weatherman at the Patna Met Centre. Normally, the monsoon is meant to withdraw from Jharkhand on October 10. Last year (2019), the monsoon retreated from the state on October 14. In 2018 the monsoon withdrew from the state on October 3 (see chart). This year, the monsoon season _ June to September _ ended with a 14 per cent rain deficit in Jharkhand. Against a normal of 1,054.7 mm, the state recorded rainfall of 901.9 mm, a shortfall of 14 per cent, which as per Met parlance is as good as normal. Last year, the monsoon had ended with an 18 per cent deficit. But even though the season of rains is over, weathermen forecast rain on October 22-23 due to the impact of a depression. Wednesday’s satellite pictures indicated that the low-pressure area over the central Bay of Bengal was very likely to move north-west during the next 24 hours. It is likely to concentrate into a depression by Thursday and further into a deep depression during the subsequent 24 hours. “The south-westerly wind flow is expected to change to north-westerly over Jharkhand around later this month. Mornings and evenings will become pleasant and soon there will be a nip in the air,” said a senior Met analyst in Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant asks Opposition parties to unite against Centre’s ‘Hitlershahi’ ||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday called upon Opposition parties across India to unite against the “fascist” approach and “oppressive” policies of the NDA-led government in the Centre, citing the arrest of Father Stan Swamy from Ranchi as an example of “Hitlershahi (Hitler-like regime)” in the country. Addressing an event of the Peoples Union For Civil Liberties (PUCL) via video conferencing, Hemant demanded immediate release of Swamy, an 83-year-old Catholic priest known for his contribution towards the uplift of tribals and the oppressed in Jharkhand. “A person who worked as a guiding light for the oppressed and deprived people of Jharkhand is now being tortured by the Centre. At a time when there is absolute anarchy in the country and the Centre is targeting people with a vicious and vindictive approach, Opposition parties should not be afraid of uniting against this tyranny,” said Hemant. Stan Swamy was picked up by National Investigation Agency (NIA) officers from his residence in Ranchi on October 8 in connection with the 2018 Koregaon-Bhima case. NIA has alleged that the priest had connections with the CPI (Maoist), a banned Left wing extremist group. Since his arrest, several Catholic organisations and social activists across the country have taken to the street to protest against the government’s action and demand Swamy’s immediate release. "The NIA is after me. I'm being pressured to go to Bombay. The NIA questioned me for 15 hours... I'm being called to the Mumbai office of the NIA. I refuse to go there. I am 83 and have health issues. I don't want to expose myself to the coronavirus. I have never been to Bhima Koregaon," Stan Swamy had said in a video on October 6. Hemant also expressed concern on how the Centre would react if the protests intensified. “They will not think twice before shooting the protestors,” the chief minister said. Hemant also slammed the Centre over deduction of funds from the state’s exchequer and accused it of harassment. The BJP, he said, was deliberately harassing states where they could not form a government. “Today, it is Jharkhand. Tomorrow, it could be your state too. The Centre has deducted huge sums from our coffers in the middle of a pandemic without even consulting us. This amounts to harassment,” said Hemant, adding that Jharkhand will continue its fight against the wrongdoings of the Centre. Among the others who spoke at the PUCL event were CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury as well as the DMK's Kanimozhi an senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor. Yechury and Kanimozhi also urged civil society groups and the public to break their silence over the "government's attacks on the rights of the people," PTI reported from New Delhi. "Today we have to make a decision as political parties, as the whole society whether to accept what is happening in silence or say this is enough and fight them together. If we accept this, then in a few years we will not see a democratic India that we know. Every law that this government has passed has chipped away the rights of the people. It's time to break the silence," Kanimozhi said in the video conference. As many as 16 people have been arrested under the UAPA in the case, which include three cultural activists of the Kabir Kala Manch (KKM), Ramesh Gaichor, Sagar Ghogre and Jyoti Jagtap, as well as thinker, writers and academics Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Shoma Sen, Hany Baby, lawyers, Sudha Bharadwaj, Surendra Gadling, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira, who are all also trade unionists, and activists. Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut and Rona Wilson are also in prison. "The UAPA has been grossly misused, like POTA, this law has to be removed from our statute book. However, this is not the issue of just one law. All these draconian laws are being used to silence all dissent against the government. These arrests are not isolated cases; these are part of an agenda to establish a rabidly theocratic Hindutva Rashtriya which was their plan from the beginning. This cannot be accepted. We must break this silence. For evil to succeed, the good only requires to be silent. People need to restore the secular democracy," Yechury alleged. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said Swamy deserves "respect and support", not jail term. He said he was convinced that "no Jesuit will indulge in any violence or entice anyone towards violence". "This must stop. I appeal to the government to be fair and at least grant him bail. We stand in solidarity with Stan Swamy," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 542 new Covid cases, seven deaths in 24 hours||At least seven more Covid-19 patients died during treatment on Tuesday in Jharkhand, taking the Covid toll close to 850 in the state, figures released by the health department highlighted. As many as two of the seven Covid casualties occurred in Ranchi, taking the total count of fatalities caused by Covid-19 infection in the district to 162. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Bokaro, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum, Khunti and Saraikela reported one Covid death each in 24 hours. As per government data, at least 325 of the 849 Covid casualties occurred in East Singhbhum, while 162 occurred in Ranchi. None of the remaining 22 districts in Jharkhand have reported more than 100 Covid casualties. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent, highlights government data. Meanwhile, as many as 542 people were found Covid positive across the state on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 97,414. However, recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases once again on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 92.78 per cent. As many as 605 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Tuesday. As per figures compiled by NHM, as many as 90,385 people have defeated the dreaded virus in Jharkhand so far, and 6180 were still fighting it. The number of active cases of infection dropped to 2,087 in Ranchi on Tuesday after the district reported 196 cases against 275 recoveries. Dhanbad reported 69 cases, the second highest among all the districts in Jharkhand on the day. The government has so far collected swab samples of 29.28 lakh people and tested 29.13 lakh of them. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 25,307 people and 24,765 of them tested negative for Covid-19. The growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.55 per cent in the past one week against the national average of 0.77 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 122.16 days against the national average of 94.8 days, stated government data. As per NHM figures, of the 849 Covid casualties reported in the state so far, at least 637 victims were older than 50 years. As many as 168 Covid victims were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, while 37 victims were younger than 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
