22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Enjoying Durga Puja with eye on Covid guidelines||The district administration on Thursday met organisers of Durga Pujas in Bokaro to ensure a safe and peaceful festival amid the pandemic. It was decided that the festival would be celebrated while strictly observing Covid-19 guidelines. Although the number of coronavirus cases has declined, there are still 373 active cases in the district. Data shows that 4,877 people in the district have been infected with the coronavirus since the pandemic started. Of them, 4,462 have recovered while 42 died. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said organisers would take the necessary steps to ensure there is no crowding during the festival. No more than seven people will be allowed in a pandal at a time. Singh said social distancing, the use of masks and sanitisation were mandatory. Legal action will be taken against those organisers found defaulting. “A case will be filed against the chairman and secretary of the Durga Puja pandal concerned under Sections 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections,” said Singh. The puja should be organised in small pandals, the rules say. The construction of the pandal will not be based on any theme. Any type of decorative lighting is forbidden. The construction of a welcome gate or archway will not be allowed, the rules add. According to the rules, the entire area of the puja pandal will have to be ventilated, except for the idol. The idol of Durga will be 4 feet or less. No fair will be organised during the festival. Food stalls near pandals are prohibited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||NGO approaches chief secretary for guidelines for Chhath Puja||A local NGO has shot a letter to Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh calling for guidelines for Chhath Puja amid the coronavirus pandemic. The NGO, Jan Kalyan Morcha (JKM), has sought the guidelines in advance because rules for Durga Puja were issued at the last moment, causing problems for organisers. “As Chhath is one of the main festivals in Jharkhand, I have requested Singh to issue the guidelines concerning the festival as early as possible so that devotees are not inconvenienced like the organisers of Durga Puja due to the delayed issuance of rules by the state government,” the NGO’s president, Om Prakash, told The Telegraph Online. Prakash, who is also a senior lawyer, pointed out that it was needless to mention that Chhath Puja is performed mainly on the river ghats and other water bodies, including ponds and lakes. “While performing the rituals, thousands gather at the river ghats and along other water bodies.  In Jamshedpur and the adjoining Adityapur township in Seraikela-Kharsawan, the devotees have to visit the Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers for performing the rituals. As there is little space at the river ghats, the devotees have to perform the rituals while standing close to each other, which is not safe during the ongoing pandemic. The situation may add to the spread of the coronavirus,” Prakash said. He said it would be fruitless if the guidelines are issued late. Prakash said Chhath Puja is on November 20 and 21, almost a month away from now. He pointed out that if the state government declares that devotees cannot gather along the river ghat in order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the devotees can make alternative arrangements like digging a small pond at their homes. “In any case, the state government has to issue guidelines in this regard. If it is to issue the guidelines, then why not now? Issuing the guidelines on time would help the devotees,” Prakash said. He said the NGO was forced to approach the chief secretary as it had not got a response from Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner Iqbal Ansari, whom it approached first. In Jamshedpur, over 2.5 lakh people perform Chhath at the ghats along the Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers every year. Of late, some devotees have started performing the Puja at their homes or localities. The guidelines for Durga Puja were issued on October 1, just 21 days before the festival. As a result of the delay, most organisers could not get the Durga idol in time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||14-day home quarantine rule for visitors scrapped  ||The Jharkhand government has discontinued the 14-day mandatory home quarantine rule for those coming into the state with immediate effect and announced reopening of bars and gymnasiums from November 1. Interstate movement of buses will, however, begin from November 8 while schools have been allowed to call students with the consent of their parents solely for the purpose of registration for board examinations, said an order issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Thursday night. The order also increased the cap on gatherings in closed auditoriums to 200 people at a time from the existing 50. The order read, “In a closed auditorium, congregation of 50 per cent of its capacity with a maximum ceiling of 200 is allowed from November 1. In open spaces, 200 people will be allowed keeping in view the size of the ground.” Multiplexes, parks, sporting activities and educational institutions will, however, continue to remain closed till further orders, according to the notification. The state government had on Wednesday also announced relaxations in Durga Puja guidelines, allowing use of public address systems and the increasing limit of people at pandals to 15 from seven. “Consider it as a puja gift,” remarked an official in the state disaster management department about the latest relaxations announced in view of a decreasing trend of new Covid-19 cases. “Cases are substantially down and the positivity rate is also low. Hence, a decision was taken to offer more relaxations in the interest of stabilising public life and economic activities,” he said. Ramesh Ghosh, a telecom executive who arrived in Jamshedpur from Delhi on Wednesday for Durga Puja after a year, heaved a sigh of relief. “I learnt about the 14-day mandatory home quarantine only after landing at Ranchi airport. It would have meant that all my Puja plans, meeting friends and relatives, would have gone for a toss. Also, I would have had to extend my stay in Jharkhand which wasn’t possible. In the end, I am happy (that the quarantine rule has been done away with),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad, Ranchi celebrate Durga Puja||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC head coach eyes elusive playoff spot ||Owen Coyle wants his men to be competitive and challenge for the elusive playoff spot when Jamshedpur FC begins their Indian Super League (ISL) campaign in Goa next month. The Tata Steel-owned club has pinned their hopes on the 54-year-old head coach who knows what it takes to make champions. But is Owen the man to end JFC’s ISL play-off voodoo? Jamshedpur has not made it to the play-off in the three seasons since their inception in 2017. In each of the seasons, Jamshedpur have seen themselves miss out narrowly on the top-four. A lot of it is down to a combination of factors, including a medley of coaches, none of whom have stayed at the club for more than a season. Now, the mantle has been passed to Owen who has a huge responsibility in breaking the playoff jinx. Owen is ready, having worked out his priorities for the high-octane encounters ahead. “We are looking forward to the league getting underway considering the new circumstances. We aim to be competitive and challenge for the elusive playoff spot that our fantastic club hasn’t achieved yet. We are happy with the squad we have built and the more time we have to work together on the training field, the stronger we will become,” Owen said from Goa. The highly-experienced mentor, who propelled Chennaiyin FC to a runners-um finish last season after taking charge of the campaign midway, added that JFC wants to play a big part in the ISL to be able to challenge for honours and continue the development of young Indian players. “I think this will be the best season to date. Considering the quality of the team, both foreign and domestic, there is no doubt that the ISL is a league on an upward trajectory and we at Jamshedpur want to play a big part in it,” Owen, who is Scottish by birth and Irish by descent, added. With a solid mix of Indian and foreign recruits under his wing, Owen is keen to let lose his cannons in the form of goal machine Nerijus Valskis, Peter Hartley, Stephen Eze and Jackichand Singh, to name a few, once the Men of Steel take to the field. Owen will take charge of the pre-seasons after two or three days at the Sangolda football ground near Panjim. The head coach is looking at all areas, the most important factor being to score goals. He has the right combination and players and a proven track record to do the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto on life support at MGM in Chennai||Jharkhand minister Jagarnath Mahto, who was flown to Chennai on October 19 for better medical attention after developing complications in his respiratory system as a result of Covid-19, has been put on life support system at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in the Tamil Nadu capital, doctors treating him there said on Thursday. The Co-director of Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device, Dr Suresh Rao, said that the education minister’s condition was “slightly better” than what it was in Ranchi. Dr Rao explained that through an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) system blood is pumped outside of a patient’s body to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back to tissues in the body. “In ECMO, the gas exchange happens outside the body through the machine instead of the lungs. Once the blood is oxygenated and carbon dioxide is removed, it is given back to the heart, from where it circulates to other parts of the body,” said Dr Rao. “ECMO is a bridge therapy. We cannot keep a patient on ECMO for long, but it allows the lungs time to recover,” he added. Some Covid patients recovered after being on ECMO for a month, and some did not, said Rao. A patient, who did not respond to ECOM, underwent a lung transplant at the hospital and was doing well now, he recalled. Dr Apar Jindal, the Clinical Director of Lung Transplant, Interventional Pulmonology and Chest Medicine at MGM, told The Telegraph Online that Mahto was stable and in his senses on Thursday. The 54-year-old state minister was also responding to treatment, Jindal added. “He is quite stable now. We have put him on ECMO, and we are giving him time to heal and respond to the treatment. We are not trying to force his lungs to start functioning at an optimum level of efficiency,” said Dr Jindal. “His blood pressure is fine. His heart rate is also normal. And we are not dealing with any infection as of now,” he added. Dr Jindal admitted that Mahto’s lungs were badly affected due to the viral infection, but there was a possibility that his lungs may recover with time if he gets proper rest and the required medical attention. Jindal said that the doctors at MGM will give at least a couple of weeks to Mahto to respond to the treatment and allow his lungs to heal on their own. “We cannot abruptly decide to go for a lung transplant. There are possibilities of him recovering without surgical intervention,” Jindal said. Jagarnath Mahto, a JMM legislator from Dumri, tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28. He was shifted from the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi on October 1, where he was put on non-invasive ventilation. However, the minister’s condition did not improve during 20 days of treatment in ICU and he had to be shifted to Chennai. Dr Jindal, who had visited Ranchi to examine Mahto earlier this week, said there was no need to retest him for Covid-19. “There are a lot of misconceptions regarding Covid-19. A patient can be healthy and still test positive in the test. The infectivity usually becomes very low after 10 to 14 days, so repeated retesting is not required,” he said. As many as five ministers in the Jharkhand cabinet have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. State minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of a cardiac arrest a day after testing Covid-negative at Medanta Hospital in Ranchi. Health minister Banna Gupta, drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur and agriculture minister Badal Patralekh also tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. All three of them recovered without any medical complications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Quiet start to Puja in steel city, stay-at-home the mantra||This year's Durga Puja -2020 will be like no other. The festival got off to a quiet start on Thursday, Shasthi, with organisers appealing to all to stay at home and be safe. Most of the 320-odd Pujas of the steel city, except for Adityapur's Jairam Youth Sporting Club whose patron is former Ichagarh MLA Arvind Singh, have decided to go simple with ordinary pandals and idols of 4 feet as per government guidelines. Some Pujas, like the one in Northern Town and Circuit House Area and Beldih Kalibari, have done away with idols and pandals to avoid a rush. Like every year, Jairam Youth Sporting Club hired artisans from Bengal for the beautifully decked up pandal and idol of Goddess Durga. "Masks are mandatory for people visiting our pandal. We have also procured around 5,000 face masks for distribution among visitors. Moreover, we have also installed automatic sensor-based sanitizers at all gates of the pandal," said Praveen Singh, a senior executive member of Jairam Youth Sporting Club. Of the major crowd pullers, both Beldih Kalibari and Circuit House Area Pujas, have decided to give it a miss this year because of the pandemic. While Beldih Kalibari will organise Kalash Sthapana and other rituals in a simple manner on its premises, the posh Circuit House Area Puja has shifted rituals to the Sakchi-based Durgabari to prevent a rush. Steel city residents will also miss Kumari Puja, one of the major attractions of Navami, at the Beldih Kalibari. Thakur Pyara Singh Thurandhar Singh Club in Kashidih, which used to make splendid pandals, spending several lakhs, opted for a simple pandal and idol this year as per government specifications. "We decided to make it a simple affair because of the pandemic. We will carry out all necessary Puja rituals. We are also appealing to people to stay at home. Next year, we will opt for a grand Puja celebration," said patron Abhay Singh. Cinema Maidan at Sidhgora, known for pandals that depict the year’s most memorable event, has also decided on a no-frills Puja this year. The committee has erected a simple open pandal and is using small idols. Likewise, pandals in other areas of the steel city, like Telco, Sakchi, Baridih, Golmuri, Sonari and Kadma, have also embraced simplicity. Several puja committees have planned live streaming of Pushpanjali over Facebook. “For several years our Puja has been among the top five crowd-pullers of the steel city. Our attempt every year has been to be Number One in terms of visitors. But this year, nothing is happening because of the pandemic,” said a member of Sonari Central Durga Puja Committee. With the state government issuing fresh guidelines on Wednesday, priests can now be heard chanting mantras over loudspeakers. However, no pre-recorded music is being allowed. But residents felt that the state government should have allowed pre-recorded dhak to be played. “Nothing will feel like Puja this year. At least residents could have shut their eyes and enjoyed the rhythms of the dhak,” pointed out Kajal Das, a resident of Telco Colony. Till last year, thousands would enjoy a heart lunch of bhog at pujas. This year, however, bhog has been disallowed by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bison born in Betla National Park, birth kept secret so as not to invite ill-luck||A bison gave birth to a healthy female calf at the Betla National Park of the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR), an event that was kept secret from local scribes for 20 days so as not to jinx the newborn. PTR deputy director north division Kumar Ashish on Thursday confirmed that the bison was born near Bairya Nullah. Forest guard Mukesh Oraon was the first to see the newborn calf on October 2 around 5am. Thereafter, sources said PTR officials decided to keep the birth a secret. “Three bison had died in the Betla National Park in the months of April and May this year. It was a terrible loss. We were in great shock,” said Ashish. “These deaths had made us shaky and scared for their health and longevity. When this female bison calf was born, we tried to keep this news secret. We did not want any prying eyes,” he said, adding that this was done out of their love and concern for the newborn calf. “Despite being on leave during Druga Puja, I am keeping myself updated about the calf. I am told she is doing fine. She is learning to live a life of her own with her mother,” said Ashish. Asked if the calf had any problem from other adult bison, Ashish said the mother provides the calf with a Y-type security cover. “There are three more bison here who have befriended the mother and calf, and act as a protective shield for the calf,” he said. Ashish has also employed 4 trackers to shadow the mother and her calf day and night. There are around 50 to 60 bison in the park, who drink water from troughs located within the park. “In 1990, there were 400 bison in the PTR. Now, the number has depleted to 50 or 60, with the population restricted to the Betla National Park,” said Ashish. Environmentalist DS Srivastava said the park is the only abode for bison in Jharkhand. “Thus, all efforts are being made to increase its progeny, as they are a priceless gem among the wildlife of our state,” said Ashish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hyena shot dead, fierce honey badger caught in Jharkhand||Forest officials found the body of a hyena bearing a bullet wound on the Simaria-Tandwa main road on Wednesday evening, in an incident that seemed to be the work of hunters. This is the first time that a hyena was found shot dead in a district where a large number of deer found are killed for meat. The forest team reached the spot and sent the body of the dead animal for a post-mortem, after which the animal was buried in the forest area. Local villagers said they had long spotted the hyena roaming in the forests. They said it had never disturbed them, and why hunters would have killed it was beyond their imagination. However, a retired forest official said the manner of the bullet wound suggested that someone had killed the hyena for fun. “It’s the work of someone of this very area, who knew about the movement of the hyena and killed it after getting the opportunity,” he added. Range officer Umesh Prasad who led the team said hyenas do not usually frequent the area, adding that poaching and killing animals is a serious crime. “The number of hyenas has already decreased and poaching will come as a curse on their existing numbers here. We keep an eye on poachers but also urge villagers to inform us if spot any hunters in their area,” said Prasad. In an incident in Hazaribagh’s Chauparan, villagers caught a fierce little mammal honey badger, or a bijju, and handed it to forest department.  The badger was entering the house of one Mohammad Ashfaq in Chaikala village, when he raised the alarm. Local villagers caught the omnivore, which is also known to dig caves and eat the buried human bodies.  Forest official Pankaj Kumar said that he would set the animal free in the forest, but was surprised about how the small and dangerous animal entered into human settlement. Before being caught by villagers, the animal damaged household items at Ashfaq’s house. Forest officials said honey badgers feed on various things, including birds, reptiles, rodents, berries, roots and fruits. Their keen sense of smell helps them sniff out food hidden underground, while their long, strong claws help them dig for or catch that food, then rip their meal to pieces. Honey badgers are named after their presumed fondness for honey. However, these animals are actually interested in the bee larvae found in honeycombs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||State govt make changes to puja guidelines after widespread demand||Jharkhand government on Wednesday night issued two amendments to its earlier Durga puja guidelines, giving in to the demands for relaxation from several quarters including from Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) — the lead ruling alliance party. Public address system has now been allowed at puja venues between 7am to 9pm only for live chanting of mantras/paath/arti and restriction of people inside the marquees has been increased to 15. Earlier, the use of public address system was banned and only seven people were allowed inside the marquees at any given point in time. Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh notifying the amendments said, “Use of public address system will only be allowed from 7am to 9pm for arti, chanting of mantra or paath. The sound limit should be within the prescribed limit of 55 decible. However, use of loudspeakers will remain banned within 100 m around vicinity of hospitals and courts. This apart, 15 people instead of seven will be allowed in the marquees. All other earlier clauses of the puja guidelines will remain unchanged. The amendments will be in force with immediate effect.” Puja organizers across the state were opposed to several clauses of the state guidelines issued earlier in the first week of October which was mainly aimed at keeping puja as low-key as possible to curb any chances of crowding. JMM and opposition BJP too later backed some of the demands by puja organizers by separately writing letters to the state government seeking amendments so that the rituals and traditions related to the puja can be complied with. Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Committee (RZDPC), an apex body of over 100 puja samities of Ranchi however gave a mixed response to the recent amendments adding that they will continue to adhere all the prescribed norms. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ashok Purhoit, president of RZDPC said, “We are happy about the amendments, but another key demand of ours, to allow the distribution of bhog, is unfulfilled. However, with no time left anymore, we shall go ahead with whatever rules exist in place.” He added that all puja samities are trying their best to keep their premises crowd free but the district administration should step up its vigil on the streets and other hot-spots to ensure people don’t crowd unnecessarily. Purhoit said, “We can only appeal people to not crowd but there could still be chances of many rogue groups and elements violating the rules. The administration should also equally take the onus to curb it and not put all the blame on puja committees later on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Protest against shifting of RSP College, Jharia||A joint team of the district administration, Binod Bihari Koylanchal University, Bharat Coking Coal Limited and RSP College, Jharia visited Rope Way division of BCCL in Digwadih area on Wednesday to survey around 15 acres of land identified for permanent shifting of the RSP college. The team, comprising Jharia Circle Officer Rajesh Kumar, CCDC of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University Dilip Giri; principal of RSP College Jharia Jay Narayan Singh and general manager of Lodna area Gopal Das Nigam, was met with a protest by local residents who face displacement. Suhashini Devi, one of the protestors, said, “We have been living here in Rope Way for more than 50 years. The  BCCL and district administration is trying to displace us, we will not allow it.” Another protestor, Mritunjay verma said, “There is enough vacant land elsewhere where the college can easily be shifted to, but the administration is bent on the land of our colony.” RSP College Jharia, founded in 1951, is one of oldest degree colleges  and was housed in the palatial building at Bhagatdih, provided by former king of Jharia state Raja Shiv Prasad Singh. The college was later shifted to Belgharia in Baliapur block in September 2017 due to an underground fire and subsidence threat to the college at Bhagatdi. Students of the college have complained against the move, since the temporary college building is situated at an isolated place, where regular public transport is not available. The college administration was also facing issues with the continuation of its B Ed course as the National Council for Teachers Education affiliation requires the institution to be on owned land, and the Belgharia property belongs to BCCL. In a recent meeting of the district administration, the university and BCCL administration it was decided to temporarily start an extension office at the BCCL GM office building in Digwadih area of Jharia assembly constituency. It was also decided to explore the possibility of shifting the college in the vicinity of GM office. Jharia Circle officer Rajesh Kumar said, “We have carried out a survey of  the land identified at Rope Way division for shifting of RSP College, but a final decision will be made after taking into account different factors.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
