23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Pistols seized by police from Jamshedpur’s Bagbera||Police seized two pistols after arresting three persons from Bagbera police station  area in the small hours on Friday. The trio were arrested while they were hatching a conspiracy to commit a crime by assembling at Wireless Maidan barely 200 metres from the Bagbera police station around 1am on Friday. Besides the firearms which included a sophisticated .45 Chinese-made pistol, a scooter that did not have a number plate was also seized. Those arrested were identified as Popo Munda, 25, Shushil Patro, 24 and Rajneesh Gupta, 23, all residents of Bagbera. Deputy superintendent of police (law and order) Alok Ranjan said Munda had been arrested for possessing a pistol a year ago, whereas Patro was arrested for committing murder. He pointed out that Gupta also had a criminal record. A truck carrying stones overturned on the Ramgarh-Bhurkunda road in Ramgarh on Friday, resulting in serious injuries to the driver. The incident took place near Army School when the driver failed to control the vehicle due to it being overloaded. Police reached the spot and took the injured to a hospital in the Chhatarmandu area. A team of police and excise department officials destroyed 10 illegal liquor manufacturing units at Jabra village in Huntergunj block of Chatra district. A total of 250 litres of liquor was found and destroyed. The team was led by sub-inspector Nirmal Marandi. The action followed a tip-off. No one was arrested in the raid. A car fell into a 10ft-deep ditch along Ranchi-Patna highway at Saraiya in Padma block, around 22km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Five men who were in the car sustained minor injuries and were sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Of them, one was not well as he had fractured his hand a few days ago. They were on their way to consult a doctor at the time of the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bypolls: Congress names star campaigners||The Congress has named Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Rajasthan leader Sachin Pilot among its star campaigners for the forthcoming bypolls in Dumka and Bermo on November 3. The All India Congress Committee’s (AICC’s) national general secretary K.V. Venugopal released the list on Friday night. The party’s spokesperson in Jharkhand, Lal Kishorenath Shadeo, said the schedule for the rallies of the star campaigners was being finalised. The number of rallies will increase after Durga Puja. Talking to reporters, he said: “The schedule will be notified after the candidates inform us about their choice of dates for rallies.” The state government’s move to scrap the mandatory 14-day quarantine rule will encourage the leaders to visit the state, he added. The other star campaigners in the list include former Madhya Pradesh minister Umang Singhar, former Union minister R.P.N. Singh, all four Congress ministers in the state and party MLAs. On Friday, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon wrapped up his tour to Dumka and headed to Bermo. On Saturday, he will attend half a dozen rallies in favour of party candidate Kumar Jaimangal Singh. Chief minister Hemant Soren reached Dumka on Friday evening for a two-day visit to lead the canvassing for his brother and JMM candidate Basant. Shahdeo said: “The UPA, comprising the JMM, Congress and the RJD, is together in the state and strategically holding campaigns at key places to woo voters. This apart, we have already deployed our MLAs from block to panchayat levels in Bermo for overseeing poll work.” The BJP and the AJSU-P (which is fighting under the banner of NDA this time) are banking heavily on three former chief ministers — Babulal Marandi, Union tribal minister Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das — besides other central leaders. In the last one week, the three went on a whirlwind tour of Dumka and Bermo to hold a series of rallies in favour of the candidates. In Dumka, the BJP has put up Lois Marandi while in Bermo, Yogeshwar Mahto Batul has been fielded. BJP state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo too said campaigning will intensify after Durga Puja. “Campaigning has already begun but will be intensified as the poll dates near,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Onion prices make common people weep||Onion prices are once again making homemakers weep. For the last couple of days, retail vendors in Ranchi and Jamshedpur have been selling onions at anywhere between Rs 70 and Rs 80 a kg. Coal town Dhanbad and Bokaro too are buying this kitchen staple between Rs 65 and Rs 70 a kg depending on the quality. At several markets in the steel city, the crop was sold for Rs 85 a kg or even more on Friday. Till last week, onions were available between Rs 35 and Rs 40 per kg in the steel city, Ranchi and Dhanbad. Traders in Jharkhand  are anticipating a further rise in prices. Onion production in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka was badly hit this year due to heavy rains which have damaged crops. Currently, four to five trucks -- each carrying 25 tonnes of the pulp -- are arriving in vegetable market yards at Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. “Farmers are themselves selling onions at a very high rate. How can you expect a price buffer so soon?” said Ranganath, a wholesale onion dealer at Sakchi. Wholesalers are selling onions between Rs 60 and Rs 65 in Jamshedpur, Ranchi and Dhanbad. Traders said the rates are expected to come down only after fresh stocks arrive by the end of next month after Diwali. Pankaj Kumar, a wholesaler at Harmu in Ranchi, said: “The rate would come down only after fresh stocks arrive by the end of November.” He said onions, which sold at Rs 35 a kg in the retail market even a week ago, was now dearer at Rs 70 a kg in most markets of the state capital. An onion vendor at Purana Bazar in Dhanbad said the price rise was bad for business too. “Till last week, I used to get regular customers every day. But for the last couple of days, people are hesitant to buy,” he said. Officials at Parsudih-based Krishi Utpad Bazaar Samiti (KUBS) said onions in most places across the state were being supplied from Nashik and Pune as consignments have stopped coming from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka because of this year’s heavy rains. “There is a supply restriction which has resulted in a price rise. In normal conditions here, seven-eight trucks used to bring onions. The situation is the same elsewhere in Ranchi and other places,” said an official. He ruled out the possibility of artificial hoarding which might have resulted in a price rise. Homemakers are crying hoarse over the sky-rocketing onion prices. “Onion is a kitchen essential, but the rise in its price is taking a big toll on the common man’s budget. The price of onion has skyrocketed to Rs 80  in many retail markets here. The state government should make onions available at a concessional rate through Suvidha Kendras,” rued Anindita Choudhary, a homemaker at Kadma in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||RIMS, TMH among six hospitals to set up post-Covid care centres||The Jharkhand health department has designated six hospitals across the state to run post-Covid-19 care and counselling centres to help those recovering from the ailment without any health complications. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said on Friday that letters in this regard had been sent to the hospitals namely, RIMS in Ranchi, Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur, Bokaro General Hospital, Sheikh Bihari Medical College and Hospital in Hazaribagh and Shaheed Nirmal Mahato Medical College and Central Hospital in Dhanbad. Kulkarni said the idea behind post-Covid care centres was to enhance life expectancy by addressing any other complications a patient may have attained during the course of their coronavirus infection. “The post-Covid care centres will help recovered patients with counselling regarding health needs and periodic check-ups to tackle any co-morbid conditions. In the first phase, six such centres are being set up,” he said. An official at the state chapter of National Health Mission (NHM) said those who were on oxygen support during hospitalisation for Covid-19 were  mandated to visit post-Covid care centres once a month after their 14-day post- cure isolation period was over. “But those who were asymptomatic need not necessarily have to visit unless they face any issues,” he said, adding that hospitals had been asked to apprise patients about the availability of Covid care centres in their areas during  discharge. On facilities available at post-Covid care centres, the official said, “A host of experts, right from physicians to radiologists, cardiologists, physiotherapists, yoga consultants, among others, will be made available for consultation based on patient needs. A history of all patients will be maintained, along with their progress report, so that we are able to keep a track of them in case of further complications.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cracks appear on Bermo mine road||Cracks appeared on the main road leading to the Karo outsourcing mine under the Bokaro and Kargili project of Central Coalfield Ltd (CCL) in the Bermo subdivision on Friday. The traffic movement to the mine was disrupted after the cracks appeared on the road. The coal excavation work in the mine is done by BKB Outsourcing Company whose earthmovers and dumpers use the road. The road is the main route for the local cell, PT office and others of CCL projects. The caving in of portions of the road led to the falling of debris in the mine below it. The CCL management held a meeting with the displaced people of Karo Basti, which is connected via the road, to identify alternative routes. The displaced people of Karo Basti complained that the CCL management was not keeping safety standards in mind. Sohanlal Manjhi, one of the displaced, said there was no safety arrangement in the mines. The management should designate the old road for communication of the villagers. As there is a settlement around the project, people or cattle can fall into the open quarry. M.K. Rao, the general manager of CCL’s B& K project, along with project officer Tapan Kumar Roy, manager G.N. Singh and others visited the spot to assess the situation. Rao said that he had given the necessary instruction to the officials related to maintenance of the road and the coal mine. Rao added that as soon as they received the news about the cracks on the road, the machine and workers engaged in production work in the mine were removed. Currently, it has been closed by placing a boulder on both sides of the damaged road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||The grandeur of Goddess Shakti||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Over 20,000 railway employees get festival bonus||Amid low-key Puja celebrations, railway employees were in for some cheer with the South Eastern Railway giving out festive bonuses to over 20,000 employees of the Chakradharpur division on Friday. As much as Rs 36.16 crore was credited to bank accounts of 21,045 railway employees after Thursday’s announcement that about 11.58 lakh non-gazetted railway employees across the country would be granted bonus equivalent to 78 days wages for financial year 2019-20. Senior divisional commercial manager of Chakradharpur division Manish Pathak termed it as productivity linked bonus. "This is for the sixth consecutive year that productivity-linked bonus is being given to railway employees," he said, adding that most of those who were benefitted were based at Chakradharpur and Tatanagar. Divisional railway manager of Chakradharpur V.K. Sahu, who extended festive greetings to all employees, said, the bonus was the railways way of motivating employees to improve performance and enhance productivity levels. The maximum amount of bonus payable to a railway employee worked out to Rs 17,951. But many employees of Chakradharpur division complained about a delay in payment of bonus, citing earlier years. "Payment of annual bonus was much delayed this year. Puja has already started. Today (Friday) is Saptami when we got our bonus. Last year, bonus was paid much before the beginning of the festival," said a railway official based at Tatanagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cash seized at Bermo election checkpoint||A Static Surveillance Team deployed on Hindustan Bridge for the Bermo assembly by-election, seized Rs 16.25 lakh cash from a car on Thursday. The car was coming from Jainamod and going towards Phusro under Bermo police station, said Chandan Kumar Jha, SP, Bokaro. Amit Mehta, the driver of car, told police that the cash belongs to Shalimar Hatchery Limited, Kolkata. The SP said that according to the norms they have handed the person to the Income Tax department. Mehta said that the amount was being taken to get deposited in the SBI branch of Phusro from the company's office in Jainamod, when policemen caught him. This is the third time that police deployed at Hindustan Bridges have seized a large sum of cash. Earlier Rs 1.10 lakh was seized from Shankar Dayal Mishra a resident of Tantri and Rs 2.24 lakh from a person of Gomia. Ramgarh district administration has started preparation for coronavirus vaccination before the launch of vaccine. Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh has asked the Health Department officials to keep all the facilities available for storage of vaccine. Singh directed to carry out publicity of the guidelines issued by the government against Corona. He asked the Civil Surgeon, Ramgarh, to prepare a plan for publicity in a planned manner. The Deputy Commissioner instructed the District Public Relations Officer to share information on various social media platforms and newspapers to prevent corona. The Deputy Commissioner also directed the Civil Surgeon and all the Medical Officers in charge to set up Corona Testing Camp at public places, puja pandals and other crowded places during Durga Puja. Newly appointed Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, Ashish Bansal said that increase in revenue and augmentation of passenger amenities will be his top priority. Bansal said, “Dhanbad Rail Division was at the top position among all the Rail divisions of country in terms of freight loading and we would like to maintain the same position during this year.” “We would also try to complete all the sanctioned projects of the division within the stipulated time”, said Bansal who took charge on Wednesday evening from the outgoing Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Anil Kumar Mishra. A 1991 batch officer of Indian Railway Engineering Service, Bansal’s first posting was made in Buxar area of Bihar of Danapur division and was later posted at other Rail Divisions like Lucknow (Pratapgarh), Ferozpur, Moradabad and Ambala. “All the stations of Dhanbad Division will get such passenger amenities and facilities for which they are entitled,” assured Basal who earlier worked at Director (track) of Research Design and Standards Organization at Luknow and played significant role in commissioning of Track Recording car. During his stint at Delhi Railway Rail Metro Corporation, Bansal played a significant role in development of Railway Corridor from Bhikaji Cama station to the Sarai Kale Khan Railway station of Delhi Metro. Bansal also served as chief engineer (Track machine) of Northern Railway and Chief Track Engineer of Northern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bermo campaign: EC notice to Congress, BJP candidates for Covid non-compliance||The election officer cum sub-divisional officer (SDO), Bermo, Anant Kumar on Thursday evening issued a warning notice to candidates of Indian National Congress and Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), Kumar Jaimangal and Yogeshwar Mahto, for not complying with Covid-19 guidelines during election campaign. The SDO also warned them legal action if guidelines aren't followed. "If caught violating Covid-19 norms, legal action will be taken under section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, under section 188 of IPC and other statutory provisions as applicable," he added. He stated that through clipping of newspapers and video recordings done by the flying squad, it is known that the guidelines issued for Covid-19 are being ignored by both the candidates in their election meetings and other programs. He also said that both the candidates have been earlier given guidelines regarding compliance with the nomination letter. Kumar remarked that both candidates neither use masks, nor are serious about making people wear masks at their rallys and functions. Social distance of 06-06 feet is also not being maintained at such gatherings. There is also no arrangement of handwashes, sanitizers at these venues. Jayamangal, in his political functions at Petarwar, Chandrapura, Bermo and Jaridih organised on October 17, and a public meeting in Govindpur under the Bermo block on October 21, was found to flout regulations. Similarly, Mahato was found not complying with Covid-19 guidelines in his election meeting at Jainamod on October 19 and in Dugdha. “Both candidates were asked to ensure compliance a election campaigns,” the SDO added. There are 16 candidates contetsing the Bermo bypolls. However, Congress and BJP remain frontrunners. Both political parties have intensified their campaigns, with bigwigs actively camapaigning in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi police begin probe into a Persian cat's murder||Lower Bazar police on Thursday began a probe into the suspicious death of a Persian male cat following an FIR under different sections of the IPC and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. A Kantatoli resident identified as Sabir Hussain filed the report of his pet's murder two days ago in what is arguably the first such case reported in any police station in Ranchi in recent years. The FIR was lodged under section 428 and 429 of IPC and 11 of cruelty act. Section 428 of IPC relates to mischief by killing or maiming animal of the value of Rs 10 and above and has provision for imprisonment of up to two years, or with fine, or both. Section 429 concerns the murder or maiming of any cattle or animal having imprisonment term up to five years or fine or both. On the other hand, section 11 of animal cruelty act stipulates a penalty of between Rs 10 and Rs 50 for any act of cruelty against animals. Talking to reporters, city DSP Amit Singh said that they have sent a team to the locality today to begin a formal probe. “An investigation official assigned for the case went to the area to begin probe. We are scanning local CCTV footages available in the area to ascertain whether if there was any foul play or not. Autopsy was done yesterday and formal report is awaited,” said Hussain. According to Hussain, he bought a Persian cat two years ago and was adored by his family. “It was like family to us and everyone cared for the cat very much. It was very beautiful,” he said, adding that it suddenly went missing two days ago in the morning. Hours later the cast was found dead outside his garage. “I suspect some miscreants in the locality strangulated the cat to death,” he rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Door-to-door drive on Stan Swamy ||People in Murhu block of Jharkhand’s Khunti district, which witnessed the pathalgadi movement in 2017-18 during the erstwhile BJP government, have decided to start a door-to-door campaign to mobilise support for agitation and exert pressure on the central government to release octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy. More than 100 members of Adivasi Adhikar Manch, a coalition of several tribal outfits, on Thursday formed a human chain at Saiko under Murhu block of Khunti to express solidarity with Fr Swamy at an event to observe the martyrdom of tribal leader Abraham Munda. Munda was allegedly shot dead by police on October 22, 2016, while he was going to Ranchi to protest against the dilution of the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act. Tribal academician Karma Oraon, a member of the Manch, termed the arrest of 83-year-old Fr Swamy “unconstitutional”. “We have to mobilise a mass movement to exert pressure on the central government to release Father Stan Swamy. The ailing father’s arrest is unconstitutional and immoral and shows how the government machinery is being used to silence voices raised for tribal and Dalit rights. All our members should go door-to-door to make people aware of the central government’s nefarious plans and come out on streets for the release of Stan Swamy,” said Oraon. “Stan Swamy has been fighting for rights of tribals and marginalised for decades and had to face harassment from the then BJP government over the pathalgadi issue. It is our turn to stand with him at this juncture and resist the current BJP-led central government’s move to suppress voices of dissent,” said advocate and tribal rights defender Aloka Kujur, who joined the human chain in Khunti. Manch members have planned to stage a demonstration along Ranchi Main Road against the arrest of Fr Swamy on Friday. Murhu block in Khunti is over 45km from state capital Ranchi. The Munda Adivasis of Khunti had in 2016-17 began erecting stone slabs in their villages inscribed with provisions from the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution (excerpts from the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996), that grants special autonomy to tribal areas, after the then BJP government tried to amend the age-old land laws. The erection of stone slabs (pathalgadi) was an age-old tradition of tribal people to demarcate ancestral lands by commemorating the contributions of ancestors. However, the BJP government perceived it to be “anti-development and anti-national” and deployed paramilitary troops and police forces to suppress the pathalgadi movement. As the news of the repression spread, many people posted comments on social media about the government’s ruthless approach. The state government filed sedition cases against 20 activists, including Fr Swamy, on the basis of their Facebook posts which stated that it should engage in peaceful dialogue with the Adivasi people involved in the pathalgadi movement rather than repressing it. Several Opposition leaders, including chief minister Hemant Soren, intellectuals and rights activists, have condemned the arrest of Fr Swamy. He was arrested from his home near Ranchi on October 8 night by the National Investigation Agency in the Bhima Koregaon case, in which 16 rights activists, writers and lawyers have been charged with Maoist links. He was remanded in judicial custody by a special Mumbai court till October 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
