24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh journalist injured in attack||Six men late on Friday attacked a 33-year-old journalist, Vivek Singh, in Hazaribagh’s Kadma locality using a sharp-edged weapon, injuring him in his neck, ear, waist and other parts of the body. The assailants fled on their motorcycles soon after the attack. Singh, who was bleeding profusely, was taken to HZB Arogyam, a private hospital, where he was operated upon for five hours. From the ICU, Singh, who works for Hindi daily Freedom Fighter, said he was attacked when he tried to mediate in a fight between two groups near his home in Kadma, which is in the Katkamdag police station area. Police said they had begun their investigation and the attackers would be arrested soon. Singh’s family has appealed for leads in the case. Hazaribagh Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal said the attack was unfortunate. MP Jayant Sinha  criticised the state government for the deteriorating law and order. Sinha said criminals didn't have any fear under the Hemant Soren government. Koderma deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap has ordered a ban on the sale of liquor from 4 in the evening of October 26 to 4pm of October 28. The deputy commissioner said the measure was taken in view of polling in neighbouring Nawada and Gaya of Bihar on October 28. The move follows instructions from the chief electoral officer of Bihar. A similar ban will be clamped in the district during counting in Bihar on November 10. A cattle smuggler was arrested from Ramgarh’s Kaitha on Saturday afternoon. Yusuf Khan, or Bablu Khan, is a resident of Barkathha in Hazaribagh. His brother, Tinku Khan, or Arif Khan, is similarly accused of cattle smuggling and is absconding. “Cattle smuggling cases have been registered against the brothers at police stations in Koderma, Hazaribagh, Barhi, Chaupran and Dhanbad,” a police officer said. On October 15, the police had seized 40 cattles in a truck in Rajrappa police station area. The brothers were accused in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau police officers visit martyrs’ kin||The families of three cops who died fighting Maoist rebels years ago on Saturday played host to a team of Palamau policemen who wanted to show that the martyrs had not been forgotten. The team led by subdivisional police officer Sandip Kumar Gupta also comprised circle inspector Sunit Kumar and officer in charge Vishnu Singh. They visited the families and enquired if they needed any help from the police. The three were martyred in 2001, 2010 and 2011. Martyr Ram Surat Singh’s father Kuldip Singh, a resident of Sikki, told Gupta that the name of his wife has not been included in the family ration card. Gupta asked the other officers to take up the issue with the district supply office immediately. Ram Surat was slain by the rebels in 2001. Martyr Upender Singh’s family, residents of Pahley Kalan, welcomed the police team with apples and tea and appreciated being remembered years after his death in 2010. Upender was killed in Chak in a bid to save the life of then Palamau superintendent of police Anoop T. Mathew. The family got his young widow to marry another male member, the police team was told. At Jamooney, Gupta and his team met Kishori Prajapati’s father Ram Raj Mahto who broke down. He told the cops how Kishori’s wife had abandoned the family after receiving the Rs 45 lakh compensation the government had given them. Gupta said: “I have asked the Sadar police station to take all details to see how Mahto’s daughter-in-law can be asked to start taking care of the family.” Kishori was among the 11 cops who were killed in a landmine explosion in 2011. The contingent was escorting the then Chatra MP, Inder Singh Namdhari. The Telegraph Online spoke to zonal inspector-general of police, Ranchi, Navin Kumar Singh, who is currently fighting a Covid-19 infection, regarding the visits by the police team. “Martyrs who died fighting rebels are seen as role models. Remembering their sacrifice can strengthen the feeling that the martyrs and their kin continue to be parts of a ‘police parivar (family)’,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city hotels, takeaways in a soup over selling ‘bhog’||A few hotels and takeaway services of Jamshedpur are in a spot for publicising and selling a traditional platter of Puja delights in the name of “bhog” with both the district administration and religious organisations taking umbrage. Jamshedpur ADM (law & order) Nand Kishore Lal served showcause notices to two Bistupur hotels, The Sonnet and Hotel Nataraj, along with two eateries Radhey Tiffin and Mom's Kitchen, for “distributing bhog” _ cooked meal offered to deities and then distributed among devotees _ in violation of the state government’s Covid safety guidelines. Hindu Pith Jamshedpur, a religious organisation, has also filed a police complaint against the hotels for “misleading” people at a time when state government regulations have barred all Puja committees from distributing bhog on account of the pandemic. "We have received complaints that these hotels were selling bhog which isn't allowed under point 16 of the latest state government order. If Puja committees were not allowed, on what authority are these hotels selling bhog," said Lal. The four hotels and takeaway services have been promoting their menu of khichdi, sundry fries and a sweet dish _ the traditional lunch-time prasad, or bhog, during Durga Puja _ on social media for the last couple of days. Per plate prices range between Rs 130 and Rs 350. Though members of the Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity tried to convince the state government to allow Puja committees to distribute bhog since restaurants and food outlets were already functioning, the state government did not relent, fearing crowds at pandals that organised community feasts of bhog. Arun Singh, president of Hindu Pith Jamshedpur who filed a complaint at Bistupur police station on Saturday, said the hotels were selling a platter comprising khichdi and other delicacies that are usually part of the bhog menu. But since it wasn’t prasad, they could not label it bhog, he argued. "Puja committees organise Puja and then distribute bhog, which is prasad. This time, they were not allowed to prepare and distribute bhog to the public. Then, how can hotels distribute bhog? It is not even bhog because it is not food that was offered as a part of the ritual. Also, it is being sold... people are being misled,” he said. Hotel Natraj had come around and apologised to the district administration by the time this report was filed. "This was a mistake. We have sent an apology letter to the district administration. It was a simple platter of khichdi and not bhog," said Anirudhha Basu, the hotel’s operations manager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||No Ravan Dahan in steel city this time||Giant effigies of demon king Ravan that are set ablaze in this traditional depiction of the victory of good over evil during Dussehra will be missing this year in the steel city. All cultural outfits which used to organise Ravan Dahan on Dussehra _ this year, it’s on Monday, October 26 _ have decided to give it a miss this year to avoid crowding amid the ongoing ovid-19 pandemic. Ramleela Utsav Samity of Sakchi would have organised the event for the 98th year this time. "In 2022, we would be celebrating the centenary of the grand Ravan Dahan event. This is for the first time in 98 years that we have decided to skip the event because of the pandemic," said Munna Babu Gupta, the general secretary of the samity. Last year, the samity had made 16-feet-high effigy Ravan which drew huge crowds at the Ramleela Ground in Sakchi. Similarly, Veer Kunwar Singh Ravan Dahan Samity at Chotta Govindpur, near Telco, has also cancelled the event. "The event witnesses a huge turnout on Dussehra. If we organise it, we won't be able to control the crowd. Hence, we decided to do away with the event this year," said a member of the group. Last year, the Veer Kunwar samity, which has been organising Ravan Dhan since 2007, had made a 40-feet-high and 10-feet-wide Ravan. Members claimed that last year, they spent over Rs 2 lakh on creating the effigy and the crackers that were bought from Odisha. New Star Club Ravan Dahan Samity in Golmuri has also decided not to observe Ravan Dahan. Last year, Ravan Dahan Samity in Bagunhatu had burnt a 32-feet effigy at the local ground in Sidhgora with elaborate fireworks. The event witnessed a huge gathering. But this year, the group has decided to skip the event. "We do not want to risk people's life. Safety is first and foremost. By skipping the event we will help check the transmission of the coronavirus," said S. Kumar, a member of the Ravan Dahan Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Pandemic: A silver lining for IT professionals||Durga Puja may be a low-key affair this year because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, but there is still a silver lining. Thousands of professionals, who mostly work in the IT industry in cities like Bangalore, Pune, Hyderabad, Delhi, Mumbai and Gurgaon, are spending the puja with their families here. “In the past four years, I missed pandal-hopping with friends as I would do when I was at school. Memories of Durga Puja celebrated here would make me emotional. Even while in engineering college, I would enjoy when I returned home for the pujas. However, ever since I moved to Bangalore, I missed celebrating with my family,” said K. Sagar, an IT professional. “Fortunately, this year, I am with my family,” Sagar added. The 28-year-old resident of Bistupur said the pandemic not only gave him and others like him the chance to celebrate Durga Puja with their families, but also will allow him to take part in Diwali festivities at home. Vinita Singh, another IT professional based in Pune, echoed Sagar. “In the past three years, I celebrated Durga Puja by visiting restaurants and moving around with colleagues in Pune. I would miss the festivities back home a lot. But this time, I was blessed to celebrate Durga Puja with my parents at home,” Singh said. A resident of Kagal Nagar in Sonari, Singh said that though revellers are missing the pleasures of pandal-hopping and bhog, she is having a good time with her family members. As per an estimate, over 5,000 youngsters who were working in big cities are back home after a lockdown was imposed on March 24 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Significantly, all those IT professionals returned to the steel city and are working from home. The situation, the professionals say, may not change soon. “I will have to continue to work from home till a Covid-19 vaccine hits the market,” said Amit Ghosh, a 28-year-old resident of Mango.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Pushpanjali and Kumari Puja in Covid times||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Human chain for Swamy||Tribal rights activists and civil society groups continued their protest against the arrest of octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy on Friday evening by forming a human chain in the heart of Jharkhand capital Ranchi, while Jesuits held special prayers across the country for his release. The NIA special court had on Thursday rejected Fr Swamy’s interim bail petition. Nearly 50 activists and members of civil society groups held placards and formed a 200-metres human chain under the aegis of Adivasi Adhikar Manch near Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi on Friday for nearly two hours from 3pm. “We would continue our protest in a peaceful manner till Fr Stan Swamy is released. Those who have worked for tribals know that Stan Swamy has been arrested on fabricated charges by the central government. We came to know yesterday night that the bail petition filed by his legal counsel in the NIA special court in Mumbai was rejected. This was one of our ways to express not only our solidarity with Fr Swamy who has been defending tribal rights for over four decades but also defy the central government tactics of intimidating voices of dissent through the UAPA. We also demand release of all the 16 people falsely arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case,” said tribal rights advocate and Manch member Aloka Kujur. Manch general secretary Prafulla Linda expressed shock that an ailing elderly resident has not only been arrested on fabricated charges but even his bail petition has been rejected. “He has denied being present at Bhima Koregaon but still the 83-year-old Jesuit who is suffering from age-related health issues and has always stood for tribals and Dalits is being targeted and arrested during the Covid-19 pandemic and kept in jail. Even his bail petition has been rejected. We will continue our agitation come what may,” said Linda. Jesuits across the country held special prayers on Friday for the release of Fr Swamy. “Prayer is our most potent weapon and the Jesuits are doing community prayers across the country for the release of Fr Stan Swamy. We are praying for all the efforts being undertaken for his release. We also seek power of the Holy Spirit that we may continue to be defenders of human rights and restore humanity. Even sisters of Missionaries of Charity are praying daily and the Archbishop House in Ranchi joined the prayer today,” said auxiliary Bishop of Ranchi Archdiocese, Theodore Mascarenhas. The NIA special court on Thursday rejected the interim bail petition filed by Fr Swamy’s lawyer Sharif Shaikh on medical grounds citing his old age and health problems. According to the petition, Fr Swamy suffers from Parkinson’s disease and could not even sign documents when he was produced before the court by the NIA and the legal team had to take his thumb impression. The petition said Fr Swamy had undergone surgery and hospitalisation right before his arrest and had fallen down in jail (Taloja Central Jail, Mumbai) and sought bail as per the recommendation of the Maharashtra government’s high-powered committee appointed on orders of the Supreme Court to decongest jails in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the NIA opposed the bail plea, stating that Fr Swamy was trying to take undue benefit of the pandemic to get out of jail. Significantly, senior leaders of all Opposition parties, including Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor, DMK MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, CPI leader Sitaram Yechury, CPM’s D. Raja, NCP MP Supriya Sule along with Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan have condemned the arrest of Fr Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
