25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Newly-wed woman’s body found under Jamshedpur bridge||The body of a 22-year-old newly-wed woman was found lying on a sandy patch along the Subarnarekha river beneath Jai Prakash Narayan Setu in the Sitaramdera police station area early on Sunday. Police are unsure about the cause of death as there are no marks of any injury on her body. The woman had put on a red sari, had a tattoo on her left hand and was wearing a pair of anklets. Her body was found by slum dwellers who had gone to the river for a bath around 6am. Jai Prakash Narayan Setu is in the jurisdiction of three police stations: Sakchi, Sitaramdera and Mango. Cops from all three police stations reached the spot and after a discussion, decided that it came under the jurisdiction of Sitaramdera police. The officer in charge of Sitaramdera police station, Anjani Kumar Singh, let the body remain at the spot till 11am, expecting someone to turn up to identify it. However, no one came. Thereafter, the body was shifted to MGM Medical College Hospital for a Covid-19 test and then to the medical college for post-mortem. “We are unsure about the cause of death after a preliminary investigation. It appears that someone may have dropped the body at the spot after strangling her somewhere else. We have to wait for the post-mortem report to find a cause,” Singh told The Telegraph Online. Singh added that the police were trying to procure footage from the surveillance cameras installed on either side of the bridge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Kumari or kanya puja rituals observed across steel city||Family members of former chief minister and present BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das performed kanya puja ( or Kumari Puja ) on the last day of Navratri at Shitla Mandir at Bhalubasa. Das could not attend the ouja as he is away at Patna for the upcoming Bihar assembly polls. His wife Rukmini Devi, son Lalit Das, daughter-in-law Purnima and other close relatives took part in the rituals that began at around 10 am and continued for about two hours. They offered prayers to nine girls aged below 12. The girls, who are believed to represent various forms of Durga were offered a chunri, a token amount and bhog comprising halwa, puri-sabzi and kheer. Kanya puja rituals were observed at several other pujas across the city on Sunday. Meanwhile, bight sunshine during the day and clear skies ensured more people were on the roads on Navami.But, it was nowhere close to crowds from previous years. Most pujas in the steel city witnessed a good turnout on Navami, the crowd comprising mostly young people. Senior citizens too ventured out but their numbers were less as most preferred to stay indoors. In most parts of the city, people started trickling into pandal areas from evening. Everyone had their faces covered with masks and many were seen with sanitiser bottles. " I am out with my family for the first time this puja. Although the threat of Covid exists but we are following all the safety protocols," said Sajal Kumar Sen, a former employee of Tata Motors who stays at  Telco Colony. Purnendu Ghosh, a businessman who had come with his two daughters at the Sarbajanin Durga Puja organised at the Aambagan Ground in Sakchi said,  " This year is very different and we are happy to be out. "||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city sets Dasami norms: immersion at daytime, no procession||The East Singhbhum district administration made elaborate arrangements for immersion of Durga idols on Monday with as many as 12 ghats along Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers cleaned up. Approach roads to the ghats have been levelled and lights and barricades are also in place. Volunteers will also be deployed. The administration has already issued directives to all the 320-odd puja committees to immerse idols before sunset as the water levels of both rivers are high. Moreover, as per Covid guidelines issued by the state government, the immersion will be sans processions. The authorities have also earmarked routes for the immersion of the idols. Magistrates and an adequate number of police personnel will be on duty at ghats from a security point of view. Barricading has also been done on routes which have not been earmarked for immersion. According to ADM (law and order) N.K. Lal, puja committees have been directed to not take out processions, “Puja committees have also been given timings for immersion and they have to adhere to the directives. Adequate security arrangements will be made at the ghats. Volunteers will also be deployed for assistance,” he added. While puja committees under Telco, Govindpur, Golmuri and  Burmamines police stations will proceed via R.D. Tata turnaround to Sakchi and reach the Subarnarekha river after passing through the Old Court Road, puja committees under Sitaramdera thana will catch the Straight Mile Road, reach Sakchi before reaching the river ghat. Idols of puja committees under Kadma police station will be immersed at Sati ghat and sub-station ghat after touching Rankini temple while immersion rituals for Pujas under Sonari thana will be conducted at Domuhani ghat. The ghats that have been readied for immersions include Subarnareka ghat, Sonari Naya ghat, Bhuiyandih ghat, Domuhani ghat, Kadma Sati ghat, Kadma sub-station ghat , Bodhanwala ghat, Bagbera Baroda ghat, Narwa ghat, Hurlung ghat, Baridih ghat and Dimna lake. Officials of district administration have already inspected the ghats. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee and Mango Notified Area Committee have taken care of the cleanliness of the ghats. Puja-related items will not be released in the river. They will be kept at an earmarked place along the riverbed. The Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS), which monitors pujas in steel city, has asked organisers to carry idols in small vehicles and maintain strict social distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM leaders seek special Assembly session to ratify Sarna code||A group of central committee members belonging to the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) wrote to Hemant Soren on Sunday, urging the chief minister to convene a special session of the state Assembly soon and pass a resolution to implement Sarna code and send a proposal to the Centre demanding that it be  included in the nationwide 2021 census. Ahead of the byelections to Dumka and Bermo Assembly constituencies on November 3, the JMM’s move is being seen as an attempt to calm frayed nerves of Jharkhand tribals who have upped their ante to posh for their demand for a separate Sarna code. Over the last week, several tribal outfits have held a series of protest matches and dharnas across the state, including capital Ranchi, in this regard. They have vowed to intensify their stir against the state and Centre in the coming months. The tribals’ demand for a separate sarna code, also known as religion code, is to retain a separate identity. Currently, they are either included as Hindus, Christians or Muslims in the census without a separate column for their distinct religion. The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government, led by Hemant, had promised to work towards a Sarna code in its manifesto. However, it is yet to take any formal step towards fulfilling that promise. Fearing a backlash in the coming byelections, the JMM central Committee has backed the latest demand for a Sarna code, voiced by half-a-dozen members who want a special session of the Assembly convened to seal the matter. JMM central committee member and former Silli MLA Amit Kumar said, “We are requesting the state government to make a formal move and express it’s commitment for the long-pending demands of tribals for a separate Sarna code. Hence, we wrote the letter.” Among the other signatories of the letter are several district party presidents too. In their letter, the JMM leaders have argued that between 1871 to 1951, adivasis used to tick the Sarna column as their religion. But that option was removed since the 1961-62 census. “Even during the last census, over 22 lakh tribals across the country separately identified themselves as Sarna followers but were later classified under Hindu, Muslim or Christian tribals, which is a ploy against their distinct identity,” the letter read. “Tribals (Sarna followers),” the letter added, “worship nature and must be given a separate religion code to retain their distinct identity and customs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Unique pujas across 3 Jharkhand districts||In Hazaribagh, Shivdayal nagar mohalla resident Abhishek Bhushan Prasad has been organising puja at his household including making the idol himself for the last 15 years. Bhushan said he used to bring all required items from Calcutta. “People say that the idol made by me is not seen anywhere else as its different and lively,” said Bhushan. In Chatra, a unique custom to crown goddess Durga at Mayurhund Durga Puja Mandap has resulted in a long waiting list till 2060. Devotees who get the chance have to bear the cost of the crown when their turn comes. Crown makers come from Bengal and total cost comes as Rs.20,000. Puja committee members and villagers gather at the house of the person. The crown custom is performed by priests. This year, Anant Kumar Sinha performed the custom whose father had made the booking in 1996. “My father wanted to do this but he passed away with this wish of him remained unfulfilled. I have done this and wherever my father is, he would be happy today that I fulfilled his wish,” said Sinha. In Koderma, the committee organising Durga puja since 1954 for the first time kept a picture of Goddess Durga instead of an idol. Vice president of puja committee, Suresh Yadav said puja this year is a low key affair. “It was a unanimous decision of the members as we found keeping picture better option to maintain the covid protocol,” he added. Yadav said committee members have been given the task to ensure there is no violation of protocols with devotees asked to come and leave the place immediately after the darshan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Surprise Covid tests at night tame Puja crowds||Pandal hoppers returning to Jamshedpur from Adityapur were in for a surprise before being allowed back in the steel city on Ashtami night on Saturday: on-the-spot Covid tests. A team of health department officials from East Singhbhum, including city SP Subhash Chandra Jat, conducted surprise rapid antigen tests on people as they drove down Kharkai bridge that connects the steel city with the town in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. People were asked to get down from their cars and bikes for the tests during the drive which began at 8pm and continued for over three hours. During the time, around 150 people, men, women and children, were made to undergo rapid antigen test. Reports were made available within 15 minutes on the mobile phones of those who underwent the test. Of the 150, only one per son tested positive. "The patient belonged to Adityapur. He was immediately sent to a Covid hospital in Jamshedpur for treatment," said a health department official. As soon as news of the surprise Covid tests spread, the rush of pandal hoppers heading for Jairam Youth Sporting Club in Adityapur reduced. Of all the pandals, the one put up by the club whose patron is Arvind Singh, a former MLA of Ichagarh, drew considerable crowds on Ashtami night. The 10-feet-tall idol of Goddess Durga was the centre of attraction. The rest of the pujas in the steel city (around 320 ) were a low-key affair with simple  pandals. Civil surgeon of East Singhbhum R.N. Jha said, "Surprise tests were carried out to detect cases and avert the possibility of another wave of infection in the district." So far, East Singhbhum district has reported close to 16,000 cases with 328 deaths, the highest in the state. But in the past one week, cases have reduced in the district as the rate of infection has come down. On Saturday, 48 positive cases were reported out of 1,745 tested people. Significantly, East Singhbhum had reported an all-time high of 326 positive cases on September 9. Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti (JDPKS), the apex body of puja organisers, welcomed the surprise test initiative. “Covid tests on Kharkai bridge should continue on Navami too. These will achieve two objectives —check the flow of crowds into the city and also identify potential virus carriers,” said Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of the Puja apex body. Singh also expressed dismay over the fact that despite standing instructions and state government’s guidelines people were found violating Covid protocols in several pandals on Maha Ashtami. "We have noted this and have asked these puja committees to deal strictly with pandal hoppers defying Covid rules on Navami, " added Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Age-old rural puja in Bokaro goes online||A traditional Durga Puja in rural Jharkhand has gone hi-tech to avoid large gatherings and maintain social distancing amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Being the only one in the village, the nearly 300-year-old puja of the Ghosh family of Marrah in Bokaro district is attended by nearly 600 families residing in the village bordering Bengal. Marrah is located around 35km from the district headquarters. The Ghosh family has installed Wi-Fi connection with a coverage area of about 20 metres so that people can witness the puja rituals even from a distance outside the temple premises. “This is the only Durga Puja in the village that our forefathers had begun about three centuries ago and everyone attends it,” said Sheetal Ghosh, a septuagenarian member of the Ghosh family. He said they thought the use of technology would help avoid a large gathering and also maintain social distancing. The Ghosh family has grown really large over the centuries but most of its members who are now scattered across the country and even abroad try to return to the village for witnessing the traditional family puja, he said. However, he lamented that most of them would not be able to come this year because of the pandemic. They contacted an agent of a mobile network service provider for getting a Wi-Fi connection and routers that would help stream puja proceedings live. A cable line has been laid for installing a broadband connection and routers set up, whose cost has been borne the organisers. “We are also seriously thinking of installing screens at strategic locations so that people can watch the rituals from a distance,” said Pritika Datta, a daughter-in-law of the family who now lives in Delhi but is actively involved in organising the Wi-Fi connection. “I’m a comparatively new member of the family but I’ve seen how my husband and his cousins enjoy the family get-together,” Pritika said. She said they would miss the celebrations this time. “But we are trying to get together online through social media, at least during the special rituals such as Sandhipuja (offered at the confluence of Ashtami and Navami), so that we get a glimpse of the goings-on at the village,” she said. However, the frequent and prolonged power cuts the village faces and poor mobile connectivity may turn out to be a damper. But the family are hopeful that power supply would improve during pujas and broadband Internet connection would also ensure better mobile connectivity. “We are keeping our fingers crossed,” Pritika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
