26-10-2020||Jharkhand||RPF to procure doberman  pup for Tatanagar dog squad||Tatanagar's Railway Protection Force (RPF) unit has sent a proposal for procuring a doberman puppy for its dog squad on Monday. The puppy will be trained in tracking and will subsequently be inducted in the squad which is presently without any tracker. RPF inspector, Tatanagar, MK Sahoo said that their dog squad is supposed to consist of two sniffers and a tracker, but presently there is one sniffer only, causing the railway police to face hardship in carrying out the investigation when the situation arises. "We have only one sniffer, a labrador with which we have to carry out our search operation in the trains as well as in the railway yard.  But we are in urgent need of a tracker without which we find ourselves handicapped often.   We have, therefore, sent a proposal for a Doberman puppy which will be trained and inducted in the dog squad," said Sahoo while talking to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out the proposal has been sent to the higher ups of the Chakradharpur railway division under which Tatanagar falls and it will be eventually sent to the South Eastern Railways' headquarters at Garden Rich in Calcutta for final approval. The RPF inspector said the Doberman proves to be a good tracker and the labrador is known for carrying out the sniffing job diligently. "The doberman puppy will be procured through a tender process.  Once it is procured, dog trainers from Kharagpur will be providing the training at the RPF's dog squad in Kitadih.  After a year-long training the doberman will be inducted in the squad for its service," said the RPF inspector. Sahoo, when queried, both sniffer dogs and trackers are of great use for the department. "Not only for the railways, the sniffer and tracker at the Tatanagar station used to be sent to as far away as Rourkela and Ranchi.  Even the local police would burrow it for detection of criminal cases.  But in absence of a tracker in the squad we are dependent on the tracker from the companies like Tata Steel and Tata Motors," the RPF inspector pointed out. A senior RPF official said ever since the naxalism started here in the Singhbhum region, the need of both tracker and sniffer dogs is being felt increasingly. "Apart from using the sniffers and tracker in detection of general crime, they are being put into service increasingly for checking unclaimed bags and also suspected explosives at the railway station, in the trains and also at the railway tracks," said the official requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
26-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City bids goodbye to the goddess||It was time to bid adieu to the goddess after five days of celebration.This year's festival was different, organised in a low-profile manner due to the Covid-19 induced pandemic. On Dashami today all roads led to the river ghats with members of various Puja committees ferrying idols. This year the idols were ferried to the river ghats on smaller vehicles. with a maximum of 15 members in the procession. Immersions were carried out in as many as 12 ghats of two rivers, Subernarekha and Kharkai as early as 11 am. Maximum immersions took place in Subarnareka ghat at Sakchi followed by Domuhani and Pandey ghat at Bhuiyandih. The East Singhbhum district administration was well prepared for peaceful immersions. Officials of two civic bodies - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC ) and Mango Notified Area Committee ( MNAC ) alongwith Jusco officials supervised the immersions in various ghats. General secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti ( JDPKS )  Ram Babu Singh alonwith other members of the apex body went around various river ghats. "The immersions in all river ghats were peaceful . Around 300 puja committees immersed the idols in various ghats. Immersions continued till the evening, " he said. Policemen also undertook patrolling and were deployed in sensitive pockets for preventing any untoward incidents. The smaller idols of 4 feet, as per the guidelines of state government proved  a blessing in disguise for localities like Mango, Jugsalai, Chhotagovindpur, Sundernagar, Adityapur, Ghorabandha and several other localities which has power supply from Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited ( JBVNL ). None of those localities  which falls under JBVNL had a power cut this year. "As the idols were of smaller heights there was no risk of getting in contact with overhead high tension cables. Hence, there was no power cut. We ensured uninterrupted power supply, " said Sanjay Mahto, a JBVNL junior engineer posted in Mango division. Every year on the day of Dashami residents of JBVNL command areas had to confront prolonged power cut from 2 pm till midnight for facilitating smooth immersions. Earlier, in the day today some puja committes allowed Sindoor Khela while others did not due to the threat of the transmission of Covid -19. House-wives in Telco, Kashidih, Sonari and Kadma participated in Sindoor Khela and were seen exchanging greetings of Bijoya Dashami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
26-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bijoya Dashami: Adieu to Ma Durga||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
