27-10-2020||Jharkhand||PWD contractor’s son shot at in Jamshedpur||The 26-year-old son of a PWD contractor was shot at and injured by two scooter-borne assailants at Ganesh Puja Maidan in the Kadma police station area on Dashami night. The injured, identified as Asfaque Khan, has sustained an injury in his right thigh and has been admitted at Tata Main Hospital, where he is yet to be operated upon.  Though the pellet is still stuck in the victim’s thigh, he is said to be out of danger. In his statement to police, Asfaque has alleged that Mohammed Sajjad and Chintu Khan shot at him after an altercation over an extortion bid by the duo. According to the statement, Asfaque, who is the son of Mustaque Khan, a resident of Dhatkidih, was returning home from a medical store in Kadma market around 10pm. Sajjat and Chintu who were on a scooter intercepted him and asked him to pay Rs 1 lakh every month if he and his father wanted to run their contract business in the city. On protesting, he was shot at by Sajjad. “He fished out a pistol from his waist and fired a shot at my thigh, causing me to fall down. This prompted some people to rush to the spot. The duo fled. While fleeing, Sajjat, who was driving the two-wheeler, ran over my legs,” Asfaque said. Sajjat and Chintu are members of a gang that was allegedly involved in an attack at Dhatkidih on October 5, which left some local residents injured. Chintu is the nephew of local JMM leader Firoz Khan. Mustaque said Chintu and his associates were involved in an attack last year on his son. Four persons, including a juvenile, have been arrested for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl  in a village under Manjhiaon police station on October 21. An FIR had been filed regarding the incident at Manjhiaon police station. The accused persons, Nasiruddin Khan, Nadim Khan, Khurshid Khan and the juvenile, are residents of the victim’s village. Three of the accused were remanded in judicial custody, while the juvenile was sent to a children’s home. On the complaint of the victim’s father, a case under Section 376 (D) (punishment for rape) of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act was registered against the accused persons, investigating officer Shyam Lal Gupa said. A break-in attempt was foiled by police in Chatra after they received a tip-off regarding some unusual noises coming from the branch of a public sector bank. A ventilator was used by a few persons to enter the premises of the SBI branch at Tapej. They were trying to cut a hole in the shutter when someone informed the police regarding the noise. A patrolling party was sent to the branch which remained outside the building. The police personnel kept knocking on the main entrance from the outside. Those who had entered the branch illegally panicked on hearing the policemen knock and fled. However, before leaving, they damaged the surveillance cameras and strew documents on the floor. The bank branch was closed due to Durga Puja. Bank officials learnt about the break-in attempt on Tuesday when they reopened the branch. The police were critical of the bank officials for not getting the ventilator closed despite being asked to earlier. The police have launched an investigation. Vigilance Awareness Week commenced at CCL Rajrappa on Tuesday. General manager of the Rajrappa area, Alok Kumar, administered the vigilance oath to all officers, employees and leaders in the presence of vigilance officer Ajay Kumar. This year, the theme of the Vigilance Awareness Week is “Vigilant India, Prosperous India”. After the vigilance oath programme, posters were pasted on vehicles and in various places by the officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Statewide crackdown on drugs, liquor smuggling from Nov. 1||Jharkhand police will roll out a special two-week drive against the sale of drugs and illegal liquor across the state from November 1, DGP M.V. Rao announced on Tuesday ahead of Diwali next month. Addressing the media at police headquarters on Tuesday, Rao said, “Raids and crackdowns will be conducted thana-wise during the period of the drive and in case of any major hauls, the respective officer in-charge of police stations will be held accountable.” The drive is also aimed at curbing illegal smuggling of liquor or other banned substances into neighbouring Bihar where Assembly polls will begin from Wednesday. Rao said police, along with paramilitary forces, were conducting intensive operations along state borders for last few weeks, keeping in mind the elections in Bihar. “Fifty check-points have been set up along the borders to prevent inter-state movement illegal liquor, drugs, and movement of criminals or rebels during the polls,” he said. Jharkhand, Rao added, would also hold byelections in Dumka and Bermo on November 3, for which respective districts had been alerted. On recent achievements of police, Rao added that in the last one month as many as 13 people had been jailed for arms smuggling. “We have seized 200 pieces of gelatine sticks, over 100 detonators, several cache of arms and ammunition from districts and jailed 13 people. It’s a continuous exercise and teams are on vigil,” he said. “As many as 4,642 litre country liquor and 1,495 litre foreign liquor was seized and over 80 people arrested in recent weeks. Similarly, 80kg ganja, 500kg dodda, 18kg opium, among others, were confiscated through special checks,” he said. Crime against women and children had seen a spurt in the state in recent months which prompted police to roll out Whatsapp numbers in all districts for registering complaints. Rao said that in one week, police had received 108 complaints. Of these, 28 cases were reported from Ranchi, 18 from Giridih and 12 from East Singbhum (12). “We are now mandating SPs to reach the spot and conduct preliminary investigations in case of any suspicious death of women and children to fix responsibility and prevent negligence at thana levels. Soon, we are going to issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) for handling sensitive cases in accordance with the law,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jusco starts cleaning steel city ghats and water bodies post immersion||A day after immersions, Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (previously Jusco) started cleaning ghats along the Subernarekha and Kharkain rivers. The Tata Steel subsidiary, which looks after municipal and allied services in the steel city, deployed a 12-member team of  workers to clean the largest Subernarekha ghat in Sakchi, where 80 Durga idols were immersed on Monday. "The cleaning work has begun with the Subernarekha ghat. We will carry out similar operations at eight other ghats – Sati, Do muhani, Sub Station Ghat (Kadma), Naya Ghat (Near Kanderbera Bridge),  Pandey Ghat, Bhuiyandih Ghat, Bailey Bodhanwala Ghat and Dimna lake," said Sukanya Das, spokesperson for the company. She also informed that necessary preparations were in place at all these nine ghats for facilitating smooth immersions. Apart from the Subernarekha ghat, numerous idols were immersed in Pandey Ghat, Naya Ghat, Bhuiyandih Ghat and Do Muhani on Dashami. In total, over 300 idols were immersed in various river ghats this year. The cleanliness drive will continue for a few days to make the banks and rivers clean enough before Chhath. Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti, the apex body which monitors the festival said, " It won't take much time for cleaning ghats as this year's Puja was a low-key affair with smaller idols." The directive to clean up ghats and rivers comes in the wake of guidelines issued by the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board via its Adityapur regional office, sent to the company from the central board that referred to the 2014 judgment of National Green Tribunal on water pollution due to idol immersion. Cleanliness is mandatory because Puja paraphernalia gets littered along riverbanks or ends floating on water. Inorganic paints on idols contain toxic chemicals like lead, cadmium, mercury, arsenic and others, which harm and choke aquatic life. Materials used in making idols such as plaster of paris also get deposited as harmful sediments in water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI to host its first start-up conclave Ingenium on October 31||In an attempt to create an entrepreneurial intent among the youth and inspire them to build start-up ventures, the placement committee of XLRI's Post Graduate Diploma in Management (General Management ) course will organise it's virtual flagship start-up conclave - Ingenium on October 31. Ingenium is a unique concept wherein start-ups get a chance to showcase their innovative vision and product offering, pitch to the right set of candidates looking to find the right investors, right mentors, and right employers or cofounders for their start-ups. Each of the sessions of the conclave will provide valuable insights into ever-changing dimensions of the start-up eco system. The conclave will facilitate a dialogue between budding entrepreneurs, mentors, experts, investors, professional service providers. Fr. P. Christie, director of XLRI, will address the inaugural session. The participants in the panel discussions will include founders and co-founders from top start-ups including Amit Chaudhary (Lenskart), Dr Arokiaswamy Velumani (Thyrocare), Ranjeet Kumar (Team Pumpkin),  Swati Bhargava (CashKaro), and  Tripti Shinghal (Womennovator). Elaborating on the conclave, Prof. Kanagaraj of XLRI said," Entrepreneurship is a crucial factor in the development of any economy. Entrepreneurs are the alchemists who know the right combination of all those elements required to convert problems into opportunities. Their entrepreneurial mindset can give favorable results even in the midst of an economic downturn and promote and nurture entrepreneurship among Millennials. We are organising the first edition of the Start-up Conclave -2020 as an initiative to contribute towards encouraging and developing an entrepreneurial mindset and to handhold budding entrepreneurs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Mahto yet to improve, says doctor in Chennai hospital||Critically-ill school education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who had to be put on life support at a private hospital in Chennai following a coronavirus infection which damaged his lungs, is yet to show signs of improvement, doctors said on Tuesday. Dr Suresh Rao, the Co-director of Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai, said that Mahto was stable but his lungs were not improving despite being put on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). “We have to give his lungs more time to respond to the treatment. He is stable, but his lungs are not showing any signs of improvement as of now,” said Dr Rao. At present, doctors at MGM were not even testing the efficiency of Mahto’s lungs, as a CT scan may also pose health risks, Rao added. “We are not planning any test at present. We will continue to keep him on life support and wait for his lungs to heal,” he said. ECMO is a life support system in which gas exchange happens outside the body through the machine instead of the lungs. Once the blood is oxygenated and carbon dioxide is removed, it is pumped back to the heart, from where it circulates to other parts of the body. Jagarnath Mahto, 53, a JMM legislator from Dumri constituency, tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was initially admitted in state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medical Supercpecialty Hospital in Ranchi on October 1 after his condition deteriorated. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 and admitted at MGM Healthcare in the Tamil Nadu capital. Although Mahto’s lungs have not improved in the past one week, doctors are hopeful that they might heal. Some patients have recovered after being put on ECMO for a month, doctors said. A patient, who did not respond to ECMO, had to undergo lung transplant and is now doing well, said Dr Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Early signs of winter, there’s a nip in the air across state||There has been a nip in the air in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and several other places across Jharkhand during the last couple of days, the early signs of winter that are so familiar around Diwali and Kali Puja. For the past two days Ranchi notched night readings (minimum temperature) of around 16 degree Celsius, a notch below normal while Jamshedpur hovered around 17 degree Celsius, two notches below normal, in  sync with the exit of the monsoon that is accompanied by north-westerly winds. In Bokaro, the minimum reading plummeted below 15 degree Celsius (14.6 degrees) for the last two days, four notches below normal. Minimum readings in Daltonganj, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Chatra, Deoghar and other districts also witnessed a drop due to the dominating north westerly winds. "The wind pattern over the state has changed. It is fluctuating between northerly and westerly. Usually, such wind patterns lead to a fall in minimum readings," said S. D. Kotal, director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. According to last year's Met data around this time, the minimum reading was hovering around 18 degree Celsius in Ranchi, while it was between 20-23 degree Celsius in Jamshedpur. A senior weather analyst at IMD's Patna Meteorological Centre, which also keeps tabs on Jharkhand's weather, said three factors lead to a fall in night readings - the departure of the southwest monsoon, changing wind patterns and a sharp drop in water vapour in the atmosphere. Residents have been feeling the change in weather conditions. "For the last two days we have stopped using the AC. The weather has become pleasant both in mornings and evenings," said Avantika Singh, a homemaker at Sonari. Ranchi resident Pankaj Ghosal said, "I can feel the nip in the air during morning walk. Winter seems to have come early this year." Weathermen at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta issued a forecast of dry weather over Jharkhand for the next 72 hours. " Weather conditions will be dry with clear sky over Jharkhand during the next few days. In today's (Tuesday’s) satellite and other Met studies we found no adverse weather system which would impact Jharkhand's weather during the next 72 hours," said a duty officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Twin murders in Palamau  during Durga Puja||Palamau district winessed two murders, resulting in 5 arrests during durga puja. At a press conference organised on Mondau, SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar revealed deatils of the cases, triggered by love and betrayal. The first case is of October 23 wherethe in body of a minor girl aged 17 was found in a well, owned by one Sanjay Pandey about a kilometer from the Sordeeha branch of SBI. The SP said the girl had two boyfriends, one Ranjeet Vishwakarma and one Sanjay Mehta of Bishrampur police station. SDPO Bishrampur Surjit Kumar said the two boyfriends conspired and killed her. Ranjit and Sanjay have been remanded in judicial custody today. In the other case, a 22 year old boy Hemant Kumar was found hacked to death. He was in love with a girl and her brothers killed him. The incident took place under Chhaterpur police station where the two brothers of Sunil Ram and Alok Ram along with a co-villager Guddu Pandey have been arrested and remanded to judicial custody today. Police have recovered two knives used in the crime and a blood soaked cloth, along a cell phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
