28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Villager trampled to death by elephant in Chandil||A 32-year-old man was trampled to death by an elephant at a farm in Manikui village of Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Tuesday. The incident took place at around 10 pm. Mantu Majhi, in a drunken stupor, was taunting the elephant. A forest team and villagers trying to shepherd the elephant to the jungles, tried to stop the victim but to no avail. “He (Majhi) was challenging the elephant and was shouting that he would not spare the animal which had killed his brother in-law some months back. The elephant stood for a while before wrapping Majhi around his trunk and later trampled him to death,” said one of the villagers. The elephant was separated from a herd and had ventured into the farm alone. The forest team and villagers, who were armed with mashals and drums, gathered at the farm for driving away the jumbo. The herd is from neighbouring Bengal and is anchored in Chandil forest range. According to Chandil range officer Ashok Kumar, they were trying hard to inform the villagers to not tease elephants. “Jumbos generally don’t attack till they become irritated. Elephants generally catch their route and don’t harm people unless teased. Villagers tend to throw stones at the elephants which irritate them. Majhi had come dangerously close to the elephant,” he added. Majhi’s body was sent to MGM medical College in Jamshedpur for post-mortem on Wednesday afternoon. The range officer said Rs 25,000 has been given to the victim’s family for performing the last rites. A compensation of Rs 3.75 lakh will also be given.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad faces water shortage during festival ||A leakage in the water supply pipeline of Maithon Water Supply project at Barwa East area on October 24 has affected more than five lakh residents. Repair work had started on Tuesday morning and completed by Wednesday morning but minor leakages disrupted the supply of water again. Chintu Vishwakarma, a resident of Matkuria locality of Dhanbad said, “The water supply disruption has badly affected our puja celebration which has already started on dull note this year due to wide range of restrictions imposed on lighting, decoration, pandal and idol height etc.” “While everybody in other parts of district like Jharia, Sindri and Katras were getting ready for puja by performing their homely chores early in morning we had to wander from morning to late afternoon during Ashtami, Navmi and Dashmi  (October 24-26) arranging water through nearby hand pumps and wells,” said Vishwakarma. Around 20 million gallons of water is supplied every day from Maithon lake to different parts of Dhanbad after water treatment is carried out in Bhelatand treatment plant of Drinking Water Sanitation department. Rishu Pandey, a resident of Bank More area said, “I live in a rented room here at Bank More along with another trainee, a resident of Chandrapura in Dhanbad and since the over head tank of land lord had been exhausted on October 25 morning itself we had no other option than to purchase packaged  water and also fetch water from a well situated around one kilometre away  from our house.” Rahul Priyadarshi, sub divisional officer of the drinking water and sanitation department, claimed that the second leakage has been repaired on Wednesday but water supply is not likely to be restored before Thursday evening. “We have completed the repair work of the water supply pipeline and water supply is expected to restored by tomorrow morning,” said Manish Kumar,  executive engineer of Drinking Water and Sanitation Department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Poor start to Diwali sales, Dhanbad traders don’t expect improvement||The economy affected by the Covid induced lockdown has led to poor sales during the festive season. After sluggish trade of garments and footwear during Dura Puja, Diwali sales have also taken a beating. FMCG products and automobile sales mostly dominate the Diwali period. Lack of liquidity in the market, lesser supply of products and also lack of confidence among consumers are the main factors. President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, Amit Sahu who also owns Sahu Electronics said, “We are expecting sell to be less than 50% during this Diwali of usual sell of more than Rs 300 crore of last year as the market position in not good.” “Due to uncertainty in the market the shop keepers have also not added much of the new stock for the Diwali as majority of their old stocks are lying unsold and they are harping  on clearing  their old stocks instead of adding to new stock,” added Sahu. Echoing Sahu’s sentiments, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Diwali is primarily the festival of business class and traders but since the trader, shop keepers and business class are worst hit due to Covid we are expecting the business during Diwali to be affected this year.” “Though Dhanbad has large section of service class working with various Public Sector Units, private organization and central and state government institutions like BCCL, ECL, DVC, IIT (ISM), CIMFR, Tata Steel, IIT (ISM), CIMFR, SAIL, HURL, MPL who are largely unaffected due to lockdown but given the present scenario nobody is willing to spend money and rather insisting to save the same for any upcoming exigency in uncertain times,” said Gupta. Manish Kumar, manager of Great Eastern Trading  outlet at Dhanbad said, “We are also getting lesser products from different manufacturers despite placing orders and reason might be the complete stalling of industrial activity during the initial phase and lack of complete revival of industrial production due to lack of availability of labourers etc during lockdown.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro village witnesses apple farming for the first time||A Ranchi agriculture officer has started an apple farming initiative in Dorio village in Bagodar Block of Giridih along the Grand Truck road. Rameshwar Nath Mehta, a native of Dorio, has planted around 100 apple saplings on 50 decimals of land. “The apple saplings were planted 10 months ago and now it has grown upto 5 feet.  Fruits will also start coming up by 2022. The plants are healthy,” he said. Mehta said, “I come across HRMN-99 apple variety which does not require chilling hours for flowering and fruit setting. It grows in low altitude at 1800 feet above sea level. Unlike Kashmiri or Himalayan apples, the flowering of this apple variety begins in January and it becomes ready to harvest in early June (after three years of transplanting).” Mehta ordered 100 apple grafted saplings from a Hyderabad nursery. Each sapling cost him Rs 125. He uses organic methods to maintain the farm. “Of the 100 sapling, only two died due to heavy rain while others are growing and are in healthy state,” he said. Jagdish Prasad, a teacher said, “we are very happy to see apple farming in our village. It is really a good initiative.” Villagers were initially sceptical about the saplings surviving in the hot and humid climate. The farm has become an attraction now and Mehta plans to expand it soon. Deputy comissioner of Giridih, Rahul Kumar Sinha said “It is an innovative step in farming."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Central laws not allowing us to check price of onions, pulses, says minister||The provisions of the recently passed farm acts by the Narendra Modi-led Centre are posing to be a challenge for the state government in regulating prices of pulses and onions, minister of food, public distribution and consumer affairs Rameshwar Oraon said on Wednesday. Oraon said the Centre took away the state government’s power of enforcing hoarding limits for pulses and onions at various godowns, which eventually led to the unprecedented rise in prices. “The new laws have taken away our power of enforcing a limit on hoarding of pulses and onions. This has led to unregulated hoarding of these commodities by the wholesalers,” said Oraon. “They (wholesalers) have hoarded pulses and onions and are releasing them in the market gradually at an inflated price,” he added. Oraon, who is also the finance minister in the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand cabinet, said the government was planning to regulate the prices of onion and pulses in the state, and was likely to come up with schemes to provide these essential commodities at a subsidized rate through PDS. However, he added that it was too early to comment on the modalities of the system as the plan was at an infancy stage. In Ranchi, the price of masur and arhar pulses have increased by Rs 10 per kg in the past one week. The price of onions has shot up from Rs 50 per kg to Rs 80 per kg here. On Wednesday, masur dal was being sold at Rs 80 per kg, while arhar dal was being sold at Rs125 per kg in Ranchi. The Centre's law had given the government of India the right to regulate supply of cereals, pulses, potato, onion and edible oilseeds, etc, in the eventuality of war, famine, grave natural calamities and extraordinary price rise. Recently, the Punjab government introduced a Bill seeking to restore the state’s power to regulate essential commodities and enforce hoarding limits. The Jharkhand government may follow the same steps if needed, sources said. Oraon said the state government was also planning to provide one kilogram dal against each ration card to beneficiaries in Jharkhand. He added that the government was committed to preventing hoarding of onions in the state, and thereby ensure minimal inflation in its price. Last year, former food minister Saryu Roy had provided onions at subsidised price in parts of Jharkhand. However, it was only a temporary arrangement to deal with the crisis then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to miss tallest Kali idol||The unique towering Goddess Kali at Telco will not mesmerise visitors this year. Young Boys Club, the organisers of the Puja, has decided to break from tradition and go for a smaller idol this year due to the government's guidelines in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The idol, an attraction every year, is around 22 ft tall. General secretary of Young Boys Club, Pradeep Rajwar said, "We will not skip the puja. But, because of the pandemic and the government guidelines this year, itl be organised in a low profile manner with a small idol, thus breaking the tradition of the city's tallest idol for the first time." The senior functionary said the organisation have also refused the artisans, who used to come from Balichak in West Midnapore district of Bengal for making the unique Kali idol. "Every year a team of artisans from Bengal used to come here after Dashami for making the idol mounted on a trolley, so that it helps during immersion. This year a small idol will be made instead on that same trolley, "said Rajwar. In its 45th year, the organisers have also decided to cut short the days of the celebration. "Usually we celebrate Kali Puja for six-days as it gives an opportunity for people from various parts of the city and far flung areas to have a glimpse of the idol. But, this year the celebration will be for two days- November 14 and 15, "said Rajwar. Kali Puja and Diwali will be celebrated on November 14. Last year, the puja attracted footfall of over 1 lakh people. The Kali Puja organised by Young Boys Club involves a budget of  around Rs 12 lakh. The club members informed that around Rs 1.50 lakh is spent towards making the 22 ft idol and jewelleries which is procured from Calcutta. "Our puja is known for the sheer size of the idol. The practice of making the 22-feet tall idol started in 1976 when our founder P.K. Ghosh dreamt about it. We try to maintain the tradition every year," said an executive member of the club. The organisers informed that  every year the puja is based on a  theme. Last year's puja was based on the theme 'Beti Bachao Beti Padao'. However, this year's  puja will be organised without a theme. The steel city witnesses around 10 major Kali pujas of which five to six are big-budget. Among the other big-ticket puja organisers are Jail Chowk Kali Puja Committee in Sakchi and Ranikudar Sarbajanin Kali Puja Committee in Kadma. All puja committees have decided to keep it low-key with smaller idols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Martial art mentor from Jamshedpur becomes joint secretary of KAI||Steel city-based veteran martial art mentor Kyoshi L. Nageshwar Rao has been elected as the joint secretary of Karate Association of India (KAI) at the elections held in Guwahati, Assam on October 23. Rao, an employee of Tata Steel sports wing and secretary of Jharkhand State Karate Do Association (JSKA), has been instrumental in channelising the sport across the state. The KAI election was conducted in a free, fair and peaceful atmosphere under the observance of former judge of Guwahati High Court B.P. Katakey and senior advocate of Supreme Court T.T. Tara. Affiliated members of KAI from 30 states participated in the polls whuch was held as per orders and guidelines of ministry of sports ad youth affairs. “I would try my best to contribute for the development of karate across the country. I am sure that KAI will prosper and reach new heights under the leadership of the new president who has the ability to bring all karatekas under one roof,” Rao said, adding that he was happy to contribute to the cause. Rao, a black belt, has honed his skills under experienced mentors, in India as well as in Japan. He has also acted as the manager of the national team and is in coaching for nearly three decades. He has produced several karatekas who have won medals in national championship. He is a well-known figure in the city’s sports fraternity. Apart from Rao, Hanshi Likha Tara was elected as the president. Shihan Rajneesh Choudhary became the general secretary while Shihan Rajesh Agarwal and Arshad Ali Khan were elected as treasurer and technical director respectively. Participants of the national karate championship wll be provided free lodging and fooding during the event, the newly-elected KAI president announced. The dates and venue of the event would be announced in due course of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Nine TFA graduates promoted to JFC's first team||Nine promising graduates from Tata Football Academy (TFA) have made it to Jamshedpur FC’s senior side, which will compete in the seventh edition of Indian Super League (ISL) starting in Goa on November 20. Billu Teli, Harsha Parui, Goarchand Mardi, Gourab (all midfielders), Raj Mahato, Vishal Yadav (both goalkeepers), Manash Gogoi (defender), Manisana Singh and Sapam Kennedy Singh (both forwards) passed from the elite Jamshedpur cradle earlier this year. According to JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari, all the boys are skillful footballers and were happy to be promoted to the senior team. “The boys will get adequate exposure by training with top players and also get an opportunity to work under highly-experienced coaches,” he added. Speaking on the phone from Goa, Choudhari, however, said all the nine promoted players will not be staying with the JFC team throughout the ISL. “Head coach Owen Coyle will select some players who will stay with the senior side for the league. Rest will return home,” he informed. The nine TF graduates are currently in Goa and training with the senior outfit at Sangolda panchayat football ground. Meanwhile, head coach Owen Coyle has taken charge of the training process after completing his manadatory quarantine. The Scotland-born mentor is conducting the sessions with his deputies Alexander Sandy Stewart and Noel Wilson. The training sessions are underway in full steam. The players also worked under head physio Vivek Nigam and his deputy Arghya Basu. “Recovery is as important as training as it helps avoid injuries,” said Nigam Jamshedpur FC has unveiled the final squad for the upcoming ISL. The squad comprises 27 Indians and 7 foreigners. The 34-member squad include Pawan Kumar , Neeraj Kumar (both goalkeepers), Narender Gahlot (defender), Aitor Monroy (midfielder), Alex Lima midfielder), Amarjeet Kiyam (midfielder), Nerijus Valskis (forward), David Grande (forward), Aniket Jadhav (forward), Telem Jackichand Singh (midfielder), Issac Valsawma (midfielder), Joyner Lourence (defender), Mobashir Rahman (midfielder), Ricky Lallawmawma (defender), Bhupender Singh (midfielder), Sandeep Mandi (defender), Billu Teli (midfielder), Subhash Barua (defender), Nicholas John Fitgerald (midfielder). Harsha Parui (defender), Karan Amin (defender), Manash Gogoi (defender), Peter Hartley (defender), Vishal Yadav (goalkeeper), Rehenesh TP (goalkeeper), Jitendra Singh (midfielder), Manisana Singh (midfielder), Gourab (midfielder), Gorachand Mardi (midfielder), Sapam Kennedy Singh (midfielder), William Lalnunfela (forward), Stephen Eze (defender), Raj Mahato (goalkeeper) and Laldinliana Renthlei (defender). The technical staff comprises of Owen Coyle (head coach), Alexander Sandy Stewart (assistant coach), Noel Wilson (assistant coach), Adrian Gregory Dias (strength and conditioning coach) and  Ezequiel Gomez Leon (goalkeeping coach).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally crosses one lakh mark in Jharkhand, 318 cases in a day||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 1 lakh mark on Tuesday after as many as 318 people, including 127 from Ranchi alone, were found to be infected in 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 1,00,224 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 25,000 of them were from Ranchi. However, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection continued to decline in the state on Tuesday after at least 506 Covid patients recovered against the 300-odd fresh cases surfacing on the day. As per figures with NHM, at least 5,474 of the 1-lakh-odd people infected by the virus so far were still battling the viral infection in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, four more Covid-19 patients died during treatment on Tuesday, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 876. Bokaro, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum and Ranchi reported one death each on the day. While the number of Covid casualties has been on the rise in Jharkhand, the state’s recovery rate too has improved significantly. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state reached 93.66 per cent on Tuesday against the national Covid recovery rate of 90.60 per cent. As many as 93,974 Covid patients recovered from the infection by Tuesday night in Jharkhand, government data highlighted. Ranchi, which reported the highest number of fresh cases of infection on Tuesday, also saw the highest number of Covid-19 recoveries after 179 patients recovered in the district on Tuesday, bringing the count of active cases down at 1,778, which is the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum reported only 43 cases of infection on the day, which was the second highest among all districts in Jharkhand. The count of active cases in this district reached 1,310, reveals government data. Bokaro reported 28 cases, while Pakur and Deoghar districts reported 21 and 18 cases respectively. The government in Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 31.67 lakh people for Covid-19 tests and tested around 31.52 lakh of them. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 22,162 people and 21,844 of them tested negative for the virus. As per government figures, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 160.23 days against the national average of 118.61 days. The growth rate of the virus in the state in the past one week was 0.41 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.59 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand bypoll campaign in full swing||Campaigning for Assembly bypolls in two seats — Dumka and Bermo —in Jharkhand has reached feverish pitch. As campaign is scheduled to close on November 1 afternoon with voting on November 3, chief minister Hemant Soren and JMM supremo and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren camped at Dumka while BJP’s national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das also arrived in Dumka on Tuesday evening. Dumka is poised for a direct contest between Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant Soren making his debut in political arena on JMM ticket and a minister in erstwhile BJP government Louis Marandi on BJP ticket. By-poll to this seat was necessitated after Hemant Soren vacated Dumka Assembly constituency and kept Barhait Assembly constituency after taking over as chief minister. “We are confident of retaining Dumka seat as people have realised the double-standards of the BJP government who are only interested in looting natural resources of Jharkhand. The people have faith in our government as we have taken up popular schemes and have taken up sincere efforts for increasing reservation in government jobs for SC/ST and OBC. We have opened 22 fast track courts for prompt justice in violence against women,” said Hemant at a meeting with women at his house in Khijuria in Dumka. Das who reached Dumka in the evening, while addressing journalists hit out at the JMM-led UPA government in the state for failure in law and order. “The people have realised their mistake of electing a government which has failed to meet any of its promises made in the manifesto,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Call to Dalits, minorities to join protest ||Christian organisations and human right groups have called for Dalits, tribal and minorities to join hands with other concerned citizens and protest attempts by the central government to silence voices of dissent by misusing the anti-terror law UAPA. During a two-hour webinar named “Stand with Stan” organised by Indian Christians for Democracy on Sunday, representatives of various Christian and rights organisations said that the arrest of 83-year-old Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy by the National Investigation Agency along with other intellectuals and rights defenders in the Bhima Koregaon case has created an urgent need for the convergence of minorities, Dalits and tribal forces against the current “fascist” forces. “These arrests have shown the intent of the central government and no Indian can afford to be complacent and say that I am not affected and let anything happen. We invite all to come to the streets and oppose the sinister move of the present regime. Time is ripe for Dalits, Adivasis and minorities to join together with common and concerned citizens of the country in one struggle against the fascist forces. All religion teaches us to oppose those who are spreading hate and dividing society,” said Father Prakash Louis, founder of Indian Christians for Democracy. It was also decided to work with all the social, cultural, political and secular individuals and organisations in opposing the agenda of the present regime. “In the earlier Emergency in our country, political opponents were targeted. But now intellectuals and human right activists are being targeted and laws are being misused. The 16 people arrested in the Bhima Koregaon incident have fabricated charges levelled against them. There is an urgent need to exert pressure on the government to repeal the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act which is being blatantly misused to harass rights activists,” said author and social activist Harsh Mander. Others who attended the webinar included Kavita Srivastava, national general secretary, People’s Union for Civil Liberties, Ranjan Solomon, rights activist from Goa and member of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisation, Zoe Xavier, director of Indian Social Institute, Bangalore and Frazer Mascarenhas, former principal, St Xavier’s College, Mumbai. The speakers demanded immediate and unconditional release of Fr  and all the other accused in the Bhima Koregaon case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
