29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Food prices soar in Dhanbad||Vegetable prices are skyrocketing in Dhanbad due to lack of sufficient supply from outside the state and lesser availability of local stock. Onion is being sold at Rs 70 per kg, white potato (old) is priced at Rs 40 per kg and red potato is being sold at Rs 50 per kg and white potato (new) is being sold at Rs 60 per kg. Ujjwal Kumar, a potato and onion retailer of police line area of Dhanbad said, “The delay in arrival of onion stock from Nasik is mainly responsible for the high prices of onion and the situation is likely to continue for one more month as the stock from Nasik will take around a month to arrive.” Regarding the high prices of potato he said, “potato prices are also high due to lack of sufficient supply from Bengal while the old existing stock is not usable and has rotten.” Ramesh Kumar, a vegetable seller of Police line area said, “Though the prices of green vegetable are high since the last two months and lack of sufficient stock at local level and non arrival of supplementary stock of from other places like Bengal is mainly responsible for the high prices.” “I don’t know the reason for high prices of vegetables but can say that the common people are worst sufferer as these are essential items affecting everybody,” said Joseph K.A., principal of De Nobili School, Dhanbad. Chatra deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha ordered a polytechnic building to be converted into a 300 bed covid care centre due to rise in cases. The college is situated in Kathotia under Paradih panchayat of chatra block. At present the town has a 100 bed covid care centre running in a newly constructed subdivisonal office building. Chatra subdivsional officer Mumtaz Ansari visited the college to oversee the preparations and ensure the facility is ready within a week. Chatra district administration auctioned paddy crops grown on government land sending a clear signal to land grabbers that such acts will not be tolerated. Auction took place in Dhebro village under Kanhachatti block where paddy crops from 33 acres of land were auctioned. Block officials reached the village on Wednesday and organised the auction participated by seven farmers. The government rate was fixed as Rs.1,01,000. During auction, the final rate reached Rs.2,05,000 paid by one Yugesgwar Yadav. Officials on Thursday handed the ownership of paddy to Yadav. Land grabbers had refused to vacate the land despite several warnings from officials. The auction was a necessary action taken to send a message that they won’t be mute spectators anymore. Ramgarh Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh on Thursday reviewed the work being done to develop the Chinnamastika Siddha Peeth Rajrappa as a religious and tourism place. Executive Engineer JSBCCL informed the Deputy Commissioner on the progress made so far under the first phase.The DC sought information from Forest Divisional Officer Ved Prakash Kamboj about the problems of land in construction works and held a detailed discussion to execute the cases at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries inch towards 95,000||The number of Covid-19 recoveries in Jharkhand drew close to the 95,000 mark on Thursday after at least 461 more patients tested negative for the coronavirus, figures compiled by the health department stated. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of the infection on Thursday, taking the Covid-19 recovery rate in the state close to 94 per cent. As many as 395 people, including 78 from Ranchi and 61 from East Singhbhum, were found infected across Jharkhand during the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. While the number of active cases dropped to 5,294 after Thursday’s findings, the number of casualties further rose to 883 after three more patients breathed their last in 24 hours, the NHM bulletin stated. The mortality rate in Jharkhand, as per government records, was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Ranchi reported the highest number of cases among all the districts in the state on Thursday. As per government records, there were around 1,700 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi on Thursday, while around 1,300 people were battling the infection in East Singhbhum. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 31,564 people and 31,169 of them were found to be negative. As per government records, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of around 32.46 lakh people and tested around 32.33 lakh of them. Of the 883 Covid victims in Jharkhand, at least 333 were from East Singhbhum and 175 from Ranchi, which means that nearly 60 per cent of the fatalities reported in the state so far occurred in these two districts. At least 669 of the 883 victims were older than 50 years, while 173 were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years. At least 38 Covid victims were younger than 30 years. Barring Dhanbad, Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the districts in Jharkhand reported less than 50 fresh cases of infection on Thursday. The count of active cases was below 1,000 in all the districts apart from Ranchi and East Singhbhum. As per government records, Jharkhand’s Covid-19 doubling rate was 168.19 days against the national average of 126.11 days. The growth rate of the infection in the state was 0.36 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.59 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Road blockade after fatal accident on Bhuiyandih, traffic disrupted for hours||Traffic on Bhuiyandih road remained disrupted for more than two hours after a 45-year-old man was run over by a trailer near Patel Nagar under Sitaramdera thana area on Thursday morning. The accident took place when the victim was pedalling through the congested road toward Sidhgora. The Bhuiyandih road is being widened hence there is very little space for the vehicles to pass through. The victim identified as Gurdeep Singh was grievously injured and was rushed to MGM Medical College Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries in an hour. The residents of adjoining Bhuiyandih set up a blockade at the accident spot causing the traffic to come to a standstill. The trailer driver had managed to escape with his vehicle after the accident which angered the local residents. The residents claimed fatal mishaps caused by heavy vehicles on Bhuiyandih road is a regular phenomenon and needs to be curbed. The police seized the trailer and arrested the driver shortly after the accident. "A fatal mishap took place near Patel Nagar on Bhuiyandi road at 11 am today. A 45-year-old man Gurdeep Singh who was a resident  of Tuiladungri in Golmuri was killed in the mishap.  We have seized the trailer that caused the mishap and also arrested the driver.  We are looking into the exact cause of the mishap," said the Sitaramdera OC, Anjani Kumar Singh. The blockade was lifted Singh convinced the protesters that the administration will take necessary steps to prevent such accidents on that road. The road blockade started at 11.15am and was lifted after 1.30 pm. An eyewitness said, "the trailer was moving at a moderate speed given the inadequate space on the road.  Beside very close to the trailer was the victim who was also pedalling his cycle.  But at a point near the Patel Chowk, there was a sharp up as a portion of the road was recently constructed.  The cycle rider failed to negotiate the mounted road and tumbled down on the right side.  As he was coming very close to the trailer, the rear wheel of the heavy vehicle ran over the victim, causing him to sustain grievous injuries." The police have seized the body and sent it to the MGM Medical College Hospital for Covid test in process of shifting it to the medical college in Dimna for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City to host archery selection trials for Olympics ||A three-day archery selection trial for the Tokyo Olympic Games is set to be held in Jamshedpur. The trials will be organized by the Archery Association of India (AAI) with logistical support from the Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) and Tata Steel. Some of the country’s top-bracket recurve archers (men and women) will be in the city for the selection trials. The criteria for inviting the archers are yet to be finalized. However, an agreement has been worked out to invite the archers who had scored 650 points (men) and 630 points (women) during the trials held before the pandemic. It is expected around 40 men and women to attend the selection trials along with senior functionaries from the national archery outfit, scorers and judges supervising the activities. AAI joint secretary Sumanta Kumar Mohanty confirmed that Jamshedpur will host the selection trials, dates of which will be fixed in due course of time. “Jamshedpur has the required infrastructure for efficiently hosting the trials. The city has played host to such engagement earlier,” he added. The AAI has selected JRD Tata Sports Complex as the venue for the trials. The trial dates have not been fixed yet but it is expected to be scheduled from November 23 to 27. Mohanty informed that they were awaiting a go-ahead signal from the Indian Olympic Association for conducting the trials and would have announced the dates subsequently. “But we have already fixed Jamshedpur as the venue for the trials,” he added. Sports Authority of India (SAI) was supposed to conduct the trials but they backed out as the trial was scheduled in the open category. As an open trial would have gathered several archers, the authorities were against taking any risk during this pandemic. Later, the AAI took the responsibility of conducting the trials with due permission from the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) and the Sports Ministry. Keeping in mind the pandemic, required social distancing will be maintained during the trials and the participating archers will be accommodated at city hotels. The Indian men’s team has already qualified for the Olympics while ace archer Deepika Kumari is the lone woman to have made it to the big event. The steel city had played host to the selection trials in the run-up to the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Deepika Kumari, L Bombayala Devi, Laxmi Rani Majhi, Rimil Biruily, veteran Dola Banerjee, Reenan Kumari, Jayanta Talukdar, Rahul Banerjee and Mangal Singh Champia were among the top archers who had tried their luck at the trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to get two new CNG stations by November end||Dhanbad will have two new CNG stations by November end. Installation work of one of the stations, Gupta Petroleum, an outlet of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) has almost been completed while the installation at another station at Aditya Multicom of HPCL at Barwaddah Topchanchi road is also under progress. Pipeline installation work for home delivery of natural gas is also under progress in some colonies of Dhanbad including at Koylangar colony of BCCL Colony, Jamadoba and Digwadih Colony. Tapan Palai, Deputy General Manager of GAIL India, said, “Though we have fixed the deadline of November end for commissioning of both the stations but it may be earlier than that as installation work of one of station at Putki Road has almost been completed while the installation  work of another station is also in advance stage of progress.” “Though initially CNG will be available for three wheelers and four wheelers only but gradually it will be available for all the vehicles,” said Palai. Asked about the availability of CNG vehicles in Dhanbad Palai said, “Such vehicles are already available in Ranchi and gradually it will be available in Dhanbad also with the installation of more stations and increasing popularity of CNG as an effective fuel.” GAIL India has been authorised for natural gas supply in 7002 square kilometer of Dhanbad and Giridih district as per the 9th bidding of Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB). On GAIL’s future plans Palai said a total 15 CNG stations will be set up and 51000 households will be connected through the Natural Gas supply pipeline. “We will be installing two more stations in Dhanbad apart from the two stations to be launched by November end”, said Palai. Home delivery of natural gas will take some time and will be available during first quarter of next year. Palai said the rate has not yet been decided but it will be almost similar to Ranchi. CNG at present is being sold at around Rs 65 per kilogram in Ranchi area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Plans to monitor noise, air pollution during Diwali||Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) will monitor noise pollution in as many as 11 places and ambient air quality in three places over two days beginning November 13, a day before Diwali. Officials at JSPCB’ regional office in Adityapur said they had received a formal circular in this regard from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), New Delhi. "The noise pollution survey would be carried out in 11 residential, commercial and silence zones while air quality will be monitored at Bistupur, Adityapur and Golmuri," said Suresh Paswan, regional officer of JSPCB. According to the regional officer, teams would be constituted for carrying out surveys on both the days. In order to monitor ambient air quality the pollution watchdog will use respirable dust sampler which helps in monitoring total suspended particles in the air apart from other pollutant gases like sulphur-dioxide and nitrogen-dioxide. While the decibel check will be carried out at usual survey points in Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Sonari, Kadma, Adityapur, including Tata Main Hospital (in Bistupur) and new civil court premises in Bhuiyandih. Portable noise meters would be used for monitoring noise pollution. Paswan said the findings of the survey would be sent to its Ranchi headquarters, which would then forward it to CPCB. The regional office of the board would also publish a decibel directive in local vernacular dailies in the next couple of days. It will ask people not to burst crackers beyond 125 decibels and refrain from bursting crackers after 10 pm. Last year's survey revealed that Sakchi roundabout, a crowded commercial centre,  topped the decibel limit with 130 decibels (dB) on Diwali night while respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) was a shocker at another commercial hub _  Golmuri which recorded 205 microgram per cubic metre (µg/m3). Under CPCB norms, the permissible noise level in a commercial zone is 55dB between 10pm and 6am and the prescribed RSPM in ambient air is 100µg/m3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bypolls to test JMM’s popularity as BJP tries to regain lost ground||The November 3 byelections in two Assembly constituencies of Jharkhand are significant in that they are a test of popularity of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance, 10 months after it came to power ousting the BJP even though the saffron combine was able to offer the state its first full-term government since the formation of Jharkhand two decades ago. Faced with a depleting state exchequer amid a raging pandemic, it is crucial for the Hemant-Soren-led alliance to win in Dumka and Bermo and cement its position as a government that’s here to stay. For the BJP, it is an opportunity to regain lost ground. Of the two, a victory in Dumka — a seat reserved for scheduled tribes and considered a JMM bastion _  would open doors for it to expand its base among tribal voters, majority of whom turned hostile towards the former government of Raghubar Das for its attempts to amend age-old land laws (CNT/SPT) that safeguarded adivasi rights. As a result, of the 28 ST seats in the 81 Assembly segments, BJP could win only two in 2019 compared to its best ever tally of 11 in 2014. With less than a week left for the byelections, both camps have stepped up campaigning, the JMM’s adivasi-moolvasi asmita (pride) vs the BJP’s legacy. The ruling alliance’s campaign, led by chief minister Hemant Soren, is centred around issues of tribal and indigenous pride to safeguard “jal and jameen” and targeting the Narendra Modi-led Union government for “trying to destabilise Jharkhand” by creating resource foadblocks. It is also blaming the former government of Raghubar Das for having damaged the state’s fiscal health by lavish spending at the cost of real, on-ground development. “Because of the BJP’s faulty policies, like the local residents’ policy, youths are unable to get employment. Now, it (BJP) is going all out to block our pending dues, impose financial penalties for the mistakes of its past government (DVC) to destabilise us,” Hemant remarked at rallies in Dumka and Bermo on Wednesday. The BJP on other hand is accusing the ruling coalition of promoting dynasts over governance, claiming how since the change of guard, the state was heading towards lawlessness. “The safety of women and children in Dumka and entire Santhal Parganas is under threat because of spate of rapes and sexual assaults. Rebel hit Santhal Parganas used to have better roads; but today roads are bad because of illegal sand and stone mining and transport by one single party. For them, development of the family is more important than welfare of people,” BJP leader of the Opposition Babulal Marandi said referring to the JMM. In Dumka, JMM has fielded chief minister Hemant’s younger brother Basant Soren and in Bermo, the Congress has fielded Kumar Jaimangal, son of the grand old party’s former MLA Rajendra Singh. BJP on the other hand is banking on old war horses — Louise Marandi and Yogeshwar Mahto Batul in Dumka and Bermo respectively — both lost their sitting seats in 2019. The BJP’s campaign is primarily led by three former chief ministers — Marandi (Dhanwara MLA), Arjun Munda (Khunti MP and Union tribal affairs minister) and Raghubar Das (BJP national vice president). The saffron camp is also upbeat after winning over estranged allies AJSU-P and JDU for the two bypolls. “Marandi, a Santhali, is mainly camping in Dumka, overseeing the electioneering from there. Das, an OBC, is concentrating in Bermo, which has a considerable chunk of OBC voters. Even though Das campaigned in Dumka, we are keeping Marandi in the limelight for largescale canvassing to strike a chord with tribal voters,” said a state BJP veteran. The Dumka Assembly segment, part of the Dumka Lok Sabha constituency, covers Dumka town, Muffasil and Masalia blocks. The segment has a population of around 3,35,339 as per the 2011 census. Of this, 78.21 per cent is rural. Scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) comprise 6.55 per cent and 43.41 per cent respectively. In an electorate of 2,46,712, the turnout in the 2019 Assembly polls was 67.2 per cent. The JMM got 48.86 per cent votes compared to the BJP’s 40.91 per cent. Bermo in Bokaro district is a part of Giridih Lok Sabha constituency. The Assembly segment has a population of 4,36,764, of which 63.79 per cent is urban. Scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) comprise 13.79 per cent and 15.8 per cent respectively. Besides, Bermo has a considerable population of Mahtos, Rajputs, OBCs among its close to 3 lakh voters. By virtue of being in  the coal belt, a sizeable number of colliery workers play a crucial role in the final verdict. The 2019 Assembly polls saw a turnout of 60.99 per cent. The Congress bagged 46.88 per cent votes while the BJP got 33.61 per cent. Of late, the BJP is trying to impress upon the electorate that the outcome of the bypolls would ultimately pave way for a change in the government, but not immediately. Party insiders believe that victory in either seat would open avenues to woo disgruntled MLAs from the ruling alliance. “During polls for the two Rajya Sabha seats of Jharkhand this year, we got 31 votes, three more than our cumulative MLA strength. This indicates that cracks exist in the ruling camp. Going by the current strength of the House, which has been reduced to 78 after the death of Haji Hussain Ansari (Madhepur), the majority mark stands at 39. The BJP-AJSU-P combine has 28 MLAs and, taking in account the trend in RS polls, three Independents will back us. If the BJP bags Dumka and Bermo, followed by Madhepur, then the tables can turn. Nothing is impossible in politics,” said a BJP leader to explain why they were harping on a “change of guard” slogan while campaigning. This somewhat aggressive strategy of the BJP’s is playing in the mind of the ruling alliance. For instance, chief minister Hemant, in poll rallies in Dumka and Bermo, has been stressing on completing a full five-year term, appealing to people to vote for the state’s “asmita (pride)” against the power-hungry BJP. “The BJP is aware that it can never win the trust of voters after duping people of Jharkhand in the last five years and even prior to that. That is why it is offering fake threats of toppling the government after the bypolls. But this is your government that has been formed to safeguard and fight for the rights of adivasis, moolvasis and the people of this state,” Hemant said in Dumka on Tuesday and iterated in Bermo on Wednesday. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee maintained that both seats would remain with the alliance. “In Dumka, we are winning with an even larger margin compared to 2019 as the real face of the BJP has got exposed after it lost power in Jharkhand. People are aware how the Modi government is now trying to financially destabilise Jharkhand by violating all norms of a federal structure even during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon added that the bypolls would be a referendum on the good work done by the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government in the last 10 months. But the Opposition BJP is hoping against hope. “The bypolls will mark the end of dynasts both in Dumka and Bermo where JMM and Congress are only interested in furthering a particular family’s political legacy rather than improve governance. This bypoll will also be a mirror to the incumbent government on how a change of regime led to a fall in standards of governance, transparency and law and order in the state,” remarked state BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash. The bypoll results, out on November 10, will ultimately prove who is right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Potters optimistic but sales yet to pick up for Diwali ||Potters in steel city are preparing earthen lamps (diyas) for Diwali but with little hope of sale during the Covid pandemic. "We have been making earthen lamps for over half a decade now, however, demand is very low this year due to the pandemic," said Anil Kumhakar , a potter at Kumhar Para in Baradwari. Already hit by the pandemic, potters who failed to do business during the just concluded Durga Puja complained of minimal sale, business loss and meagre profit margin during the Diwali festivity too. Dhanbad potters on the other hand are expecting better business during this Diwali since people are focusing on clay made articles including idols and diyas. Jitendra Pandit, a potter of Kumharpatti locality said, “the recent turn of events like call of prime minster to light diyas during the initial phase of lockdown on April 5 and also for lighting earthen diyas during the Bhumi Pujan of Ram Temple at Ayodhya has brought the focus on earthen diyas and we hope that the situation will be better this year for us as people are expected to  celebrate Diwali with traditional spirit.” “Our profession was on the down since the last two three decades due to the arrival of Chinese lights in the market but the situation has slightly improved this year,” said Jitendra who works at a school dress making unit. “Nobody can survive with the sole income of clay pot making which is a declining trend,” he said. The Covid-19 protocols have restricted the scope of celebrating Diwali like previous years in order to curb public gathering and maintain social distancing to prevent new cases of infections. "We are taking risk by investing our money for making products for sale during Diwali. These earthen lamps would usually be sold days ahead of the festival but this time the sale looks difficult in the pandemic. Everything is in God's hand," said another potter. Officials of civic bodies like Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC ) and Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC ) have started visiting places in Sakchi, Mango and Sonari where members of the potters community reside to keep a check on whether they are following Covid-19 protocols while preparing the earthen lamps. A Potter in Sonari pointed out, "People  are hesitant to  visit us to avoid any infection so that's why we're  keeping fingers crossed and not hoping for a bumper sale like previous years during Diwali." Rajendra Pandit, from Dahuatand locality of Dhanbad, said, “We have procured two trucks of clay this year instead of only one truck during the last year as we are expecting better business this year.” “We have also received some orders for the clay idols of Laxmi and Ganesh but the clay toys and Gharonda orders are yet to come,” said Rajendra. “We would request the administration allow us to sell our products on the road side  for two three days ahead of Diwali as we can afford to have permanent set up for sell of such articles which have only seasonal demand” said Rajendra. Surendra Pandit of Kumhar Patti locality said, “we are optimistic about good sell this year and therefore working with full potential and one of reason for the our expectation is also the trend of all festivals being celebrated with simplicity this year due to impact of lockdown and pandemic and the best way to celebrate Diwali should lighting earthen diyas rather than insisting flamboyance spending lot of money on crackers etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Over 100 Bokaro youths held captive by TN firm, say kin||Over 100 youths of a Bokaro village, who had gone to Chennai after being promised work and a good pay, have now complained that the contractor who took them there a month ago had held them hostage. The contractor has, however, claimed that while some workers had left without informing him, others had returned and were with him on their own accord. Nevertheless, the family members of the youths have approached the MLA of Gomia, Lambodar Mahto, for help after some of the youths managed to call them and tell them about their plight. On Wednesday, Mahto informed Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh, who assured him of all possible help to bring back the youths of Chando village of Petarwar block. The MLA said, “The villagers here told me that the contractor has held the youths captive and was mentally and physically torturing them. They youths have told their families about being forced to work for 12 hours. The contractor has refused to pay them the promised amount.” Mahto said he had also spoken to the labour secretary of Jharkhand and requested his help to bring the workers back from Chennai. Family members of the youths say that many of their phones weren ow switched off. Logesh R of Astrotech Steel, Chennai, who took the workers there, said over the phone that about 50 workers had left on Saturday without informing him, but 30 of them had returned on Tuesday. They were “happily working”, he claimed. “We brought them to Chennai from Bokaro, spending Rs 5 lakh on buses. We got them tested for COVID-19 in Chennai and met other expenses. We have spent almost Rs 15 lakh on them but they refused to work and returned without informing us. What we can do?” he said. During the lockdown, as many as 27,000 migrant workers returned to Bokaro while other districts also recorded a huge number of arrivals. Months later, several companies began searching for manpower to run their businesses. In September, the sub-contractor of the Chennai company came to Bokaro in search of skilled and semi-skilled workers. He got in touch with the youths of Chando and nearby villages, offering them jobs in the packaging industry. He also showed them labor licenses and other documents pertaining to the company, Astrotech Steels. The workers were offered free lodging, food and a good remuneration. As no buses were plying then, the contractor hired two buses and took 104 workers to Chennai. But after reaching Chennai, many of them found that the nature of the job and the facilities were not as promised. The workers expressed their wish to go back but the contractor did not pay heed. Bokaro labor superintendent Harendra Kumar Singh said, “We have informed the state control room which deals with problems of migrant workers. They will coordinate with the authorities of Tamil Nadu and help bring the workers back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Heightened vigil on border as Bihar Assembly elections begin||The Chatra border with Gaya was sealed on Wednesday till the evening to keep a strict vigil on vehicles entering the Bihar border. The first phase of the Bihar Assembly Elections took place in Gaya on Wednesday. Policemen were deployed in large numbers. Inspector B.P. Mandal said they stayed there till 5 in the evening when polling came to an end. Mandal said roads leading to Gaya including Huntergunj-Imamgunj, Pandeypura-Imamgunj, Huntergunj-Dumariya Barachatti, Huntergunj-Sherghati and Huntergunj Lenjwa were sealed from 7am to 5pm. Pathalgadda police in Chatra arrested two Maoist informers in the district who aided in the killing of a woman on October 18. Police claimed that both had done recce of Nageshwari and passed information about her to subzonal commander Deepak Yadav after which she was gunned down. The arrested youths have been identified as Niranjan Kumar Bhokta, resident of Mudhesa Tola of Koranbe in Payhalgadda and Jogendra Ganjhu resident of Urub village in Simaria block. Maoists had called Nageshwari a police informer and blamed her for passing information about them to police. Police had lodged an FIR against Maoist’s subzonal commander Karu Yadav and four others under sections 147, 148, 149, 449, 341, 302 of the IPC and17CLA act. The other three extremists named in the FIR are Mithilesh alias Duryodhan Mahto, Binod Munda, Chandan and Ramkhelawan Ganjhu. Three masked men looted a customer service point at Ketat Kalan under Rehla police station of Rs two lakh twenty four thousand on Wednesday. Sources said this is the first robbery in day time just weeks ahead of Diwali. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar said SDPO Surjit Kumar is looking into this day light robbery. SP said digital recording of the three miscreants was not recorded as there were no CCTV cameras at the service point. SDPO Surjit Kumar said a case has been lodged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Amitabh Choudhary appointed as new chairman of Jharkhand Public Service Commission||Former acting secretary of the Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI), and former president of the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA), Amitabh Choudhary (60) has been appointed as the new chairman of Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC). A veteran cricket administrator and ex-IPS, Choudhary will hold the office for two years, a notification issued from the state personnel department on Wednesday stated. tHE JPSC chairman’s office was vacant since September this year after retired IAS SudhirTripathi’s tenure ended. Considering Choudhary’s expertise in handling difficult situations both as an IPS and cricket administrator, his appointment is seen by many as the right move to put the controversial recruitment body on track, which since its inception after formation of Jharkhand had run into several scams and court litigations. Government sources, however, hinted that Choudhary’s sudden role reversal is linked to his new found bonhomie with the chief minister Hemant Soren. Reacting to the appointment, a senior bureaucrat in the state government said, “It is beyond doubt that Amitabh Choudhary has the potential to crack tough nuts on his own terms and handle crisis situations. He has been there and done that many times during his service and also as the head of the state cricket body when he almost single-handedly took on a big corporate shift of state cricket’s epicenter from Jamshedpur to Ranchi. He was also the main force behind the iconic JSCA stadium in Dhurwa. However, the key reason behind his appointment follows the CM making him the chief patron of JSCA and his close aides life term members.” Choudhary also tried contesting Lok Sabha and assembly elections in Jharkhand in the past but didn’t succeed. In last year’s JSCA polls, Choudhary, who was then acting BCCI secretary, couldn’t contest due to the cooling off period clause enforced by the Supreme Court in the wake of Lodha committee recommendations to improve the affairs of BCCI. Thereafter, new office bearers led by former India captain Sourav Ganguly filled BCCI administrators posts too, leaving Choudhary unoccupied. Choudhary was unavailable for comments on his appointment as his phone remained switched off. We will update the story as and when we are able to reach him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
