30-10-2020||Jharkhand||BJP suspends Sukhdev Bhagat, likely to rejoin Congress||The state BJP on Friday suspended former Lohardaga MP and senior worker Sukhdev Bhagat for a period of six years. BJP’s state general secretary Aditya Sahu said, “His letter of suspension was signed by the party president Deepak Sahu on Thursday night.” A bureaucrat turned politician, Bhagat, was former president of the Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC). However, days before the assembly polls in Jharkhand last year, he switched to BJP after being denied a ticket by the Congress to contest from Loharadaga. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he was fielded by Congress from Lohardaga parliamentary seat but was defeated by BJP’s Sudarshan Bhagat. He is trying to rejoin the grand old party and was in regular touch with the Congress leadership. He distanced himself from the NDA camp for campaigning for the November 3 bypolls in Dumka and Bermo, which is why he was finally suspended, said BJP sources. The district administration on Friday announced a mass testing drive for Covid-19 across 31 places on Saturday. The move is intended at detecting large scale infection, if any, after Durga puja to curb the transmission of the virus, said officials. The drive will be held from 10am-6pm. As many as 14 centres have been earmarked in urban pockets while 17 have been put up in rural pockets. “The testing will be done on all four modes namely—rapid antigen test (RAT), nucleic acid test (NAT), Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and True Nat as per the requirement,” a district notification said. According to Thursday night’s Covid bulletin, Ranchi’s total tally stands at 25,414 of which 23,511 have been discharged, 172 died and the rest are active cases. A four-year-old boy died in Jarga village of Punai Panchayat in Daru block when a plaque broke and fell on him. The incident took place, around 40kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Relatives said the boy was sitting close to the plaque when it suddenly cracked and fell on him injuring him grievously. He was taken to the nearest hospital but was declared brought dead. Daru block development officer Ram Ratan Barnawal said if the boy died due to a plaque falling then action will be taken against the people responsible. A paddy field caught fire on Friday behind JMS church near Mahtikra area in Barkagaon when a 11000 volt overhead wire fell on it. This overhead wire supplies power to areas like Chorka, Pandariya and Palandu. The paddy on the 10-cottah field was destroyed causing huge loss to farmers. The farmers have demanded compensation for their losses from block officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two cops hurt in Maoist attack||Two Jharkhand police personnel sustained serious injuries in an IED blast triggered by suspected Maoists that was followed by an exchange of fire in Serengdag region in Lohardaga district, over 120km from Ranchi, on Friday afternoon. Security forces retaliated to the firing by the rebels and over 1,000 rounds were exchanged. The injured, Upendra Singh and Arvind Kumar Pandey, were airlifted to Ranchi for treatment at Medica, a private hospital in the city. Their condition is said to be critical but they are out of danger. Lohardaga police sources said the blast occurred around 1.30pm when security forces were out for a combing operation following a tip-off about the presence of Maoists in the area. “The jawans were walking when an IED blew up near Sahighat forest. Soon, the rebels began firing but our men too retaliated,” said an officer. “A hunt is on to nab the rebels, who disappeared taking advantage of the denseness of the forest,” the officer added. Lohardaga superintendent of police Priyanka Meena, who visited the spot of the blast, confirmed to the media the injuries to the two security personnel but added that they were safely evacuated and airlifted to Ranchi for treatment. The police are suspecting the involvement of the Ravindra Ganjhu squad in the incident. Ganjhu is a regional commander of the Maoists who operates in Lohardaga, Gumla and Latehar districts. Talking to reporters, North Chotanagpur deputy inspector general of police Akhilesh Jha said: “We suspect that the blast and subsequent firing are a handiwork of the Ganjhu squad. Ganjhu is a wanted rebel.” Later in the evening, Jharkhand director general of police M.V. Rao visited Medica to learn about the condition of the jawans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad DC serves showcause notice on land mutation||Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has served show cause notice to several district circle officers in connection with erroneous land registration and mutation process over a period of six years. Singh has given a 10 day deadline to the concerned persons including the sub registrar of Dhanbad, Shweta Kumari and her predecessors, Santosh Kumar; Dhanbad Circle officer, Prashant Laik and his predecessor Prakash Kumar; Govinpur Circle officer Bandana Bharati and her predecessor, Anil Kumar; Baghmara Circle officer Rajesh Kumar and his predessor, Pramod Ram; Baliapur Circle officer Md Aslam a and several other present and past circle inspectors. “The error in land mutation process has been noticed over a long period of time beginning since 2015-16 as the plot and khata number mentioned for the concerned has not been found as per latest land records,” said Singh to The Telegraph Online. Singh said that two kinds of government land records exist including the old and new land records but the mutation and registry of the concerned lands have been carried out as per the old land records. “We have asked in show cause notice that why land registration and mutation has been carried out as per the old land government records despite the presence of new records.” Dhanad resident, Ramesh Kumar Rahi had written three letters to K.K. Soan, secretary of Department of Revenue, Registration and Land reforms pointing out the anomalies in land registration and land mutation and cited over 150 examples of erroneous land registration. Singh according to the instruction of Soan, constituted a committee headed by additional collector Shyam Naryan Ram, of six different sub committees. The committee in its preliminary enquiry detected errors in the land registration and land mutation process and hence show cause notice to 22 people was served. “A technical team led by Additional Collector Shyam Narayan Ram constituted to probe the anomaly will check the documents submitted by the concerned persons along with their reply and submit a final report,” said the DC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Peter Hartley gears up for a successful ISL season with Jamshedpur FC||English Defender Peter Hartley, who is making his debut in the Indian Super League (ISL) in the upcoming 2020-21 season with Jamshedpur FC, looks forward to a successful ISL season, as he is out of quarantine and finally met his teammates. The seventh edition of the Indian Super League (ISL) will kick-off on November 20 in Goa. The 32-year-old English defender is adjusting well to the hot and humid conditions in Goa. He was anxious to come out of isolation. “Well, it was a long journey from England to India. I slept for a couple of days in isolation and just couldn’t wait for the quarantine to get over so that I can and interact, socialize with the boys, train and work hard. I missed my wife and spent time in isolation watching movies on Netflix,” Hartley said from Goa. When asked about his thoughts of playing with the Indian players for the first time, he said, “I have very good and positive thoughts. The standard of Indian players is very good. The boys are really fit and very good on the ball. We are doing a hard job under Owen Coyle (head coach), Sandy Stewart, Noel Wilson (both assistant coaches) and Adrian Dias (strength and conditioning coach). We are looking forward to more time on the pitch.” One of the prized possessions of Jamshedpur FC, Peter Hartley is keen to put his best foot forward. His expectation is to give everything for the club and to have a very successful season. He expects the group to create history for Jamshedpur and make it to the play-offs. He also added that Owen Coyle sets very high standards and knows what the game is all about. “Having already spent five days with the coach and his assistants I think it would be very positive. The team is going to be on the front foot. We will be taking games to teams. We also have experience throughout the team. Owen has created a very good mix. So, there can be very positive moments ahead,” remarked the experienced defender. Owen Coyle, the head coach has a fantastic reputation in both England and Scotland. Having played against his teams in both countries, they fight until the very end no matter what’s the outcome. “It’s an attitude I’ve seen he can easily instill on his team and it is something I wanted to be part of,” he added. Hartley mentioned that he had three excellent seasons at Motherwell FC. “It’s a club I will hold close to my heart for everything that we’ve achieved. But things change, plus the global pandemic didn’t help things. Sometimes, a new challenge is what is required and I needed to make sure that I chose a club and a manager who can help me grow and improve as a person and player, and Jamshedpur FC is the place for that I believe,” he stated. In his message to the fans, Hartley said, “I thank you for the support I’ve already received in such a short time. I can see you are passionate, which is a characteristic of mine as well. Let’s give everything for a successful season. We are stronger together.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Man killed after trying to break up neighbours’ fight||A 30-year-old man at Janugora in suburban Parsudih thana area was assaulted and killed when he tried to break a fight between a couple. The victim identified as Rajendra Kumar Sharma had tried to break a fight between his neighbours who were having an argument in an intoxicated state. The 20-year-old son of the couple attacked the victim and hit him with a stick on his head.  Sharma's head cracked causing him to fall in a pool of blood.  Soon the neighbours rushed the injured to Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal where the doctors on emergency duty declared him dead. The incident took place at around 11 pm on Thursday. The assailant identified as Rahul Sireng had instantly fled the spot after the attack, but was caught  at a relative's house in adjoining Sundarnagar thana area on Friday morning. "The victim Rajendra Kumar Sharma was the immediate neighbour of the assailant.  As the assailant's parents were quarrelling having consumed liquor,  the victim and his family could not sleep due to the commotion. Then only he had gone over to the neighbour's house and forbidden to quarrel.  While persuading the drunk couple, the victim had also scolded them.  After the couple were made to stop quarrelling, the victim started returning back home.  But as he stepped out of the neighbour's house,  the couple's son had attacked him with the stick and had fled," said Ajay Kumar, OC of Parsudih thana. The OC said the victim died on his way to the Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal which was about four km from the spot. "After the arrest of the assailant, we interrogated him to know the reason behind attacking his neighbour.  The assailant, Rahul Sering confessed that he got angry as the way Sharma had scolded his parents was very humiliating," the OC pointed out while talking to this website. The police have seized the stick that the assailant used in the assault and sent the body to MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem after a Covid test. The police sent the accused to Ghaghidih Central Jail after taking him to the medical college hospital for Covid test and producing him before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Special Assembly session on Sarna code soon, promises Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren said on Friday that a special Assembly session would be convened before Statehood Day on November 15 to pass a resolution in favour of a separate Sarna code ahead of the 2021 nationwide census, agreeing to a long-standing demand of the tribal community. Hemant’s announcement comes days before the November 3 byelections in Dumka and Bermo, both constituencies that have of late seen an iteration of the Sarna code demand. Addressing a press conference in Dumka, Hemant said, “I too am equally concerned about the Sarna code like several other tribals who have been struggling for long to get it. My government is serious about it and we have decided to convene a special Assembly session very soon so that we can pass a resolution in its favour and send it to the Government of India by November 15, Jharkhand’s Statehood Day.” The chief minister said he had also spoken with governor Droupadi Murmu and would, in a day or two, send a formal proposal to Raj Bhavan for convening the special session. Hemant, along with his father and JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, has been camping in Dumka for the last few days to oversee the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance’s campaign for the byelections. For the last few days, Hemant has been touring Dumka and Bermo extensively, canvassing for candidates of the alliance. But of the two, Dumka is a prestige seat for JMM as the party has fielded Hemant’s younger brother, Basant. The Opposition BJP has fielded former minister Louise Marandi as an NDA candidate in Dumka, while former MLA Yogeshwar Mahto Batul will take on alliance candidate Kumar Jaimangal in Bermo. Hemant’s announcement, days before the bypolls, is an attempt to consolidate the tribal vote in the face of widespread demonstrations in favour of a separate Sarna code. JMM central committee members had also written to him, advocating a special Assembly session to pass a resolution. For tribals, a separate Sarna code in the Census will be key to a distinct identity, as opposed to being classified as Hindus, Muslims or Christians. Hemant endorses their view saying that tribals, or followers of Sarna _ nature worshippers _ deserve a separate place in the Census to retain their identity. In September, churches of Jharkhand also threw their weight behind the demand by writing to the chief minister in favour of a separate Sarna code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Doctors call for smoke & cracker-free Diwali this time||Jharkhand’s medical fraternity has appealed to the state government and the public at large to walk the extra mile to ensure a smoke-free Diwali in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic that has seen the state’s case load climb to over a lakh. Doctors fear that fall in temperatures due to the onset of winter, coupled with increase in air pollution due to bursting of crackers, may pose serious health challenges for those who have recovered from a coronavirus infection and those with breathing problems. The state chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IAM) has, therefore urged everyone to observe a cracker-free Diwali on November 14. “More than noise, smoke from crackers will pose serious challenges in our fight against the pandemic,” said Jharkhand IMA president Dr A.K. Singh. “Experts have already predicted a second wave of Covid-19 cases during winter. Since Covid affects the lungs the most, even those who have recovered from the virus will be vulnerable because their immunity and respiratory system would still be fragile. Bursting of smoke emitting crackers will be lethal,” he explained. According to pulmonologist Dr Suman Bharvaga, during winter, the phenomenon of dryness in the ambient air poses respiratory problems among people. “The situation turns problematic for people with asthma or other respiratory disorders. An additional load of pollution in the air will only make things worse given that the majority of Covid cases in our state are of those who have comorbidities,” he said, specifying that he would prefer a total ban on crackers this time. Jharkhand IMA chief Singh said the impact of unlock followed by Durga Puja festival which went by last week would start showing in the coming days. During Puja, safety norms were flouted in most places. For example, despite the state government advisories, crowds swelled on streets, many people without masks, on the night of Ashtami and Navami while restaurants in commercial areas like Bistupur and Sakchi in Jamshedpur ran out of place. In Ranchi, areas like Main Road and Kutchery Chowk remained abuzz with people even though Pujas in the city were low-key. State health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said they were busy studying the Covid cases trend of Durga Puja before issuing guidelines for Diwali. An official in the state disaster management department said SOPs for Diwali would be issued in the latter half of next week. “SOPs for Kali puja samitis too will be more or less the same as that of Durga Puja. With regard to crackers during Diwali, a decision has to be taken at the highest level as many traders, who are already hit by the lockdown, will not want a ban. The chief minister will have to take a final call,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Motors ramps up production of heavy vehicles, ancillaries benefit||Automobile major Tata Motors Motors and its ancillaries based at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district has seen a rise in production of all heavy commercial vehicles in October. According to company sources, the production of trucks, trailers, tippers and other multi-axle vehicles has witnessed a rise from 3,500 vehicles in September to around 6000 in October. The company has set a higher target of manufacturing over 7000 vehicles in November. R.K. Singh, the general secretary of Tata Motors Workers Union, the Intuc-affiliated recognised union of the company said, "We are happy that production as well as orders for heavy commercial vehicles have picked up in October. It is a good sign. With increasing orders, the company has decided to increase its target in November. " There are over 700 small, medium and large ancillary units at Adityapur that supplies auto components to Tata Motors. The company remained shut for almost two months ever since the  Covid-19 induced lockdown was announced in March which had severely impacted it's ancillaries at Adityapur. Production resumed in May but in absence of orders the company was facing a tough time. Earlier this week, the automobile major had announced that it had recorded a 103 per cent jump in bookings and 90 per cent rise in passenger vehicles' retail this Navratri, compared with the same period in 2019. A.K. Srivastava, an industry expert said, "The going in recent times, however, has been as tough for Tata Motors as it has been for other major players in the Indian automobile industry. The shift to BS- VI and technology upgrades had a bearing on performance in 2019 when demand too was comparatively muted.  The year 2020 may have offered hope but the Covid-19 outbreak and consequent lockdown resulted in new and unprecedented challenges."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Lockdown triggers ‘marriage on the rocks’ fears, surge in marital disputes||A doctor couple, married for around five years, filed a divorce case with a Ranchi court during the lockdown while both spouses were on Covid-19 duty in different states. The doctors decided to part ways as they failed to devote time to their marriage during the crisis, which created rifts between the two. Eventually, the couple had to be counselled via video conferencing by the mediation centre of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in Ranchi, and they were now reconsidering their decision of parting ways. Similarly, a Ranchi woman in her late twenties had filed a divorce case against her husband, settled in Raipur, after they could not meet each other for six months during the nationwide lockdown enforced in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The DLSA offered counselling to the couple via video conferencing, and they eventually started living together after lockdown restrictions were lifted. Lockdown restrictions have triggered a rise in matrimonial disputes over petty issues in Ranchi, members of the District Legal Services Authority said on Thursday, highlighting that over 300 cases of matrimonial disputes were referred to the DLSA for mediation during the six months of lockdown. “We received over 600 cases of domestic disputes from March to October. At least 300 of them were matrimonial disputes, and we have settled 151 of them via video conferencing,” said DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar. Kumar added that most of the matrimonial disputes that were mediated by the DLSA were triggered during the lockdown. In some cases, the couples fought while they were locked at home during this period; and in many cases, the physical distance between the couple became the bone of contention. “There has certainly been a rise in matrimonial disputes triggered by lockdown restrictions. Mediation played an important role in counselling the couples and encouraging them to give their marriage another chance,” said Kumar. Psychiatrists are of the opinion that spending the entire day together over a period of several months could be one of the triggers for friction between couples. Dr Nishant Goyal, an assistant professor of Clinical Psychiatry at the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) in Ranchi, said that the overall stress associated with the Covid-19 pandemic and its effect on the livelihood of people also contributed to irritability in couples. “Most of such cases would have been triggered over petty issues, and that is the reason why mediation helped in settling the matter,” said Goyal. “The work from home practice, which the lockdown encouraged, exposed couples to each other’s professional stress. The anxiety associated with losing their jobs or getting infected may have also played a role,” he added. Goyal said that there was also a rise in cases of domestic violence in Jharkhand during the lockdown, an independent survey done by the CIP revealed. The final report of the survey was not out yet, but the figures indicated a surge in cases of domestic violence, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Blood donation on birthdays in Ranchi||For Dr Abhishek Verma, a Ranchi-based pathologist, it was a birthday celebration of a never-before kind. A blood donation camp was organised at his Ashok Nagar laboratory on his 37th birthday on Thursday when he and his friends donated 12 units of blood in about an hour for children suffering from thalassemia. “It’s really a pleasure to do such a thing for those children who need blood transfusion regularly,” the doctor said, adding he was glad that his friends gave this “precious gift” that made his birthday a happier occasion. It may not be a big donation in terms of quantity but that also matters a lot for those thalassemia children, the doctor further said. “Abhishek’s birthday is not the only occasion, such camps were organised on birthdays of at least 150 more people in the past one year and many more are lined up,” said Atul Gera, founder of Life Savers, a voluntary organisation that organises such blood donation camps regularly for thalassemia children receiving regular transfusions at Thalassemia Day Care Centre at Ranchi Sadar Hospital. “The next such camp will be organised at Namkum on the occasion of birthday of Kunal Sharma on November 2 and another on November 4,” Gera said, adding there will be around 15 such birthday special camps in November. “That will be my 25th birthday and I have invited my friends and neighbours to donate blood for thalassemia children on that day,” informed Kunal who is pursuing a management programme at the local Xavier Institute of Social Service. The Life Savers contact the local authorities who sends a blood collection cum transportation van and a medical team at the venues of such camps. “I have over 5,000 Facebook friends and I get advance alert about their birthdays,” Gera said, adding he contact those who are in Ranchi for organising blood donation camps on their birthdays. Besides birthdays, they also organise blood donation camps with help from members of some organisations and even residents of some apartment buildings, Gera further informed, adding they already have 10 such camps lined up till November 13 and more were expected. They collect about 20-25 units of blood from small camps and more at big ones, he further said, adding such an inflow of donated blood helps keep the transfusion process of thalassemia children go on uninterrupted. “On an average about 20 such children come to the Thalassemia Day Care Centre everyday for receiving blood transfusion,” Gera informed, adding blood collection was disturbed during the pandemic but they still tried to maintain inflow of donated blood by organising such camps. “We can now manage to collect about 60 per cent of monthly retirement for transfusion of thalassemia children who come to the Day Care Centre at Ranchi Sadar Hospital,” he informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||3 of family murdered on witchcraft suspicion in Jharkhand||Police recovered three decapitated bodies, including two women, all from one family, near a stream of Raba rivulet in Jharkhand’s Khunti district on Wednesday evening, with allegations that they were murdered for practising witchcraft. The deceased have been identified as Birsa Munda, 48, his wife Sukru Purty, 43, and their daughter Somwari Purty, 20. Police claimed to have arrested all the three accused in the murder while they are searching for seven others, including the quack, who had said the victims were allegedly practising witchcraft. Police sources said the arrested persons — Soma Munda, 45, his son Raghu Munda, 22, and Bishram Munda, 42 — all residents Kuda village under Saiko police station of Murhu block have confessed to their crime. Khunti superintendent of police Ashutosh Shekhar said, “We have nabbed the three accused named in the FIR. A search is on for six others of the same village who were involved in the murder. We are also searching for the quack from the neighbouring village who had told the accused that the victims were practising witchcraft which had led to the death of their family member “On the basis of confession of the three accused, we exhumed the bodies of the three victims near a stream of Raba rivulet near the village on Wednesday evening. We also recovered their heads buried separately and sent them for post-mortem.” “Telani Purty, another daughter of Birsa and Sukru, in her FIR lodged in Saiko police station said that when she had come to her father’s house on October 8 morning, she found the door open. Telani was informed by neighbours that more than a dozen persons had come on October 7 night and forcibly taken her parents and sister from their house. After searching in different villages, Telani lodged a police complaint about her missing parents and sister. She named the three accused who had earlier alleged her parents were practising witchcraft. “We contacted our village informers and some local social workers who gave a tip-off about the three accused hiding in the nearby forest and we nabbed them,” said Khunti subdivisional police officer Ashish Kumar Mahali. Sources said the wife of Lochan Munda, a resident of Kuda, had died on October 6, two months after giving birth to a boy. The villagers then consulted a quack in the neighbouring village who alleged that Birsa and his wife had done black magic which had led to the death. Some of the villagers then decided to eliminate the family. On October 7 night, they dragged the three to the nearby rivulet where they were beheaded and their body and heads buried separately to hide evidence, sources said. The area is around 50km south of state capital Ranchi. Murder, driven by the belief in black magic, is common in Jharkhand. In 2019, the state reported 27 deaths related to allegations of witchcraft, according to police data. Till September this year, 19 killings have taken place on allegations of witchcraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
