31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Elephant herd kills 1 in Chatra||A herd of 12 elephants trampled to death a 65-year-old man at Majdiha village in Lawalong block of Chatra district on Friday night. Rajeshwar Mochi, the deceased, was a resident of Loharsi village in the Panki police station area in Palamau district. Local residents said Mochi had come to the village a few days ago to meet his daughter. On Friday, the duo were walking back home from the local market when an elephant emerged from behind a government school and attacked him. His daughter managed to flee. Angry villagers later lit torches and tried to chase the herd into the forest. But this angered the elephants and they destroyed paddy in neighbouring Sehda village. Forest department and police officers on Saturday reached the village and spoke to the villagers. A 35-year-old man who had sustained a gunshot wound in an attack by a gang of alleged drug addicts at Dhatkidih in the Bistupur police station area on October 5 succumbed to his injuries at his home early on Saturday. Mohammed Mustaqueen had sustained a bullet injury in his lower abdomen and was admitted to Tata Main Hospital along with another gunshot victim, Mohammed Qayyum. Mustaqueen had been operated upon and discharged from the hospital on October 7 as his family could not bear the medical expenses. Both Mustaqueen and Qayyum were shot at by a gang of drug addicts near the house of Md Zeidy, a companion of the attackers, after a commotion. Police have arrested three of the attackers, but the main accused, Salman, is still at large. A 28-year-old man allegedly committed suicide after an argument with his newly-wedded wife at Tilhet village in Huntergujnj block. Jangali Bhuiyan was a resident of Santarapur village under Chakla panchayat in Huntergunj block of Chatra and was staying with his in-laws in Tilhet. He and his wife went to the market and had an argument. He later consumed poison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Large potato-sized brain tumor excised successfully at hospital||Another critical surgery of a 45-year-old woman with a large potato-sized brain tumor was carried out in Brahmananda Narayana Multispeciality Hospital which is located on the outskirts of Jamshedpur. Namita Rajak (45), a resident of Galudih in East Singhbhum, was operated by a team of doctors led by Dr. Rajiv Maharshi, (Consultant - Neurosurgeon) on Tuesday, October 27. “The surgery took four hours and the tumor was completely excised as a whole. Post-operation the patient recovered well and her behavioral changes have returned to near normal and she was discharged from hospital in stable condition,” said Dr. Maharshi. Namita was suffering from headaches for the last one year and was admitted to the hospital with a complaint of altered behavior irritability. Before coming to BNMH she underwent treatment for the same by several local doctors including psychiatrists but she was not relieved of her problem. When she came to the neurosurgery OPD of BNMH, she was advised MRI of the brain by Dr. Rajiv Maharshi, Consultant - Neurosurgeon. The MRI showed a large potato-sized tumor on her right side of the brain, which was meningioma. Meningioma is a highly vascular tumor of the brain, commonly seen in middle-aged females. Most of the meningioma is curable, but bigger tumors may lead to risks as they continue to put pressure on the brain which may even lead to an emergency situation. Conventional craniotomy was done tumor was excised under heavy bleeding. According to Dr. Maharshi, the size of meningioma varies from peanut to large-sized potato. “Often, meningioma causes no symptoms and requires no immediate treatment. But its growth can cause serious problems. In some cases, such growth can be fatal. Meningioma is the most common type of tumor that originates in the central nervous system,” he explained. The neurosurgeon also said that causes of meningioma are multifactorial, one of which is radiation exposure, especially in childhood. “The common symptoms of this tumor are seizure, headache and vomiting, weakness of the body part, behavioral changes, etc. Early diagnosis is the key, never ignore such symptoms and consult a doctor to reduce upcoming risks,” he added. The patient, Namita Rajak, thanked the hospital and the doctors for operating the tumor and saving her life. “I am thankful to the hospital and the team of doctors who carried out the critical surgery and saved my life. I was released from the hospital two days after the surgery. Now, I don't feel any pain in my head. I have been prescribed certain medicines which I will have to continue taking for one month,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||3-day strike call Bokaro General Hospital ||Contract workers at Bokaro General Hospital have announced to go on strike for three days from November 3 due to pay discrepancies. The workers at the dedicated Covid centre of the district have alleged that they are not being provided with safety gears in addition to being given their ESI, provident fund, earned leaves and bonuses. BGH is run by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). There are 235 contract workers working under four different contractors performing all ground work activities in the entire medical department including the Covid ward, operation theatre, critical care unit, burn intensive unit and others. The strike will cripple the services. The first negotiation meeting held between BSL management and Jai Jharkhand Majdoor Samaj (JJMS) on Saturday failed to come to any conclusion. JJMS, a labour union wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) is leading the agitation. A meeting has been called by the labour department on November 02. General Secretary of JJMS, B.K. Chaudhary said that contract workers in BGH are being exploited. “A contractor who has engaged 79 workers has not done payment to ESI. In result the workers and their dependents could not avail medical treatment under ESI from April. These workers are working sweepers in Covid Wards and in other departments in the hospital. If BGH management would remain vigilant they would have not suffered. If we are demanding free medical facilities from BGH until their ESL facility is restored, what is wrong in that?” said Chaudhary. “Another 89 workers engaged under one of those contractors have not got bonus and EL for more than 36 months. The contractor doing laundry work has put their 17 workers under semi-skilled workers despite the fact that they operate machines. And one of those contractors with 87 workers is treating lift operators as unskilled workers. It is exploitation,” said Chaudhary. Of the 5306 patients who tested positive in the district from March, BGH has treated more than 1500 patients both symptomatic and very serious cases. At present, the Covid ward has 19 positive patients undergoing treatment. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “BSL management is trying to resolve the issues raised by the contract workers in BGH. Already BSL has initiated several steps for settlement of the issues and the same was conveyed to them. We are closely following up with all concerned for resolving the issues. An appeal has been made to the agitating workers to call off their proposed strike.” “We are concerned with the well being of all patients in BGH and hopeful of an amicable solution,” said Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM slaps sedition case against state BJP chief ||The ruling alliance of JMM-Congress-RJD filed an FIR against state BJP chief and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash in Dumka on Saturday, accusing him of sedition for trying to hatch a conspiracy to “topple the Hemant Soren government in the state”. In a clear sign of escalating tensions before the November 3 byelections in Dumka and Bermo, Congress’s district president Shyamal Kishore Singh filed the FIR in the presence of JMM workers while the JMM held a press conference in Dumka to announce the move. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said they were forced to lodge a complaint following Prakash’s open threat to topple the democratically elected government in the state. “Yesterday (Friday), at a press conference in Dumka, Prakash, who is also the state BJP president, said that in the next two months, a new government was going to be formed in the state under the leadership of BJP. “We want to know how? They don’t have the numbers. All their leaders have been trying to confuse and intimidate people by campaigning about a change of guard. There are enough indications to make us believe that the BJP is hatching a conspiracy against the popularly elected government.” The FIR registered at Town police station accused Prakash under four IPC sections, namely, 504, 506, 120B and 124A. Section 504 amounts to causing intentional insult with an intent to provoke breach of peace, section 506 is about criminal intimidation, section 120-B talks of criminal conspiracy to commit a punishable offense with death while section 124 deals with sedition. The BJP hit back and dared the government to arrest Prakash before the polls. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “The way sedition charges have been pressed against our president, it seems that he has waged a war against the nation. Police too didn’t use their mind while pressing charges during filing of the FIR. If the state government has the guts, we challenge it to arrest our president before the polls.” Notably, between 2014 and 2019, when the BJP was in power in Jharkhand, it had slapped several sedition cases against human rights activists and tribal residents, including those involved directly or indirectly with the Pathalgadi movement in Khunti. Recently, 82-year-old Jesuit priest and reputed social worker Stan Swamy was arrested by NIA which accused him of harbouring links with Maoists in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2017. “It’s time for BJP members to taste its own medicine,” remarked a JMM leader. Bhattacharjee said the BJP, which had deployed three of its former chief ministers (Babulal Marandi, Raghubar Das and Arjun Munda) to campaign for the November 3 bypolls, had realised it was losing in both seats. That was why the BJP was creating a fear psychosis among people by talking about a change of guard in the state after the elections. “But let us make it very clear to the BJP that Jharkhand is not Karnataka or Goa,” the JMM leader said. BJP and AJSU-P with 28 MLAs in all do not have the numbers to claim a majority in the 81-member Assembly. With Dumka and Bermo vacant, and the demise of JMM’s Madhepur MLA Haji Hussain Ansari, the strength of the House is now down to 78. Still, the BJP is far away from a two-thirds majority to form a government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bars to defy unlock guidelines, stay closed from Sunday||Bars will not reopen from Sunday in accordance with the state government’s unlock guidelines as their demands for a relaxation in licence fees had not been met, Jharkhand Bar and Restaurant Association announced on Saturday. Addressing the press at a city hotel on Kanke Road, office-bearers of the association said that compared to other trades and business establishments, the state government took a call on reopening bars very late. They also accused the state excise department of putting undue pressure on them to pay license fees before allowing resumption of business. Association president Ranjan Kumar said, “Annually, Rs 9 lakh is taken as license fee from each bar. But we remained shut from March-end till October. Therefore, we are demanding a reduction in license fee on the basis of the months that we will operate in this fiscal. We will stand by our demands.” Anit Singh, general secretary of the bar association, added it wasn’t feasible for them to pay such a hefty amount amid the pandemic when their businesses had generated next to nothing in the last seven months. “We are ready to pay fees but only for the remaining months of the year. It is because in April, we will have to again pay Rs 9 lakh to take a license for the next year. No bar owner is currently in a position to bear such extreme financial load,” said Singh, adding that even though their bars remained closed they had to meet recurring monthly expenses running into lakhs to pay staff, for maintaining the establishment, fixed water and electricity charges, among others. There are around 50 licensed bars in Ranchi. In all, there are over 150 bars across the state, said Kumar. “All bars have jointly taken a call to remain shut till their demands are met. This is the time when the government should stand by traders and businessmen to support them and not unnecessarily impose fiscal stress,” said Kumar, adding that they had also submitted a memorandum to the excise department on Saturday afternoon. State excise secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey did not receive calls when The Telegraph Online tried to reach him for a comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi airport to reduce car parking charges from Sunday||Tired of paying more to park your vehicle at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda international airport even while visiting for a brief period to pick up or drop a friend or relative? Worry not. From Sunday, November 1, airport authorities have decided to introduce time-bound parking charges to suit everyone’s needs. Ranchi airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said the new parking rates have been designed keeping in mind concerns raised by many visitors about exorbitant charges even for 10-15 minutes. “Currently, we have a flat rate of Rs 55 which is too much for many who just used to park their vehicles for 15-20 minutes. So, under the new rates, we have decided to charge Rs 20 for the first one hour irrespective of the vehicle, Rs 35 for up to two hours, Rs 45 for over two hours to four hours. Thereafter, Rs 10 per hour will be charged,” he said. Sharma added that after the new rates came into effect, Ranchi airport parking charges would be less than rates at other prominent places. “I think even big malls in the city charge more than Rs 20 for four wheelers for the first hour,” he remarked. The director said they were now trying to increase the frequency of flights from Ranchi to cater to the growing demand. Currently, 12 flights (24 to-and-fro) are operating from Ranchi to places like Delhi, Calcutta, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Mumbai. He said they were hoping for five more flights (10 to-and-fro) soon. “We have sent a requisition to the state government to seek approval for adding five more flights. We expect a go-ahead soon. After the approval, we will decide the destinations,” said Sharma, adding that all 12 flights from Ranchi were now operating at full capacity. “There is heavy demand for flights now as people have started travelling in view of the ongoing festive season. This apart, only a few trains are running, forcing many to opt for flights. This trend is certainly good for the aviation sector,” opined Sharma. Notably, Ranchi airport was rated first among 17 medium category airports across the country in terms of customer satisfaction as per a survey conducted by the Airports Authority of India early this year, results of which were announced in the first week of October. Ranchi airport had scored 4.79 points out of 5, covering 33 parameters centred around passenger facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Police extort money from travellers at border check-posts ||Police posted at certain check-posts of East Singhbhum district bordering Bengal and Odisha are extorting money from travellers entering the state in the name of the e-pass system that was introduced during the lockdown for inter-state travel. The e-Pass could be made through an online portal. However, the system of showing it at check-posts was discontinued by the end of August. Kartar Singh was travelling back to Jamshedpur along with his family in his car from Calcutta. They had to stop at Jamsolaghat check-post where policemen demanded that he produce an e-pass on Friday. He was allowed to cross the check-post only after he paid up. "I paid the cops the money as my family was with me and I did not want to create any scene with the cops with my family members seated in the car nearby.  But this is not a good practice," observed Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. Another commuter, A. Sengupta, who was also returning from Calcutta with his family, was stopped at the Jamsholaghat check-post and asked to show his e-pass.  But on questioning the police about the system which has already ceased to exist, he was allowed to go ahead without any more demands. Sengupta said, "I was in a mood to create a scene with the cops at the Jamsholaghat check-post as they demanded e-Pass, but it was my family that came in the way. The cops posted there are just taking undue advantage of the commuters who are accompanied with their families." Two-wheelers are also made to pay money while entering the state. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said there was no need to show e-pass to any policeman at any check-post as the system has already been discontinued. He pointed out that the system of e-pass was still prevalent, but  for  foreigners only. "The e-pass system is not in use now and it is only applicable to foreigners only.  But even if any policeman or other government official is demanding commuters to show the e-Pass then it is illegal. I will get the matter checked as it is a serious thing to happen," said the deputy commissioner to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||State discom promises steady power supply during Diwali||Areas served by Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam (JBVNL) can look forward to a bright Diwali as the state-run power distributor will start an on-call electrician facility to attend to faults immediately. The JBVNL’s Singhbhum electricity supply, which covers three districts of Kolhan - East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan _ will introduce "electrician-on-call" service in command areas on Diwali on November 14. Officials of JBVNL, that has over 7 lakh consumers in the Kolhan region, decided on the service at a meeting here on Saturday. "A 24/7 control room will also be set-up at Adityapur and Karandih for attending emergency calls made by consumers. The control room helpline numbers will become active a day prior to the festival," said Sanjay Mahto, a junior engineer who looks after JBVNL's Mango division. The electrician-on-call service will be offered at all four power subdivisions of Jamshedpur — Karandih, Jugsalai, Govindpur and Mango. The service will also be available for JBVNL command areas at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Ghatshila. Any consumer seeking the services of an electrician for any faults or breakdowns in their personal line, can either call the control room or SDOs (sub-divisional officer) and JEs (junior engineer) of their respective areas. Sources said an electrician (or lineman), from a pool of electricians that would be constituted, will be rushed to the spot without delay.  JBVNL will also publish cellphone numbers of officials in vernacular dailies for the convenience of subscribers. JBVNL has prepared a list of areas where senior officials would constantly monitor power supply. In case of a breakdown, the matter would be immediately reported to the general manager's office for corrective measures. JBVNL's Singhbhum unit has also written to the state load despatch centre (SLDC) in Ranchi, which feeds power to the two grid substations at Gamharia and Golmuri, asking it to ensure steady supply during Diwali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC to kick-off ISL campaign against Chennaiyin FC on November 24||Jamshedpur FC will launch their Indian Super League (ISL)  campaign against Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan in Goa on November 24. The fixture for the cash-rich tournament's 7th edition was announced on Friday evening. Kerala Blasts will kick-off the action against ATK Mohun Bagan FC  in the season opener at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on November 20. According to the schedule, the Tata Steel-owned club will cross swords with Odisha FC at Tilak Maidan on November 29 in their second outing followed by the encounter versus Hyderabad FC  at the same venue on December 2. Jamshedpur will clash with reigning champions ATK Mohun Bagan FC, again at Tilak Maidan, on December 7 before having a face-off with East Bengal at the same venue on December 10. The Owen Coyle-mentored outfit’s next match will be against Mumbai City FC at GMC Stadium in Bambolim on December 14 whereas the tie against NorthEast United FC is scheduled at Tilak Maidan on December 18. The Men of Steel will lock horns with hosts FC Goa at Tilak Maidan on December 23 at Tilak Maidan and will later face Bengaluru FC at Fatorda Stadium on December 28. The team will take on Kerala Blasters FC at Tilak Maidan on January 10 next year. The schedule is for JFC ‘s first 10 matches spread over 11 rounds of the league. Schedule for the remaining matches will be released post clarity on calendar dates of Asian Football Confederation (AFC) competition matches. Head coach Owen Coyle, who propelled Chennaiyin FC to the summit clash after taking charge mid-way last season, said: “I am absolutely looking forward to play Chennaiyin FC in our first match. I had great time there and I know it won’t be easy to get three points against them. They have built a good squad, but so have we. We are looking to hit the ground running from the first match itself, no matter who the opposition is.” Jamshedpur FC finished fifth under Spanish coach Antonio Iriondo in the last season. The team under Coyle is high on hopes for making it to the play-off for the first time in three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||CRPF 12  hurt as driver tries to save goat||As many as 12 CRPF personnel were injured, five of them critically, when a truck taking them to Nimiaghat in Bermo of Jharkhand for election duty turned sideways after the driver lost control while trying to save a goat on Friday afternoon. The accident occurred under Madhuban police station area in Giridih district, around 200km from state capital Ranchi. Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu said the truck was carrying around 25 CRPF personnel of the 154th Battalion from Madhuban camp to Nimiaghat in Bermo, where byelection will be held on November 3, when the driver lost control while manoeuvring to save a goat which came in front and the vehicle fell sideways. “All the injured CRPF personnel were rushed to Dumri General Hospital in Giridih where their condition is said to be stable. However, five of them who sustained head injuries have been airlifted to Patliputra Medical College Hospital in Dhanbad for better treatment. Based on medical advice, we might send them to Ranchi,” said Renu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hard campaign for legacy seats||As the campaign for bypolls for Dumka and Bermo Assembly seats heading towards its end on Monday evening, the ruling dispensation tries to steer clear of an apparently non-issue. “The results of these bypolls will not affect the government as we formed it with the support from 50 MLAs,” chief minister Hemant Soren told a few election gatherings he addressed in those two constituencies since Monday, adding it would rather strengthen it. He was replying to clear the doubt that these bypolls would be a referendum for his government, an idea that a section of the media reported, quoting some BJP sources, though the arithmetic did not support it. Hemant had been camping in Dumka and addressing election meetings in both the constituencies since then. Besides the chief minister, JMM supremo Shibu Soren who recently recovered from Covid-19 infection also shifted to Dumka and was joined by others from both the JMM and the Congress to campaign for the mahagathbandhan candidates — the chief minister’s younger brother Basant Soren at Dumka and deceased Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh’s son Kumar Jaimangal at Bermo. On the other hand, three former chief ministers — Babulal Marandi, Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das — are leading the Opposition campaign for BJP candidates, Louise Marandi at Dumka and Yogeshwar Mahto ‘Batul’ at Bermo. The Opposition mainly alleged that the Soren government failed to deliver during the past 10 months and the law and order situation deteriorated during their rule. The ruling combine, led by Hemant, defended it saying they had to fight the pandemic during seven of those ten months. “Sar murate hi Ola pore (the hails rained immediately after shaving off the head),” Hemant reminded the saying to convince his audience at a Dumka gathering. “Still, we brought back maximum number of migrant workers home and fed everyone though community kitchens during those months,” he further reminded them, adding his government also arranged chartered flights for bringing back such migrant workers from Andaman and Leh, actually making “Hawai chappal se hawai jahaj (Hawai slippers to aeroplane)” possible. “We didn’t allow a single person to starve while there were about two dozen alleged hunger deaths during their rule,” Hemant roared at some those meetings when he often switched over to Santhali to convince his fellow tribals. Hemant also raised at different meetings the issues of auto-debit of Rs 1417.50 crore from the state’s account by the Centre and cancellation of 11 lakh ration cards and attempted tweaking of tenancy laws by the previous BJP government in the state to expose the opposition. “We are now issuing 15 lakh new ration cards and will also soon offer dhoti, saree and lungi at Rs 10 apiece,” he assured. After recent death of minority welfare minister Hazi Hussain Ansari on October 3, the strength of the 81-member state Assembly has been reduced to 78. While ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine has 46 MLAs now, BJP-Ajsu 28 and other 4. The results of bypolls, when declared on November 10, will the take up the strength to 80 and the majority mark will be 41. Even if the BJP wins both the seats, the present government is unlikely to face any threat. Still, this bypolls, slated for November 3, are prestige fight for both JMM and Congress as they had won Dumka and Bermo respectively maximum times and as such those are treated as their legacy seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
