03-07-2020||World||US sees over 50K Covid-19 cases in a day, Donald Trump heads to celebrate July 4||The United States reported more than 50,000 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday, a single-day rise not seen or, perhaps, in the world before as the worst affected states, mostly in the south and west, reinstated restrictions and ordered, as in Texas, mandatory use of face coverings in public places.New infections had gone up to 52,291 by the end of Thursday, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tracker, and 635 fatalities have been recorded. Public health officials have warned infections could go as high as 100,000 a day and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has forecast 148,000 deaths by July 25.The global count of cases, meanwhile, inched closer to 11 million and deaths climbed to 521,874.The United States is witnessing a second flare-up, mostly affecting southern states — with the exception of California in the west — that had either lifted their restrictions early or were reluctant to enforce them fully, such as Texas, whose governor Gregg Abbott, a Republican, had prevented his mayors and other city officials from making the use of masks mandatory.Abbott has since recanted, and brought back restrictions, fully. On Thursday, he issued an order making masks mandatory in public place, starting Friday “We have the ability to keep businesses open and move our economy forward so that Texans can continue to earn a paycheck, but it requires each of us to do our part to protect one another — and that means wearing a face covering in public spaces,” Abbott said.At least eight states reported record single-day highs on Thursday, according to New York Times, which is keeping its own separate score: Alaska, Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, Montana, South Carolina and Tennessee. Other states in the grip of this flare-up include Arizona.Around a dozen states in the north and the northeast have managed thus far to either flat-line their infections or push them down, but public officials have once again warned they may not be able to withstand the souther surge if the latter was not flattened soon, and the window for that is narrowing.“What we’ve seen over the last several days is a spike in cases that is way beyond the worst spikes that we’ve seen. That is not good news,” Anthony Fauci, a top US epidemiologist and member of the White House task force on Covid-19, told BBC Thursday. “We’ve got to get that under control, or we risk an even greater outbreak to the United States”President Donald Trump, meanwhile, is scheduled to leave Friday for Mount Rushmore in South Dakota for July 4 Independence Day celebrations with fireworks.Talking about the firework celebrations, Trump said, “We’re going to have a tremendous evening. It’s going to be a fireworks display like few people have seen. It’s going to be very exciting. It’s going to be beautiful.”Public health experts worry social distancing norms will not be enforced there, as it has happened at recent public gatherings Trump has attended and addressed. Many members of his campaign staff and the Secret Service were infected at the rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma; and then again at his rally in Phoenix, Arizona. Among those from the second lot of infections was Herman Cain, a former Republican presidential candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sees-over-50k-cases-in-a-day-donald-trump-heads-to-celebrate-july-4/story-cOYE73ZfiBcUdk0sDIy8qO.html
03-07-2020||World||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi tests Covid-19 positive||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi on Friday announced that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease and quarantined himself. Taking to Twitter, the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) leader said that this afternoon, he felt a slight fever and immediately quarantined himself at home. “I have now tested positive for Covid-19. By the grace of Allah, I feel strong and energetic. I will continue to carry on my duties from home. Please keep me in your prayers,” he said in a tweet. This afternoon I felt a slight fever and immediately quarantined myself at home. I have now tested positive for Covid 19. By the grace of Allah, I feel strong and energetic. I will continue to carry on my duties from home. Please keep me in your prayers.Pakistan’s coronavirus tally has crossed the 221,000-mark with more than 4,500 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-foreign-minister-shah-mehmood-qureshi-tests-covid-19-positive/story-dupu7wjuFPY00bTcVmtxYK.html
03-07-2020||World||Life term for UK convert who plotted Sri Lanka-type blasts||A Briton who converted to Islam and later plotted to bomb three busy places in London of the kind carried out in a Sri Lanka church in 2019, was on Friday sentenced to life imprisonment, Scotland Yard said following a judgement in the widely-followed case.Safiyya Shaikh (born Michelle Ramsden), 37, will serve a minimum of 14 years before she is considered for parole for the plot to carry out terror attacks at a London train station, a hotel and the St Paul’s Cathedral, besides disseminating terrorist material online. She had pleaded guilty in February.Commander Richard Smith of the Counter Terrorism Command said: “This case is a stark reminder that the threat from terrorism remains as real as ever. As the lockdown restrictions ease and our public spaces start to open up again, it is vital that the public remains vigilant and reports anything suspicious to police - we need your help.”Shaikh was arrested on October 10, 2019 following a joint Scotland Yard and and MI5 investigation. She believed one of the officers, with whom she spoke online, would be able to help her obtain explosives.She gave another undercover officer two bags, which she hoped would be converted into bombs. She told an undercover officer how she planned to leave one of these bombs inside St Paul’s Cathedral and another in a nearby hotel. She talked about setting off the third – in the form of a suicide vest – at a train station.“Shaikh told the undercover officer she wanted to carry out an attack like that in Sri Lanka in 2019, in which suicide bombers killed hundreds of people in hotels and at a church on Easter Sunday. Following her arrest, she admitted this plan in a police interview”, the Yard said.The court was told that Shaikh converted to Islam in 2007 after being impressed by the kindness of a Muslim family, but later sought out people online who had extremist views. In one message to an undercover officer, Shaikh declared that she “loved” to watch graphic terrorist videos.Commander Smith added: “Shaikh was dedicated to her extremist beliefs. In addition to wanting to carry out her own sickening attack on UK soil, she hoped to inspire others to implement attack plans even after she had died. Thanks to the hard work of officers from both the Met Police and MI5, she is instead in jail”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/life-term-for-uk-convert-who-plotted-sri-lanka-type-blasts/story-kI5xI5GY9MTCTDO9svMw0I.html
03-07-2020||World||Khashoggi lured to his death through ‘a great betrayal and deception’, says fiancee||The fiancee of Jamal Khashoggi told a Turkish court Friday that the Washington Post columnist was lured to his death at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul through “a great betrayal and deception,” and she asked that all persons responsible for his killing be brought to justice.Hatice Cengiz spoke at the opening of the trial in absentia of two former aides of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and 18 other Saudi nationals who were charged in Turkey for Khashoggi’s grisly slaying. The journalist’s 2018 killing at the consulate sparked international condemnation and cast a cloud of suspicion over the prince.The 20 Saudi defendants all left Turkey, and Saudi Arabia rejected Turkish demands for their extradition. Some of the men were put on trial in Riyadh behind closed doors. The proceedings were widely criticized as a whitewash. Khashoggi’s family members later announced they had forgiven his killers.The trial in Turkey is being closely watched for possible new information or evidence from the killing, including the whereabouts of Khashoggi’s remains.Khashoggi, who was a United States resident, had walked into his country’s consulate on Oct. 2, 2018, for an appointment to pick up documents that would allow him to marry his Turkish fiancee. He never walked out.“He was called to that consulate with great betrayal and deception,” the private DHA news agency quoted Cengiz as telling the court during her testimony.“I am making a complaint about everyone at the consulate. Everyone from the driver to the tea-maker,” said Cengiz, who waited for Khashoggi outside the Istanbul consulate when he went there to obtain the documents and alerted authorities when he failed to come out.The trial was adjourned until Nov. 24, DHA reported. Turkish prosecutors have demanded that the defendants be sentenced to life terms in prison, if convicted.The Turkish prosecutors have charged the prince’s former advisers, Saud al-Qahtani and Ahmed al-Asiri, with “instigating a premeditated murder with the intent of (causing) torment through fiendish instinct.”Prosecutors are also seeking life prison sentences for 18 other Saudi nationals charged with carrying out “a premeditated murder with the intent of (causing) torment through fiendish instincts.”A team of 15 Saudi agents had flown to Turkey to meet Khashoggi inside the consulate. They included a forensic doctor, intelligence and security officers and individuals who worked for the crown prince’s office.Turkish officials allege Khashoggi was killed and then dismembered with a bone saw. Turkey, a rival of Saudi Arabia, apparently had the Saudi Consulate bugged and has shared audio of the killing with the CIA, among others.Prior to his killing, Khashoggi had written critically of Saudi Arabia’s crown prince in columns for the Washington Post.Saudi Arabia had initially offered shifting accounts about Khashoggi’s disappearance. As international pressure mounted because of the Turkish leaks, the kingdom eventually settled on the explanation that he was killed by rogue officials in a brawl.Turkish prosecutors say the suspects “acted in consensus from the beginning in line with the decision of taking the victim back to Saudi Arabia and of killing him if he did not agree.”Riyadh had insisted that the kingdom’s courts are the correct place for the suspects to be tried and put 11 people on trial over the killing. In December, five people were sentenced to death while three others were found guilty of covering up the crime and were sentenced to a combined 24 years in prison.During the Muslim holy month of Ramadan in May, Khashoggi’s son announced that the family pardoned the killers, giving legal reprieve to the five government agents who were sentenced to death.___Fraser reported from Ankara, Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/khashoggi-lured-to-his-death-through-a-great-betrayal-and-deception-says-fiancee/story-c0NvMFlHkj7kpB0RRYS9wO.html
03-07-2020||World||Covid-19: New, more infectious strain is pervasive, says study||A new, more infectious variant of the original strain of Covid-19 is now dominating current cases across the globe, according to a study by an international team of researchers, including from the University of Sheffield, published on Wednesday.The analysis of the virus’s genome sequence found that a mutation called ‘D614G’ made the virus more infectious than the original strain, but did not cause more severe disease. The variation improved its ability to infect human cells and helped become the dominant strain circulating around the world today.The study, published in the journal ‘Cell’, shows the variation is more infectious in cell cultures under laboratory conditions. The variant makes a small but effective change in the ‘spike’ glycoprotein that protrudes from the surface of the virus, which it uses to enter and infect human cells.The D614G variant of Covid-19 quickly took over as the dominant strain soon after it first appeared, with geographic samples showing a significant shift in viral population from the original, to the new strain of the virus, a release from Sheffield said.Researchers from the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico and Duke University in North Carolina, partnered with the University of Sheffield’s Covid-19 Genomics UK research group to analyse genome samples published on GISAID, an international resource for sharing genome sequences among researchers worldwide.Thushan de Silva, who led analysis of the data from Sheffield, said: “We have been sequencing SARS-CoV-2 strains in Sheffield since early in the pandemic and this allowed us to partner with our collaborators to show this mutation had become dominant in circulating strains”.“Data provided by our team in Sheffield suggested that the new strain was associated with higher viral loads in the upper respiratory tract of patients with Covid-19, meaning the virus’s ability to infect people could be increased. Fortunately at this stage, it does not seem that viruses with D614G cause more severe disease.”Bette Korber from the Los Alamos National Laboratory added: “It is possible to track SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) evolution globally because researchers worldwide are rapidly making their viral sequence data available through the GISAID viral sequence database”.“Currently tens of thousands of sequences are available through this project, and this enabled us to identify the emergence of a variant that has rapidly become the globally dominant form.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-new-more-infectious-strain-is-pervasive-says-study/story-iRK3OKWz45Wc7yxkuOemCN.html
03-07-2020||World||20 people, mostly Sikh pilgrims, feared dead as train rams bus in Pakistan’s Sheikhupura||Twenty people, mostly Sikh pilgrims, are feared dead in an accident between a bus and a train near Sheikhupura on Friday afternoon. The bus carrying the pilgrims was hit at an unmanned railway crossing by the Karachi bound Shah Hussain Express. The pilgrims were travelling from Peshawar. Police have said there were 25-27 persons in the van at the time of the accident. Pakistan railways official said railway and district rescue teams arrived at the spot to rescue the victims. The injured were rushed to Sheikhupura Hospital and some are reported to be in critical condition.The crossing gate where the accident took place was closed but the coach driver may have tried to take a shortcut instead of waiting at the crossing, which resulted in the crash, a local police official said. According to the secretary-general of Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee Sardar Amir Singh, the deceased belong to three or four families.The pilgrims were on their way back to Peshawar after a visit to Nankana Sahib — where they had gone to visit relatives. The convoy of pilgrims comprised two more coaches but both took another route and have been reported to be safe. Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan said that the sikh pilgrim were returning from Nankana Sahib. He also said that the injured will be provided with proper medical care. “Deeply saddened at the accident this afternoon at a railway crossing near Sheikhupura which resulted in the death of atleast 20 people, mainly Sikh pilgrims returning from Nankana Sahib. Have directed that proper medical care be provided to the injured,” Khan tweeted. Officials said the Sikh pilgrims were from the northwestern city of Peshawar, reported news agency Associated Press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sikh-pilgrims-among-19-feared-killed-in-bus-train-accident-in-pakistan-s-sheikupura/story-f5Cq6RBrV0NuGL7Nn7cO8M.html
03-07-2020||World||Surge in domestic child abuse during Covid-19 pandemic: Study||There has been a surge in domestic child abuse during the coronavirus pandemic, suggests the experience of one specialist UK children’s hospital.The study was published in the journal Archives of Disease in Childhood.In just one month, the number of new cases rose by 1493% compared with the same period in the previous three years, pointing to a “silent pandemic” in 2020, suggest the authors.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThey compared the numbers of new cases of head injury caused by physical abuse among very young children seen between 23 March and 23 April this year and the same period in 2017, 2018, and 2019.March 23 marked the start of lockdown and a period of national self-isolation in the UK in a bid to curb the spread of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 infection.Ten children (six boys and four girls) with suspected abusive head trauma presented for treatment during March-April. Their ages ranged from 17 days to 13 months old.This figure compares with an average of 0.67 cases a month for the same period in 2017, 2018, and 2019, representing an increase of 1493% in 2020, say the authors.The symptoms prompting a hospital visit included colic (persistent crying for no obvious reason) in 5 of the infants; breathing issues (apnoea) and loss of consciousness in 4; seizures in 2; extensive bruising in 5; swollen scalp in 5; and marks caused by repeated picking at the skin (excoriation) in 1 child.The infants were comprehensively assessed. This included head, spine, and skeletal scans, as well as detailed eye and whole body checks.The results revealed blood pooling in the brain (subdural haemorrhage) in 6 infants; brain swelling in 4; bruising of the brain tissue (parenchymal contusion) in 4; skull fractures in 4; a bleed on the brain (subarachnoid haemorrhage) in 3; and bone fractures elsewhere in 3 of the infants.The infants’ families all lived in areas of significant social and economic deprivation. And there’s a complex interplay between abuse, mental health, substance misuse and socioeconomic factors, the authors point out.Two of the parents had a history of criminal activity; 3 had mental health issues; and 4 had financial worries, factors likely to heighten the risk of abusive behaviour, say the authors.“Our cohort is aligned to the literature in its portrayal of socioeconomic deprivation and parental vulnerability as significant risk factors for abuse, both of which may be exacerbated as a result of the stresses imposed by quarantine measures,” they write.And the fact that children are spending more time with their parents as a result and that there will have been less interaction with reporting bodies will have only added to these risks, they suggest.This case series represents the experience at just one specialist children’s hospital in England, but it echoes the reports coming out of countries enforcing similar measures to the UK during this pandemic, note the authors.And the figures are likely to be an underestimate of the scale of the problem, they warn.“This sobering figure is likely under-represented due to public avoidance of hospitals at this time,” they write. “Notably two parents in our cohort cited fears of contracting SARS-CoV-2 as a reason for delayed presentation.”And they conclude: “Hence, in the background of the intensely public SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, a more silent pandemic is occurring, of which the medical community must remain astutely aware.”Dr Alison Steele, Officer for Child Protection at the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, which co-owns Archives of Disease in Childhood with BMJ, commented: “This is an extremely concerning report. It is important to find out if the huge rise in suspected non-accidental head injury reported at this specialist hospital is being seen by other hospitals across the country.”She added: “Many of these children will have been brought into hospital because there were obvious signs that the child was very unwell, but we are also extremely worried about children who are not being seen because their physical injuries or other forms of abuse or neglect are more easily hidden.”And she warned: “There is a very real danger that, under lockdown, children are falling through the safety net because of reduced access to support services and fewer opportunities for people outside the family to sound the alarm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surge-in-domestic-child-abuse-during-covid-19-pandemic-study/story-XS5XpyXjCNbJ6gwNjV0LcL.html
03-07-2020||World||Botswana reports mysterious deaths of hundreds of elephants||Hundreds of elephants have died mysteriously in Botswana’s famed Okavango Delta, the wildlife department said Thursday, ruling out poaching as the tusks were found intact.The landlocked southern African country has the world’s largest elephant population, estimated to be around 130,000.“We have had a report of 356 dead elephants in the area north of the Okavango Delta and we have confirmed 275 so far,” Cyril Taolo, the acting director of the department of Wildlife and National Parks, told AFP in a text message. He said the cause of the deaths was yet to be established with anthrax having been ruled out.“We do not suspect poaching since (the) animals were found with tusks,” he said.Samples have been collected and sent to specialised laboratories in South Africa, Zimbabwe and Canada for testing.Similar deaths were first reported in May when authorities found 12 carcasses in just a week in two villages in the northwest of the country. “It seems they were dying very suddenly in some cases,” conservation biologist, Keith Lindsay told AFP, adding that the deaths were sudden. “The carcases were animals that had fallen down while walking... right on their sternum which is very unusual,” said Lindsay.“Up to now there doesn’t seem to be any clear sign of the reason for it. When something like this happens it is alarming.”- “All ages and sex” -The latest discoveries were flagged by a wildlife conservation charity, Elephants Without Borders (EWB), whose confidential report referring to the 356 dead elephants, was leaked to the media on Wednesday.EWB suspects the elephants have been dying in the area for about three months.According to the report dated June 19, 2020, “70 percent of elephant carcasses were considered recent, having died about a month ago, and 30 percent of the carcasses appeared fresh, ranging from one day to two weeks old”. “There was good evidence to show elephants of all ages and sex appear to be dying,” said the report penned by EWB director Mike Chase.Several live elephants appeared to have been weak, lethargic and emaciated, with some showing signs of disorientation, difficulty in walking or limping, EWB said.“One elephant was observed walking in circles, unable to change direction although being encouraged by other herd members,” said the report.For conservationist Neil Fritt the strange phenomenon is “tragic” but appears to be “more like a natural occurrence as opposed to direct human cause,” he told AFP.Botswana has an overpopulation of elephants which President Mokgweetsi Masisi has flagged as the source for much of the human-animal conflict in the country.In February the southern African country held its first major auction for trophy elephant hunting quotas since controversially scrapping a hunting ban last year. But the hunting season was suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/botswana-reports-mysterious-deaths-of-hundreds-of-elephants/story-JW8LzwvKJtThPCiH2qqsIK.html
03-07-2020||World||Punjab-origin man sentenced to 34 month jail term for arson in UK city||Parvinder Singh, a Nottingham-based man who pleaded guilty to arson following a fire in a commercial centre in neighbouring Leicester in January 2019, has been sentenced to 34 months in jail, the Leicestershire police said on Thursday.Singh, 28, admitted arson in the Belgrave Commercial Centre, which is a hub of Indian and Asian business. Shops were destroyed in the fire leaving owners, staff and the community devastated, the police said. No motive for starting the fire was disclosed.While people were inside premises affected at the time of the fire being started, no one was injured in the incident. Soon after the police and fire officials were called to the site, it was clear that fire had been started deliberately, the police added.CCTV showed a man with a bag sat on some crates in the area prior to the fire. He was then seen to crouch over before standing up and walking off, noticing a flame coming from where he had been as he left. The fire was then seen to ignite on the CCTV and the man left the area.The image of the suspect was issued in a public appeal and through leaflets which were handed out in the area asking for information. The inquiries led to Singh being identified and he was arrested in October last year.Detective constable Gemma Allen said: “This was a devastating incident for residents, business owners and workers in the community. Businesses were completely destroyed and it is extremely fortunate that there were no injuries in the fire. Lives could have been lost on that night because of the actions of one man”.“I hope this conviction helps those affected by Singh’s actions as they continue to rebuild from the devastation that was caused that night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/punjab-origin-man-sentenced-to-34-month-jail-term-for-arson-in-uk-city/story-vBAteK1UG9r04SBO0AnCJM.html
03-07-2020||World||Punjab-origin man jailed for arson in UK city||Parvinder Singh, a Nottingham-based man who pleaded guilty to arson following a fire in a commercial centre in neighbouring Leicester in January 2019, has been sentenced to 34 months in jail, the Leicestershire police said on Thursday.Singh, 28, admitted arson in the Belgrave Commercial Centre, which is a hub of Indian and Asian business. Shops were destroyed in the fire leaving owners, staff and the community devastated, the police said. No motive for starting the fire was disclosed.While people were inside premises affected at the time of the fire being started, no one was injured in the incident. Soon after the police and fire officials were called to the site, it was clear that fire had been started deliberately, the police added.CCTV showed a man with a bag sat on some crates in the area prior to the fire. He was then seen to crouch over before standing up and walking off, noticing a flame coming from where he had been as he left. The fire was then seen to ignite on the CCTV and the man left the area.The image of the suspect was issued in a public appeal and through leaflets which were handed out in the area asking for information. The inquiries led to Singh being identified and he was arrested in October last year.Detective constable Gemma Allen said: “This was a devastating incident for residents, business owners and workers in the community. Businesses were completely destroyed and it is extremely fortunate that there were no injuries in the fire. Lives could have been lost on that night because of the actions of one man”.“I hope this conviction helps those affected by Singh’s actions as they continue to rebuild from the devastation that was caused that night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/punjab-origin-man-jailed-for-arson-in-uk-city/story-ZjNRHGvFcFn3mbSMNLpQdJ.html
03-07-2020||World||Hong Kong police charge first person under new security law||Hong Kong police on Friday brought their first charges under a sweeping new national security law that Beijing imposed on the city earlier this week. “A 24-year-old local man has been charged with one count of inciting others for secession and one count of terrorist activity,” the police said in a brief statement. A police source said the charges were brought against a man who drove his motorbike into a group of police officers on Wednesday during protests against the security law.The source asked for anonymity on order to be able to speak freely.Video footage captured by local television showed a man on an orange motorbike with a flag that declared “Liberate Hong Kong, Revolution of our Times” on the back.He turned down a side street and drove into a group of riot police. Bystander footage shot on a mobile phone captured a scene moments later, where the man was swiftly detained after he fell to the ground. Police at the time said three officers were wounded.Beijing’s new security law was enacted on Tuesday and kept secret until it became law, sending shockwaves through the city both for how it was imposed and the strangling of free speech provisions it contains. It outlaws various acts viewed as subversion, secession, terrorism and colluding with foreign forces. But legal experts warn it proscribes even peaceful political views.Hong Kong’s government, for example, have announced that using the phrase “Liberate Hong Kong, Revolution of our times” is illegal under the secession and subversion provisions. The terrorism offences are broad and include attacks on vehicles or transport networks and “using dangerous methods to seriously endanger public health or safety”.The most serious security law offences carry punishments of life imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-police-charge-first-person-under-new-security-law/story-FZVncwD7jvFaWEdNy1eOUM.html
03-07-2020||World||French prime minister Edouard Philippe resigns, reshuffle expected||French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe has resigned as a government reshuffle is expected in the coming days, the French presidency announced Friday.The statement didn’t say whether whether Philippe will be replaced or will stay on as the head of a new government.President Emmanuel Macron is seeking to open a new chapter for the two remaining years of his term that will focus on efforts to relaunch the French economy deeply hit by the coronavirus crisis.The reshuffle comes days after a green wave swept over France in local elections. Macron saw his young centrist party being defeated in France’s biggest cities and failing to plant local roots across the country.The reshuffle was planned even before the voting, as Macron’s government faced obstacles and criticism before Sunday’s election and during the virus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-prime-minister-edouard-philippe-resigns-reshuffle-expected/story-PeHOh3E6sCoDfAh9pk1svO.html
03-07-2020||World||South Africa’s hospitals bracing for surge of virus patients||The nurse started crying when describing her work at a Johannesburg hospital: The ward for coronavirus patients is full, so new arrivals are sent to the general ward, where they wait days for test results. Already 20 of her colleagues have tested positive.“A lot, a lot, a lot of people are coming in every day. With Covid-19,” said the nurse, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she is not authorized to speak to the media. “Each day, it becomes more difficult to cope.”South Africa’s reported coronavirus cases more than quadrupled in June — though some of that is due to efforts to clear a testing backlog, the rate of increase of new cases is picking up. Its hospitals are now bracing for an onslaught of patients, setting up temporary wards and hoping advances in treatment will help the country’s health facilities from becoming overwhelmed.The surge comes as the country has allowed businesses to reopen in recent weeks to stave off economic disaster after a strict two-month stay-at-home order worsened already high unemployment — it reached 30% in June — and drastically increased hunger. In Johannesburg, the largest city, health officials said they are considering reimposing some restrictions to try to slow the quickening spread of the virus.“We’re seeing a spike in infections in Johannesburg. The number of people that we are diagnosing on a daily basis now is absolutely frightening,” said Shabir Madhi, professor of vaccinology at Johannesburg’s University of the Witwatersrand, who is leading a vaccine trial in South Africa in cooperation with Britain’s University of Oxford. “Who we are finding positive now is an indication of who will be in hospital three weeks from now.”The vaccine trial began last week, and Madhi said he’s surprised by the high number of prospective participants who have been disqualified because they are positive for the virus.“It is hard to see how our hospitals will be able to cope,” he said. “Our facilities are reaching a tipping point.”Covid-19 has highlighted South Africa’s inequalities, he said. “Everyone is at risk from the virus,” he said. “But the poor, living in higher density areas, without good access to running water, access to health care, the poorest will suffer the most.”South Africa, with 58 million people and nearly 40% of all the cases on the entire continent, has seen the number of confirmed infections rise from 34,000 at the start of June to more than 168,000 on Friday.Overnight it reported its largest daily number of new confirmed cases — 8,728.As of Friday, 2,844 people had died, according to official statistics. But forecasts by health experts have warned that South Africa could see from 40,000 to more than 70,000 deaths from Covid-19 before the end of 2020.Other African countries are watching warily as the country with the continent’s best-equipped and best-staffed health system hurtles toward a peak that may overwhelm it.South Africa’s health minister, Dr. Zwelini Mkhize, issued a sobering warning recently about an expected flood of cases, especially in urban centers as many return to work.“It is anticipated that, while every province will unfortunately witness an increase in their numbers, areas where there is high economic activity will experience an exponential rise,” Mkhize said this week.Concerns about the virus spreading in the minibus taxis that millions of South Africans use to commute grew this week when the taxi association said the minivans would run at full capacity of up to 15 passengers, despite government orders to carry just 70% capacity.For weeks Cape Town has been the country’s epicenter of the disease, but Johannesburg is rapidly catching up.Mkhize said Gauteng province, which also includes the nation’s capital of Pretoria, will quickly surpass Cape Town and will need more hospital beds.Gauteng hospitals already have 3,000 Covid-19 patients, the province’s premier David Makhura told reporters Thursday. He denied reports that patients have been turned away and said bed capacity would be significantly increased by the end of July. He said the reopening of schools set for next week may be postponed and warned that restrictions may be reimposed to combat the surge.To increase its hospital capacity, South Africa has converted convention centers in Cape Town and Johannesburg, built wards in huge tents, and turned a closed Volkswagen car manufacturing plant into a 3,300-bed treatment center. Still, finding staff to tend to those beds is a challenge: The factory remains empty for lack of health workers.In Khayelitsha township, one of Cape Town’s poorest areas with some 400, 000 residents, the district hospital has 300 beds. Anticipating increased demand on the overstretched facility, an external wing was created across the street. Built in a month, the new ward opened at the start of June with 60 beds. By this week only two beds were empty.“It’s overwhelming,” said Dr. Hermann Reuter of his work in the external ward, run by Khayelitsha District Hospital with assistance from Doctors Without Borders.Reuter said advances in treatment — including giving patients oxygen masks and nasal inhalers earlier and turning them often in order to keep them off ventilators — has yielded encouraging results, even though many are severely ill when they arrive. Crucially, many can be discharged in two weeks — freeing up much-needed bed space, said Reuter, who normally runs community substance abuse clinics but volunteered to work in the field hospital.As South Africa heads into its coldest time of year, the media have warned of a “dark winter” over fears cases will peak in July and August in the Southern Hemisphere country. President Cyril Ramaphosa recently counseled the nation to prepare for tough times ahead, saying that many may find themselves “despondent and fearful” in the weeks and months to come.“It may be that things have gotten worse, but we are certain that they will get better,” he said.For the nurse at the Johannesburg hospital, those dark days already appear to have arrived.“Nursing is a calling, and we are working to help people in this corona crisis,” she said. “But we are becoming overwhelmed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-s-hospitals-bracing-for-surge-of-virus-patients/story-T05mnpElgqhM8dQH0SuaNK.html
03-07-2020||World||First coronavirus then Trump order split Indian families||The March day that his father died, Karan Murgai boarded a plane to India.The coronavirus was spreading, so Murgai’s wife and their two young children stayed home in Dallas.Their separation — due to last three weeks — became indefinite after President Donald Trump signed an executive order that suspends applications for H-1B and other high-skilled work visas from abroad.Trump said the June 22 order would protect jobs amid high US unemployment because of the pandemic.But Murgai and at least 1,000 others like him, whose American visas are tied to their jobs in the US, are now stranded in India — the order’s “collateral damage,” he said.He contacted the offices of Texas Sen. John Cornyn and Texas Rep. Van Taylor, Indian government officials and the US Consulate in New Delhi. No one could help.An IT management consultant for a multinational, Murgai handles his father’s affairs in New Delhi during the day and his US job overnight, worrying about his 4-year-old daughter who has lost her appetite and started throwing fits.India, with the world’s fourth worst-highest virus caseload, is tallying nearly 20,000 new infections each day, but restrictions on travel have begun to ease, with international commercial flights set to resume in July.“Every day she has this one question to ask me: when am I coming back? I get heartbroken at that point. First, it was July. Now I don’t know. We’re getting hit from all sides,” Murgai said.The H-1B visa program allows US employers to hire high-skilled foreign workers, mainly for tech jobs. Employers first have to determine there are no American candidates, and then undertake a lengthy sponsorship process that costs as much as $15,000, making the program highly competitive.Indians account for 75% of the applications for the H-1B program, US government data show. Nearly 85,000 H-1B visas are awarded each year.Nasscom, a trade association in the Indian information technology industry, called Trump’s order “misguided and harmful to the US economy.”Indian companies provide technology staff and services to US hospitals, drugmakers and biotechnology companies, Nasscom pointed out. As a result, Indian companies may redirect Indian talent to Canada or Mexico.India’s foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said the order would “likely affect movement of Indian skilled professionals,” and that the government was assessing the impact on Indian nationals and industry.The H1-B program has created a pathway for a generation of skilled Indian and other foreign workers to build lives in the US, but the Trump order places years of investment in education, property and communities at risk, said Murgai. He arrived in Dallas with an H-1B visa in 2010 and now owns a house and land there.“When you’re in a place for a decade, you think you’ve settled down,” he said.“If new H-1Bs are being stopped, I get it. But then for people who already have jobs, who have already established themselves in their fields and have given the government a reason to keep them in the country, why upend lives like this?”In surburban Dallas, Sandeep Vudayagiri, a big data analytics engineer, has been home alone since February, when his wife and daughter went to visit family in Hyderabad, India.Vudayagiri’s wife, Arpana Takkalapally, holds an H-4 visa, given to immediate family of H-1B visa holders. Even though Takkalapally isn’t allowed to work on her visa, without a renewal stamp from a US consulate, she can’t go back.“It is indirectly punishing the people who are working here,” he said. “How is my 2-year-old an employment threat in the US? Which country does this?” Vudayagiri said.Takkalapally spends her days in Hyderabad feeding and playing with her daughter, and cooking and cleaning for her parents, bookended by morning and evening calls with her husband.This is the longest the couple have been separated since they met as graduate students at San Jose State University in 2010.Takkalapally watched as Indian friends and neighbors flocked to Houston last year for a rally with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Trump. The leaders extolled the closeness of India-US ties in a stadium filled with 50,000 people.A similar rally was staged in February in Modi’s home state of Gujarat.“Now it seems like some backstabbing,” Takkalapally said.Immigration attorneys in the US said they have been inundated with emails and phone calls seeking help.“The stress level that this causes on the number of people in the US in legal working status is massive,” said Nell Barker, an attorney in Chicago. “It is causing mental health issues. It is causing productivity issues in a situation where businesses are already struggling to get through these shutdowns and economic downturn.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-coronavirus-then-trump-order-split-indian-families/story-bgdu5sp0TUwLkGwNgagAqN.html
03-07-2020||World||‘Happy hypoxia’ condition in Covid-19 patients decoded||Scientists have found a possible explanation for why some Covid-19 patients experience extremely low, otherwise life-threatening levels of oxygen, known as happy hypoxia, but no signs of difficulty in breathing. The new understanding of the condition, also known as silent hypoxemia, could prevent unnecessary intubation and ventilation in patients during the current and expected second wave of coronavirus, according to the study published in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine. Intubation is the process of inserting a tube, called an endotracheal tube (ET), through the mouth and then into the airway. It is done so that a patient can be placed on a ventilator to assist with breathing. Happy hypoxia “is especially bewildering to physicians as it defies basic biology,” said Martin J. Tobin, a professor at Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine in the US. “In some instances, the patient is comfortable and using a phone at a point when the physician is about to insert a breathing (endotracheal) tube and connect the patient to a mechanical ventilator which while potentially lifesaving carries its own set of risks,” said Tobin. The study included 16 Covid-19 patients with very low levels of oxygen -- as low as 50 per cent compared to normal blood oxygen saturation between 95 and 100 per cent -- without shortness of breath or dyspnea. The researchers found that “several pathophysiological mechanisms account for most, if not all, cases of silent hypoxemia.” This includes the initial assessment of a patient’s oxygen level with a pulse oximeter, they said. “While a pulse oximeter is remarkably accurate when oxygen readings are high, it markedly exaggerates the severity of low levels of oxygen when readings are low,” said Tobin. He noted that another factor is how the brain responds to low levels of oxygen. “As oxygen levels drop in patients with Covid-19, the brain does not respond until oxygen falls to very low levels -- at which point a patient typically becomes short of breath,” said Tobin. In addition, more than half of the patients had low levels of carbon dioxide, which may diminish the impact of an extremely low oxygen level, the researchers said. “It is also possible that the coronavirus is exerting a peculiar action on how the body senses low levels of oxygen,” said Tobin, which could be linked to the lack of smell, experienced by two-thirds of Covid-19 patients. While acknowledging that further research is needed, the study concludes that “features about Covid-19 that physicians find baffling become less strange when viewed in the light of long-established principles of respiratory physiology.” “This new information may help to avoid unnecessary endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation, which presents risks, when the ongoing and much anticipated second wave of Covid-19 emerges,” said Tobin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/happy-hypoxia-condition-in-covid-19-patients-decoded/story-7JJD512E1ZY4FQgxchdgyM.html
03-07-2020||World||US job growth roars back, but Covid-19 resurgence threatens recovery||The US economy created jobs at a record clip in June as more restaurants and bars reopened, but 31.5 million Americans were collecting unemployment checks in the middle of the month, and a resurgence in Covid-19 cases suggested the labor market could suffer a setback in July.Record spikes in new coronavirus infections in large parts of the country, including Arizona and the highly-populated states of California, Florida and Texas, have forced several jurisdictions to scale back or pause reopenings, and send some workers back home.The flare-up in the respiratory illness, which started in late June and hit bars and restaurants hard, was not captured in the Labor Department’s closely watched monthly employment report published on Thursday because the government surveyed businesses in the middle of the month.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“June may be the calm before the storm,” said Chris Rupkey, chief economist at MUFG in New York. “We cannot be sure the labor market recovery will continue at a speed that is sufficient to put the millions and millions of Americans made jobless in this recession back to work.” Nonfarm payrolls surged by 4.8 million jobs in June, the most since the government started keeping records in 1939. Payrolls rebounded 2.699 million in May after a historic plunge of 20.787 million in April. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast payrolls would increase by 3 million jobs in June. Still, employment is 14.7 million jobs below its pre-pandemic level. The jobs recouped are for workers who were temporarily unemployed. President Donald Trump, whose opinion poll numbers have tanked as he struggles to manage the pandemic, economic crisis and protests over racial injustice four months before the Nov. 3 election, hailed the job gains as proof “our economy is roaring back.”Though the second straight month of strong hiring added to a stream of data, including consumer spending, in suggesting that the recession which started in February was likely over, that is all history as the coronavirus rages. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell this week said the economic outlook “is extraordinarily uncertain” and would depend on “our success in containing the virus.”Hiring last month was boosted by the typically low-paying leisure and hospitality industry, which brought back 2.1 million jobs, accounting for about two-fifths of the rise in payrolls.The return of these workers pushed down average wages 1.2%. Companies are cutting wages and hours. The average workweek dropped to 34.5 hours from 34.7 hours in May.The measurement of the unemployment rate continued to be biased downward by people misclassifying themselves as being “employed but absent from work” last month. The jobless rate fell to 11.1% from 13.3% in May. Without the misclassification, it would have been 12.3%. The unemployment rate is 7.6 percentage points above its February level. Unemployment dropped for all gender and demographic groups, though joblessness stayed disproportionately high among Blacks and Hispanics. The number of people who have permanently lost their job increased 588,000 to 2.9 million.“These workers will likely struggle to regain employment in an economy facing suppressed demand,” said Beth Akers, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute. Stocks on Wall Street rallied, with the Nasdaq hitting an all-time high. The dollar edged up against a basket of currencies. US Treasury prices were trading higher.Broad gainsJobs also returned in the retail, education and health, manufacturing, construction, professional and business services sectors, transportation and warehousing, wholesale trade and financial activities sectors. Local governments hired teachers and support staff. But state governments, confronting reduced revenues and stressed budgets caused by the pandemic, laid off more workers. There were further job losses in mining. Hiring has been boosted by the government’s Paycheck Protection Program, which gives businesses loans that can be partially forgiven if used for wages. Those funds are drying up and many companies, including some not initially impacted by lockdown measures, are struggling with weak demand, forcing them to lay off workers. That has triggered a second wave of layoffs, keeping weekly new applications for unemployment benefits extraordinarily high.In a separate report on Thursday, the Labor Department said initial claims for state unemployment benefits fell 55,000 to a seasonally adjusted 1.427 million for the week ended June 27.The claims report is the most timely data on the economy’s health. Including a program funded by the government, 2.3 million people filed claims last week.The number of people receiving benefits after an initial week of aid rose 59,000 to 19.290 million in the week ending June 20. There were 31.5 million people receiving unemployment checks in mid-June, up 916,722 from the first week of the month. With roughly a fifth of the workforce on jobless rolls, economists say the government should extend the extra $600 it pays per week in unemployment compensation when that benefit expires on July 31.“Failure to take action would severely dent the chances of a rapid recovery,” said James Knightley, chief international economist at ING in New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-job-growth-roars-back-but-covid-19-resurgence-threatens-recovery/story-v8ecgVQlE8UPv8ZMvwk4DO.html
03-07-2020||World||England to relax quarantine rules for around 50 countries: Minister||Quarantine rules for people arriving in England from around 50 countries will be lifted, transport minister Grant Shapps said on Friday. “There will be a list of 50 plus countries and if you add in the overseas territories, 60 something or other that we will publish later today,” he told Sky News. Under the existing rules, travellers must self-isolate for 14 days on entering the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/england-to-relax-quarantine-rules-for-around-50-countries-minister/story-faxYkIa0y08vEKPasYT1cJ.html
03-07-2020||World||Japan will not revive state of emergency as Tokyo Covid-19 cases rise||Japan has no need to reintroduce a state of emergency to tackle the novel coronavirus, its top government spokesman said on Friday, as cases in Tokyo rose to a two-month high.The new cases are mostly among people in their 20s and 30s, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters, with the number of serious cases declining. New daily cases in the capital have exceeded 50 over the last week, with Tokyo reporting more than 120 on Friday, up from 107 the day before, the Nikkei newspaper reported, as the virus spreads among nightlife workers.The state of emergency was lifted on May 25.The pandemic is dominating Sunday’s gubernatorial election campaign, with the incumbent, Yuriko Koike, looking set to win easily.The state of emergency gave governors of Japan’s 47 prefectures stronger legal authority to urge people to stay home and businesses to close, but there were no fines or arrests for non-compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-will-not-revive-state-of-emergency-as-tokyo-covid-19-cases-rise/story-NTeSacG4jTgyRxcMpTAFtN.html
03-07-2020||World||North Korea’s Kim Jong Un urges ‘maximum alert’ on Covid-19||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un urged officials to maintain “maximum alert” against the coronavirus pandemic, criticising unspecified complacencies in the country’s anti-virus campaign that he said risked “unimaginable and irretrievable crisis.”  Despite the warnings, state media said Friday that Kim reaffirmed government claims that there hasn’t been a single case of Covid-19 in North Korea. Kim told a ruling party meeting that the country has “thoroughly prevented the inroad of the malignant virus and maintained stable anti-epidemic situation despite the worldwide health crisis.”  The North’s claim of being Covid-19 free has been questioned by outside experts, who say a major outbreak in the country could possibly have dire consequences because of its chronic lack of medical supplies and poor health care infrastructure.Describing its anti-virus efforts as a “matter of national existence,” the country has shut down nearly all cross-border traffic, banned tourists, intensified screening at entry points and mobilized tens of thousands of health workers to monitor residents and isolate those with symptoms.  Experts say the country’s self-imposed lockdown is also hurting an economy already battered by stringent US-led sanctions over its nuclear weapons and missile programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-urges-maximum-alert-on-covid-19/story-1L2fh5Gm6O4cG0PWJpdh8O.html
03-07-2020||World||Death toll rises above 160 in Myanmar jade mine collapse||The death toll in a landslide at a jade mine in northern Myanmar has risen above 160, with more feared dead, authorities said on Friday, as search efforts continued for a second day.A heap of mining waste collapsed into a lake on Thursday and buried many workers under mud and water.By late evening on Thursday, rescue workers had recovered 162 bodies, the fire service department said.But Thar Lin Maung, a local official from the information ministry, said on Friday the number dead was 161, with 43 hospitalized. The search was ongoing, he said.Half of the victims are yet to be identified, he said, adding that many were migrants who were living in a small tent beside the mine.A ceremony to give financial aid for the families of the victims would be held on Friday, he said. About US$80,000 had been donated by the regional government, industry body Myanmar Gems and Jewelry Entrepreneurs Association, and one mining company.The miners were collecting stones in the jade-rich Hpakant area of Kachin state - the centre of Myanmar’s secretive jade industry - when the “muddy wave” crashed onto them after heavy rain, the fire service department said in a Facebook post.Deadly landslides and other accidents are common in the poorly regulated mines of Hpakant, which draw impoverished workers from across Myanmar in search of gems mostly for export to China. But Thursday’s accident was the worst in over five years.About 100 people were killed in a 2015 collapse which strengthened calls to regulate the industry. Another 50 died in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-toll-rises-above-160-in-myanmar-jade-mine-collapse/story-X4U3JJu8RRM5NjLEnEq7ZN.html
03-07-2020||World||Donald Trump again hails US Covid-19 testing as cases rise by record levels||President Donald Trump, yet again, hailed the United States’ coronavirus testing as Covid-19 cases in the country increased by more than 55,000 on Thursday, a new daily global record for the pandemic.A surge in coronavirus cases over the past week has put Trump’s handling of the crisis under the microscope and led several governors to halt plans to reopen their states after strict lockdowns. “There is a rise in Coronavirus cases because our testing is so massive and so good, far bigger and better than any other country,” Trump said in a tweet late on Thursday. “This is great news, but even better news is that death, and the death rate, is down,” he said.The daily U.S. tally of cases stood at 55,274 late on Thursday, topping the previous single-day record of 54,771 set by Brazil on June 19. The wave of new cases has several governors halting or back-pedaling on plans to reopen their states after months of strict lockdowns, closing beaches and canceling fireworks displays over the upcoming Independence Day weekend. The United States has now recorded nearly 129,000 deaths from the outbreak, nearly a quarter of the known global total.More than 10.89 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and 520,066​ have died, according to a Reuters tally. The United States alone has recorded about 2.76 million cases.Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China late last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-again-hails-us-covid-19-testing-as-cases-rise-by-record-levels/story-tH0I2jdzmCPA4hD9Sgrq3K.html
03-07-2020||World||China names new head of national security office in Hong Kong||China’s cabinet appointed Zheng Yanxiong as the director of the mainland’s new national security agency in Hong Kong, the official Xinhua news agency said on Friday. Zheng most recently served as the secretary general of the Communist Party committee of the southern province of Guangdong.He sparked controversy during a prior posting as the party chief of the southern city of Shanwei over his hard-line stance towards protesters in 2011 at the small village of Wukan who sought compensation for land requisitioned by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-names-new-head-of-national-security-office-in-hong-kong/story-t115oNbREOafh4AkD0TEkN.html
03-07-2020||World||Why social distance and wearing mask is important? A new study on cough droplets finds out||A mathematical model has revealed that respiratory droplets travel between eight to 13 feet before evaporating or escaping, in a new study on the coronavirus disease.The researchers include scientists from Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru. The research has been published in the journal Physics of Fluids.Since the beginning of the pandemic, it has been a well-established fact that respiratory droplets are responsible for the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 pathogen which causes Covid-19. These droplets eject when people cough, sneeze or talk.The mathematical model designed by the researchers focusses on the aerodynamics of the droplets to understand how it infects a healthy person. They compared the droplet cloud ejected by an infected person to the one by a healthy person.“The size of the droplet cloud, the distance it travels, and the droplet lifetimes are, therefore, all important factors that we calculated using conservation of mass, momentum, energy and species,” said one of the authors Swetaprovo Chaudhuri, from the University of Toronto in Canada. The experiments were conducted in contact-less environment.She further explained that the model estimates approximately how long droplets can survive, how far they can travel, and which size of droplet survives for how long.The researchers, however, noted that the actual situation could be complicated by wind, turbulence, air-recirculation or other things.“Without wind and depending on the ambient condition, we found droplets travel between 8 to 13 feet before they evaporate or escape,” said Abhishek Saha, a co-author, from the University of California, San Diego in the US.This finding implies that social distancing at perhaps greater than six feet is essential, according to the researchers. The initial size of the longest surviving droplets is in the range of 18-50 microns, meaning masks can indeed help, they said.These findings, the researchers said, could help inform reopening measures for schools and offices looking at student or employee density.While noting that the model doesn’t claim to predict the exact spread of Covid-19, researchers noted that it could emerge as a powerful tool in clarifying the role of environment on infection spread through respiratory droplets.The droplet evaporation or desiccation time is highly sensitive to the ambient temperature and relative humidity, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-social-distance-and-wearing-mask-is-important-a-new-study-on-cough-droplets-finds-out/story-pPbfHSL2c9kU7yzIjebaFK.html
03-07-2020||World||US envoy to visit South Korea to discuss stalled North Korea nuclear talks||The U.S. point man for North Korea is due to visit South Korea next week as it pushes for a resumption of talks with the North ahead of the U.S. election and despite few signs of any progress.U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun, who led working-level negotiations with the North Koreans, will be among several State Department officials holding talks with South Korean counterparts on Tuesday, a government official told Reuters, speaking on condition of anonymity as the trip has not been announced.South Korean President Moon Jae-in has said U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un should meet again before the U.S. election in November, and on Thursday, South Korea’s foreign minister said Seoul is pushing for a resumption of U.S.-North Korea talks.Biegun has said there is time for both sides to re-engage and “make substantial progress”, but the coronavirus pandemic would make an in-person summit difficult before the November election.Last month, North Korea abruptly raised tension with South Korea and blew up an inter-Korean liaison office, just on its side of the border, before just as suddenly announcing it would suspend plans for unspecified military actions against the South.North Korea has repeatedly said it will not return to talks until the United States drops its “hostile policies”, including strict sanctions, and vowed not to provide Trump with another photo opportunity before the election without significant concessions.“It’s hard to imagine a scenario where the North Koreans would be compelled to come back to the table unless the U.S. ‘offer’ was drastically different than it’s been in the past,” said Jenny Town, of 38 North, a think-tank focusing on North Korea.“And even then, how credible would that be that it would survive a potential change in administration in the U.S.?Trump and Kim met for the first time in 2018 in Singapore, raising hopes of an agreement to get North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons programme.But their second summit, in early 2019 in Vietnam, fell apart.Trump and Kim met again at the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas in June 2019 and agreed to restart negotiations but working-level talks between the two sides in Sweden in October were broken off.Trump’s former national security adviser, John Bolton, told reporters in New York on Thursday that the president might seek another summit with Kim as an “October Surprise” ahead of the election. (Reporting by Hyonhee Shin and Josh Smith Editing by Robert Birsel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-envoy-to-visit-south-korea-to-discuss-stalled-north-korea-nuclear-talks/story-LumVDdO6uuQnN5wljY4crN.html
03-07-2020||World||New Zealand mosque shooter sentencing begins on August 24||The sentencing hearing for an Australian man accused of killing 51 Muslim worshippers in New Zealand’s worst mass shooting has been set to begin on Aug. 24, the court said on Friday. Brenton Tarrant pleaded guilty earlier this year to 51 charges of murder, 40 charges of attempted murder and one charge of committing a terrorist act. Justice Cameron Mander said the hearing is estimated to last three days, but it will take as long as is necessary.Tarrant has been in police custody since March 15, 2019, when he was arrested and accused of using semi-automatic weapons to target Muslims attending Friday prayers at two mosques in the South Island city of Christchurch. The attack was streamed live on Facebook and cited as providing inspiration for several other attacks targeting religious groups around the world.Tarrant had planned to fight the charges but changed his plea to guilty in March this year.Justice Mander said arrangements will be made to allow victims and family members currently based overseas, and unable to travel to New Zealand, to view the sentencing remotely.New Zealand borders remain shut for foreigners, and New Zealanders returning will have to stay in quarantine for 14 days, as the government looks to limit the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Tarrant’s remand was extended to find a suitable date after all Covid-19 restrictions were lifted.However, waiting for changes to border controls will likely result in a very extended period of delay, Justice Mander said.“Finality and closure is considered by some as the best means of bringing relief to the Muslim community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-mosque-shooter-sentencing-begins-on-august-24/story-BxcqHQLyYg0Bx3EeehS7uJ.html
03-07-2020||World||Number of Covid-19 cases in Brazil rises by 48,105 to over 1.49 million: Health Ministry||The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Brazil has increased by 48,105 to 1,496,858 within the past 24 hours, the national Ministry of Health said on late Thursday.The death toll has risen by 1,252 to 61,884 people within the same period of time.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA day earlier, Brazil reported about 46,712 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 1,038 new fatalities.Brazil comes second on a global tally of coronavirus cases after the United States, which has recorded over 2.7 million Covid-19 patients.The World Health Organization declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 11. To date, more than 10.9 million people have been infected with the coronavirus worldwide, with over 519,000 fatalities, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/number-of-covid-19-cases-in-brazil-rises-by-48-105-to-over-1-49-million-health-ministry/story-beSfAClxPey3Hoj30VaqeN.html
03-07-2020||World||Regeneron, Sanofi arthritis drug fails Covid-19 study||Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc and Sanofi said on Thursday their rheumatoid arthritis drug Kevzara failed to meet the main goals of a U.S. study testing it in the most critically ill Covid-19 patients.Previous trial results had shown that the drug did not help patients with less severe Covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, and shares of Regeneron fell about 3% in after hours trading.Kevzara belongs to a class of drugs called interleukin-6 inhibitors that are being tried to help regulate a dangerous overreaction to the virus by the body’s immune system called “cytokine storm.”Other drugs in the same class, including Roche Holding AG’s Actemra, are also being studied as treatments for Covid-19.A separate Sanofi-led trial of Kevzara outside of the United States in hospitalized patients with severe and critical Covid-19 using a different dosing regimen is ongoing, the companies said.Patients who required mechanical ventilation or high-flow oxygen therapy or treatment in an intensive care unit were considered critically ill. Those who required oxygen without mechanical or high-flow oxygenation were considered severely ill. More than three dozen U.S. states were seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases, according to a Reuters analysis on Thursday, the latest grim sign that the coronavirus pandemic, once thought to be waning, was again spreading rapidly.Worldwide, the virus has infected 10.76 million people, resulting in 516,600 deaths.Shares of Regeneron were down $17.20 at $605.25 after hours. They are up about 67% so far this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/regeneron-sanofi-arthritis-drug-fails-covid-19-study/story-1d1gIHIBOc4nwQlS4qCUzK.html
03-07-2020||World||UK to relax England’s quarantine rules for summer travellers||Britain’s government said it will lift its Covid-19 quarantine requirement for people arriving in England from countries including Germany, France, Spain and Italy from July 10. A full list of countries covered by the relaxation would be announced on Friday, the country’s transport ministry said.Under the existing rules, travellers must self-isolate for 14 days on entering the country, something airlines and the travel industry have said will cost thousands of jobs and inflict further damage on the economy. The government said it expected countries included on the quarantine-free list for England would reciprocate by relaxing their own travel restrictions.Britain’s foreign ministry would set out exemptions from its global advisory against “all but essential” international travel from July 4. “Today marks the next step in carefully reopening our great nation,” Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said. The devolved governments of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have their own powers over public health issues.Britain said it would require all travellers, except those from the exempted countries, to provide their contact information including their travel history on arrival. People who have been in or transited through non-exempt countries will still have to self isolate for 14 days.The Telegraph newspaper reported on Thursday the government would end coronavirus quarantine rules for those arriving from 75 countries so that people can go on holiday.The UK would also lift a ban on non-essential travel to nearly all EU destinations, the British territories including Bermuda and Gibraltar, and Turkey, Thailand, Australia and New Zealand, the Telegraph added.Britain is moving to reopen its pubs, restaurants and other businesses this weekend, signalling a gradual reopening of its economy.But Prime Minister Boris Johnson has warned people to maintain social distancing rules and is expected to repeat that caution at a news conference on Friday.“Anyone who flouts social distancing and Covid-Secure rules is not only putting us all at risk but letting down those businesses and workers who have done so much to prepare for this new normal,” he will say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-relax-england-s-quarantine-rules-for-summer-travellers/story-thzrTVwOs4FJc5nbBYj54N.html
03-07-2020||World||Kim Jong-Un hails North Korea’s ‘shining success’ against Covid-19: Report||North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un has praised what he described as his country’s “shining success” in holding off the new coronavirus, according to state-run KCNA news agency Friday.The head of the hermetic totalitarian state spoke at a Worker’s Party politburo meeting on Thursday discussing the impact of the virus, six months after North Korea closed borders and put thousands in to isolation.KCNA reported that after reviewing efforts, Kim “said we have thoroughly prevented the inroad of the malignant virus” and “maintained stable anti-epidemic situation despite the worldwide health crisis”.The reclusive leader praised the “shining success achieved by the far-sighted leadership of the Party Central Committee and a high sense of voluntary spirit displayed by all people who move as one on orders of the Party Central Committee,” KCNA continued.But he also stressed the need to “maintain maximum alert” especially in light of new outbreaks in “neighbouring countries”.“He repeatedly warned that hasty relief of anti-epidemic measures will result in unimaginable and irretrievable crisis,” KCNA said. Pyongyang has not confirmed a single case of the deadly disease that swept the world after first emerging in neighbouring China, but has imposed strict rules, including closing its borders and schools, and putting thousands of its people into isolation.Analysts say the North is unlikely to have avoided infections from the virus, and that its ramshackle health system could struggle to cope with a major outbreak.Last month a United Nations rights expert warned food insecurity is deepening and some people are “starving” as a result of North Korea’s attempts to ward off any outbreak, particularly closing borders.Before the coronavirus crisis, more than 40 percent of people in North Korea were already considered food insecure, with many suffering malnutrition.Touching almost every country on earth, Covid-19 has infected at least 10.7 million people and claimed some 516,000 lives as it upends ordinary and economic life in unprecedented ways. It continues to accelerated around the world, including in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-hails-north-korea-s-shining-success-against-covid-19-report/story-Jl4meJHibNNeVrL7pWdErK.html
03-07-2020||World||UK to end quarantine for travellers from ‘low-risk’ countries||The British government said Friday it is scrapping a 14-day quarantine rule for arrivals from a number of countries deemed “lower risk” for the coronavirus, including France, Spain, Germany and Italy.The change takes effect July 10, just over a month after the UK began requiring international arrivals to self-isolate for two weeks. The full list of exempted countries will be announced later Friday, the government said. It is considered unlikely the United States, which has the highest number of coronavirus cases and deaths in the world, will be among them.On Saturday, the government will also exempt several countries from its advice against overseas travel, meaning UK tourists can once again head abroad on vacation.Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said the changes are “good news for British people and great news for British businesses.” But he stressed that the government could re-impose quarantine restrictions “in countries we are reconnecting with.”The changes announced apply only to England, a sign of friction between Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s central government and semi-autonomous administrations in the rest of the UK — Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has been particularly critical of Johnson’s approach to easing coronavirus lockdown measures and has taken a more cautious approach.The British government also made the announcement without securing reciprocal agreements that British travelers will not face quarantines. The Department for Transport said its “expectation is that a number of the exempted countries will also not require arrivals from the UK to self-isolate.”Britain has the highest Covid-19 toll in Europe, with almost 44,000 confirmed deaths. The country is gradually emerging from a nationwide lockdown imposed in March, with bars, restaurants and hairdressers allowed to reopen in England on Saturday.The European Union re-opened its borders this week to people from 14 countries including Canada, Japan, South Korea and Morocco — but not the USBritain left the EU on Jan. 31 but continues to be bound by its rules during a transition period that lasts until the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-end-quarantine-for-travellers-from-low-risk-countries/story-5R49o5cL8l4T6qBfG9jRSP.html
03-07-2020||World||Intruder carrying multiple weapons arrested near Canadian PM Justin Trudeau’s home||An armed man, who intruded into grounds in the vicinity of the residences of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Governor General Julie Payette in Ottawa, was arrested on Thursday. He has been identified as a reservist with the country’s armed forces.Investigators have yet to attribute a motive for the incursion or name the person who is believed to a Canadian Ranger, which is tasked with patrolling the country’s vast Arctic north. While he is believed to be carrying multiple weapons, the outlet Global News citing anonymous sources in the police reported he told law enforcement he never intended to hurt anyone but wanted to express “frustration” to Trudeau over losing his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic and complain about the government’s benefit scheme.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police or RCMP stated that neither Trudeau nor Payette were present at the site at the time of the incident. The RCMP said the intrusion occurred early on Thursday morning as the man’s vehicle breached the main pedestrian entrance to 1 Sussex Drive, where it was “disabled on impact”. He then proceeded on foot to a greenhouse in the Rideau Hall area where he was “rapidly contained” by patrolling RCMP officers. He was apprehended without any incident and brought into police custody for questioning. As the episode was unfolding, the RCMP’s National Division Emergency Response Team was also called in.“We can confirm that the individual arrested by the RCMP is a member of the Canadian Armed Forces. The RCMP is collaborating closely with the Canadian Armed Forces,” the RCMP statement said. The outlet CBC News reported that the suspect was carrying a note, though its contents have not been made public yet. He is believed to have driven in from the province of Manitoba to the Canadian capital.Rideau Hall is the official residence of the Governor General, while the greenhouse where the suspect was arrested is close to Rideau Cottage, where Trudeau and his family reside.Payette tweeted her thanks to the RCMP for “quickly resolving the situation” adding that all staff on site were safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/intruder-carrying-multiple-weapons-arrested-near-canadian-pm-justin-trudeau-s-ottawa-home/story-jK2beyynxHMIpNRj7eZpfN.html
03-07-2020||World||Confirmed coronavirus cases are rising in 40 of 50 states||Four US states — Arizona, California, Florida and Texas — reported a combined 25,000 new confirmed coronavirus cases Thursday as the infection curve rose in 40 of the 50 states heading into the July Fourth holiday weekend.With the number of daily confirmed coronavirus cases nationwide climbing past 50,000, an alarming 36 states saw an increase in the percentage of tests coming back positive for the virus.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“What we’ve seen is a very disturbing week,” Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious-disease expert, said in a livestream with the American Medical Association.In a major retreat that illustrated how dire things have become in Texas, Republican Gov. Greg Abbott ordered the wearing of masks across most of the state after refusing until recently to let even local governments impose such rules.The surge has been blamed in part on Americans not covering their faces or following other social distancing rules as states lifted their lockdowns over the past few weeks. Fauci warned that if people don’t start complying, “we’re going to be in some serious difficulty.”The US recorded 51,200 new confirmed cases Wednesday, according to a tally kept by Johns Hopkins University. That represents a doubling of the daily total over the past month and is higher even than what the country witnessed during the most lethal phase of the crisis in April and May, when the New York metropolitan area was easily the worst hot spot in the USAll but 10 states are showing an upswing in newly reported cases over the past 14 days, according to data compiled by the volunteer Covid Tracking Project. The outbreaks are most severe in Arizona, Texas and Florida, which together with California have reclosed or otherwise clamped back down on bars, restaurants and movie theaters over the past week or so.Nebraska and South Dakota were the only states outside the Northeast with a downward trend in cases.While some of the increases may be explained by expanded testing, other indicators are grim, too, including hospitalizations and positive test rates. Over the past two weeks, the percentage of positive tests has doubled in Georgia, Kansas, Montana, Michigan, Missouri, Tennessee, Mississippi, South Carolina and Ohio. In Nevada, it has tripled. In Idaho, it is five times higher.In Texas, where new cases in the past two weeks have swelled from about 2,400 a day to almost 8,000 on Wednesday, the positive rate ballooned from 8% to 14.5%. In Arizona, it has gone from 5.7% to 10.3%.Abbott, who in May began one of the most aggressive reopening schedules of any governor, ordered the wearing of masks in all counties with at least 20 Covid-19 cases.Abbott said in a video posted on Twitter that the state’s lower infection rate and case counts after his stay-home order in April might have led some to think the “coast was clear.”But the number of people hospitalized in Texas because of Covid-19 has quadrupled since late May, after businesses began reopening.“We are now at a point where the virus is spreading so fast, there is little margin for error,” Abbott said. “I know that wearing a face covering is not the convenient thing to do, but I also know that wearing a face covering will help us to keep Texas open for business. And it will help Texans earn the paycheck they need.”The surge comes as Americans head into a Fourth of July holiday that health officials warn could add fuel to the outbreak by drawing big crowds. Many municipalities have canceled fireworks displays. Beaches up and down California and Florida have been closed.Florida reported more than 10,000 new confirmed cases for the first time Thursday. That is six times higher than the daily count of less than a month ago. The state also reported 67 deaths for the second time in a week and 325 new hospitalizations, one of the biggest 24-hour jumps in Florida yet. Georgia likewise saw its biggest single-day increase yet, nearly 3,500 cases.“I’m discouraged because we didn’t act fast enough to shut things down, and we could have done a much better job getting a handle on the virus,” said Megan Archer, a 39-year-old woman from West Palm Beach, Florida, who lost her job with a county parks department during the outbreak.Meanwhile, the government reported that US unemployment fell to 11.1% in June as the economy added a solid 4.8 million jobs. But that figure may be outdated: The data was collected during the second week of June, before many states began to backtrack on restarting their economies.Several Northeastern states have seen new infections slow down significantly, including New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island and New Jersey, which allowed its Atlantic City casinos to reopen Thursday, though with no smoking, drinking or eating.Pennsylvania, an outlier among Northeastern states, reported its highest one-day total of new cases since May, with more than 830, more than one-quarter of them in Pittsburgh’s Allegheny County, which will impose a one-week shutdown of bars and restaurants and all gatherings of more than 25 people starting Friday.Other states, like Colorado, a major summer destination where increases in infections have been less dramatic, are keeping a close eye on their neighbors.“I’ve been watching that map. ... We’re well aware of what’s going on around us and we’re very anxious,” said Dr. Michelle Barron, medical director of infection prevention and control at UCHealth University of Colorado Hospital. “The next couple of weeks are critical.”President Donald Trump on Wednesday seemed confident the virus would soon subside, telling Fox Business: “I think that, at some point, that’s going to sort of just disappear, I hope.”The US has reported at least 2.7 million cases and more than 128,000 dead, the highest toll in the world. Globally there have been 10.7 million confirmed cases and over 517,000 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins’ count. The true toll is believed to be significantly higher, in part because of limited testing and mild cases that have been missed.Other countries are also reporting an upswing in cases.“We have now entered a new and treacherous phase in the life cycle of this pandemic,” South African President Cyril Ramaphosa warned in a broadcast to the nation, which recorded more than 8,100 new infections, a one-day record, and has the biggest caseload on the continent.India, the world’s second-most populous country with more than 1.3 billion people, has reported nearly 100,000 new cases in the past four days alone.___Associated Press’ Adriana Gomez Licon in Miami; Kelli Kennedy in Fort Lauderdale; Cara Anna in Johannesburg; and David Rising in Berlin contributed to this report. Coyle reported from New York.___Follow all of AP’s pandemic coverage at https://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/confirmed-coronavirus-cases-are-rising-in-40-of-50-states/story-7WabVWC4gFuuL50GY7B2IJ.html
03-07-2020||World||Canada’s GDP fell by nearly 12% in April due to Covid-19 lockdown||Canada’s real gross domestic product or GDP witnessed a historic contraction in April, dropping by nearly 12 per cent, due to restrictions imposed to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. But, there are already signs of revival as phased reopening has a positive effect on the economy.Statistics Canada or StatCan stated that real GDP dropped 11.6 per cent in April after a decline of 7.5 per cent in March. April was the first full month during which restrictive measures were in place and the data reflects its impact on the economy. As StatCan noted, “All 20 industrial sectors of the Canadian economy were down, producing the largest monthly decline since the series started in 1961.”Overall, the economy was 18.2 per cent below where it was in February this year, prior to the coronavirus crisis.Earlier, StatCan had estimated a decline of about 11 per cent for April and this final figure is in line with its forecast. At that time, it had also noted that “March and April decreases are likely to be the largest consecutive monthly declines on record.”While the economic low at the peak of the crisis was predictable, the number did fall short of the approximately 13 per cent others had indicated. However, a turnaround may be in the offing as StatCan said that preliminary information indicated a rise of about 3 per cent for May. “Output across several industrial sectors—including manufacturing, retail and wholesale as well as the public sector (health, education and public administration)—increased in May, as activities gradually resumed in phases depending on the type of activity and the geographic area,” it said. The data for June could be even better since several provinces accelerated phased reopening during that month.Among the sectors hardest hit in April was manufacturing which fell by 22.5 per cent.StatCan has been providing an “advanced aggregate indicator of the state of the Canadian economy” due to the unprecedented situation precipitated by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-s-gdp-fell-by-nearly-12-in-april-due-to-covid-19-lockdown/story-LimQdYQGnAxDics55alOfM.html
03-07-2020||World||US records 54,879 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||The United States reported nearly 55,000 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, the largest daily increase any country has ever reported, according to a Reuters tally.A surge in coronavirus cases across the United States over the past week has put President Donald Trump’s handling of the crisis under the microscope and led several governors to halt plans to reopen their states after strict lockdowns.The daily US tally stood at 54,879 late Thursday, topping the previous single day record of 54,771 set by Brazil on June 19.Just two weeks ago, the United States was reporting about 22,000 new cases a day. It has now reported more than 40,000 cases for seven straight days and broken records for new cases three days in a row, according to the tally.New infections rose in 37 out of 50 US states in the past 14 days compared with the two weeks prior in early June, according to a Reuters analysis.Florida reported the biggest increase of any state so far on Thursday, recording over 10,000 new cases in a single day. With 21 million residents, the state has reported more new daily coronavirus cases than any European country had at the height of their outbreaks.Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, warned earlier this week the daily increase in new US cases could reach 100,000 without nationwide measures to slow the rate.While testing rates have increased, so has the percentage of positive results. Hospitalizations have also skyrocketed.Nationally, 7% of coronavirus diagnostic tests came back positive last week, up from 5% the prior week, according to a Reuters analysis. Arizona’s positivity test rate was 24% last week, Florida’s was 16%. Nevada, South Carolina and Texas were all at 15%, the analysis found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/update-1-u-s-coronavirus-cases-hit-new-global-record-rising-almost-55-000-in-single-day/story-FjIUNvRYEFkS6BCu7wSHoJ.html
03-07-2020||World||‘Fair & Lovely’ cream rebranded‘Glow & Lovely’||Unilever removed the word “fair” from the name of a skin-whitening cream it has sold in India for decades, following criticism that the brand perpetuated harmful racial stereotyping.The face cream previously called Fair & Lovely will be called Glow & Lovely, the company said in an emailed statement. A men’s version will be renamed Glow & Handsome.The change is meant to make the brand, which accounts for $500 million in annual revenue, more “inclusive,” Unilever said. Still, it falls short of demands from activists to stop selling skin-whitening creams entirely because they imply darker skin is undesirable. Those calls have gained attention recently as the Black Lives Matter protests sweeping the U.S. have raised awareness of racial stereotyping elsewhere.From PepsiCo Inc.’s Aunt Jemima maple syrup to Mars Inc.’s Uncle Ben’s rice, companies have been changing brands critics have long called problematic. Last month Johnson & Johnson said it would retreat from its own skin-whitening business, which includes the Clean & Clear Fairness brand in India.The marketing pitch for Fair & Lovely has been rooted in deeply entrenched concepts of beauty in India -- the company’s second-largest market after the U.S. -- where darker skin is viewed as undesirable and often associated with people at the bottom of Hinduisim’s caste system. Matrimonial advertisements in India’s largest newspapers routinely specify the need for a “fair” bride.As India’s leading whitening cream, Fair & Lovely has been a regular target for social media activists over the years. Television cooking-show host Padma Lakshmi last month tweeted that the makers of the product needed to “pack their fake cosmetics and GO!!” A previous campaign saw dark-skinned women post pictures of themselves under the hashtag #unfairandlovely in 2016.The rebranded products will be on store shelves in the coming months. The terms “fair,” “whitening,” and “lightening,” will also be removed from packaging and marketing materials, the company has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fair-lovely-cream-rebranded-glow-lovely/story-enetD67c8mNeOFHMlcgMTP.html
03-07-2020||World||Scientists use weather forecasting technique to predict Covid-19 spread||Scientists have employed methods normally used to forecast weather to predict how rapidly Covid-19 could spread in different countries as lockdown is eased, as well as assess the effectiveness of measures put in place. An international team, including meteorologists from the University of Reading in the UK, applied data assimilation, a technique that combines multiple sources of information to estimate how a situation will develop over time, to the pandemic. The study, submitted to the journal Foundations of Data Science, suggests it is possible to make reasonably accurate predictions of how easing measures might affect the spread of the virus up to two weeks in advance.This technique is usually used to pair computer simulations with real weather observations to forecast future weather, the researchers said. “A key result from this work is that we can estimate accurately how the reproductive (R) number varies in time in response to implementing or loosing up various mitigation measures,” said Professor Geir Evensen, from the NORCE: Norwegian Research Centre, who led the study. R number is the number of people a person with Covid-19 is likely to infect. Previous computer model forecasts can be tested against the subsequent weather data to help make future short-term predictions more accurate, the researchers said. When applied to the novel coronavirus, observations including hospital admissions, the number of patients in intensive care, and the number of daily deaths can be combined with models calculating risk of vulnerability, exposure, infection and death, according to the researchers. “Most data is uncertain to some degree, but combining as much of it as possible from different sources can iron out some of this uncertainty when predicting future events,” said Javier Amezcua, one of three Reading scientists that worked on the study. “Meteorologists use this method all the time to understand and forecast natural processes like weather, but its uses extend beyond that,” Amezcua said. The study allows estimations to be made of how situations will develop in different scenarios, and can be used to create longer-term forecasts, the researchers said. This means it could be useful to predict the impact changes of lockdown policies, such as reopening schools and shops or increasing permitted socialising, might have on the spread of infections, they said. The team applied the technique to estimate coronavirus spread in eight different countries around the world -- England, France, the Netherlands, Norway, the US, Canada, Brazil and Argentina -- which have all seen the virus spread in different ways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-use-weather-forecasting-technique-to-predict-covid-19-spread/story-A215vAJqZ2CUn1f8xHyqeP.html
03-07-2020||World||Astronauts perform spacewalk to swap station batteries||Astronauts performed their second spacewalk in under a week Wednesday to replace old batteries outside the International Space Station.Commander Chris Cassidy and Bob Behnken quickly tackled the big, boxy batteries. For every two outdated batteries coming out, a new and improved one goes in to supply power to the station on the night side of Earth.Within a couple hours, the astronauts had installed another new battery, the third one in this latest series of spacewalks. NASA plans to send the pair out twice more in July to complete the battery swap-outs that began in 2017. The new lithium-ion batteries should last the rest of the space station’s life, according to officials.With their main chore completed, Cassidy and Behnken jumped ahead to loosen the bolts on the remaining outdated batteries. Some of the bolts required extra muscle.“Boy, it put up a good fight,” Cassidy radioed. “These batteries, they like their home.”Before floating out, Cassidy attached a spare mirror to his sleeve to replace one that came off and floated away during Friday’s spacewalk. Astronauts use the wrist mirrors to see the displays on their chest control panel.NASA wants the battery work completed before Behnken returns to Earth in August aboard a SpaceX capsule. He’s one of two test pilots who launched on SpaceX’s first astronaut flight in May.Cassidy and Behnken now have eight spacewalks apiece on their resumes.A space tourist might get a chance to join the prestigious spacewalking ranks — for the right price.Virginia-based Space Adventures Inc. is seeking a paying customer to not only fly to the space station, but do a spacewalk with an experienced Russian cosmonaut. Before launching from Kazakhstan, the space tourist would need to undergo extra training in Star City, Russia.Space Adventures is not divulging the cost of the two-week mission. The flight would take up two tourists in 2023, one of whom would step outside. The Russian rocket company Energia has teamed up with Space Adventures for the expedition.Plenty of specialized training would be needed before someone ventures out on a spacewalk, Behnken told The Associated Press earlier this week.NASA considers spacewalks one of the riskiest parts of any mission, and astronauts spend hours practicing underwater — the closest simulation to spacewalking on Earth.“I think it could be really challenging for a tourist to go on a spacewalk,” Behnken said. Any tourist would want multiple practice sessions in order to be “prepared for the space environment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astronauts-perform-spacewalk-to-swap-station-batteries/story-0wX8KXUFMILusv2fNi7rUO.html
