04-07-2020||World||Coronavirus cases in US cross 50K-mark again, Donald Trump Jr’s girlfriend infected||Kimberly Guilfoyle, the girlfriend of the US president’s eldest son and a top fundraiser for his re-election campaign, was among the new Covid-19 infections reported on Friday, which logged yet another single-day high of more than 50,000 cases, and seven states saw their own record daily spikes.Confirmed cases are climbing in 40 states, and the US set another record Friday with 52,300 newly reported infections, according to Johns Hopkins University, reported news agency Associated Press.Miami county of Florida declared an indefinite night-time curfew and shut down some businesses and many states around the United States scaled down their July 4 Independence Day celebrations, as mass gatherings have emerged as one of the leading causes of this second flare-up.Guilfoyle tested positive just ahead of the Mt Rushmore pre-celebrations on Friday. She had travelled to the celebrations with Donald Trump Jr, but not reportedly on Air Force. She is the third person with possible proximity to the president to test positive, after a personal valet and a member of the vide-president’s staff tested positive in the past.The Trump re-election campaign said Guilfoyle was asymptomatic but has been “immediately isolated” to prevent exposure to others and will be rested. The president’s son, who has tested negative, went into self-quarantine for 14 days, the usual period, and has cancelled all public events.The number of new cases went up by 52,104 Friday to nearly 2.8 million fatalities by 631 to 129,438. Public health officials have warned that daily cases could as high 100,000 because of this new round of infections and deaths could climb to 148,000 towards the end of this month.Seven states, all in the south, reported record single-day spikes Friday: North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Alaska, Missouri, Idaho and Alabama. Florida and Texas, two of the total of 16 southern states in the grip of tis new surge, also continued to report high number of infections and hospitalisation.Florida reported close to 9,500 new cases on Friday, a day after record surge of 10,000, indicating grimmer situation by the day. Eileen Marty, a leading public health expert, told a local news organization, that Florida was “heading a million miles an hour in the wrong direction”.At least one of its counties, Miami-Dade, the state’s most populous, has moved to change the course. Mayor Carlos Gimenez ordered a night-time curfew from 10 pm to 6 am, beginning Friday and it will be in place indefinitely. He has also shut down casinos, strip clubs, movie theaters and other entertainment venues.“This curfew is meant to stop people from venturing out and hanging out with friends in groups, which has shown to be spreading the virus rapidly,” Gimenez said in a statement.As with the rest of the country, infections are shooting up in US prions and went past the 50,000 mark in June according to an AP report citing the Marshall Project. At the end of last month, the total number of cases among prisoners had reached at least 52,649, an increase of 8 per cent from the week before.Evidence of human to animal transmission of the virus surfaced as well after a dog in Georgia was found infected. The six-year-old mixed breed canine was showing signs after its owners fell ill of the virus. Two New York city cats were the first pets to test positive in April. A tiger at a NewYork zoo was the first case of an animal reported infected in the US — it caught the virus from a member of the staff. Three more tigers and three lions were also reported infected shortly at the same facility. They have all since recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-cases-in-us-cross-50k-mark-again-donald-trump-jr-s-girlfriend-infected/story-3xmPhnUrWMCQ37HKYaSOHL.html
04-07-2020||World||Trump rails against ‘angry mobs’ in pre-July 4 speech||President Donald Trump on Friday delivered a dark and divisive message in a pre-Independence Day speech standing before the Mt Rushmore monument in South Dakota, warning about a “merciless campaign” by “angry mobs”, as he referred to antiracism protestors and demonstrators.“Our nation is witnessing a merciless campaign to wipe out our history, defame our heroes, erase our values, and indoctrinate our children,” Trump said, reading from a teleprompter. He was referring to the removal of statutes of figures of the confederacy that seceded from the US to protect and continue slavery, and slave owners and also those that subjugated the indigenous people.“Angry mobs are trying to tear down statues of our Founders, deface our most sacred memorials, and unleash a wave of violent crime in our cities,” Trump said.The president spoke to a packed audience of around 3,700 people with very few of them wearing masks. The seating at the venue was in complete violation of social distancing norms that his own experts have mandated for such gatherings. Public health officials have repeatedly urged people to avoid large gatherings to slow the spread of coronavirus disease. Objecting to demonstrations over racial inequality in America and viewing them as threat to the foundations of the US political system, Trump said, “Make no mistake, this left wing cultural revolution is designed to overthrow the American revolution.”“Our children are taught in school to hate their own country,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-rails-against-angry-mobs/story-rtr7mTIMSiHFCZLPKtY1PN.html
04-07-2020||World||Pak foreign minister Qureshi moved to military hospital after testing positive for coronavirus||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi was shifted to a military hospital in Rawalpindi on Saturday, a day after he tested positive for the coronavirus and went into self-isolation.Qureshi on Friday announced that he had tested positive for the coronavirus, joining a long list of Pakistani lawmakers who have contracted the deadly virus.“I have now tested positive for Covid-19. By the grace of Allah, I feel strong and energetic. I will continue to carry on my duties from home. Please keep me in your prayers,” he said in a tweet.Qureshi has been moved to Combined Military Hospital in Rawalpindi, the Geo News reported on Saturday, citing sources.Two weeks ago, Muttahida Qaumi Movement Pakistan (MQM-P) leader and Federal Minister for Information Technology and Telecommunications Syed Aminul Haq had tested positive for the coronavirus, while a week earlier than that PML-N spokesperson Marriyum Aurangzeb said she had tested positive.Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) MNA Jai Prakash, former prime minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, Minister of State for Narcotics Shehryar Afridi and PTI’s chief whip in the National Assembly Aamir Dogar have also been diagnosed with COVID-19.In June, Member of the National Assembly (MNA) Munir Khan Orakzai died, days after recovering from the coronavirus.Eight members of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly have been infected with the coronavirus. National Assembly Speaker Asad Qaiser was also infected but recovered.Pakistan reported 3,387 new coronavirus infections and 68 deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the country to 225,283. The death toll stands at 4,619, according to official figures on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-foreign-minister-qureshi-moved-to-military-hospital-after-testing-positive-for-coronavirus/story-5WIjRywNqZDkHuwRejxpXP.html
04-07-2020||World||Sex workers lack food for taking HIV drugs during Covid-19||As the coronavirus spreads in Africa, it threatens in multiple ways those who earn their living on the streets — people like Mignonne, a 25-year-old sex worker with HIV.The lockdown in Rwanda has kept many of her customers away, she said, so she has less money to buy food. And when she doesn’t eat, the antiviral drugs she takes for HIV can bring on pain, weakness and nausea, or even make her pass out.“Yet it’s equally dangerous when you don’t take the drug,” Mignonne said in an interview. “You will die.”Similar challenges exist elsewhere in Africa, which has the world’s highest burden of HIV.Studies have shown that food insecurity is a barrier to taking the drugs daily and can decrease their efficacy, affecting not only sex workers but anyone where food — or the money to buy it — is scarce.Among sex workers in Zimbabwe’s capital, Harare, “most who are living hand-to-mouth have been lamenting that it’s making it difficult to adhere to treatment,” said Talent Jumo, director of the Katswe Sistahood, an organization for sexual and reproductive health.That’s a danger as many sex workers around the world are excluded from countries’ social protection programs during the Covid-19 pandemic, researchers from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and elsewhere wrote in a new commentary for The Lancet.“Sex workers are among the most marginalized groups,” they wrote, adding that “it is crucial that disruption to health services does not further reduce access to HIV treatment.”Rwanda, which offers free antiretroviral therapy to all, has been widely praised for its progress in controlling HIV. The country has kept HIV prevalence at 3% for more than a decade and the number of new infections has dropped.But sex workers and health experts warn that those gains could be lost.More than 45% of the estimated 12,000 sex workers in the East African country live with HIV. Not taking the antiretroviral therapy risks spreading the virus, said Aflodis Kagaba, a medical doctor and executive director of Health Development Initiative, a local organization that promotes better access to health care.The organization has been giving some sex workers food, hand sanitizer and hygiene materials and is talking with the government about budgeting aid for sex workers.“Sex workers are part of the society and they deserve to live a healthy life,” Kagaba said.In Migina, an entertainment area in the capital, Kigali, Mignonne acts as a leader of 60 sex workers, reminding colleagues with HIV to take their antiretroviral therapy and visit health centers every month.“Now many are telling me they cannot take the drug because they don’t have food. It’s understandable and I don’t know what to do,” she said. She, like other sex workers, gave only her first name for her safety.Rwanda was distributing food to households under lockdown but stopped after three months. It has since lifted lockdown restrictions for some businesses, but others such as bars are still closed.Now Covid-19 cases are rising more quickly, prompting authorities to impose a nighttime curfew. As of Saturday, the country had more than 1,000 confirmed coronavirus cases.“We are seeing sex workers in Africa being denied the support others are given, like food,” UNAIDS chief Winnie Byanyima said this month. “Some are being shamed and run out of their homes and called the source of corona.” Her organization and the Global Network of Sex Work Projects have called for sex workers to be included in countries’ Covid-19 social protection programs.UNAIDS is also warning about possible shortages of medication for millions of people with HIV in the next two months, especially in developing countries. Lockdowns and border closures are slowing the drugs’ production and distribution.A World Health Organization survey of 99 countries found 32% already reporting disruptions to established antiretroviral therapy, Meg Doherty, director of the U.N. agency’s department of HIV, hepatitis and STIs, said this week.“We are engaging in unsafer sex practices because we can’t be able to access prevention tools or to drugs that we are used to,” Grace Kamau, a Kenya-based coordinator with the African Sex Workers Alliance, told a Covid-19 global webinar for sex workers last month.Agnes, an HIV-positive sex worker in Kigali, said new stigma also hurts.Before the coronavirus it was easy to make money, she said. Now “you cannot dare go on the streets, yet back in communities we are treated like outcasts,” the 26-year-old told The Associated Press. “During the lockdown, when local leaders distributed food, my family was skipped on account that I was a sex worker.”Local officials have denied discriminating against sex workers.Like many others, Agnes quickly consumed her small savings she had intended to use on running a business selling tomatoes. Now, like many others, she has no lifeline.Deborah Mukasekuru, the coordinator of the National Association for Supporting People Living With HIV, called it a “difficult situation.”“We try to mobilize food for sex workers, but they are many and we cannot feed all of them,” she said. “You cannot blame the government because corona caught the government unaware.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sex-workers-lack-food-for-taking-hiv-drugs-during-covid-19/story-hYHFcIT5TIkw9b22WJs9JO.html
04-07-2020||World||Donald Trump’s ‘strong wall’ to block Covid-19 from China had holes||President Donald Trump has repeatedly credited his February ban on travelers from mainland China as his signature move against the advance of the coronavirus pandemic -- a “strong wall” that allowed only U.S. citizens inside, he boasted in May.But Trump’s wall was more like a sieve.Exempted were thousands of residents of the Chinese territories of Hong Kong and Macau. Efforts to track U.S. residents returning from mainland China were riddled with errors and broken communications.An analysis of Commerce Department travel entry records and private aviation data obtained by The Associated Press shows that nearly 8,000 Chinese nationals and foreign residents of Hong Kong and Macao entered the U.S. on more than 600 commercial and private flights in the first three months after the ban was imposed.When U.S. residents flying from mainland China arrived at U.S. airports, the system meant to flag and monitor them for the development of symptoms lost track of at least 1,600 people in just the first few days the ban went into effect, according to internal state government emails obtained by the AP.Trump’s continuing travel restrictions on China, which he followed with a ban on travel from European nations in March and a new prohibition on entry from virus-plagued Brazil last month, remain the administration’s first line of defense against foreign sources of the pandemic.“We did a great job on CoronaVirus, including the very early ban on China,” Trump tweeted last week. “We saved millions of U.S. lives!”Trump on Jan. 31 announced the original travel ban on any non-U.S. residents who had recently been in mainland China. His action came weeks after Chinese officials acknowledged a new highly contagious and deadly virus was spreading through the city of Wuhan.Travelers from Hong Kong and Macau were exempted from that ban, and they did not face the same enhanced screening and quarantine procedures required of Americans and others returning from Wuhan and China’s mainland.Flight records provided to the AP by FlightAware, an international aviation tracking company, show that more than 5,600 Chinese and foreign nationals from the two administrative zones flew to the U.S. in February. Those totals dropped to 2,100 in March and just 150 in April, Commerce Department travel entry records show.There is no clear evidence that the small but steady flow of people from Hong Kong and Macau introduced COVID-19 cases inside the U.S. in January or in the four months since, but the exemptions “certainly undercut the purpose of the ban,” said Dr. Ronald Waldman, a professor of Global Health at George Washington University.Waldman, who dealt with international quarantines as a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention official during a cholera outbreak in Africa in the 1990s, said travel bans can temporarily hobble the pace of a surging virus. Such moves “slow down the transmission and buy you time, but they have to be structured properly and followed with other strong measures,” he said.Hong Kong had struggled to quell influenza outbreaks earlier in the 2000s, but has won praise for strict health precautions in recent months that minimized its virus caseload in the wake of Wuhan’s flare-up. But when it exempted Hong Kong from the China travel ban, Trump administration officials had no way of knowing whether Hong Kong’s anti-virus regimen would succeed or if any infected travelers entered the U.S. from the Chinese territory.None of the agencies involved in crafting and announcing the China ban -- the National Security Council, the State Department, the CDC and the Department of Health and Human Services -- would comment publicly to the AP about why Hong Kong and Macau were exempted. In a brief statement, the State Department said it would not “comment on internal policy decisions,” and deferred to the White House.The White House did not respond to repeated requests for an explanation.Officials familiar with the internal discussions that took place in late January before the China ban was announced cited concerns that a ban that was too broad might jeopardize trade talks and harm the travel industry. One official said the intent was to craft a ban that was “surgical” and would limit disruption.A second administration official noted that the decision to impose a travel ban came after hundreds of thousands of travelers had entered the U.S. from China in January. That same month, more than 12,700 people entered the U.S. from the two Chinese territories, Commerce records show.The officials were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.Hong Kong and Macau have long been given preferential economic and trade treatment from the U.S. because of their financial importance and their status as independent enclaves within China’s orbit.A 2019 State Department report on Hong Kong said more than 1,300 U.S. firms operated there, including nearly every major U.S. financial company, “with hundreds of billions of dollars in assets under management.” Macau is a world-renowned island of casinos, some owned by U.S.-based companies.Former Ambassador Richard Boucher, who was Hong Kong consul general in the 1990s, said that under the Hong Kong Policy Act passed by Congress in 1992, “we are obligated to treat Hong Kong as a special jurisdiction as long as it functions independently.”When Trump’s China travel restrictions went into effect on Feb. 2, at least 15 cases of the new coronavirus had already been detected in Hong Kong, along with one death, and seven more cases had been found in Macau. All the initial Macau cases were later traced to the outbreak in Wuhan.As of this week, the former British colony had registered 1,248 cases and seven deaths and Macau had 46 cases. Even with those low totals, Hong Kong has struggled with at least three spikes of COVID-19 cases: one in late February. another in mid-March, and a surge of 130 cases over the past two weeks.Hong Kong’s virus surges led both the CDC and the State Department to issue a series of warnings to Americans considering flights to Hong Kong -- actions that would appear to be at odds with the continuing travel ban exemptions allowing travelers from Hong Kong and Macau to enter the country.“Once we see that there is significant human to human transmission so it’s not just, hey, there is something going on there we go to what is called a level one. And right now that’s Hong Kong,” the CDC’s director, Dr. Robert Redfield, testified during a House hearing on Feb. 27.The CDC’s warnings on Hong Kong and Macau have since been raised to the agency’s highest alert level, urging Americans to “avoid all nonessential travel.” Separately, a less-heightened warning from the State Department urges Hong Kong travelers to “exercise increased caution.”Since that time, there has been a turnabout. Hong Kong has banned U.S. citizens and other international travelers from arriving by air, as more than 2.7 million Americans have tested positive and more than 128,000 have died of COVID-19.If the flow of Americans going to Hong Kong and Macau was stifled, the stream of Americans and others coming back to the U.S. from mainland China was unabated. And the program to screen them had real problems.Federal health officials planned to funnel the thousands of people returning from China through 11 airports for health screenings over the several weeks. Those with symptoms would be quarantined by the CDC. Others would be allowed to go on their way, but be monitored by state and local health departments, who would be responsible for contacting the travelers within 72 hours to advise them to isolate themselves for two weeks and to monitor whether they developed symptoms.The system was flawed to begin with. States could opt out of receiving passenger information from the CDC, and six did so: Georgia, New Jersey, Oregon, North Carolina, Arizona and Illinois. For the opt-out states, CDC simply disabled notifications. Any passengers from mainland China coming to their state would do so without being flagged or tracked.At the time, a robust testing and contact tracing effort might have been able to curb the spread of any virus arriving with travelers from mainland China, according to a CDC postmortem of mistakes that led to the virus’ early spread in the U.S.But the effort immediately ran into problems.“Hearing word of people already leaking through screening system and ending up in states without the funneling airports,” a CDC employee wrote to several local health officials on Feb. 6, soon after the program began, according to an email obtained by the AP through a public records request. “Knew it would not be perfect but it has begun.”“One flight did not receive any screening,” said another email between New Hampshire officials stated on Feb. 7.The CDC said it had no record of any complete flights not being screened. But it said if the Department of Homeland Security failed to send the CDC that information, it would not know whether whole flights were missed.New Hampshire state officials soon began getting calls from people who had recently returned, but that they hadn’t been notified about, according to a Feb. 10 email.New Hampshire officials said the individuals who called were proactively reaching out to self-report their travel based on their understanding that local health departments would monitor them. They noted “it took a period of time” to establish the process of passing along traveler information to states.CDC spokesman Scott Pauley said the agency didn’t get enough information from customs officials with Homeland Security, who were responsible for gathering passenger data at airports.“The records were poor quality, and the data wasn’t complete enough for anyone to be able to do anything with,” Pauley told the AP.The CDC said some 26,000 travelers from China were screened in all of February. The agency acknowledged that data problems contributed to thousands of notifications not being sent to state health departments. Because of these problems, the CDC has since issued a rule requiring airlines to report passenger data directly to the agency during public health crises.Despite the breakdown in notifying states, the CDC pointed out that at the time, travel screening was just one of a number of infection control measures in effect. There was a mandatory 14-day quarantine for all travelers from Wuhan city, and for those with known exposure to the virus.But even when notifications were sent to states, the information wasn’t reliable, frustrating local officials worried about getting in touch with them quickly enough to prevent any spread.“There was lots and lots of bad information,” said Fran Phillips, Maryland’s deputy secretary for public health services.The data was plagued by bad telephone numbers, erroneous itineraries, and people claiming they had never even been to China. Because the CDC wasn’t able to verify the information, the agency told local officials that they were trusting that people were telling the truth, according to internal notes shared among California state health officials.In New Mexico, officials were left scrambling after a woman who had just returned from China appeared on the television news. The state got no warning from the CDC and couldn’t reach her. They were left to judge her condition based on the TV segment.“Fortunately, she appears healthy, without cough,” wrote the state’s chief of epidemiology to others in the health department in an email.Public health experts and state officials have criticized the administration for failing to quickly follow up the travel restrictions with social distancing, ample testing and other anti-viral measures. Researchers have shown that virus-borne travelers flying in from European nations also stoked infections in New York and other cities during February and March before the administration suspended travel from Europe.___Dearen reported from Gainesville, Florida. Associated Press writers Candice Choi and Michael Rezendes in New York, Colleen Long and Deb Riechmann in Washington and Ken Moritsugu in Hong Kong contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-strong-wall-to-block-covid-19-from-china-had-holes/story-THWTeAmSVvxj9W7PqnBbOL.html
04-07-2020||World||Fact check: From coronavirus threat to Iraq war, here’s what Donald Trump claims||“We have it totally under control,” President Donald Trump said in late January. A month later: “The Coronavirus is very much under control in the USA.”April and May brought the deadliest stretch of Covid-19 to date. And this past week, the number of new coronavirus cases per day hit an all-time high of 50,000.Trump persisted in his empty assurances. The virus is “getting under control,” he said Wednesday. His press secretary described the surge in many parts of the country as “embers.” The president acknowledged “flames” here and there.They cast word confetti over a pandemic that has killed more than 128,000 people in the U.S., while the president talked up a July Fourth fireworks celebration on the National Mall and told those who come Saturday to wear masks if it makes them feel good.A sampling of recent statements and how it compares with reality:VIRUS THREATTRUMP, describing the Covid-19 threat as “getting under control”: “Some (places) were doing very well, and we thought they (the virus) may be gone and they flare up, and we’re putting out the fires.” — remarks Thursday on a jobs report.TRUMP: “I think we are going to be very good with the coronavirus. I think that, at some point, that’s going to sort of just disappear, I hope.” — interview Wednesday on Fox Business Network.THE FACTS: “The virus is not going to disappear,” says Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert. Nor can it be considered “under control” as cases have been surging to fresh daily highs.The number of confirmed cases in the U.S. per day has roughly doubled over the past month, hitting 50,000 on Wednesday, according to a count kept by Johns Hopkins University. That is higher even than what the country experienced from mid-April through early May, when deaths sharply rose.Fauci warned this past week that the increase across the South and West “puts the entire country at risk” and that new infections could reach 100,000 a day if people don’t start listening to guidance from public health authorities to wear a mask and practice social distancing.During one of the biggest weekends of the summer for July Fourth, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advised Americans to wear face coverings at the beach, though not in the water.Arizona, California, Florida and Texas have recently been forced to shut down bars and businesses as virus cases surge. The U.S. currently has more than 2.7 million known cases and many more undetected.Fauci has said there “certainly” will be coronavirus infections in the fall and winter.___VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE: “While we’re monitoring about 16 states that are seeing outbreaks, it represents about 4 percent of all the counties in this country.” — interview with CBS aired Sunday.THE FACTS: That’s a misleading portrayal of the virus threat. More than 20% of Americans actually live in those relatively few counties.The White House provided The Associated Press with the full list of U.S. counties that reported increases in Covid-19 cases as of a week ago, when Pence and other administration officials repeatedly cited the low county tally. The list showed 137 of the 3,142 counties in the U.S. that were under a higher alert — indeed, about 4% in that snapshot of time.But measured by population, those counties represent a vastly higher share — more than 1 in 5 people in the U.S.Altogether there are 68.3 million people living in those 137 counties, while there is a total U.S. population of 322.9 million. That means 21.1% of U.S. residents actually live in the virus “hot spots” identified in the list.___TRUMP ON BIDENTRUMP: “Biden was asked questions at his so-called Press Conference yesterday where he read the answers from a teleprompter. That means he was given the questions.” — tweet Wednesday.THE FACTS: Biden did not read answers off a teleprompter. Nor did The Associated Press, which asked the first question at the briefing, submit questions in advance.Biden used a teleprompter to read prepared remarks that took aim at Trump’s handling of the coronavirus, before the questions and answers started, at which point the teleprompter appeared to have been turned off.Biden’s campaign gave him a list of news organizations to call on and he answered questions from reporters on that list as well as some he chose spontaneously. That’s not an uncommon practice when officials give news conferences.Video footage shows that during nearly 30 minutes of questions and answers, Biden often looked directly at the reporter, not at the teleprompter. His answers were at times long-winded, without the practiced pauses typically heard in prepared speeches.Biden campaign national press secretary TJ Ducklo called Trump’s allegation “laughable, ludicrous and a lie.”Trump’s accusation reflected his tactic of trying to stir doubts about Biden’s mental acuity.___TRUMP: “He wants to defund and abolish police.” — interview Wednesday on “America This Week.”THE FACTS: Biden does not join the call of protesters who demanded “defund the police” after George Floyd’s killing.“I don’t support defunding the police,“ Biden said last month in a CBS interview. But he said he would support conditioning federal aid to police based on whether “they meet certain basic standards of decency, honorableness and, in fact, are able to demonstrate they can protect the community, everybody in the community.”Biden’s criminal justice agenda, released long before he became the Democrats’ presumptive presidential nominee, proposes more federal money for “training that is needed to avert tragic, unjustifiable deaths” and hiring more officers to ensure that departments are racially and ethnically reflective of the populations they serve.Specifically, he calls for a $300 million infusion into existing federal community policing grant programs.That adds up to more money for police, not defunding law enforcement.Biden also wants the federal government to spend more on education, social services and struggling areas of cities and rural America, to address root causes of crime.___WAR IN IRAQKAYLEIGH MCENANY, White House press secretary: “You have this President who, when Washington was unanimous in saying, ‘We’re going into Iraq,’ this President said, ‘No, that’s not the right decision.’” — news briefing Tuesday.THE FACTS: That’s false. Trump voiced support for going into Iraq, as much as he and now his press secretary insist otherwise. And Washington was not unanimous in supporting the invasion.On Sept. 11, 2002, when radio host Howard Stern asked Trump whether he supported a potential Iraq invasion, Trump said: “Yeah, I guess so.”On March 21, 2003, just days after the invasion, Trump said it “looks like a tremendous success from a military standpoint.”Later that year, he began expressing reservations.More than 150 members of Congress voted against the 2002 resolution to authorize President George W. Bush to use military force against Iraq. That is not unanimity.___MEMORIALSTRUMP: “We are tracking down the two Anarchists who threw paint on the magnificent George Washington Statue in Manhattan. ... They will be prosecuted and face 10 years in Prison.” — tweet Tuesday.TRUMP: “Since imposing a very powerful 10 year prison sentence on those that Vandalize Monuments, Statues etc., with many people being arrested all over our Country, the Vandalism has completely stopped.” — tweet Sunday.THE FACTS: Trump does not have the authority to impose prison sentences — a president is not a judge. Nor can he toughen penalties on his own.Trump signed an executive order last week to protect monuments, memorials and statues, calling on the attorney general to prosecute to the fullest extent of the law any person or group that destroys or vandalizes a monument, memorial or statue.The order basically instructs the attorney general to enforce laws that already exist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fact-check-from-coronavirus-threat-to-iraq-war-here-s-what-donald-trump-claims/story-5e2wvXCtLSdW7I8iO48SUO.html
04-07-2020||World||‘People aren’t stupid’: Why Mike Pence’s optimism on coronavirus tests credibility||Vice President Mike Pence has long played the straight man to Donald Trump, translating the president’s bombast into more measured, calming language.His job has become even more difficult. As coronavirus cases spike across large parts of the country despite months of lockdown, Pence has spent the past week trying to convince the American public that things are going very well, even though they’re not.“Make no mistake about it, what you see today is that America is going back to work and the American people are finding a way every day to put this coronavirus farther in the past,” he told CNBC the same day the country reported more than 55,000 new virus cases, a daily record.For public health experts, the optimism has been unmoored from reality.“It’s almost laughable because it doesn’t pass any test of credibility when we’re seeing spikes in cases, spikes in hospitalizations,” said Larry Gostin, who specializes in public health at Georgetown University Law School. “The American people aren’t stupid. They can see spin when there is spin.”The most important thing Pence can do, Gostin said, “is to be honest with the American public. ... They need to be told the truth and then they need to be told what America is going to do to turn this around.”It’s not the first time Pence has been forced to put his own credibility on the line as he serves as Trump’s most loyal soldier. It may be the most consequential.While Trump has tried to distance himself from what he calls “the plague” as he pursues reelection, Pence has emerged as the public face of this phase of the outbreak, traveling frequently to virus hot spots, coordinating with governors and leading the administration’s coronavirus task force.The role, according to those close to him, is a natural fit for Pence, a former Indiana governor who sees it as his job to defend the president and reopen the country as safely as possible. But allies are keenly aware that Pence’s political future will hinge on whether Trump wins a second term.If Trump loses, and Pence makes his own run at the presidency in 2024, he probably would face many candidates from a new generation of politicians. That could include Nikki Haley, former ambassador to the United Nations and South Carolina governor, and Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark.Robert Blendon, a professor of health policy and political analysis at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, said Pence faces a “real dilemma” because Trump’s reelection depends so much on an economic rebound predicated on states reopening during the pandemic.From a public health perspective, “We’re actually losing again. It’s getting worse. We’re gong to have to cut back in the economy,” he said.After spending time on the road highlighting reopening efforts, Pence traveled this past week to Arizona and Florida, states where cases are surging. He tried to make the case that the country is in a far improved position now than it was early on in the outbreak when testing capacity was dismal and doctors and nurses were desperate for basic protective equipment.“The American people deserve to know that we’re in a much better place today, thanks to the whole-of-government approach, the whole-of-America approach that President Trump initiated at the very outset of the coronavirus pandemic,” Pence said Tuesday during a task force briefing held not at the White House but at the U.S. Public Health Service headquarters in Rockville, Maryland.White House officials and allies stress there are positive signs beyond the flow of supplies, with deaths remaining down and several therapeutics on the market. The point of the lockdowns, they stress, was to flatten the infection curve to avoid overwhelming hospitals, not eliminate cases.To further push that message, Pence is expected to resume campaign travel soon. Campaign officials met by phone on Thursday to map out media markets where they feel he could be beneficial.While Trump favors large-scale rallies, Pence will continue to focus on more intimate settings, inducing diner visits, bus tours and smaller speaking engagements, especially in front of groups such as white evangelicals and suburban families who may be more receptive to a less hyper-political message.Pence will focus on swing states by stressing local issues and trying to show voters how the administration has affected their lives for the good. He’s expected to spend plenty of time in states such as Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan, as well as Arizona and North Carolina, talking about bringing back manufacturing jobs. It’s a promise Trump made in 2016 that has been largely unmet.At the same time, however, Trump’s campaign recently disbanded a team of staffers dedicated to Pence, including his communications director, spokesperson and the director of vice presidential operations. Strategy and planning are now being handled by Marty Obst, a longtime Pence adviser who served as his campaign manager in 2016, and Marc Short, his chief of staff.While some described the move as a natural transition given the vice president already has a full staff at the White House, others said it suggested a diminished role on a campaign that sees Pence more as a surrogate than a principal.Trump campaign spokeswoman Ali Pardo dismissed that suggestion, saying Pence “has played an integral role in promoting and implementing President Trump’s ‘America First’ agenda across the country.”Pence has made clear he feels this is Trump’s campaign and he has every right to run it how he wants.Barry Bennett, a longtime Republican strategist who worked for Trump in 2016, praised Pence’s performance.“He has a very tough job. But so far I think he’s managed to do it with compassion and integrity,” he said. “He’s probably the only that’s come out of the pandemic experience with positive results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/people-aren-t-stupid-why-mike-pence-s-optimism-on-coronavirus-tests-credibility/story-w8SmgAG6VHrPfVKc2fAKnN.html
04-07-2020||World||Much of US scales back on holiday, but Donald Trump plans to go big||As coronavirus cases spike, public health officials are pleading with Americans to avoid large crowds and hold more muted Independence Day celebrations, but subdued is not President Donald Trump’s style, and he aimed to go big, promising a “special evening” in Washington that could bring tens of thousands to the National Mall.Trump’s “Salute for America” celebration on Saturday evening was to include a speech from the White House South Lawn that he said would celebrate American heritage, as well as a military flyover over the city and an enormous fireworks display that could pack people downtown.The president kicked off the holiday weekend by traveling to Mount Rushmore in South Dakota for a fireworks display Friday night near the mountain carvings of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. In his remarks, he accused protesters who have pushed for racial justice of engaging in a “merciless campaign to wipe out our history.”In a presidential message Saturday on the 244th anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, Trump acknowledged that “over the past months, the American spirit has undoubtedly been tested by many challenges.”His participation in big gatherings comes as many communities have decided to scrap fireworks, parades and other holiday traditions. The goal is to try to prevent further spread of the coronavirus, which large gatherings could spur. Confirmed cases are climbing in 40 states, and the U.S. set another record Friday with 52,300 newly reported infections, according to the tally kept by Johns Hopkins University.For the Mount Rushmore event, GOP Gov. Kristi Noem, a Trump ally, insisted social distancing wasn’t necessary and masks were optional. Trump spent little time in his Mount Rushmore address reflecting on pandemic, which has killed more than 129,000 Americans.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention cautions that mass gatherings like the one scheduled for Washington present a high risk for spread of the virus.Trump’s surgeon general, Jerome Adams, who has stepped up his call for Americans to wear a mask in public, sidestepped when asked during an interview Friday whether he would caution a loved one from attending such large gatherings. “It’s not a yes or no,” Adams told NBC’s “Today Show.” “Every single person has to make up their own mind.”Trump has been aching to see the nation return to normalcy, and has been willing to push the envelope further than many state and big city mayors are willing to go.Last month, he held his first campaign rally since early March in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Trump is accustomed to jam-packed crowds, but the BOK Center was only about one-third full for the president’s first rally of the coronavirus era. Days later, he addressed a packed megachurch for a Students for Trump event in Arizona. Few attendees at either event wore masks.Interior officials said they would hand out 300,000 face coverings to spectators who gather on the National Mall. Interior Department Secretary David Bernhardt said visitors would be encouraged to wear masks and keep a six-foot distance from one another. There was no indication that would be mandatory, despite the recommendations of health officials.Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser, who said she didn’t have the right to shut down the holiday spectacle because it’s on federal land, warned the federal government about the obvious dangers of such a large crowd. On Friday, she urged the city’s residents to be smart about how they spend the holiday. “Just because someone invites you to a party doesn’t mean you have to go,” Bowser tweeted.In other holiday weekend developments:—California’s governor, Gavin Newsom, warned counties that they risked losing state money if they failed to enforce health orders heading into the holiday weekend. He urged residents not to gather with people they don’t live with and to avoid crowds. Fireworks shows in Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego and elsewhere in the state were canceled.—Gov. J.B. Pritzker, D-Ill., said he would not hesitate to close down businesses that don’t abide by capacity requirements, and he encouraged people to avoid large crowds.—Beach closures in prime locations are a pandemic fallout. Florida’s most populous county, Miami-Dade, was closing down again, imposing a curfew and shuttering the sand. In California, beach closures went from Los Angeles County northward through Ventura and Santa Barbara counties. To the south in Orange County, hugely popular beaches such as Huntington and Newport were affected.—Even with large public festivities scrapped, sales of consumer fireworks have boomed. Some officials are concerned about fires and injuries with more pyrotechnics going off in backyards and at block parties. At Casey’s Fireworks Friday in Columbia, South Carolina, mostly masked shoppers wove through aisles. The shop, like many around the country, has been an unexpected beneficiary as more Americans have decided to put on their own shows. “This whole COVID thing has been really bad all around,” said Forest Casey, a fourth-generation fireworks salesman at the family-owned shop. “But for whatever reason it makes people really want to buy fireworks.”—Four East Coast cities were to get their own mini-displays of air power before the extensive U.S. military air show over Washington, The “Salute to the Great Cities of the American Revolution” involves flyovers in Boston, New York City, Philadelphia and Baltimore.—About 150 preachers, rabbis and imams intended to frame holiday sermons around “What to the Slave is the Fourth of July” on the 168th anniversary of that speech by Black abolitionist Frederick Douglass. The former slave gave his speech at an Independence Day celebration on July 5, 1852, in Rochester, New York. The address challenged the Founding Fathers and the hypocrisy of their ideals with the existence of slavery on American soil.—-Associated Press writers Michelle Liu in Columbia, South Carolina, and Sara Burnett in Chicago contributed to this report..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/much-of-us-scales-back-on-holiday-but-donald-trump-plans-to-go-big/story-GnAh6sNplvqtw1WfZq8CjI.html
04-07-2020||World||US envoy forges ahead with troubled Taliban peace deal||Washington’s envoy to Afghanistan on Saturday emphasized the economic benefits of the peace deal with the Taliban, forging ahead with an agreement that has run into new political obstacles in the U.S. and the region.Zalmay Khalilzad was wrapping up a week-long trip that included stops in Uzbekistan, Pakistan and the Gulf state of Qatar, where Taliban negotiators are headquartered.Accompanying Khalilzad for the first time was an economic development team led by U.S. International Development Finance Corporation Chief Executive Officer Adam Boehler.Khalilzad offered no details about the kinds of economic projects being envisioned to jump-start an economy battered by widespread corruption and currently 75% funded by international donations. However, he did suggest joint economic projects involving Qatar and Pakistan, possibly on infrastructure and trade.The U.S. signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February to end 19 years of war in Afghanistan.Khalilzad has sought to stress the economic benefits of the peace deal throughout his tour. In a series of tweets early Saturday, the U.S. envoy said he met with the Qatar Investment Authority and the Taliban’s chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani, in the tiny Gulf state’s capital of Doha.“We agreed development plans in support of peace can never start too early,” Khalilzad tweeted.However, Washington has recently become embroiled in a controversy over intelligence reports that Russia was paying money to insurgents with links to the Taliban to kill American and NATO soldiers.The identity of the insurgents who took the bounty money is still vague but the payments have been traced to an Afghan drug lord, Rahmatullah Azizi, who is living in Moscow, according to Afghan officials who spoke with The Associated Press.The officials said the money was delivered through Azizi’s brother Wahidullah, who was the go-between for those facilitating the attacks on U.S. troops.The New York Times first reported the U.S. intelligence claiming the payment of bounties as well as Azizi’s involvement.Added to the uncertainty and delays swirling around the U.S-Taliban peace deal, the Pentagon released a report Wednesday that questioned the Taliban’s commitment to end its ties with Al-Qaida. The peace deal calls for the Taliban to fight against terrorist organizations and ensure Afghanistan would not be used again to attack U.S. interests or its allies. Critics of the deal say the militants can’t be trusted.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid denied contacts with Al-Qaida in the Indian subcontinent, saying the insurgents were committed to the peace deal.Khalilzad embarked on his tour of the region last weekend, even as the rate of coronavirus infections in the United States soared and countries worldwide struggled with the dangers of re-opening.He did not travel to Afghanistan, citing the dangers of the pandemic, and instead held videoconference calls with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his government partner, Abdullah Abdullah.Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi tested positive for COVID 19, just 48 after meeting with with Khalilzad. Both had been pictured wearing masks during their meeting on Wednesday in the Pakistani capital of IslamabadQureshi said he developed a fever on Friday and tested positive to the virus. But he promised to “carry on” his official duties from home.Even as Khalilzad winds up his latest diplomatic mission, there was no date for crucial intra-Afghan negotiations that bring the Taliban together with the Afghan government and other local actors. Khalilzad called for a quick resolution of outstanding issues so those negotiations could begin.The biggest hurdle has been the release of prisoners. The peace deal called for the Afghan government to free 5,000 Taliban prisoners in exchange for the Taliban releasing 1,000 government personnel. So far, the government has freed 4,015 and the Taliban has freed 669, according to the Afghan government..Ghani earlier this week suggested that his government had a problem with some of the names on the Taliban’s list of prisoners to be released and said alternative names would be given.It seems unlikely that the Taliban will accept anyone not on the list agreed upon during negotiations with the U.S.Suhail Shaheen, Taliban political spokesman in Doha, called the Afghan government reasons for delaying prisoner releases “phony excuses” and the reason for the delay in beginning intra-Afghan talks.As of Saturday, Afghanistan had recorded 32,600 confirmed cases of coronavirus, but international non-governmental organizations say the rate is much higher and have warned that the country’s war-ravaged health care system risks collapsing.Seemingly indicative of the lack of health care facilities in Afghanistan to deal with the virus, Ghani’s special envoy for economic development, Yosuf Ghaznafar, went to Turkey when he became ill with COVID-19. On Friday he died of the disease, according to a statement from the presidency. Ghaznafar is the senior most Afghan official to die of the virus.Afghanistan has so far recorded 826 deaths from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-envoy-forges-ahead-with-troubled-taliban-peace-deal/story-kkVci7puk7GRCvgI44xtQL.html
04-07-2020||World||Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani’s cousin shot dead inside his home in Kabul: Report||A relative of Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani was shot dead in Kabul, Afghan media reported on Saturday.As per the reports, Police on Saturday said cousin of Ghani was found shot dead inside his home in Kabul.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-president-ashraf-ghani-s-cousin-shot-dead-inside-his-home-in-kabul-report/story-LcT0PKYy2QPyymO5fWUCXK.html
04-07-2020||World||Pubs and restaurants reopen in England as lockdown eased||England is embarking on Saturday on perhaps its biggest lockdown easing yet as pubs and restaurants have the right to reopen for the first time in more than three months.In addition to the reopening of much of the hospitality sector, couples can tie the knot once again, people can go and see a movie at their local cinema and many of those who have had enough of their lockdown hair can finally get a trim. In all cases, social distancing rules have to be followed.Though the easing of the lockdown will be warmly welcomed by many, there are concerns that the British government is being overly hasty, even reckless, in sanctioning the changes, given the country’s still-high coronavirus infection and death rates.On Friday, another 137 virus-related deaths were recorded across the U.K., the large majority in England, taking the total to 44,131, by far the highest in Europe and third behind the United States and Brazil.Prime Minister Boris Johnson says the decision to ease the lockdown is based on the scientific evidence that people are “appreciably less likely now to be in close proximity” with someone with the virus than at the height of the pandemic.“Let’s not blow it now,” he said.In other countries, the reopening of bars and restaurants has been blamed for a spike in infections.The four nations of the U.K. — England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland — are easing the lockdown at different speeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pubs-and-restaurants-reopen-in-england-as-lockdown-eased/story-8M5fswSYLuvZhweufwdKjM.html
04-07-2020||World||Russia announces coronavirus deaths exceed 10,000||Russia on Saturday said that it recorded more than 10,000 deaths from the coronavirus pandemic, a toll that is still far lower than in other countries with major outbreaks.The number of deaths has now reached 10,027, the government information website said, up by 168 from Friday. Russia has confirmed 674,515 cases, the third largest total in the world, although the daily infection rate has been falling over the last month.The country’s death toll is much lower than in other countries with large outbreaks, raising questions over possible underreporting of deaths.Russia has acknowledged that the death figure on the government website only includes cases where the virus was classed as the main cause of death on the death certificate.The official statistics agency has released national death data for April alone, where the toll -- of 2,712 -- is more than double the government’s total of 1,152 for that month. That is because it uses a broader definition on the basis of World Health Organization recommendations and includes cases where the victim tested positive but the virus was not classified as the main cause of death, or where there was no positive test but an autopsy ruled the virus was the main cause of death.Moscow city health department also released data on deaths in May using this method of classification, showing 5,260 virus-related deaths that month.By contrast, the government website still says that some 3,929 people in total have died so far from the virus just in Moscow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-announces-coronavirus-deaths-exceed-10-000/story-alSvvYQXYkVFvjvAK5irSN.html
04-07-2020||World||Ghislaine Maxwell’s case will unearth secrets Epstein took to his grave||The death of Jeffrey Epstein in a New York prison cell last summer robbed his accusers of a chance for justice and shut down the tantalizing possibility that the secrets of a sordid life spent among the rich and powerful might be revealed.Thursday’s arrest of Ghislaine Maxwell -- almost exactly a year after Epstein was arrested -- suggests a fuller accounting of his acts might yet come.The charges paint Maxwell as a central figure in Epstein’s criminal enterprise. She spent years at his side. He described her as his “best friend.” She was his girlfriend for a time, though their relationship truly deepened in the years Maxwell was organizing his affairs, an arrangement that included running his households and piloting his helicopter.And she stood at the very center of the web of wealthy and powerful figures surrounding Epstein. The network she inherited from her billionaire father, the late British publishing tycoon Robert Maxwell, gave Epstein access to the highest echelons of society. She even introduced Brooklyn-born Epstein to Britain’s Prince Andrew, whose connection to the pedophile has forced the British royal from public duties.What did she see? Whom might she incriminate? Those are just some of the questions a trial might explore. While Maxwell has repeatedly asserted her innocence, investigators and Epstein’s victims say she was the ringleader of the operation that coordinated years of sexual abuse in Florida, New York and beyond.Read More: Jeffrey Epstein Found Dead in Jail, Raising ‘Serious Questions’Epstein’s high-powered network means there’s potential for a public reckoning that could tarnish top figures on Wall Street, in corporate America and in Washington. Perhaps more important, a trial would at long last give victims a chance to face at least one of their alleged tormentors.“There is no way for prosecutors to present a case against her without going into all the evidence they had against Epstein, because the charges here are intertwined,” said Jessica Roth, a former federal prosecutor who teaches at Cardozo School of Law in New York. “The original indictment against Jeffrey Epstein made it clear that he didn’t act alone and that the government had evidence that other people were also involved.”Maxwell, a onetime British socialite, was arrested at home in Bradford, New Hampshire, and could face as long as 35 years behind bars if convicted. A judge ordered her held in jail at least until she appears in court in New York, where she is charged. Her lawyer declined to comment.Prosecutors described Maxwell as one of the “villains” at the center of Epstein’s exploitation of girls, saying she lured them into his clutches. She helped “normalize” the sexual abuse by her presence as a mature woman and by feigning interest in and friendship with the girls, Audrey Strauss, the acting U.S. attorney in Manhattan, said at a news conference.‘Critical Role’Maxwell played a “critical role” in helping Epstein identify, befriend and groom minor victims for abuse, Strauss said.The investigation is “ongoing,” she added.Where that investigation will lead is uncertain -- at least to the public. Maxwell may choose not to fight the charges and could agree to cooperate in the U.S. probe, opening up new avenues of inquiry for the government.Prosecutors may also turn their sights on others. Investigators in New York still seek to interview Andrew, whom Maxwell introduced to Epstein; the prince’s lawyers have rejected U.S. claims that he’s refusing to talk, and Andrew denies any wrongdoing.U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the U.S. hasn’t asked for an interview, but declined to comment on whether Britain would comply with such a demand. “No such approach has been made,” he said in an interview on LBC Radio on Friday. “It’s a matter for the Royal Family.”Read More: Prince Andrew’s Lawyers Say He Tried to Help Epstein ProbeShould Maxwell take her case to trial, the government will be forced to disclose much of the evidence it’s amassed. Epstein’s death last year in prison, which authorities ruled a suicide, appeared at the time to put an end to such a possibility.Now, as the case against Maxwell moves forward, at least some of the questions will be answered.Is Maxwell innocent, as she’s repeatedly said? If not, why did she aid Epstein -- and how? How many girls and women did Epstein abuse? Did his scheme have help from lawyers or accountants? Did he or others try to buy the victims’ silence? What went on at Epstein’s private island in the U.S. Virgin Islands?There are other mysteries. Why did federal prosecutors in Florida in 2008 allow Epstein to plead guilty to relatively minor felony charges of procuring an underage girl for prostitution and soliciting a prostitute? That plea deal, which they’ve defended as appropriate, came after the government identified dozens of girls he was suspected of abusing.And why are prosecutors from the public-corruption unit in the Manhattan U.S. attorney’s office now assigned to the case? That suggests a public official may be under investigation, said former federal prosecutor Renato Mariotti.‘Feared Epstein’“I hope that the investigation turns up additional evidence that has not come to light,” said Josh Schiffer, an Atlanta-based attorney who represents Epstein’s victims in civil cases. “I look forward to reviewing the evidence.”For victims, a trial would provide the chance to be heard.“For years, I feared Epstein and his ring,” Jennifer Araoz, who says she was raped by Epstein at 15 after being recruited to visit his Manhattan townhouse as a high school freshman in 2001, said in a statement Thursday. “Maxwell was the center of that sex-trafficking ring. Now that the ring has been taken down, I know that I can’t be hurt anymore.”In coming days, Maxwell will be transported to New York, where she will appear in court, likely seek to be released on bail and probably begin to fight the charges. As she does, some of the mysteries surrounding the Epstein case may begin to be revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ghislaine-maxwell-s-case-will-unearth-secrets-epstein-took-to-his-grave/story-rbQA3w2oGhAKkZMWSkzYtN.html
04-07-2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic tanks Russian economy, plunges families into crisis||As countries across the globe has been facing the worst collective economic downturn since the Great Depression, Russia seems to be particularly hard hit by the twin blows of the coronavirus pandemic as well as the collapse in oil prices.Russia relies on taxes from the oil and gas sector for 40 per cent of its budget.The Washington Post reported that Russian charities and non-profit organisations, since March, experienced a surge in the kind of clients they have not had before -- families that had never been in financial crisis, but are now desperate. Some of them were unable to buy even food. Some were left homeless.According to Russian federal statistics agency, Rosstat, an estimated 4.5 million people were out of work at the end of May -- a number that has soared 85 per cent since March. Before the double crises hit, Russia had 1.3 million people listed as unemployed, according to official figures.The jobless rate now stands at 6.1 per cent, compared with 5.8 per cent in April. In the United States, the unemployment rate in June was 11.1 per cent, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported, down from a peak of 14.7 per cent in April.In May, Russia’s industrial output slumped by 9.6 per cent compared with May 2019 as restrictions on oil production under a deal with OPEC hit home. The auto-manufacturing industry was particularly hard hit, down by 42.2 per cent in May compared with the same period last year.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects the Russian economy to contract by 5.5 per cent this year. The Russian Central Bank said that it could shrink by up to 6 per cent. In comparison, the US economy shrank at a 5 per cent rate in the first quarter of this year, the Commerce Department reported in late June.Thousands of small businesses in Russia have gone bankrupt. The government was slow to respond and belated, patchy measures left millions of people adrift.“You are on your own,” said Ivan Molchanov, a welder who spent 20 nights on the streets after his employer suspended operations and stopped paying both his 75,000-ruble monthly salary (about USD 1,070) and his accommodation in a cheap workers’ hostel.Yekaterina Gorbunova, her husband, Alexander and their four children lost nearly everything. She even wrote to President Vladimir Putin and the office of Moscow’s mayor asking for help getting an apartment. But no help came in time.“We feel absolutely abandoned. It is as if you are in a boat and it is sinking. No one will come to rescue you,” she said after her husband lost his job and the family was evicted from their apartment.“Nobody pays any attention to the people in need. Instead of doing good, no one cares,” she added.As Russia has eased its isolation period, some people have returned to work, including the beautician and the chef. But many small businesses have closed and many jobs have been lost.Putin has often promised to support families with many children, but many feel abandoned. During the crisis, families have received payments of 10,000 rubles (USD 142) per month for each child younger than 16, but Gorbunova said that the payment does not cover a week’s worth of expenses, even without rent.“All families with many children feel that way,” she said.“President Putin is a nice person. But as very often happens, a fortress is broken on the inside. There are worms burrowing inside the fortress,” she added.The number of Russians filing for bankruptcy protection in the first quarter increased 68 per cent over the same period last year, according to RBC news, with at least one million Russians predicted to declare bankruptcy in coming months.But even as many middle-class families and small businesses struggle, it is tougher for vulnerable families, homeless people and low-income people, many of whom do informal work in the “gray economy,” a category excluded from government help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pandemic-tanks-russian-economy-plunges-families-into-crisis/story-Zr9h80gpwqCdXjXVge6Y8O.html
04-07-2020||World||Pakistan reports 3,387 new Covid-19 cases||Pakistan reported 3,387 new coronavirus cases and 68 deaths during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the country to 225,283 and the death toll to 4,619, according to official figures on Saturday. Most coronavirus cases have been reported from Sindh with 90,721 cases, followed by Punjab with 80,297 cases, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 27,506 cases, Islamabad 13,292 cases, Balochistan 10,717 cases, Gilgit-Baltistan 1,536 cases and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 1,214 cases. In the last 24 hours, 3,387 new coronavirus cases and 68 deaths were reported in the country, the National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) said. During the same period, 11,469 Covid-19 patients have recovered. So far, 1,25,094 patients have recovered from the virus in Pakistan, it said. The NCOC said 2,460 patients were in critical condition. In the last 24 hours, 22,050 tests to detect coronavirus have been conducted, taking the total number of tests to 1,372,825. Meanwhile, the Pakistan government said it would reopen four border checkpoints with Iran from Sunday to facilitate the movement of goods. The border was sealed earlier in the year after the coronavirus outbreak in Iran. Last month, a phased reopening of the border had begun. In a notification, the Ministry of Interior said the crossings at Gabd, Mand, Katagar and Chedgi will be opened. The decision was taken after Minister for Planning and NCOC chief Asad Umar said the infection spread was slowing. “The border posts will remain open seven days a week from morning to evening only for trade as per mutually agreed understanding between both the countries,” it said. According to the notification, there will be no limit to truck movement if Covid-19 standard operating procedures are followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-reports-3-387-new-covid-19-cases/story-pXDdX5sYbaUrQ6P1rrJCHK.html
04-07-2020||World||Pakistan reiterates its commitment towards ‘One China’ policy||Pakistan and China have a tradition of “mutual support to each other in the face of common challenges”, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff.Qureshi made the remarks during a phone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Friday, during which they discussed bilateral and regional issues. Qureshi also contended that India’s “belligerent posture and expansionist policies were imperilling peace in the region”, according to a statement from Pakistan’s Foreign Office.The conversation was held amid the months-old standoff between Indian and Chinese border troops. China has deployed additional troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) even as three rounds of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders has not resulted in substantial efforts to de-escalate the situation.During the phone conversation, Qureshi said Pakistan and China are “all-weather strategic cooperative partners” and had preserved a “tradition of expressing solidarity, mutual assistance and mutual support to each other in the face of common challenges”.Without referring to the border standoff with India, Qureshi also said Pakistan is committed to the “One-China policy” and firmly supports China on its “core interests including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang”. He added that disputes in the region should be resolved through peaceful means and agreed mechanisms rather than “resorting to unilateral, illegal and coercive measures” that he claimed were reflected by India’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August last year.Qureshi contended that the regional security situation was deteriorating and “underlined that India’s belligerent posture and expansionist policies were imperilling peace in the region”. “Apart from committing egregious violations of human rights in [Jammu and Kashmir], India was seeking to change the demographic structure of the occupied territory,” he said.He also briefed Wang on what he described as “repeated violations” by India along the Line of Control (LoC) and said Pakistan was exercising restraint. Wang briefed Qureshi on the regional situation and lauded Pakistan’s efforts to promote peace and stability. Wang also thanked Pakistan for the support it has extended to China during “difficult and challenging times”.Both sides said they would support each other at multilateral institutions. The two foreign ministers also said they would promote peace and development in Afghanistan. They hoped the next meeting of the China-Afghanistan-Pakistan foreign ministers dialogue will take place at the earliest. Both sides also said they would take steps for the earliest possible economic recovery in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. Qureshi said the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) will become the hub of trade and economic activity and sustainable development. Pakistan and China are taking steps to help the timely completion of CPEC projects, he added.Wang said CPEC is a flagship project of BRI and its second phase will complement Pakistan’s efforts aimed at job creation, enhancing agricultural productivity, reducing poverty and massive economic recovery. He thanked Pakistan for supporting China’s idea of a “Health Silk Road” to address the region’s social and economic needs.Both sides said they would implement consensus reached by the leadership of the two countries to deepen strategic consultation and coordination to promote shared goals of peace and stability. The ministers also decided to have a face-to-face meeting soon to discuss challenges facing the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/committed-to-one-china-policy-pak-foreign-minister-assures-chinese-counterpart/story-fZsNFNTuCTlg29qVAkQHZO.html
04-07-2020||World||WHO team to visit China next week to investigate origins of coronavirus||Amid global concerns that China delayed giving information regarding the novel coronavirus outbreak, a team of WHO (World Health Organisation) will visit the country next week to investigate the origins of the virus and its spread to human beings.The visit will take place more than six months after the WHO’s Country Office in China picked up a statement from the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission on cases of ‘viral pneumonia’. WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus spoke in January about an agreement with China for sending a team of international experts “as soon as possible” to work on increasing the understanding of the outbreak. Covid-19 has killed over 500,000 people in the world and cases and deaths are increasing by the day.In an exclusive interview with ANI, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, WHO said that a “thorough investigation” needs to be done into the origins of the virus.She said that the WHO has been working with the Chinese government for the visit. “A team is going to China next week to investigate the origins of the virus,” Swaminathan told ANI.“What is needed now is a good investigation going back before December to find out where and how it jumped from animal to human. Was there any intermediate animal or not or it directly jumped from bat to humans which are also possible? Bats have been implicated in other viral diseases -- Nipah for example. It is possible it came directly. It is also possible that there was an intermediate animal-like in the case of SARS. That thorough investigation still needs to be done,” she said.Dr Swaminathan said that the Chinese government had reported an outbreak of “typical pneumonia cases” from Wuhan on December 31.“Our WHO country office in China picked it up and on January 1, WHO activated its international mechanisms which we do as part of international health regulations whenever there’s any new signal gets reported. It is conveyed to everyone so that the whole world knows about it,” she said.Dr Swaminathan said that sequences show that the virus causing Covid-19 is very similar to bat viruses.“We do not know more than that in the sense where and how it originated. We know from the virus sequences that it is very similar to bat viruses. A lot of studies have been done in South-East Asia to show that bats have lots of coronaviruses. There are over 500 types of coronaviruses. There are also previous studies showing that populations living in southern China and even in other countries of South-East Asia have antibodies to coronaviruses,” she said.The pandemic has grown to more than 10 million cases and has caused over 500,000 deaths across the world.The WHO Director-General had talked on January 29 of his agreement with Chinese President Xi Jinping that the organisation would lead a team of international experts to China “as soon as possible” to work with the government on increasing the understanding of the outbreak and to guide global response efforts.On December 31 last year, WHO’s Country Office in China picked up a media statement by the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission from their website on cases of ‘viral pneumonia’ in Wuhan. The next day, WHO requested information on the reported cluster of atypical pneumonia cases in Wuhan from the Chinese authorities.WHO reported on January 9 that Chinese authorities have determined that the outbreak is caused by a novel coronavirus. The organisation said on February 11 that the disease caused by the novel coronavirus would be named Covid-19.There have been reports of China delaying information and warning concerning the novel coronavirus which could have helped in containing its spread in the initial days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-team-to-visit-china-next-week-to-investigate-origins-of-coronavirus/story-3AGI2UhcQ4ASfB9g5SNYuL.html
04-07-2020||World||Not welcome: Japan’s Shinzo Abe could cancel state visit by China’s Xi Jinping||Chinese president Xi Jinping’s state visit to Japan, initially scheduled for April but put off due to the coronavirus pandemic, is set to be scuttled by Tokyo after loud protests within Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s ruling Liberal Democratic Party. Xi’s state visit would have been the first by a Chinese President since 2008.Tensions have been simmering between China and Japan for some time but the latest provocation for LDP lawmakers to formally ask the government to reconsider Xi’s visit is China’s imposition of the national security law over Hong Kong. Japanese lawmakers are deeply concerned about China’s clampdown in Hong Kong. Japan fears the sweeping Chinese security law that came into effect this week would undermine the rights of Japanese people and companies in Hong Kong.Also Read: Indo-China stand-off: Global support for India growsJapan has accused China of exploiting the coronavirus pandemic to push its aggressive diplomacy and tighten its grip over Hong Kong, a global financial hub where Japan has significant interests. About 1,400 Japanese companies have a presence in Hong Kong, which is the world’s largest importer of Japanese agricultural goods. The Japanese business community is concerned that the Chinese national security legislation would shake the foundations of Hong Kong. Also Read: PM Modi’s surprise visit to Ladakh is a game-changer: ExpertsJapan has strongly criticised the move, saying it erodes Hong Kong’s freedom and goes against the promise of allowing a high degree of autonomy in the former British colony for 50 years after its return to China in 1997. Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi issued a statement of regret over the legislation in which he urged China to respect the rights of Japanese people and companies operating in Hong Kong.China’s Territorial Hunger The visit by Chinese leader could have helped to smoothen bilateral ties long frayed over wartime history and territorial issues. In recent weeks, however, China has continued to send ships to waters near the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea. Since April this year, Japan has spotted 67 Chinese Coast Guard ships near these waters, heightening the already tense situation brewing over the mishandling of coronavirus pandemic by China. Japan’s Defence Minister Taro Kono said China’s behaviour over the East China Sea Islands was jeopardising peace in the region. The statement came amid long-simmering tensions between the two countries over the Senkaku Islands in Japan and Diaoyu in China which falls in the East China Sea.Also Read: Japan opposes any ‘unilateral attempt to change status quo’ on LACRhetoric has risen in recent days, with Japan reporting increased activity from China in the area. Japan had scrambled fighter jets after the Chinese military flew near Japanese airspace. If Japan retaliates, the move could trigger a massive military conflict in the region which can involve the United States in the matter as Washington is bound to defend Tokyo in pursuant of the defence treaty between the two countries.At a recent news conference, Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga stressed that the Senkaku Islands “are under our control and are unquestionably our territory, historically and under international law. We think it is an extremely serious matter that these activities continue”.“We will respond firmly and calmly to the Chinese side,” the top Japanese official said. China’s claims that the Diaoyu Islands and its affiliated islands are an inherent part of China’s territory and it is Beijing’s “inherent right” to carry out patrols and law enforcement activities in these waters. Communist Party of China’s mouth-piece, The Global Times wrote that the “Japanese conservatives disrupt recovering China-Japan ties by hyping the Diaoyu Islands dispute”.The chain of uninhabited disputed islands lie east of the Chinese mainland and south-west of Japan’s Okinawa Island. They are close to strategically important shipping lanes and offer rich fishing grounds with vast reserves of oil and natural gas in this swathe of the sea has made these islands that barely covers an area of 7 square kilometre coveted by both Japan and China. In 2012, the Japanese government bought three of the islands from their private Japanese owner who have held them since the 1930s, a move which sparked a new row and protests in Chinese cities. Since then, Chinese ships have been sailing in and out of what Japan says are its territorial waters, prompting fears of a clash.Amid the growing domestic disquiet over China’s behaviour and heightened security concerns, Japanese Defence Minister Taro Kono also sounded a cautious note about welcoming Xi, saying that the security situation facing Japan should be taken into consideration. “As Defence Minister responsible for security, I will make my voice heard within the government,” he said in a press conference held last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-targets-japan-xi-s-visit-comes-under-cloud/story-XjDtPWmoLYEgL9Nzrmp0GL.html
04-07-2020||World||Dog in Georgia tests positive for virus that causes Covid-19||A dog in Georgia is believed to have been the second canine in the US to test positive for the virus that causes Covid-19, health officials said.The 6-year-old mixed breed dog was tested after its owners contracted Covid-19 and the dog began suffering from a neurological illness, the Georgia Department of Health said in a news release Wednesday.The dog was positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.The dog was euthanized after the neurological illness progressed. Officials said the dog’s neurological illness was caused by a condition unrelated to the coronavirus.Guidelines from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention say that based on the limited information available so far, the risk of pets spreading coronavirus to people “is considered to be low.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dog-in-georgia-tests-positive-for-virus-that-causes-covid-19/story-3YoVTIyDr93OaeoIadJCdI.html
04-07-2020||World||Trudeau faces probe for $664 million Canada charity contract||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is facing a probe over his government’s decision to award a contract worth more than C$900 million ($664 million) to an organization that he and his family have ties to.The Canada Student Service Grant was awarded to the WE Charity to set up a program that would pay students to earn funds for tuition and expenses during the pandemic as employment options dried up. The plan was to pay students a one-time grant between C$1,000 to C$5,000 to take part in service activities.The Office of the Conflict of Interest and Ethics Commissioner received requests from two lawmakers this week asking that the federal watchdog examine Trudeau’s conduct. An investigation is underway, it said, adding that the premier has been informed.The prime minister and his mother have appeared at a number of WE Day events, while his wife, Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, hosts a podcast for the group called “WE Well-being,” the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. reported.WE Charity and the federal government announced Friday they were ending their partnership. WE Charity, which operates in 130 school districts and agencies, had agreed to help run the program after being approached by officials in late April, and said it had successfully launched the program. It decided to withdraw amid the growing controversy, it said, adding that it would waive all costs associated with setting up the program and plans to return all funds earmarked for it.“We will collaborate with the Ethics Commissioner’s investigation and will answer all questions he may have,” Ann-Clara Vaillancourt, a spokesperson for Trudeau, said in an email.The prime minister has already been reprimanded twice by the country’s ethics watchdog: for a secret vacation in 2016 at the private island of the Aga Khan, a spiritual leader of Ismaili Muslims, and for breaking conflict of interest laws by pressuring his former attorney general to help SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. settle corruption charges out of court.Conservative politician Michael Barrett said that Trudeau’s ties to the charity and his wife’s involvement with the organization has contravened his obligations under the Conflict of Interest Act.“I have considered your request and am of the view that it satisfies the requirements set out in subsection 22(2) of the act,” Mario Dion, commissioner of the watchdog, said in a statement.Another Member of Parliament, Charlie Angus, also requested a review into Trudeau’s conduct on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trudeau-faces-probe-for-664-million-canada-charity-contract/story-HTxStWM0beaEvaXExImsqL.html
04-07-2020||World||Donald Trump Junior’s girlfriend tests coronavirus positive||The girlfriend of President Donald Trump’s eldest son has tested positive for coronavirus, US media reported Friday.Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News television personality who is dating Donald Trump Jr, had travelled to South Dakota to see the US president’s Fourth of July speech and celebration fireworks at Mount Rushmore.Guilfoyle, 51, was immediately isolated after discovering she had the virus in a routine test conducted on anyone expected to come in close contact with the president, the New York Times reported.In a statement to the newspaper, Sergio Gor, chief of staff to the Trump campaign’s finance committee, said: “She’s doing well, and will be retested to ensure the diagnosis is correct since she’s asymptomatic.”He added: “As a precaution (she) will cancel all upcoming events. Donald Trump Jr was tested negative, but as a precaution is also self-isolating and is cancelling all public events.”Guilfoyle is the third person close to the US president to return a positive Covid-19 test, US media reported.Others include Trump’s personal valet and the US vice president’s press secretary.The pandemic has claimed nearly 130,000 American lives and a recent resurgence “puts the entire country at risk,” top infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-junior-s-girlfriend-coronavirus-positive/story-3S9rEQTmp6sC7FKC53vElK.html
04-07-2020||World||New outbreaks push inmate coronavirus cases past 50,000||The number of prison inmates testing positive for the coronavirus soared well past the 50,000 mark last month, as recent outbreaks threatened to undo control measures put in place earlier in the pandemic.At the end of June, the total number of coronavirus cases among prisoners had reached at least 52,649, an increase of 8% from the week before, according to data compiled by the Marshall Project, a nonprofit news organization focusing on criminal justice, and The Associated Press.Of those, at least 35,796 have recovered, and at least 616 inmates have died, the data showed.Among staff, more than 11,180 cases of coronavirus have been reported, including 43 deaths.As of June 30, only Wyoming and Hawaii still had not identified any confirmed cases of coronavirus among prisoners.New cases in prisons began to drop last month, with less of the rapid growth seen in the spring when Michigan, Ohio, Tennessee, Texas and other states began mass testing of prisoners, the data shows.But by the end of June, new outbreaks in Arkansas, California and Texas began to push the numbers up again.The rising cases in prisons is mirroring a large increase in cases across the US, where there have been some 50,000 total per day over the past few days and hot spots are exploding in multiple states, including Arizona, Florida and Texas.Prisons have been of specific concern because of social distancing worries, and the fear that outbreaks inside crowded facilities can affect surrounding communities as employees and vendors come and go.The federal Bureau of Prisons recorded the most inmate deaths at 94. Ohio led states with the most deaths, with 86 reported through the end of June. More than 5,000 federal inmates have tested positive.Coronavirus outbreaks in prison are an indictment of mass incarceration in the US, with many systems warehousing people in situations that make social distancing impossible, said Nicole Porter, director of advocacy for The Sentencing Project.Porter said the response by governors has been inadequate, with only minimal releases of inmates in most states in an effort to free up space. At the very least, authorities should be moving to release all inmates scheduled to get out this year, she said.In Louisiana, for example, a state panel tasked with examining up to 1,100 inmates for release ultimately approved just 100, of which 63 will be released, The Advocate reported.“A global pandemic creates a level of urgency that people should not be kept in prison one day longer than necessary,” Porter said. “Many of those people pose absolutely no threat to public safety and their liberty would have been restored anyway this year.”California saw a setback this week in its efforts to control the virus, when a third of the 3,500 inmates at San Quentin State Prison near San Francisco tested positive after officials transferred 121 inmates from the heavily affected California Institution for Men in Chino on May 30 without properly testing them for infections.Gov. Gavin Newsom has defended his administration’s handling of the pandemic in prisons, noting that he has ordered about 3,500 early releases, plans about 3,500 more, and halted transfers from local jails to create more space in prisons for social isolation.Six states — Arkansas, Connecticut, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio and Tennessee — now have infection rates higher than one of every 10 inmates, according to the Marshall Project data.In Ohio, cases have now been reported in nearly all prisons, but two account for the majority of cases: Pickaway Correctional Institution in central Ohio, which includes a medical wing, and Marion Correctional Institution in north-central Ohio, where virtually all inmates tested positive.Thirty-six inmates died at Pickaway and 13 at Marion, according to the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction.Prison advocates in Ohio are using the pandemic to promote legislation working its way through the Statehouse that would reduce the number of people sent to prison for drug crimes.“They could save lives by reducing the prison population as the Covid-19 death toll continues to rise behind bars,” said Piet van Lier, a researcher for Policy Matters Ohio.The state says it reduced Ohio’s prison population by 3,170 inmates — a 6.5% drop — since March through several measures, including releasing inmates early, the normal expiration of sentences, and temporarily suspending intakes of male prisoners from county jails, though that policy has since ended.The population of around 47,000 is now the lowest since 2006. The Ohio prison system’s goal in responding to the pandemic “was to reduce the prison population in a manner which maintained public safety,” spokeswoman JoEllen Smith said Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-outbreaks-push-inmate-coronavirus-cases-past-50-000/story-tZTTYGEZwm2XYz7oMnrdbI.html
04-07-2020||World||Pak Foreign Minister Qureshi says he has tested positive for Covid-19||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Friday announced that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease and has quarantined himself. He broke the news on Twitter, saying that in the afternoon he felt a slight fever and quarantined himself at home, before testing positive later on.“I have now tested positive for Covid-19. By the grace of Allah, I feel strong and energetic. I will continue to carry on my duties from home. Please keep me in your prayers,” he tweeted.Incidentally, Qureshi had held a meeting with Zalmay Khalilzad, the US special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation, on Wednesday at the foreign office in Islamabad. Khalilzad was accompanied by the US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) chief executive officer, Adam Boehler.Also, unconfirmed reports say that he last met Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-foreign-minister-qureshi-says-he-has-tested-positive-for-covid-19/story-cMXoHuYZwA4FCRBoqbIJ9L.html
04-07-2020||World||America supports India against Chinese aggression: US Senator||An influential American Senator on Friday said that the US stands with India against the Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control, commending the Indian government for the continued efforts to negotiate a peaceful resolution to the boundary issue. Republican Senator Rick Scott, in a letter dated July 2 to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressed his condolences on the loss of lives of 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley. “The United States stands with India as you fight against the Communist China’s aggression and I commend your continued efforts to negotiate a peaceful resolution,” Scott said in the letter tweeted on Friday. “Unfortunately, we know Communist China never lives up to its commitments. The tyrants of Communist China continue to steal technology and refuse to open their markets to foreign goods as required by their agreement to be part of the World Trade Organisation,” he wrote. China, he alleged, continues to attack religious freedom by detaining more than one million Uyghurs in internment and reeducation camps and have not lived up to the agreement to give Hong Kong autonomy and freedom, he said. Scott said that China is militarising the South China Sea, even though it had promised former president Barack Obama not to do it, and now it continues to try to assert its military dominance in its quest for world dominance. “Communist China believes that in order for them to be strong, America, India and other freedom loving countries must be weaker. They are cracking down on freedom and autonomy in Hong Kong, and continue to threaten Taiwan and India,” he said. If it continues down this path, Communist China’s neighbours will have no choice but to treat it as a serious threat that uses military force against peaceful democratic powers, he wrote in the letter. “As you continue to stand against Communist China and General Secretary of the Communist Party Xi (Jinping), I want to offer help in any way I can to the Republic of India, the world’s largest democracy and our ally. The United States will always defend our allies and those fighting for freedom,” Scott added. The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last seven weeks. The tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/america-supports-india-against-chinese-aggression-us-senator/story-JHjzoCfJ31HEGKZpRoVFMM.html
04-07-2020||World||Air France, Hop! to shed 7,580 jobs by end of 2022: Management||Air France management said Friday it planned to eliminate 7,580 jobs at the airline and its regional unit Hop! by the end of 2022 because of the coronavirus crisis.The carrier wants to get rid of 6,560 positions of the 41,000 at Air France, and 1,020 positions of the 2,420 at Hop!, according to a statement issued after meetings between managers and staff representatives.“For three months, Air France’s activity and turnover have plummeted 95 percent, and at the height of the crisis, the company lost 15 million euros a day,” said the group, which anticipated a “very slow” recovery.The aviation industry has been hammered by the travel restrictions imposed to contain the virus outbreak, with firms worldwide still uncertain when they will be able to get grounded planes back into the air.Air France said it wanted to begin a “transformation that rests mainly on changing the model of its domestic activity, reorganising its support functions and pursuing the reduction of its external and internal costs”.The planned job cuts amount to 16 percent of Air France’s staff and 40 percent of those at Hop!With the focus on short-haul flights, management is counting mainly on the non-replacement of retiring workers or voluntary departures and increasing geographic mobility.However, unions warn that Air France may resort to layoffs for the first time, if not enough staff agree to leave or move to other locations.- ‘Crisis is brutal’ -Shaken heavily by the coronavirus crisis, like the entire aviation sector, the Air France group launched a reconstruction plan aiming to reduce its loss-making French network by 40 percent through the end of 2021.“The crisis is brutal and these measures are on an unprecedented scale,” CEO Anne Rigail conceded in a message to employees, a copy of which AFP obtained.They also include, she said, “salary curbs with a freeze on general and individual increases (outside seniority and promotions) for all in 2021 and 2022,” including executives of Air France.The airline told AFP earlier this week that: “The lasting drop in activity and the economic context due to the COVID-19 crisis require the acceleration of Air France’s transformation.” Air France-KLM posted a loss of 1.8 billion euros in the first quarter alone, and has warned it could be years before operations return to pre-coronavirus levels.Air France has been offered seven billion euros in emergency loans from the French state or backed by it, while the Dutch government approved a 3.4 billion euro package of bailout loans for KLM last week.The group joins a long list of airlines that have announced job cuts in recent weeks.Lufthansa is to slash 22,000 jobs, British Airways 12,000, Delta Air Lines 10,000 and Qantas 6,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/air-france-hop-to-shed-7-580-jobs-by-end-of-2022-management/story-V9VQKLDLnZ8LFvssbe8ZfM.html
04-07-2020||World||WHO says first alerted to coronavirus by its office, not China||The World Health Organization has updated its account of the early stages of the Covid crisis to say it was alerted by its own office in China, and not by China itself, to the first pneumonia cases in Wuhan.The UN health body has been accused by US President Donald Trump of failing to provide the information needed to stem the pandemic and of being complacent towards Beijing, charges it denies.On April 9, WHO published an initial timeline of its communications, partly in response to criticism of its early response to the outbreak that has now claimed more than 521,000 lives worldwide.In that chronology, WHO had said only that the Wuhan municipal health commission in the province of Hubei had on December 31 reported cases of pneumonia. The UN health agency did not however specify who had notified it.WHO director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a press conference on April 20 the first report had come from China, without specifying whether the report had been sent by Chinese authorities or another source.But a new chronology, published this week by the Geneva-based institution, offers a more detailed version of events.It indicates that it was the WHO office in China that on December 31 notified its regional point of contact of a case of “viral pneumonia” after having found a declaration for the media on a Wuhan health commission website on the issue.The same day, WHO’s epidemic information service picked up another news report transmitted by the international epidemiological surveillance network ProMed -- based in the United States -- about the same group of cases of pneumonia from unknown causes in Wuhan.After which, WHO asked the Chinese authorities on two occasions, on January 1 and January 2, for information about these cases, which they provided on January 3.WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan told a press conference on Friday that countries have 24-48 hours to officially verify an event and provide the agency with additional information about the nature or cause of an event.Ryan added that the Chinese authorities immediately contacted WHO’s as soon as the agency asked to verify the report.US President Donald Trump has announced that his country, the main financial contributor to WHO, will cut its bridges with the institution, which he accuses of being too close to China and of having poorly managed the pandemic.The WHO denies any complacency toward China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-first-alerted-to-coronavirus-by-its-office-not-china/story-9bgDMmKpLKjpkRNiajuAVN.html
04-07-2020||World||Brazil surpasses 1.5 million coronavirus cases, with over 63,000 deaths||Brazil registered 42,223 additional coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, the Health Ministry said on Friday, bringing the total tally to 1,539,081, the second-worst outbreak in the world behind the United States.The number of coronavirus deaths rose by 1,290 to 63,174, according to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-surpasses-1-5-million-coronavirus-cases-with-over-63-000-deaths/story-XmleYiO7qD0G7qD3LajZyH.html
04-07-2020||World||Mainland China reports three new coronavirus cases||China on Saturday reported three new coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 3, compared with five cases a day earlier, the health authority said.Two of the new infections were imported cases, the National Health Commission said in a statement, while the capital Beijing reported one new case. There were no new deaths.China also reported four new asymptomatic patients, the same as a day earlier.As of July 3, mainland China had a total of 83,545 confirmed coronavirus cases, it said.China’s death toll from the coronavirus remained at 4,634, unchanged since mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mainland-china-reports-three-new-coronavirus-cases/story-dVVd3phggQZ4yQBQ7946VP.html
04-07-2020||World||Global coronavirus cases rise to more than 11 million||Global coronavirus cases exceeded 11 million on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, marking another milestone in the spread of the disease that has killed more than half a million people in seven months.The number of cases is more than double the figure for severe influenza illnesses recorded annually, according to the World Health Organization.Many hard-hit countries are easing lockdowns put in place to slow the spread of the coronavirus while making extensive alterations to work and social life that could last for a year or more until a vaccine is available.Some countries are experiencing a resurgence in infections, leading authorities to partially reinstate lockdowns, in what experts say could be a recurring pattern into 2021.The United States reported more than 55,400 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, a new daily global record as infections rose in a majority of states. Several U.S. governors halted plans to reopen their state economies in the face of a surge in cases. Almost a quarter of the known global deaths have occurred in the United States - nearly 129,000. A recent surge in cases has put President Donald Trump’s handling of the crisis under a microscope and led several governors to halt plans to reopen their states after strict lockdowns.Latin America, where Brazil has 1.5 million cases, makes up 23% of the global total of people infected. India has become the new epicenter in Asia, rising to 625,000 cases. Asia and the Middle East have around 12% and 9% respectively, according to the Reuters tally, which uses government reports.In some countries with limited testing capabilities, case numbers reflect a small proportion of total infections. Health experts caution that the official data likely does not tell the full story, with many believing that both cases and deaths have likely been underreported in some countries.Worldwide, there have been more than 520,000 fatalities linked to the disease so far, roughly the same as the number of influenza deaths reported annually.The first death linked to the new coronavirus was reported on Jan. 10 in Wuhan in China, before infections and fatalities surged in Europe, then the United States, and later Russia.The pandemic has now entered a new phase, with India and Brazil battling outbreaks of over 10,000 cases a day, putting a major strain on resources.Countries including China, New Zealand and Australia have experienced new outbreaks in the past month, despite largely quashing local transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-coronavirus-cases-rise-to-more-than-11-million/story-1hp3ZGHvZzL6YbVpr6iQaP.html
04-07-2020||World||French government ministers investigated over Covid-19 crisis||A special French court ordered an investigation Friday of three current or former government ministers over their handling of the coronavirus crisis.Covid-19 patients, doctors, prison personnel, police officers and others in France filed an unprecedented 90 complaints in the Court of Justice of the Republic over recent months, notably over shortages of masks and other equipment as the virus spread across Europe. The court usually only sees a few complaints a year.The court, which deals with cases against top officials,said in a statement Friday that it threw out 44 of the 90 complaints, and is still studying 37 of them.The nine it deemed worth investigating target former Prime Minister Edouard Philippe, who resigned hours before the court’s announcement, Health Minister Olivier Veran or the former health minister, Agnes Buzyn.They are accused of “failing to fight a disaster,” and could face up to two years in prison and fines, if tried and convicted.That was the only charge the court retained among multiple accusations in the 90 complaints, which included allegations of manslaughter and endangering lives. A conviction on those charges carries the potential for heavier prison terms.Ten of the cases were closed because they didn’t provide enough justification for an investigation, according to a judicial official. The court said another 34 cases, targeting different government ministers, were thrown out for technical problems.President Emmanuel Macron and his government have acknowledged mask shortages and other missteps in the virus crisis. France was also short of testing capacity and criticized for not imposing confinement measures earlier.Macron himself cannot be targeted by lawsuits while in office because sitting presidents have immunity from prosecution.On Friday, the French leader named as the new prime minister a longtime civil servant who coordinated France’s strategy to reopen and recover economically from a two-month nationwide lockdown.No mention was made of the investigation or legal troubles when Philippe resigned earlier in the day. Macron said he was reshuffling the government to focus on setting a “new path” for the remaining two years of his presidential term.The Court of Justice of the Republic is the only French court where government ministers can be tried for their actions while in office, and was created in the wake of a major health scandal in the 1990s.The new investigation is separate from dozens of lawsuits filed in other French courts against nursing homes or others accused of mismanaging the virus crisis.France has reported the fifth-highest number of coronavirus deaths worldwide, for a total of 29,893 in the pandemic. About half took place in nursing homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-government-ministers-investigated-over-covid-19-crisis/story-Z0nzthQ9uftTfJEkbHc3FP.html
04-07-2020||World||5 killed, 3 injured in North Carolina highway crash||Five people were killed and at least three others seriously injured after a highway crash in Charlotte, North Carolina, on Friday evening.Emergency medical officials said the crash happened on Interstate 485 in north Charlotte, news outlets reported.Officials did not immediately release the identity of the victims or say how the crash happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-killed-3-injured-in-north-carolina-highway-crash/story-L66MbrThkcRKreLcEAXhTK.html
04-07-2020||World||Canada suspends extradition treaty with Hong Kong over new security law||Canada has suspended its extradition treaty with Hong Kong, as part of a series of measures precipitated by the enactment of a national security law by China that threatens the autonomy of the city-territory.During a press conference in Gatineau, Quebec, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also announced that “effective immediately” Canada will prohibit the sale of sensitive military items to Hong Kong. Till date, ties between Canada and Hong Kong were treated separately from those with China, but that has changed with the passage of the controversial legislation by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China. Concerns in Ottawa have also heightened because nearly 300,000 Canadians live in Hong Kong.Trudeau said that Canada is “a firm believer” in the ‘one country, two systems’ framework that applied to Hong Kong after its handover to China by the British.Canada expressed its “serious concern” over the passage of the national security law that will sabotage Hong Kong’s democratic tradition. It also issued a new travel advisory for Hong Kong which said that Canadians going there “may be at increased risk of arbitrary detention on national security grounds and possible extradition to mainland China.”In a statement, Honourable François-Philippe Champagne, Canada’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, criticized the move by Beijing, as he said, “This legislation was enacted in a secretive process, without the participation of Hong Kong’s legislature, judiciary or people, and in violation of international obligations.This process demonstrated disregard for Hong Kong’s Basic Law and the high degree of autonomy promised for Hong Kong under the ‘one country, two systems’ framework. Hong Kong’s role as a global hub was built on that foundation. Without it, Canada is forced to reassess existing arrangements.”The suspension of the extradition pact and imports of military equipment are among the initial changes. Canada is also contemplating steps related to immigration for impacted Hong Kongers.Relations between Canada and China are already at their worst in decades, after Beijing arbitrarily arrested two Canadians, including a diplomat, days after the detention of senior Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver, where is facing trial that could lead to extradition to the United States in a case related to defrauding a bank to bypass sanctions against the Iranian regime. The two Canadians were recently charged with spying, and Ottawa has accused Beijing of using them for ‘hostage diplomacy.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-suspends-extradition-treaty-with-hong-kong-over-new-security-law/story-r6EfWMe9AH38F4BgmfRxbO.html
04-07-2020||World||`Huge bummer’: US will test Americans’ discipline||The US headed into the Fourth of July weekend with many parades and fireworks displays canceled, beaches and bars closed, and health authorities warning that this will be a crucial test of Americans’ self-control that could determine the trajectory of the surging coronavirus outbreak.With confirmed cases climbing in 40 states, governors and local officials have ordered the wearing of masks in public, and families were urged to celebrate their independence at home. Even then, they were told to keep their backyard cookouts small.“This year is a huge bummer, to say the least,” said Ashley Peters, who for 14 years has hosted 150 friends and relatives at a pool party at her home in Manteca, California, complete with a DJ, bounce house, water slide and shaved-ice stand. This time, the guest list is down to just a few people.Pulling the plug on the bash, she said, was a “no-brainer” because so many of those she knows are front-line workers, including her husband, a fire captain. “I woke up and told my husband I wish it was just July 5,” she said.Health experts agree this will be a pivotal moment in determining whether the nation slides into a deeper mess. The fear is that a weekend of crowded pool parties, picnics and parades will fuel the surge.“We’re not going to be arresting people for having gatherings, but we’re certainly going to discourage it,” said Dr. Jeff Duchin, public health director for Seattle and King County.Those who decide they must gather with a small group of family members need to be careful, he said: “Don’t share utensils, don’t share objects, don’t pass them back and forth, because you’re passing that virus around as well.”The warnings were sounded after a Memorial Day weekend that saw many people emerge from stay-at-home orders to go to the beach, restaurants and family gatherings. Since then, confirmed infections per day in the US have rocketed to an all-time high, more than doubling.The US set another record on Friday with 52,300 newly reported cases, according to the tally kept by Johns Hopkins University.The picture was bleak around much of the country. In Arizona, the number of people in the hospital with a suspected or confirmed case of Covid-19 eclipsed 3,000 for the first time. Alabama reported more than 1,700 new confirmed cases, its highest single-day count yet. New York state, which has largely tamed the virus, recorded 918 new cases, the most in at least three weeks.Despite it all, there will still be fireworks and community events scattered across the nation, with many taking social distancing into account. In Ohio, Upper Arlington’s July Fourth parade will take a much longer route through its neighborhoods so residents can watch without crowding the streets.“We’re calling it the front porch parade,” said organizer Sam Porter. “We can’t just not do something.”Fireworks will be launched from four spots across Albuquerque, New Mexico, so that people can ooh and aah from home instead of gathering in a single place.Willie Nelson’s annual Fourth of July Picnic will carry on at his Texas ranch outside Austin, but this year the concert portion will be virtual.President Donald Trump traveled to South Dakota on Friday for a fireworks show at Mount Rushmore before returning to the nation’s capital for military flyovers Saturday and a mile-long pyrotechnics display on the National Mall that his administration promises will be the biggest in recent memory. Up to 300,000 face masks will be given away but not required.The big party will go on over objections from Washington’s mayor.“Ask yourself, do you need to be there? Ask yourself, can you anticipate or know who all is going to be around you? If you go downtown, do you know if you’re going to be able to social distance?” Mayor Muriel Bowser said.Beaches that had been open for the traditional start of summer over Memorial Day weekend will be off-limits in many places this time, including South Florida, Southern California and the Texas Gulf Coast.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advised Americans who do go to the beach to wear face coverings, though not in the water.With professional pyrotechnic displays canceled, authorities are bracing for wildfires and injuries caused by Americans shooting off fireworks at home. Sales of fireworks have been booming in what some sellers say may reflect a desire for a little excitement among people cooped up for so long.Jamie Parrott, a pediatric neurologist in Columbia, South Carolina, said he intends to stay home with his grandchildren, setting off fireworks and eating hamburgers, because that’s the safer course for older people like him.“We’ll muddle through,” he said.Delaware’s governor ordered bars in some beach towns to close, saying people were getting complacent about masks and social distancing. The Lake Erie resort village of Put-in-Bay in Ohio canceled its fireworks after a small number of coronavirus cases were linked to bars on the island. And the New Jersey resort town of Wildwood did the same.Still, many people are expected to pack the beaches, boardwalk restaurants and amusement parks up and down the Jersey shore.South Carolina’s Myrtle Beach is one of the nation’s worst hot spots for Covid-19, and officials in several other states blame their outbreaks on vacationers returning from the resort city. On Thursday, the city passed a mask requirement.“I hate the perception that people have right now, as any city would,” said Mayor Brenda Bethune.After hearing Michigan’s governor warn about the need to be smart amid an uptick of cases, Mary Halley of Jonesville said her family canceled plans for a weekend outing on Lake Michigan.“We had some disappointed kids, but we knew as a family we couldn’t do that,” she said. The problem, she said, is that too many people aren’t listening to the experts. “Even in my small, little town, there are lot of people who didn’t comply with the orders,” she said.Dr. Don Williamson, head of the Alabama Hospital Association, said he is “really, really worried about the Fourth of July.”“I think that will likely determine the trend for Alabama for the rest of the summer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/huge-bummer-us-will-test-americans-discipline/story-9v0ACxVnha0RK6YduVv47J.html
04-07-2020||World||Trump plans fiery Rushmore rally amid Covid-19 threat, protests||President Donald Trump planned a fiery Mount Rushmore speech Friday night including denunciations of protesters he says are trying to “tear down” the nation’s history. He’s adding the condemnation of those who pull down statues to a big fireworks show and his more traditional July Fourth praise of America’s past and values.Hours before the event, protesters blocked a road leading to the monument. Authorities worked to move the demonstrators, mostly Native Americans protesting that South Dakota’s Black Hills were taken from the Lakota people against treaty agreements.One group parked three vans across the road and took the tires from two of them to make it more difficult to remove them. Several demonstrators climbed on top of the vans chanting “Land back!” Police warned the protesters to disperse but didn’t take any immediate action against them.The sheriff’s office said attendees had been told to arrive early so should have been past the roadblock.The president has spoken forcefully against other protesters in Washington, D.C., and other cities who have tried to topple Confederate monuments and statues honoring those who have benefited from slavery, planned to target “the left wing mob and those practicing cancel culture,” said a person familiar with his remarks and describing them only on condition of anonymity.The president was to preside over a fireworks display at an event expected to draw thousands, even as coronavirus cases spike across the country.Trump was expecting a South Dakota show of support, with the state Republican Party selling T-shirts that feature Trump on the memorial alongside George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln. But concern about the coronavirus risk and wildfire danger from the fireworks, along with the Native American groups’ protests were also present.Republican Gov. Kristi Noem, a Trump ally, has said social distancing won’t be required during the event and masks will be optional. Event organizers were to provide masks to anyone who wanted them and plannedto screen attendees for symptoms of Covid-19.The Republican mayor of the largest city near the monument, Rapid City, said he would be watching for an increase in cases after the event, the Rapid City Journal reported.Enthusiastic attendees were unlikely to disqualify themselves “because they developed a cough the day of or the day before,” Mayor Steve Allender said.The small town of Keystone, which lies a couple of miles from the monument, was buzzing with people Friday hoping to catch a glimpse of the fireworks and the president. Many wore pro-Trump T-shirts and hats. Few wore masks.“This is going to rank up in the top Fourth of Julys that I talk about,” said Mike Stewhr, who brought his family from Nebraska.Mike Harris of Rapid City said he was a Republican but wore a mask and waved an anti-Trump flag. He also was sporting a handgun on each hip. He said he was worried the event would spark a Covid-19 outbreak.“I think it’s a bad example being set by our president and our governor,” Harris said.Robin Pladsen, director of the Keystone Chamber of Commerce, handed out face masks and hand sanitizer from a tent. She said the tourist influx would help businesses pay back loans they had taken out to survive the economic downtown but acknowledged the health risk for the town.Leaders of several Native American tribes in the region also raised concerns that the event could lead to virus outbreaks among their members, who they say are particularly vulnerable to Covid-19 because of an underfunded health care system and chronic health conditions.“The president is putting our tribal members at risk to stage a photo op at one of our most sacred sites,” said Harold Frazier, chairman of the Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe.Some Native American groups used Trump’s visit to protest the Mount Rushmore memorial itself, pointing out that the Black Hills were taken from the Lakota people.More than 100 protesters, many Lakota, lined the road leading from Keystone to the monument holding signs and playing Lakota music in 95-degree heat. Some held their fists in the air as cars loaded with event attendees passed by. Others held signs that read “Protect SoDak’s First People,” “You Are On Stolen Land” and “Dismantle White Supremacy.”“The president needs to open his eyes. We’re people, too, and it was our land first,” said Hehakaho Waste, a spiritual elder with the Oglala Sioux tribe.Security for the event itself was tight. The governor’s spokesperson, Maggie Seidel, would not say whether the South Dakota National Guard was being deployed, but said organizers are making sure it is a safe event.Several people who once oversaw fire danger at the national memorial have said setting off fireworks over the forest was a bad idea that could lead to a large wildfire. Fireworks were called off after 2009 because a mountain pine beetle infestation increased the fire risks.Noem pushed to get the fireworks resumed soon after she was elected, and enlisted Trump’s help. The president brushed aside fire concerns earlier this year, saying, “What can burn? It’s stone.”Trump made no mention of the fire danger in fresh comments Thursday.“They used to do it many years ago, and for some reason they were unable or unallowed to do it,” he said. “They just weren’t allowed to do it, and I opened it up and we’re going to have a tremendous July 3 and then we’re coming back here, celebrating the Fourth of July in Washington, D.C.”Trump has presided over a several large-crowd events — in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and at an Arizona megachurch — even as health officials warn against large gatherings and recommend face masks and social distancing. He plans a July Fourth celebration on the National Mall in Washington despite health concerns from D.C.’s mayor. Trump and first lady Melania Trump plan to host events from the White House South Lawn and from the Ellipse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-plans-fiery-rushmore-rally-amid-covid-19-threat-protests/story-7sdFUiQ0laGFE0J30KtTrO.html
04-07-2020||World||July 4th celebration to feature air show over Washington DC, 4 other cities||President Donald Trump’s July Fourth celebration will feature an extensive US military air show over Washington, DC, but four other cities will get mini-versions of the air power display on Saturday,The “Salute to the Great Cities of the American Revolution” will feature military flyovers in Boston, New York City, Philadelphia and Baltimore. While the flights will likely be visible from a number of locations in the cities, they are taking place as Americans deal with surging cases of Covid-19 and mixed messages on the need for masks and social distancing.Trump has been criticized for pushing to go ahead with large rallies and other public gatherings, like the upcoming holiday event, despite the increased risks of infection.The flyovers will start in Boston at about 4 p.m., with Air Force and Marine Corps jets flying over in five waves. The show will be kicked off by the Air Force Thunderbirds, followed by B-1, B-2 and B-52 bombers, F-15 and F-22 fighter jets and US Marine Corps F-35 fighters.In Boston, they’ll go over the center of the city, approaching from the northeast and flying over the USS. Constitution and Fenway Park.They will then fly on to New York City, heading down the Hudson River at about 5 p.m., passing just east of the Statue of Liberty. The aircraft will get to Philadelphia at about 5:15 p.m., flying over Independence Hall and the Liberty Bell, then they’ll head to Baltimore, where they will reach Fort McHenry around 5:30 p.m., and then continue south toward Washington, DC. The jets will be flying at about 1,000 feet.They will then join the larger air show in the nation’s capital, which will begin at about 6:30 p.m. with a demonstration by the US Army Golden Knights Parachute Team and a 21-gun salute by the military’s 3rd Infantry Regiment, known as The Old Guard.The air show will follow at 7 p.m., and will begin with a flyover by Air Force One. The aerial show will include a wide range of military fighter jets, bombers, helicopters, cargo and tanker aircraft, And it will finish with the military’s elite demonstration teams, the US Navy Blue Angels and Air Force Thunderbirds.The aircraft will approach the city from Arlington National Cemetery in northern Virginia and fly directly over the Ellipse.The Army, Navy, Marines Corps and Air Force bands will play.According to the Pentagon, the shows will not cost taxpayers much because the aircraft crews are using the flyovers to meet routing training and proficiency requirements that would normally be conducted at other locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/july-4th-celebration-to-feature-air-show-over-washington-dc-4-other-cities/story-e5VAFygy3zlzu6TUuYPSJP.html
04-07-2020||World||Canada suspends extradition with Hong Kong over China’s security law||Canada on Friday suspended its extradition treaty with Hong Kong to protest the tough new national security law China has enacted in the financial hub.Canada is also halting exports of sensitive military gear to Hong Kong and updating its travel advisory for the city so Canadians will know how the law might affect them, the foreign ministry said.“Canada is a firm believer in the ‘one country, two systems’ framework,” Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said, referring to the semi-autonomous model adopted after Britain returned Hong Kong to China in 1997.“We’re extremely concerned about the situation in Hong Kong,” he told a press briefing.Trudeau said the “one country, two systems” principle was important not just for the city’s 7.5 million people, but for the 300,000 Canadians who live there. “That is why we are going to continue to look at steps we can take to ensure the safety of its citizens,” he said, mentioning possible new “immigration” measures, without any specifics.The Chinese legislation enacted this week outlaws acts of subversion, secession, terrorism and colluding with foreign forces.Beijing has faced a groundswell of criticism, primarily from Western nations, over the law, which radically increases China’s control over Hong Kong.China’s leaders say the suite of powers will restore stability after a year of sometimes violent protests and will not stifle freedoms. But police have already begun arresting people for possessing protest flags and banners, and the government in Hong Kong has made clear certain political views, especially calls for independence, are now outlawed.The law was enacted in a secretive process, without the participation of Hong Kong’s legislature, judiciary or people, and in violation of international obligations, said Canadian Foreign Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne.“This process demonstrated disregard for Hong Kong’s Basic Law and the high degree of autonomy promised for Hong Kong under the ‘one country, two systems’ framework,” the minister said.“Hong Kong’s role as a global hub was built on that foundation. Without it, Canada is forced to reassess existing arrangements.”Relations between Canada and China have been tense because of extradition proceedings under way against an executive of the Chinese telecoms giant Huawei, who is wanted in the US on suspicion of violating sanctions against Iran.Trudeau recently rejected calls for him to intervene and trade that executive, Meng Wanzhou, for two Canadians held in China on espionage charges.Meng was arrested in Canada in December 2018 at the request of US authorities. The two Canadians -- former diplomat Michael Kovrig, and Michael Spavor, a consultant and businessman -- were arrested in China just days later.Their detention is considered in the West as retaliation for Meng’s arrest -- a claim Beijing has repeatedly denied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-suspends-extradition-with-hong-kong-over-china-s-security-law/story-eBNYqxEYxBKTAO5b4wQCMN.html
