05-07-2020||World||Virus fear prompts Mexican town to block road from US border||Residents of the town of Sonoyta, across from Lukeville, Arizona, briefly blocked the main road leading south from the U.S. border over the weekend over fears of coronavirus outbreaks.Arizona has seen a major upsurge in infections and there were worries about intensified contagion during the July 4 weekend.The mayor of Sonoyta, José Ramos Arzate, issued a statement Saturday “inviting U.S. tourists not to visit Mexico.”Local residents organized to block the road with their cars on the Mexican side Saturday.Video posted by residents showed several travelers complaining that they had a right to cross because they were Mexican citizens. The road is the quickest route to the seaside resort of Puerto Peñasco, also known as Rocky Point.Ramos Arzate wrote that people from the United States should only be allowed in “for essential activities, and for that reason, the checkpoint and inspection point a few meters from the Sonoyta-Lukeville AZ crossing will continue operating.”“We had agreed on this in order to safeguard the health of our community in the face of an accelerated rate of COVID-19 contagion in the neighboring state of Arizona,” Ramos Arzate wrote. “It is our duty as municipal authorities to protect the health of our town.”Mexico and the United States agreed previously to limit border crossings to essential activities, but up until this week, that had mainly been enforced for people entering the United States, not the other way.Residents of Sonoyta demanded health checks on incoming visitors, better health care facilities and broader testing.There has been some resentment that tourists, but not local residents, had reportedly been allowed into Puerto Peñasco, where many banks and other services are located.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virus-fear-prompts-mexican-town-to-block-road-from-us-border/story-p0zRCwrm1pWMi5k353HC6O.html
05-07-2020||World||Covid-like virus was sent to Wuhan in 2013: Report||Virus samples sent to the Wuhan Institute of Virology seven years ago closely resemble Covid-19, according to a report in the Sunday Times that highlights unanswered questions about the origins of the global pandemic.Scientists in 2013 sent frozen samples to the Wuhan lab from a bat-infested former copper mine in southwest China after six men who had been clearing out bat feces there contracted a severe pneumonia, the newspaper said.Three of them died and the most likely cause was a coronavirus transmitted from a bat, the Sunday Times reported, citing a medic whose supervisor worked in the emergency department that treated the men. The same mine in Yunnan province was subsequently studied by Shi Zhengli, an expert in SARS-like coronaviruses of bat origins at the Wuhan Institute of Virology.Shi, nicknamed “bat woman” for her expeditions in bat caves, described Covid-19 in a February 2020 paper, saying it was 96.2% similar to a coronavirus sample named RaTG13 obtained in Yunnan in 2013. The Sunday Times said RaTG13 is “almost certainly” the virus that was found in the abandoned mine.China’s ‘Bat Woman’ warns coronavirus is just tip of the icebergThe differences between the samples may still represent decades’ worth of evolutionary distance, according to dissenting scientists cited in the article. The Sunday Times said the Wuhan lab did not respond to its questions.In May, the director of the Wuhan Institute of Virology said there was no live copy of the RaTG13 virus in the lab, so it would have been impossible for it to leak. There is no evidence the lab was the source of the global outbreak that began in Wuhan. But U.S. President Donald Trump claimed in May he’d seen proof of the theory, contradicting intelligence services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-like-virus-was-sent-to-wuhan-in-2013-report/story-VkKCUGaU0EtM1WsUWuJF0N.html
05-07-2020||World||‘It’s scary’: Debates in America turn emotional as schools decide how and if to open||School districts across America are in the midst of making wrenching decisions over how to resume classes in settings radically altered by the coronavirus pandemic, with school buses running below capacity, virtual learning, outdoor classrooms and quarantine protocols for infected children the new norm.The plans for the upcoming school year are taking shape by the day, and vary district to district, state to state. The debates have been highly emotional, with tempers flaring among parents and administrators, and have been made all the more vexing by record numbers of Covid-19 cases being reported each day.In Florida, some school districts want students back in the classroom in early August, even though the virus is surging through communities. On average, Florida has reported more than 7,000 new cases each day recently — more than seven times what it was reporting a month ago.New Mexico, which has been largely spared major outbreaks, plans a hybrid model of virtual and in-person learning. Parents in New York have demanded schools reopen in the fall. And in Maine, more outdoor learning is planned. Districts nationwide are coming up with various rules for wearing masks. Some want all students to wear them. Others, such as Marion County, Indiana, plan to limit the requirement to older children.Each of these decisions is fraught, trying to balance health concerns with clawing back as much normalcy as possible. Parents, wrung out after months of juggling full-time work and full-time home schooling, are desperate for help. Children, isolated from their peers, are yearning for social interaction. And everyone, including teachers, is concerned about stepping into the unknown, with so much still uncertain about the virus.Districts are worried about being able to afford added supplies — including masks and more buses. And school officials said the resurgence of virus cases underway could shatter reopening plans before they’re even put in place.“If we see large outbreaks happening across communities, it’s going to be very hard to keep schools open,” said Dr. Ashish Jha, director of the Harvard Global Health Institute, on “Fox News Sunday.” “The good news is we think kids transmit less. They are certainly less likely to get sick, but ... imagine Arizona right now. If schools were open right now, they would not be able to stay open.”Aimee Rodriguez Webb, a special education teacher in Cobb County, Georgia, is wrestling with her own health concerns while waiting to hear her district’s plans. She also has a 3 year old.“I love being in the classroom. And this year I get my own classroom, so I was looking forward to decorating it and all that,” she said. “But then the flip side is ... I don’t know that I’m mentally ready to step into the unknown like that.”Schools around the U.S. shut down suddenly this year as coronavirus cases first began rising. That led to a hodgepodge of distance learning, on-the-fly homeschooling and, for some families, a lack of any school at all. Districts are now turning their focus to how to create more structured environments.But the debates have been filled with tension. Near Rochester, New York, parents rallied in favor of fully opening schools, holding signs outside an administration building June 29 saying: “No normal school? No school taxes!”Christina Higley, a parent in the Rochester suburb of Webster, said she started a Facebook group initially to demand answers and have a say in what school would look like, but the discussions there sparked a movement for reopening schools.“There’s a lot of parents that are saying, `Open our schools, let us have the decision if we feel comfortable sending the children in to them,’” said Higley, whose children just finished kindergarten, third and fifth grade.The decisions are even more complicated in districts where the case count is rising. In Manatee County, Florida, the working plan is for all elementary students to return to school full time on Aug. 10. Older students would rely on virtual learning while they are phased back into brick-and-mortar schools.But that proposal isn’t set in stone amid a surge in infections. The county recorded its highest number of new cases in a single day in late June.If a student tests positive for the virus in the new school year, classrooms or whole buildings would need to be disinfected, said Mike Barber, a district spokesman. Students and staff with confirmed infections wouldn’t be able to return until they had tested negative twice.Meanwhile, medical experts have expressed concerns for children’s development and mental health. The American Academy of Pediatrics said it “strongly advocates that all policy considerations for the coming school year should start with a goal of having students physically present in school.”In Cape Elizabeth, Maine, Shael Norris said she’s particularly concerned about children who could face abuse at home and parents who risk losing their jobs to care for their kids. Norris has two children set to attend high school in the fall and runs a nonprofit that combats sexual assault.“There are so many equally important risks, and we’re focused entirely on Covid-19,” she said. “But I get it. It’s scary.”Maine never saw a major outbreak, and it is now reporting, on average, a few dozen cases each day. Still, the state’s largest school district of Portland has left all the options on the table: a full reopening, a partial reopening or fully remote learning.The district sent a letter to parents that said it plans to use outdoor space when possible — a solution for only a few months a year, given Maine’s weather.In order to keep kids a safe distance apart on school buses, districts will need more vehicles — an especially thorny issue for rural districts, where students travel vast distances. New Mexico has issued guidelines that buses should be run at 50% capacity, according to Nancy Martira, a spokeswoman for the state Department of Education.Many districts plan to lean heavily on federal bailout money to pay for their extra transportation needs.It’s all adding up to an anxious start to the school year.“Nobody has really laid out a clear plan for how you’re going to keep kids safe, especially smaller kids who are not going to be able to social distance all day, and they’re going to touch things and take their mask off,” said Duncan Kirkwood, whose 9- and 11-year-old daughters attend the Charter School for Applied Technologies in Buffalo, New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-s-scary-debates-in-america-turn-emotional-as-schools-decide-how-and-if-to-open/story-h6EHMFtN8t692t1VxVOgmK.html
05-07-2020||World||Pink ice in Italy’s Alps sparks algae probe||Scientists in Italy are investigating the mysterious appearance of pink glacial ice in the Alps, caused by algae that accelerate the effects of climate change.There is debate about where the algae come from, but Biagio Di Mauro of Italy’s National Research Council said the pink snow observed on parts of the Presena glacier is likely caused by the same plant found in Greenland.“The alga is not dangerous, it is a natural phenomenon that occurs during the spring and summer periods in the middle latitudes but also at the Poles,” said Di Mauro, who had previously studied the algae at the Morteratsch glacier in Switzerland.The plant, known as Ancylonema nordenskioeldii, is present in Greenland’s so-called Dark Zone, where the ice is also melting.Normally ice reflects more than 80 percent of the sun’s radiation back into the atmosphere, but as algae appear, they darken the ice so that it absorbs the heat and melts more quickly.More algae appear as the ice melts more rapidly, giving them vital water and air and adding red hues to the white ice at the Passo Gavia, altitude 2,618 metres (8,590 feet).“Everything that darkens the snow causes it to melt because it accelerates the absorption of radiation,” said Di Mauro. “We are trying to quantify the effect of other phenomena besides the human one on the overheating of the Earth,” said Di Mauro, noting that the presence of hikers and ski lifts could also have an impact on the algae.Tourists at the glacier lament the impact of climate change.“Overheating of the planet is a problem, the last thing we needed was algae,” said tourist Marta Durante. “Unfortunately we are doing irreversible damage. We are already at the point of no return, I think.” Elisa Pongini from Florence said she felt the Earth was “giving us back everything we have done to it”. “2020 is a special year: terrible things have happened,” she said. “In my opinion, atmospheric phenomena are worsening. Climate change is increasingly evident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pink-ice-in-italy-s-alps-sparks-algae-probe/story-dzkDQKkjOV8J5q4vl6aiVP.html
05-07-2020||World||Iran registers 163 deaths due to Covid-19 in 24 hours||Iran has registered over 163 deaths due to coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours, taking the coronavirus related toll to 11,571 in the country, said Health Minister spokesperson Sima Sadat Lari on Sunday. The country has registered over 2,560 new cases of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours and the total count of positive cases has risen to 2,40,438, Sputnik reported. In Iran, 201,330 Covid-19 patients have recovered since the beginning of the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-registers-163-deaths-due-to-covid-19-in-24-hours/story-ehnJgR4QNI9RF9N0JOPsSI.html
05-07-2020||World||Pakistan stops work at first Hindu temple in Islamabad||The fate of Islamabad’s first Hindu temple seems to hang in the balance after its boundary wall was vandalised by a group of fundamentalists men over the weekend and the Capital Development Authority ordered stoppage of the constructionThe video of the temple being attacked went viral on Twitter and garnered a lot of criticism from people across the country. Following this the hashtag #MandirTauBanga has become one of the top trends on the social media platform.Prime Minister Imran Khan, who had earlier approved its construction and allocated money for it, has now asked that the matter of its construction with government funds, be referred to the Council of Islamic Ideology, a government approved body that advises on religious matters.Over the weekend, Islamabad’s Capital Development Authority also stopped construction of the boundary wall on the plot allotted to the temple. A team of the authority’s building control department visited the temple site and instructed workers to stop working on the boundary wall. According to CDA spokesperson Mazhar Hussain, the action was taken because a building plan had not been submitted to the authority. “Any construction taking place in Islamabad, residential or commercial, requires a building plan (map) to be approved.”Following this, Islamabad’s Hindu Panchayat has halted the construction and decided to visit the CDA office on Monday (July 6) to discuss the matter.“We had already submitted an application addressed to the authority regarding the boundary wall construction on June 19 but got no response from them,” Hindu Panchayat President Pritam Das told local media.“The application said that the boundary wall was being built to secure the possession of the plot,” he said, adding that it did not make sense for the authority to take this step.PTI Member of Parliament Lal Chand Malhi, on the other hand, said that a building plan for the temple has already been submitted to the Ministry of Religious Affairs, which has forwarded it to the Prime Minister’s Office.“The plan along with the request for a grant of Rs100 million has been sent to Prime Minister Imran Khan,” Malhi said, pointing out that the PM had initially approved the grant. After opposition from clerics, however, it was agreed that a decision will be taken after advice from the Council of Islamic Ideology.The religious affairs ministry in a press conference on Friday said that it only “releases funds for the renovation and rehabilitation of minority’s worship places”, not for construction.The Hindu Panchayat is constructing the temple from its own finances, the ministry’s spokesperson said, adding that the CII will, however, be consulted on the matter of funds.This, however, is not the only problem faced by the panchayat during the temple’s construction.In a tweet on Saturday, Malhi said the Hindu Panchayat has announced that it is discontinuing the temple’s construction, even if the CDA allows it, due to recent cases of violence and destruction of its site.“On June 23, we filed a request to the Islamabad district commissioner’s office for security to be provided after the temple site was vandalised,” Malhi said. “We, however, got no response from them, nor was any security provided,” he added.“We have been receiving threats and objections from “Muslim elites and clerics” in the capital ever since construction started. A number of fatwas were also issued. “They demand that a temple should not be built with the government’s money,” Das said.The Shri Krishna Mandir is the first of its type to be built in the capital, according to Das. It will be a worship place for over 3,000 Hindus living in Islamabad.“The temple will have a complex, community centre and a cremation ground inside it,” he said, adding that it will comprise 10 floors. The temple will also have a ground for celebrations of festivals such as Diwali and Holi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-stops-work-at-first-hindu-temple-in-islamabad/story-xZgQn4uSBouJIJYCp30xGL.html
05-07-2020||World||Naked men and drunks: England assesses reopening of pubs as social distancing norms ignored||It seems to have been more like a typical Saturday night than a drunken New Year’s Eve.The reopening of pubs in England does not seem to have overwhelmed emergency services as many had feared ahead of the biggest easing of Britain’s lockdown. But one senior police officer said Sunday it was “crystal clear” that drunk people struggled, or ignored, social distancing rules.For the most part, people appeared to abide by the rules and rejoiced at the chance Saturday to lift a pint in the company of their mates, but in some places large crowds raised concerns that the deadliest outbreak in Europe may find fresh legs.Chris Newell, a 33-year-old courier, traveled to trendy Shoreditch in east London to see friends.“As long as everyone’s keeping their distance, we’re going to have a few drinks and just enjoy it and try and get back to a bit of normality,” he said.Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the vast majority of people did “the right thing” and abided by social distancing rules to stay at least one meter (over 3 feet) apart from members of another household and use hand sanitizers.“It was really good to see people out and about and largely, very largely social distancing,” he said on Sky News.John Apter, chair of the Police Federation, who was on patrol in the southern England city of Southampton, said it was a “busy” shift, one that saw officers having to deal with naked men, “happy” drunks as well as “angry” drunks.He said the shift “managed to cope” but it was “crystal clear” that those who have imbibed one too many cannot, or won’t, socially distance.Pubs and restaurants worked hard to get ready for the moment, spacing tables, putting some staff behind plastic counters and registering customers upon arrival. The wearing of masks is optional though, even for staff.Rafal Liszewski, a store manager in the central London district of Soho, voiced concerns about the swelling crowds on Saturday.“Quickly everything got out of control and by 8-9 p.m. it was a proper street party with people dancing and drinking,” he said. “Barely anyone was wearing masks and nobody respected social distancing .... to be honest with that many people on one street it was physically impossible.”Some fear the British government is being overly hasty, even reckless, in sanctioning the changes. The U.K.’s confirmed virus death toll of 44,198 is the third-highest in the world, behind the United States and Brazil.Critics note that the reopening of bars and restaurants in the United States and South Korea has been blamed for a spike in new infectionsThe four nations of the U.K. — England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland — are moving at different speeds out of the coronavirus lockdown. The restrictions in England, with a population of around 56 million, or 85% or the U.K.’s, have been lifted the most, triggering concerns that Conservative Prime Minister Boris Johnson is being unduly influenced by a desire to kickstart Britain’s ailing economy.Johnson’s office at 10. Downing Street, among many other places across the U.K., was lit up blue overnight to celebrate the 72nd anniversary of the formation of the country’s beloved National Health Service, which gives free health care to residents.A number of events are planned Sunday to celebrate its birthday. People are being encouraged to clap at 5 p.m. to say “Thank you” to the hundreds of thousands of NHS staff who have worked selflessly throughout the coronavirus pandemic.After coming down with coronavirus himself, Johnson credited NHS workers with saving his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/naked-men-and-drunks-england-assesses-reopening-of-pubs-as-social-distancing-norms-ignored/story-XVGqT6aFOhLpcX0ccgz5cK.html
05-07-2020||World||2 dead, 8 hurt in nightclub shooting in South Carolina’s Greenville: Sheriff||A shooting at a South Carolina nightclub left two people dead and eight wounded, a sheriff’s official said.Two Greenville County sheriff’s deputies noticed a disturbance at Lavish Lounge just before 2 a.m., and saw a large crowd running out of the building, Sheriff Hobart Lewis said at a press conference. There was “active gunfire from inside the building,” Lt. Jimmy Bolt said in an initial statement, and Lewis said all the shots were fired inside.Both Lewis and Bolt initially said 12 people had been wounded — with at least four in critical condition, Lewis said — but Bolt later told WYFF-TV that the casualty figure had been revised. A phone call and text message to Lewis and an email to Bolt from The Associated Press seeking clarification weren’t immediately returned.No one was immediately taken into custody. The sheriff’s office had “some suspect information,” Lewis said at the press conference, but wasn’t sure if there were multiple shooters.“We don’t really have a person of interest that we can name,” Lewis said, later adding that authorities weren’t sure what led to the gunfire.The names and precise conditions of the victims weren’t immediately released. Lewis said the victims were taken to the Prisma Health hospital in Greenville, some via private vehicle.Prisma Health spokesperson Tammie Epps could not immediately comment when reached by telephone.Lewis said a “very large crowd” was at the nightclub for “some type of concert. A post on Lavish Lounge’s Facebook page advertised a July 4 performance by trap rapper Foogiano.An Instagram direct message from the AP wasn’t immediately returned, but a bookings representative told the AP via text message that Foogiano was fine and his team was safe.The nightclub is about 5 miles (8 kilometers) southwest of downtown Greenville, in South Carolina’s Upstate region.Coronavirus cases in South Carolina have risen swiftly and the state’s rate of positive tests is three times the recommended level. In late June, Greenville — which has experienced some of the state’s highest COVID-19 rates — became the first city to mandate face coverings in South Carolina, where Gov. Henry McMaster has refused to implement a statewide mask requirement.McMaster reminded South Carolinians last week that he hadn’t lifted restrictions on large crowds, and that those operating nightclubs illegally or holding concerts against his orders don’t have to be caught in the act to face criminal charges, but instead could be charged weeks later if COVID-19 cases are traced back.A phone call and an Instagram direct message from the AP to Lavish Lounge weren’t immediately returned, but the club posted on Facebook just before 6 a.m. that events “have been postponed until further notice.”Lewis said at the press conference that he didn’t know whether the club had sought an exemption to the governor’s order or secured a permit for Saturday night’s event, but said it was clear that the club’s patrons weren’t 6 feet (2 meters) apart.“It’s certainly not the best situation to stop the spread of this virus,” the sheriff said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-dead-8-hurt-in-nightclub-shooting-in-south-carolina-s-greenville-sheriff/story-TKmvhEoO6pIgCmrNJfAGVN.html
05-07-2020||World||Donald Trump blames China’s ‘secrecy, cover-up’ for spread of Covid-19||China must be held fully accountable for its “secrecy, deception and cover-up” that allowed it to spread the coronavirus all over the world, US President Donald Trump has said, upping the ante on Beijing over its handling of the Covid-19 outbreak. Addressing the nation for a second time in as many days on the occasion of 244th Independence Day on Saturday, President Trump touted the country’s “progress” against the Covid-19 disease despite a nationwide spike in the number of coronavirus cases. “We have the manufacturing record for ventilators. We have the most and the finest testing anywhere in the world. We are producing gowns, masks, and surgical equipment in our country…It was almost exclusively made in foreign lands, in particular, China, where ironically this virus and others came from,” he said in his address from the lawns of the White House. “China’s secrecy, deception, and cover-up allowed it to spread all over the world, 189 countries and China must be held fully accountable,” he said, once again accusing Beijing of covering up the outbreak of the pandemic. On Friday, Trump made a direct appeal to disaffected white voters four months before Election Day, accusing protesters who have pushed for racial justice of engaging in a “merciless campaign to wipe out our history.” Praising America’s “scientific brilliance”, Trump said on Saturday that the US will likely have a therapeutic and/or vaccine solution long before the end of the year. Trump has expressed disappointment over China’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the past. In May, he claimed that it was the “incompetence” of Beijing that led to the mass killing across the globe. China has denied US’ claim of “covering up” the extent of its coronavirus outbreak and has accused the US of attempting to divert public attention by insinuating that the virus originated from a virology laboratory in Wuhan. “China was the first country to report the Covid-19 to the World Health Organisation (WHO), (and) that doesn’t mean the virus originated from Wuhan... There has never been any concealment, and we’ll never allow any concealment,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in April. The novel coronavirus which first originated in Wuhan in December last year has claimed over 5 lakh lives and infected more than 11 million people globally. The US is the worst affected country with over 1.2 lakh deaths and over 2.8 million infections, according to Johns Hopkins University data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-blames-china-s-secrecy-cover-up-for-spread-of-covid-19/story-ifbYM0vQjBT6GQLvNekxUL.html
05-07-2020||World||Thousands rally at Black Lives Matter protests in Australia||Several thousand people rallied in Black Lives Matter protests across Australia over the weekend to call for racial equality and highlight deaths of Indigenous people while in police custody.About 500 people protested Sunday in Newcastle, north of Sydney, after the New South Wales state Supreme Court approved the rally following an attempt by police to have it banned.A rally in Sydney on Sunday began with a ceremony at which people mourned the Indigenous Australians who have died in police custody.There have been more than 400 Indigenous deaths in custody since a royal commission into the issue ended in 1991. No convictions have been recorded in any of the deaths.“We went through the lawful process, we sat through that process of the coronial inquiry, we listened to that process and we received no justice from that process,” Sydney rally organizer Paul Silva told SBS Television. “This is our process to demand justice.”On Saturday, Australians took part in Black Lives Matter rallies in the cities of Brisbane, Darwin, Perth and Adelaide. Many of the protesters work masks and attempted to maintain social distancing due to coronavirus concerns.Australia’s Indigenous people are the most disadvantaged ethnic minority in the country. They have higher-than-average rates of infant mortality and poor health, as well as shorter life expectancy and lower levels of education and employment than other Australians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-rally-at-black-lives-matter-protests-in-australia/story-qzBTKcVgXTol6b5V2pRcuM.html
05-07-2020||World||Japan floods leave up to 34 dead, many at nursing homes||Deep floodwaters and the risk of more mudslides that left at least 34 people confirmed or presumed dead hampered search and rescue operations Sunday in southern Japan, including at elderly home facilities where more than a dozen died and scores were still stranded.Helicopters and boats rescued more people from their homes in the Kumamoto region. More than 40,000 defense troops, the coast guard and fire brigades were taking part in the operation.Large areas along the Kuma River were swallowed by floodwaters, with many houses, buildings and vehicles submerged almost up to their roofs. Mudslides smashed into houses, sending people atop rooftops waving at rescuers.At a flooded elderly care home in Kuma Village, where 14 residents were presumed dead after rescuers reached them on Saturday, rescue continued Sunday for the dozens of remaining residents and caregivers.Sixty-five residents and about 30 caregivers were trapped at the riverside care facility Senjuen when floodwaters and mud gushed in. All remaining 51 residents, including three who had hypothermia, had been rescued by boats and taken to hospitals for treatment by Sunday afternoon, officials said.Overall, 18 people were confirmed dead, while 16 others, including those at the nursing home, were presumed dead. Fourteen others were still missing as of Sunday afternoon. Dozens of others were still trapped in inundated areas waiting to be rescued, according to the Fire and Disaster Management Agency.In Hitoyoshi City, the deluge poured into houses near the main train station. “The water rose to the second floor so fast and I just couldn’t stop shivering,” a 55-year-old woman who was visiting her relatives told the Asahi newspaper.She and her relatives ran upstairs, swam out of a window and eventually took refuge on the roof to wait for their rescue.As floods eased in parts of Kumamoto on Sunday, vending machines and cars lay scattered on mud-coated streets. Some people were cleaning their homes, taking out damaged furniture and rinsing off mud.More than 200,000 residents in Kumamoto prefecture were urged to evacuate following pounding rains on Friday evening and into Saturday. But the evacuation was not mandatory and many people opted to stay home because of concerns over catching the coronavirus, even though officials say shelters are adequately equipped with partitions and other safety measures.Flooding also cut off power and communication lines, further delaying the search and rescue. Nearly 6,000 homes in Kumamoto were still without electricity Sunday, according to the Kyushu Electric Power Co.The rainfall that exceeded 100 millimeters (4 inches) per hour has since subsided, but the Japan Meteorological Agency kept mudslide warnings in place across Kumamoto. Prefectural officials said evacuation advisories were still in place due to more rain predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-floods-leave-up-to-34-dead-many-at-nursing-homes/story-jjoBnslF26IfcooFUtUZmO.html
05-07-2020||World||US holiday fuels worries about skyrocketing coronavirus cases||The United States has dipped under 50,000 new daily infections for the first time in four days, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University, but experts fear celebrations for the July 4th weekend will act like rocket fuel for the nation’s surging coronavirus outbreak.Johns Hopkins on Sunday counted 45,300 new coronavirus infections reported Saturday in the U.S. after three days in which the daily count reached as high as 54,500 new cases. The lower figure does not mean the situation in the U.S. is improving, it could be due to reduced reporting on a national holiday.The United States has the most infections and virus-related deaths in the world, with 2.8 million cases and nearly 130,000 dead, according to the university. Experts say the true toll of the pandemic is significantly higher, due to people who died before they were tested and missed mild cases.Worldwide, nearly 11.3 million people have been infected and over 531,000 have died, with outbreaks surging in India, South Africa, Pakistan, Brazil and several other Latin American countries. In a first, South Africa on Sunday reported more than 10,000 new confirmed cases in a single day.To show just how steep the U.S. infection curve is, authorities were reporting under 20,000 new infections a day as recently as June 15. On Saturday, Florida and Texas reported more record daily increases in confirmed cases and virus-related deaths have begun to rise.Despite warnings by health experts to limit gatherings, President Donald Trump went ahead with a speech at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota on Friday and an evening of tribute and fireworks Saturday on the National Mall in Washington. Trump used the nation’s Independence Day as an occasion to assail those who do not support him and did not mention the horrific death toll from the pandemic.Pat Lee of Upper Dublin, Pennsylvania, and two friends, none in masks, gathered near the event in Washington.“POTUS said it would go away,” Lee said of the pandemic, using an acronym for president of the United States. “Masks, I think, are like a hoax.”In another worrying sign, the World Health Organization said member states reported more than 212,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 around the world on Saturday, the highest single-day increase since the start of the pandemic. The Geneva-based organization said more than 60% of the confirmed cases reports it received were in the Americas, which includes the United States and Brazil.Faced with rising infections, many US communities canceled parades and fireworks and cautioned people against hosting large gatherings.Texas, which reported a record daily increase of 8,258 confirmed coronavirus cases Saturday, is retreating from what had been one of the country’s swiftest reopenings. Much of the state began mandating face coverings Friday, with a $250 fine for scofflaws.In Florida, which reported 11,445 confirmed infections on Saturday, bars statewide are shut down and some regional attractions, such as Zoo Miami and Jungle Island, have closed. Officials in South Florida — including in Miami-Dade County and the Florida Keys — also closed beaches through the weekend.Other beaches remained open. At St. Pete Beach on the Gulf of Mexico, parking spaces were scarce and hundreds clustered under umbrellas and in cabanas on the sand. Keisha Pereira came to the beach from Osceola County — more than 100 miles (160 kilometers) inland — with her daughter and two other children.“We’re going to stay with each other,” she said. “I feel pretty safe outside.”The holiday weekend coincided with a big step back this week for California’s efforts to reopen the state’s economy. Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered a three-week closure of bars and many indoor establishments in counties where some 30 million people live.In several California regions, economic woes prompted campaigns to convince state residents to travel within its borders. But public health experts and mayors of popular beach towns Santa Cruz and Half Moon Bay pleaded with people to stay home for the holiday.Crista Luedtke said demand has been “bonkers” since reopening the 14-room Boon Hotel and Spa that she owns in the Sonoma County town of Guerneville. Guests must stay at least two nights and are assigned lounges near the pool.“Tourism is not dangerous,” Luedtke said. “I think people not following the rules is dangerous.”In Britain, pubs and barbers reopened Saturday for the first time in months. It did not overwhelm emergency services as many had feared, but one senior police officer said Sunday it was “crystal clear” that drunk people struggled, or ignored, social distancing rules.Rafal Liszewski, a store manager in central London, voiced concerns about the swelling crowds on Saturday.“Quickly everything got out of control and by 8-9 p.m. it was a proper street party with people dancing and drinking,” he said. “Barely anyone was wearing masks and nobody respected social distancing .... to be honest, with that many people on one street, it was physically impossible.”In Australia and northeast Spain, authorities ordered lockdowns for specific counties or communities to stomp out local outbreaks.In the Bolivian city of Cochabamba, the relatives of one apparent virus victim left his coffin in the street for hours to protest the difficulties in having him buried. Police Col. Iván Rojas said the demand “is collapsing the police personnel and funeral workers” in the city of 630,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-holiday-fuels-worries-about-skyrocketing-coronavirus-cases/story-3FU7eXSL32WAgOV7bbNhgO.html
05-07-2020||World||Rocket fired toward US Embassy in Iraq injures child||The Iraqi military said Sunday that a rocket aimed at Baghdad’s fortified Green Zone, home of the U.S. embassy, struck a residential house and injured a child.Iraqi officials said the embassy’s recently installed C-RAM air defense system may have attempted to intercept the rocket as the system was operational late Saturday. A recent spate of rocket attacks have struck close to the U.S. embassy and targeted American troops in Iraqi bases. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.The rocket was launched from the Ali Al-Saleh area of Baghdad and landed next to a house close to a local TV channel late Saturday, the military statement said. A child suffered head injuries and the house was damaged.Iraqi security forces say they also thwarted another attack in the Umm al-Azam area aiming to hit Camp Taji, north of Baghdad, a training base used by U.S.-led coalition forces.In March, two Americans and one British soldier were killed following a barrage of rockets on Camp Taji.The latest uptick in attacks comes shortly before Iraq embarks on strategic talks with the U.S. in which the presence of American forces in the country is expected to top the agenda.The U.S. has criticized the federal government for being unable to reign in Iran-backed militia groups it believes are orchestrating the attacks. Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi has pledged to protect American installations from attacks, U.S. officials said.Iraqi security forces last week raided the headquarters of the powerful Iran-backed paramilitary Kataib Hezbollah and detained 14 men suspected of being responsible for rocket attacks targeting the Green Zone. Thirteen detainees were later released and one remains in custody.The move drew praise from the U.S. but condemnation from Iran-backed political factions in Iraq.The U.S. embassy began testing the new air defense system late Saturday, the Iraqi officials said. It drew condemnation from Deputy Speaker of Parliament Hassan al-Kaabi, who called on the government to take action against the “illegal” move which would “provoke the Iraqi people,” according to a government statement.____Associated Press writer Qassim Abdul-Zahra in Baghdad contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rocket-fired-toward-us-embassy-in-iraq-injures-child/story-dGBUFnSyRrcLQ2JsG87D3I.html
05-07-2020||World||Hong Kong’s Covid-free streak may end as two test positive: Report||Hong Kong’s three-week stretch of no new local Covid-19 cases may have been broken after two people tested positive for the virus on Saturday, Radio Television Hong Kong reported, citing unidentified people.A 59-year-old man is in stable condition at Princess Margaret Hospital after testing positive for coronavirus, RTHK said. The results of a second check to confirm the infection have yet to be announced, according to the report. The last locally transmitted case in Hong Kong was reported June 12.The other new suspected locally transmitted case is a nurse who works at a clinic in Cheung Sha Wan, RTHK cited sources as saying.Visitor arrivals to Hong Kong fell 99.9% on year in May to 8,139 due to the border-control policies, according to data from the city’s Tourism Board.The financial hub of around 7.5 million people -- roughly the same population as New York City -- has been successful in keeping the coronavirus in check, with 1,259 cases as of July 4 and just seven related deaths. Most residents continue to wear protective masks in public, even as life slowly returns to normal.Hong Kong further relaxed social-distancing measures in mid-June, allowing public gatherings of up to 50 people. The city’s government is in talks with Guangdong provincial authorities for a plan to ease cross-border travel restrictions, including lifting the 14-day mandatory quarantine for qualified people.The neighboring city of Macau is also easing social restrictions. The special administration region of China will permit 3,000 applications for exemption from mandatory quarantine every day from July 6 for people entering the mainland through its border with Zhuhai for business purposes or special needs.Under the new rules, Macau residents with the exemption will be allowed to visit nine cities in China’s Greater Bay Area, including Guangzhou and Shenzhen, according to a Zhuhai government statement Sunday. At present, the only Chinese city they are permitted to travel to is Zhuhai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-s-covid-free-streak-may-end-as-two-test-positive-report/story-vVAwshQ5W3zxq810QdH2OJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Man in famous 9/11 photo dies from Covid-19 in Florida||A man photographed fleeing smoke and debris as the south tower of the World Trade Center crumbled just a block away on Sept. 11, 2001, has died from coronavirus, his family said.The Palm Beach Post reported that Stephen Cooper, an electrical engineer from New York who lived part-time in the Delray Beach, Florida area, died March 28 at Delray Medical Center due to COVID-19. He was 78.The photo, captured by an Associated Press photographer, was published in newspapers and magazines around the world and is featured at the 9/11 Memorial Museum in New York.“He didn’t even know the photograph was taken,” said Janet Rashes, Cooper’s partner for 33 years. “All of a sudden, he’s looking in Time magazine one day and he sees himself and says, ‘Oh my God. That’s me.’ He was amazed. Couldn’t believe it.”Rashes said Cooper was delivering documents near the World Trade Center, unaware of exactly what had happened that morning, when he heard a police officer yell, “You have to run.”The photo shows Cooper, who was 60 at the time, with a manila envelope tucked under his left arm. He and several other men were in a desperate sprint as a wall of debris from the collapsing tower looms behind them.Cooper ducked to safety into a nearby subway station.“Every year on 9/11, he would go looking for the magazine and say, ’Look, it’s here again,” said Jessica Rashes, Cooper’s 27-year-old daughter. “He would bring it to family barbecues, parties, anywhere he could show it off.”Susan Gould, a longtime friend, said Cooper was proud of the photo, purchasing multiple copies of Time and handing them out “like a calling card.” She said Cooper shrank a copy of the photo, laminated it, and kept it in his wallet.“Stephen was a character,” Gould said.Suzanne Plunkett, the Associated Press photographer who snapped the shot, wrote that she’s been in touch with two of the people in the photo, but Cooper was not among them.“It is a shame I was never aware of the identity of Mr. Cooper,” Plunkett wrote after his death in an email to The Palm Beach Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-in-famous-9-11-photo-dies-from-covid-19-in-florida/story-Wrsy5XIeuzF1WTt79YqpAN.html
05-07-2020||World||US dips under 50,000 new coronavirus cases||The United States has dipped under 50,000 new coronavirus cases for the first time in four days, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University, but experts fear celebrations for the July 4th Independence Day weekend will act like rocket fuel for the nation’s surging outbreak.Johns Hopkins counted 45,300 new coronavirus infections in the US on Saturday after three days in which the daily count reached as high as 54,500 new cases.The lower figure on Saturday does not necessarily mean the situation in the US is improving, as it could be due to reduced reporting on a national holiday.The United States has the most infections and virus-related deaths in the world, with 2.8 million cases and nearly 130,000 dead, according to the university.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageExperts say the true toll of the pandemic is significantly higher, due to people who died before they were tested and missed mild cases.To show just how steep the current infection curve is in the US, the country was reporting under 20,000 new infections a day as recently as June 15.Despite warnings by health experts to limit gatherings, President Donald Trump went ahead with a speech at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota on Friday and an evening of tribute and fireworks Saturday on the National Mall in Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-dips-under-50-000-new-coronavirus-cases/story-1Ick3M8v9fI3RpkUtEansL.html
05-07-2020||World||Mercedes to recall 660,000 vehicles in China for oil leak||Mercedes-Benz will recall more than 660,000 vehicles in China later this year for a possible oil leak.A seal between a high-pressure fuel pump and a low-pressure fuel pipe could weaken over time, allowing oil to leak when the engine starts in cold weather, according to a notice published last week on the website of China’s State Administration for Market Regulation.China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported the recall Sunday.The recall of 668,954 vehicles will begin on Dec. 18. It includes several models made between February 2013 and June 2017, including C-class, E-class, V-class, GLK-class, CLS-class, SLC-class, GLC SUV and VS20 VITO vehicles.Most of the vehicles were made in China by Beijing Benz Automotive Co. About 12,500 were built by Fujian Benz Automotive Co., and around 36,000 were imported.Dealers will replace faulty parts free of charge.The announcement follows another recall that began last month of 4,653 imported Mercedes G-class sedans that had incorrect child-safety lock labels, Xinhua said.Those vehicles were manufactured between Feb. 14, 2018, and Sept. 24, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mercedes-to-recall-660-000-vehicles-in-china-for-oil-leak/story-b1ZiymVIhq3woVYI0iF4NM.html
05-07-2020||World||In China vs US, Pakistan has taken a side. It serves the army||Ever since the world started pointing fingers at Beijing for the spread of coronavirus, Pakistan has gone out of its way to express solidarity with China. Even to the extent of refusing to let its 1,000-odd students stranded in Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, return to Islamabad in February. It is no secret that Beijing had been soliciting support from all its friends, or clients, as some analysts describe the relationship between China and Pakistan. Islamabad, indebted to China for more than one reason, had gone a step further. China was being panned by countries across the world, particularly the United States, over what was widely-perceived to be Beijing’s gross negligence, which led to the spread of the disease that has infected 11 million people across the world and killed nearly 530,000.In the cacophony that followed as countries took sides, Pakistan was understandably the loudest voice in support of China despite some uneasiness in foreign policy circles of Islamabad.Before the world was able to visualise the impact of the pandemic, Pakistan was in a comfortable position on the foreign policy front, particularly the China-US matrix. It was effectively leveraging its influence over the Taliban to extract concessions from the US in the global terror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force. Washington was soft pedalling on Pakistan’s failure to comply with the FATF Action Plan and had allowed it extra time at the Paris Plenary in February. The reprieve, by any standards, was a fair indicator of the Pakistan Foreign Office’s successful handling of a tricky situation.Much of this effort by Pakistani diplomats to navigate the sensitivities in Washington appeared to come undone as the Pakistani establishment rushed to comply with signals from Beijing that wanted Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government to continue to back them up. The worldly-wise officials at the Foreign Office and, some at the Prime Minister’s Office, were the first ones to spot the change in Washington’s approach. The officials, including the US-educated Special Advisor on National Security Moeed Yusuf and British-educated Zulfi Bukhari, realised the impossibility of balancing relations with Washington and Beijing in the face of the establishment’s inflexible and decades-old mindset characterised by suspiciousness of the West.Also Watch l Trump slams China for Covid-19; vows to defeat ‘radical left’ The Pakistan military’s tunnel vision and stranglehold over key foreign policy aspects have prevented the country from benefiting from the available expertise at home and evolving a pragmatic and non-confrontational foreign policy. At a time when world opinion is sharply against Beijing, Pakistan has chosen to be the devil’s advocate.Like when Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi put out a statement on his phone conversation with Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, the foreign ministry had to make a pointed reference to underline Pakistan’s commitment to the “One-China policy” and express support to China on its “core interests including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang”.In Pakistan, the army has been in a pivotal position irrespective of the regime in power. It also, maybe, doesn’t have anything to lose if Pakistan is again clubbed with the likes of North Korea. In fact, it has been argued by its critics that the army’s clout over politics and civilian life tends to proportionately increase with Pakistan’s marginalisation, as does the access to material riches for its leadership.The army was the biggest beneficiary of the billions that the United States poured into Pakistan in the name of support for the war on terror.When that well seemed to be drying up, it found a willing donor in Beijing for whom the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor became a flagship project for its ambitious Belt and Road Initiative. It could also lead Pakistan into a debt trap.Thousands of Pakistanis paid with their lives for the establishment’s shortsighted strategy of arming and nurturing terrorists and turning terror into an instrument of foreign policy.What woes the new strategy of trying to milk China and the CPEC will bring to the Pakistanis, only time will tell. The more erudite officials of the Foreign Office can visualise the implications for Pakistan, such as the heightened possibility of graduating to the FATF blacklist if it does not deliver on its action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-china-vs-us-pakistan-has-taken-a-side-it-serves-the-army/story-jXuXxFjSF1vr8naQtQPHDN.html
05-07-2020||World||Robots use UV rays to kill virus that causes Covid-19: All you need to know||The world is racing towards finding a cure for the coronavirus disease, which has ravaged through the world infecting millions. In just seven months, the disease it causes has affected all but a handful of countries.But before a vaccine is ready, many tech experts have pooled their resources and knowledge together to find solutions to at least destroy the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19.Prominent among them is Amazon which launched a robot which claims to eliminate the virus using ultaviolet rays. The robot was unveiled in May this year across retail businesses, airports and hospitals to which require frequent cleaning.So how does this robot work?The machine looks like a hotel luggage cart with wheels attached to it. It is fitted with nearly 10 ultraviolet tubelights which target and disinfect the aisles and other places frequently touched by people.The robot rolls down the aisles and areas of other buildings to ensure no corner is left untouched.In a blog post, Amazon said that the fleet of robots perform more than 8,000 hours of cleaning every day.Is Amazon the only one to come up with this solution?No. Tech sites across the world have covered other such notable investions which are helping in checking the spread of the coronavirus disease.A US-based company has built the LightStrike robot to disinfect large areas using UV light. The company claims that its machine can get rid of active coronavirus within two minutes.The robot is not on sale, but the company is offering it on rent to various companies.LighStrike uses a xenon lamp built by the company to fire intense light rays at exposed surfaces. It claims that these light waves within a spectrum can kill viruses and bacteria.UV light and Covid-19Many companies and institutes around the world have researched on ultraviolet (UV) light and its impact on Covid-19. According to Health Europa, the leading health website in the European Union, UV rays are used as a form of disinfectant and has a range of 200 to 300 nanometres.Though it warns of high cost involved in using high-poweredd UV rays to kill Sars-CoV-2 virus, the website lists some of the recent research where transparent conductors are used, thereby bringing the cost down considerably.The World Health organisation (WHO) has, meanwhile, warned people to not use UV rays to disinfect hands or other areas of your skin. Theese rays can cause skin irritation and can even damage people’s eyes. So, according to WHO, cleaning your hands with alcohol-based hand rub or washing your hands with soap and water are the most effective ways to remove the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/robots-use-uv-rays-to-kill-virus-that-causes-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know/story-NSJJE3PXwTvq1QqscQGE7L.html
05-07-2020||World||Israel, Palestinians face new restrictions amid coronavirus surge||Israel ordered thousands of people into quarantine after a contentious phone surveillance program resumed as Palestinians in the West Bank returned to life under lockdown after both areas saw surges in coronavirus cases.A statement Sunday from Israel’s Health Ministry said “many” messages had been sent to Israelis following the renewed involvement of the Shin Bet domestic security agency. The Israeli daily Haaretz reported that more than 30,000 people were notified they must enter quarantine since Thursday.After imposing strict measures early on during a first wave of infections, Israel and the Palestinian territories appeared to have contained their outbreaks, with each reporting only a few dozen new cases a day in May. But an easing of restrictions led to a steady uptick in cases over the past month.“We wanted to continue and open the economy as much as possible but with the amount of infections, which appeared like a very high cliff, it forced us at this point to get involved more aggressively,” Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz told Israeli Army Radio.Israel is now reporting more than 1,000 new cases a day, higher than its peak during the previous wave and it is set to reimpose restrictions in response, limiting occupancy in bars, places of worship and event spaces to 50 people. It is requiring citizens wear masks and has urged more stringent social distancing.With its contact tracing apparatus struggling to keep up with the mounting caseload, Israel last week redeployed the Shin Bet to use its sophisticated phone surveillance technology to track Israelis who have come in contact with infected people and then notify them that they must enter home quarantine. The measure is typically used to thwart attacks by tracking Palestinian militants.The contentious tactic was used when the outbreak first emerged earlier this year, and while civil rights groups challenged it in the country’s Supreme Court, the court threatened to halt its use unless it was put under legislative oversight. The Israeli Knesset has since done so twice using temporary legislation, most recently on Wednesday.While officials have defended the practice as a life-saving measure, civil rights groups attacked it as an assault on privacy rights. Analysts say the measure may act as a dragnet that could needlessly force some into quarantine.Israeli media reported that of the thousands ordered into home quarantine, many Israelis complained that they struggled to appeal quarantine orders because the Health Ministry’s hotline was overwhelmed and ill-equipped to handle such a deluge.Israel appeared to have put the pandemic behind it in May, with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu proudly urging Israelis to go out, grab a coffee or a beer and “have fun.” Critics have charged that amid the dwindling cases, Israel let down its guard, reopened too quickly and failed to capitalize on its gained time to improve its contact tracing capabilities to contend with a second wave.Netanyahu, who was largely seen as having capably handled the first wave, has suffered in public opinion polls from his approach this time around.Since the start of the outbreak, Israel has seen more than 29,000 cases and 330 deaths. More than 17,000 people have recovered.In the West Bank, residents have been ordered since Friday to remain at home unless they need to purchase food or medicine. Movement between cities and towns is heavily restricted. The lock down is expected to last five days.Palestinian authorities fear that if the outbreak spirals out of control it could overwhelm its under-resourced health care system.In the past two weeks, Palestinian health authorities have reported more than 1,700 confirmed coronavirus cases in the West Bank city of Hebron and hundreds more in Bethlehem and Nablus.The West Bank has reported more than 3,700 cases since the outbreak began. More than 400 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-palestinians-face-new-restrictions-amid-coronavirus-surge/story-GLORdnOJgUscaGmfxH97aM.html
05-07-2020||World||Crunch, crunch: Africa’s locust outbreak is far from over||The crunch of young locusts comes with nearly every step. The worst outbreak of the voracious insects in Kenya in 70 years is far from over, and their newest generation is now finding its wings for proper flight.The livelihoods of millions of already vulnerable people in East Africa are at stake, and people like Boris Polo are working to limit the damage. The logistician with a helicopter firm is on contract with the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization, helping to find and mark locust swarms for the targeted pesticide spraying that has been called the only effective control.“It sounds grim because there’s no way you’re gonna kill all of them because the areas are so vast,” he told The Associated Press from the field in northwestern Kenya on Thursday. “But the key of the project is to minimize” the damage, and the work is definitely having an effect, he said.For months, a large part of East Africa has been caught in a cycle with no end in sight as millions of locusts became billions, nibbling away the leaves of both crops and the brush that sustains the livestock so important to many families.“The risk of significant impact to both crops and rangelands is very high,” the regional IGAD Climate Prediction & Applications Center said Wednesday in a statement.For now, the young yellow locusts cover the ground and tree trunks like a twitching carpet, sometimes drifting over the dust like giant grains of sand.In the past week and a half, Polo said, the locusts have transformed from hoppers to more mature flying swarms that in the next couple of weeks will take to long-distance flight, creating the vast swarms that can largely blot out the horizon. A single swarm can be the size of a large city.Once airborne, the locusts will be harder to contain, flying up to 200 kilometers (124 miles) a day.“They follow prevailing winds,” Polo said. “So they’ll start entering Sudan, Ethiopia and eventually come around toward Somalia.” By then, the winds will have shifted and whatever swarms are left will come back into Kenya.“By February, March of next year they’ll be laying eggs in Kenya again,” he said. The next generation could be up to 20 times the size of the previous one.The trouble is, only Kenya and Ethiopia are doing the pesticide control work. “In places like Sudan, South Sudan, especially Somalia, there’s no way, people can’t go there because of the issues those countries are having,” Polo said.“The limited financial capacity of some of the affected countries and the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic have further hampered control efforts. Additionally, armed conflict in Somalia rendered some of the locust breeding areas inaccessible,” ICPAC expert Abubakr Salih Babiker and colleagues wrote in correspondence published in the journal Nature Climate Change this month.Since “more extreme climate variability could increase the likelihood of pest outbreaks and spread,” they called for a better early warning system for the region and urged developing countries to help.The World Bank earlier this year announced a $500 million program for countries affected by the historic desert locust swarms, while the FAO has sought more than $300 million.The pesticide spraying in Kenya “has definitely borne fruit,” said Kenneth Mwangi, a satellite information analyst with ICPAC. There’s been a sharp decline from the first wave of locusts, and a few counties that had seen “huge and multiple swarms” now report little to none. Areas experiencing the second wave are notably the farthest from control centers, he said.It’s been more challenging in Ethiopia, where despite the spraying, new locust swarms arrived from Somalia and parts of northern Kenya. “Unfortunately both waves have found crops in the field,” Mwangi said.But without the control work, Polo said, the already dramatic swarms would be even more massive.He and colleagues target the locusts in the early mornings before they leave their roosting spots and start flying in the heat of the day. The work has gone on since March.“These plagues are part of nature,” Polo said. “They actually rejuvenate the areas. They don’t kill the plants, they eat the leaves. Everything grows back.“They don’t harm the natural world, they harm what humans need in the natural world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crunch-crunch-africa-s-locust-outbreak-is-far-from-over/story-qHT3o14svbxzcNUTT14a3L.html
05-07-2020||World||UK PM Johnson to phase out Huawei’s 5G role within months: Report||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to begin phasing out the use of Chinese tech giant Huawei’s technology in Britain’s 5G network as soon as this year, The Daily Telegraph reported on Saturday. Officials are drawing up proposals to stop installing new Huawei Technologies equipment in the 5G network in as little as six months, and to speed up the removal of technology that is already in place, the newspaper reported.The move comes after the nation’s spy agency GCHQ raised new security fears over Chinese technology. A report prepared by GCHQ’s National Cyber Security Centre concludes that new US sanctions on Huawei will force the company to use untrusted technology that could make the risk impossible to control, the newspaper said. The sanctions have had a “severe” impact on the firm that significantly changes GCHQ’s calculations, the report said. The report is expected to be presented to Johnson this week. Johnson’s spokesman said earlier this week that officials will soon complete a review of the implications of the latest U.S. sanctions, which are aimed at cutting off Huawei’s access to US chipmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-to-phase-out-huawei-s-5g-role-within-months-report/story-qNmVBS3Xd9o6RYz9OohHYL.html
05-07-2020||World||Croatia votes in close parliamentary race as coronavirus spikes||Amid a spike of new coronavirus cases, voters in Croatia cast ballots on Sunday in what is expected be a close parliamentary race that could push the latest European Union member state further to the right.The ballot is expected to produce no clear winner as neither the ruling conservatives nor their main liberal opponents appeared set to win a majority in the 151-member parliament.This means that a newcomer right-wing party led by a popular folk singer could play a key role in the future government. Miroslav Skoro’s Homeland Movement has polled third despite public outrage over some of his staunchly hard-line and nationalist views.Skoro’s party is believed to have chipped away votes from the ruling Croatian Democratic Union, a conservative party that has dominated the political scene in Croatia since the independence in 1991.The HDZ is bidding for reelection while faced with a renewed surge in virus cases that followed reopening of the country’s borders and easing of lockdown rules. Croatia is struggling to salvage its main source of revenue — tourism along the Adriatic Sea coast.A country of 4.2 million people, Croatia has kept the outbreak largely under control, reporting around 113 deaths and some 3,100 confirmed infections. But Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic was criticized over an outbreak at a tennis tournament organized by top-ranked Novak Djokovic in the coastal town of Zadar.Plenkovic’s main opponents are Restart coalition led by the center-left Social Democratic Party, the main liberal group. They say the government is plagued by corruption and voters should choose a new beginning if they want the country to move forward.Restart could also ally with a new green-left alliance further on the left, if they gain enough seats. The group led by Mozemo, or We Can, party is strong mostly in the capital Zagreb but not so much in other parts of Croatia.Some 3.8 million people are eligible to vote but analysts say virus fears could keep many at home. Voters have been advised to take own temperature and stay away if they have a fever. Those who vote should bring their own pen and wear a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/croatia-votes-in-close-parliamentary-race-as-coronavirus-spikes/story-KxWIDl7C2vFg2bOTUPw6rI.html
05-07-2020||World||China braces for more storms; 121 dead or missing this year||A wide swath of southern China braced Sunday for more seasonal rains and flooding that state media said has already left more than 120 people dead or missing this year.The National Meteorological Center raised the weather alert to yellow Sunday morning, the third highest of four warning levels, for more than half a dozen provinces and the cities of Shanghai and Chongqing. Heavy to torrential rains were forecast into Monday afternoon.Footage on state broadcaster CCTV showed flooded streets and farmland in Anhui province. To the south in Jiangxi province, more than 8,000 people have been evacuated and 54 houses collapsed after rainstorms in recent days, the network said.Nationwide, flooding-related disasters have destroyed 17,000 homes, caused 41.6 billion yuan ($5.9 billion) in economic losses and left 121 people dead or missing so far this year, the official People’s Daily newspaper said in a social media post, citing the Ministry of Emergency Management.The National Meteorological Center said some parts of Anhui, Hubei, Hunan and Zhejiang provinces could see 100 to 230 mm (4 to 9 inches) of rain. It also issued a yellow alert for rain in two northeastern provinces, Heilongjiang and Jilin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-braces-for-more-storms-121-dead-or-missing-this-year/story-sElBOgV354UwePPqVOwipN.html
05-07-2020||World||Qureshi moved to Rawalpindi for Covid-19 treatment, China wishes him speedy recovery||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi was admitted to Combined Military Hospital in Rawalpindi for further treatment for coronavirus infection, Geo News reported on Saturday, citing sources.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian has wished him a speedy recovery from the illness.“Please stay safe. I wish you a quick recovery,” he tweeted tagging Qureshi’s post.A day earlier, Qureshi announced he tested positive for Covid-19 and had gone into isolation. “This afternoon I felt a slight fever and immediately quarantined myself at home. I have now tested positive for Covid-19,” he said in a tweet.“By the grace of Allah, I feel strong and energetic. I will continue to carry on my duties from home. Please keep me in your prayers,” the foreign minister added.Qureshi has joined a long list of lawmakers who have contracted the virus.As per media reports, Muttahida Qaumi Movement Pakistan (MQM-P) leader and Federal Minister for Information Technology and Telecommunications Syed Aminul Haq had tested positive for the coronavirus, almost two weeks ago. PML-N spokesperson Marriyum Aurangzeb said she had also contracted the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/qureshi-moved-to-rawalpindi-for-covid-19-treatment-china-wishes-him-speedy-recovery/story-sakTKSs3kDSbUtpS4mwoNP.html
05-07-2020||World||Woman dies after she was hit by car on highway amid protest||A 24-year-old woman died Saturday of her injuries after she and another woman were hit by a car on a closed highway in Seattle while protesting against police brutality, authorities said.Summer Taylor of Seattle died in the evening at Harborview Medical Center, spokeswoman Susan Gregg said.Taylor and Diaz Love, 32, of Portland, Oregon, were hit by the car that barreled through a panicked crowd of protesters on Interstate 5 early Saturday morning, officials said.Dawit Kelete of Seattle drove the car around vehicles that were blocking I-5 and sped into the crowd about 1:40 a.m., according to a police report released by the Washington State Patrol. Video taken at the scene by protesters showed people shouting “Car! Car!” before fleeing the roadway.Love is in serious condition in the intensive care unit, Harborview, Gregg said.Love was filming the protest in a nearly two-hour-long Facebook livestream captioned “Black Femme March takes I-5” when the video ended abruptly; with about 15 seconds left, shouts of “Car!” can be heard as the camera starts to shake before screeching tires and the sound of impact are heard.A graphic video posted on social media showed the white Jaguar racing toward a group of protesters who are standing behind several parked cars, set up for protection. The car swerves around the other vehicles and slams into the two women, sending them flying into the air.The driver, who was alone, fled the scene after hitting the protesters, Trooper Chase Van Cleave told The Associated Press. One of the protesters got in a car and chased the driver for about a mile. He was able to stop him by pulling his car in front of the Jaguar, Van Cleave said.Troopers arrived, and the driver was put in custody, Washington State Patrol Capt. Ron Mead said.Kelete was described by offices as reserved and sullen when he was arrested, according to court documents. He also asked if the pedestrians were OK, the documents say.Kelete was booked into the King County Correctional Facility on Saturday morning on two counts of vehicular assault. Bail was denied.A judge found probable cause to hold Kelete on an investigation of vehicular assault. He faces a second court hearing on Monday at which the judge will determine if he can be released on bail, according to court documents.It was not immediately clear if Kelete had an attorney who could speak on his behalf.Officials were trying to determine the motive as well as where he got onto the interstate, which had been closed by the state patrol for more than an hour before the women were hit. Mead said they suspect Kelete drove the wrong way on a ramp. Trooper Rick Johnson said the driver went through a barrier that closed the freeway before striking the women.Troopers did not know whether it was a targeted attack, but impairment was not considered a factor, Mead said.Kelete has a Seattle address. He is listed in public records as a student who attended Washington State University between 2011 and 2017 majoring in business and commerce. His enrollment status could not be confirmed because the university was closed Saturday.The Washington State Patrol said Sunday evening that going forward it won’t allow protesters to enter I-5 and would arrest pedestrians on the freeway.Seattle has been the site of prolonged unrest following the May 25 police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis, which sparked nationwide protests. Dozens of people were arrested this past week in connection with protests as demonstrations continue after authorities cleared the “Capitol Hill Occupied Protest” zone Wednesday morning.Protesters had shut down the interstate for 19 days in a row, Mead said at a press conference.The State Patrol responded by closing sections of the interstate to keep drivers and protesters safe.“In a time that requires care and flexibility, we are exercising the safest means possible to avoid injuries or worse to motorists, protesters, WSDOT personnel and our troopers by closing the roadway and separating protesters from vehicular traffic,” Chief John Batiste said in a statement on June 27, responding to complaints about the road closures.Mead emphasized that the freeway is “simply not a safe place” for pedestrians, and said he hoped protesters would cease what he termed “unlawful behavior” in blocking the interstate.“My hope is, as a result of this tragedy, protesters will reconsider their desire to be on the interstate because I cannot guarantee their safety, plain and simple,” Mead said.Seattle Mayor Jenny Durkan said the city stands beside the friends and family of the victims.“No one should risk their life for demanding better from our city, state and country,” Durkan said on Twitter.Protesters were on the freeway for more than an hour before the car drove around the blockade around 1:36 a.m., Mead said.The state patrol tweeted out two pictures of the driver’s car with significant damage to its bumper and windshield.Seattle police tweeted that they were assisting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/woman-dies-after-she-was-hit-by-car-on-highway-amid-protest/story-4weWFJUflrC9pfbp9INz6L.html
05-07-2020||World||‘Don’t see no white militia’: Armed protesters march through Confederate memorial in Georgia||A predominantly Black group of heavily armed protesters marched through Stone Mountain Park near Atlanta on Saturday, calling for removal of the giant Confederate rock carving at the site that civil rights activists consider a monument to racism.Video footage of the Independence Day rally posted on social media showed scores of demonstrators dressed in black - many in paramilitary-style clothing and all wearing face scarves - quietly parading several abreast down a sidewalk at the park.In Stone Mountain, Georgia earlier today pic.twitter.com/F2Autd4YtIThe protesters all carried rifles, including military-type weapons, and some wore ammunition belts slung over their shoulders. Although African Americans appeared to account for the bulk of the marchers, protesters of various races, men and women alike, were among the group.One video clip showed a leader of the demonstrators, who was not identified, shouting into a loudspeaker in a challenge to white supremacists who historically have used Stone Mountain as a rallying spot of their own.“I don’t see no white militia,” he declared. “We’re here. Where ... you at? We’re in your house. Let’s go.”John Bankhead, a spokesman for the Stone Mountain Memorial Association, said the protesters were peaceful and orderly.“It’s a public park, a state park. We have these protests on both sides of the issue from time to time. We respect people’s First Amendment right,” Bankhead told NBC affiliate station WXIA-TV.“We understand the sensitivities of the issue here at the park ... so we respect that and allow them to come in as long as it’s peaceful, which it has been.”Stone Mountain, which reopened for the holiday weekend following a weeks-long closure over the coronavirus, has faced renewed calls for its removal since the May 25 death of George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, at the hands of Minneapolis police.Floyd’s killing helped revive a long-simmering conflict between groups seeking to do away with Confederate statues and sculptures, which they see as pro-slavery symbols, and those who believe they honor the traditions and history of the Deep South.Nine stories high and spanning the length of a football field, the bas-relief Stone Mountain sculpture carved into a granite wall overlooking the Georgia countryside some 25 miles (40 km) east of Atlanta remains the largest such monument to America’s Civil War Confederacy.It features the likenesses of Jefferson Davis, who was president of the 11-state Confederacy, and two of his legendary generals, Robert E. Lee and Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson. (Reporting by Steve Gorman in Eureka, California; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/don-t-see-no-white-militia-armed-protesters-march-through-confederate-memorial-in-georgia/story-ah0NlUIYSSgTDsyBOjHXpM.html
05-07-2020||World||China says Beijing’s coronavirus outbreak wanes||Chinese officials have reported eight new confirmed Covid-19 cases as a recent outbreak in Beijing appears to have largely run its course.China’s capital had two new cases, the seventh straight day of single-digit increase. Authorities have confirmed 334 infections during the city’s outbreak, which was detected about three weeks ago and is the largest in the country since March. No deaths have been reported.Beijing government spokesperson Xu Hejian said at a news conference Saturday that the situation “keeps improving and is completely controllable.” The six cases outside Beijing were people arriving from abroad. Three were in Gansu province in the country’s northwest.China has reported 83,553 confirmed cases and 4,634 deaths since the pandemic began. Its case count does not include people who test positive for the coronavirus but show no symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-beijing-s-coronavirus-outbreak-wanes/story-Mkra7yjNsWxA5BPQFSA2DP.html
05-07-2020||World||Japan floods leave some 20 dead, many in nursing homes||Deep floodwaters and the risk of more mudslides that left about 20 people confirmed or presumed dead hampered search and rescue operations on Sunday in southern Japan, including at elderly home facilities where more than a dozen perished and scores are still stranded. Rescue helicopters plucked more people from their homes in the Kumamoto region. Up to 10,000 defense troops, the coast guard and fire brigades are taking part in the operation. Large areas along the Kuma River were swallowed by floodwaters with many houses, buildings and vehicles submerged almost up to their roofs. Mudslides smashed into houses, sending people atop rooftops waiving at rescuers. At a flooded elderly care home in Kuma Village, 14 residents were presumed dead after rescuers reached them on Saturday, officials said. Three others had hypothermia. The rescue continued Sunday for dozens of other residents and caregivers who were still at the riverside care facility Senjuen, where about 60 people were trapped when floodwaters and mud gushed in, officials said. In Hitoyoshi City, the deluge poured into houses near the main train station. “The water rose to the second floor so fast and I just couldn’t stop shivering,” a 55-year-old woman who was visiting her relatives told the Asahi newspaper. She and her relatives ran upstairs, swam out of the window and eventually took refuge on the roof to wait for their rescue. More than 75,000 residents in the prefectures of Kumamoto and Kagoshima were urged to evacuate following pounding rains on Friday evening and into Saturday. The evacuation was not mandatory and many people opted to stay home because of concerns over catching the coronavirus, even though officials say shelters are adequately equipped with partitions and other safety measures. Flooding also cut off power and communication lines, further delaying the search and rescue. Nearly 6,000 homes in Kumamoto were still without electricity Sunday, according to the Kyushu Electric Power Co. The rainfall that exceeded 100 millimeters (4 inches) per hour has since subsided but the Japan Meteorological Agency has kept mudslide warnings in place across Kumamoto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-floods-leave-some-20-dead-many-in-nursing-homes/story-SjDLZGtkB9sL7Sm9oJ887L.html
05-07-2020||World||Modern day humans inherited DNA linked to Covid-19 from Neandarthals, claims study||A new study has claimed that genes linked to the coronavirus disease were passed on to humans by the Neandarthals who existed 60,000 years ago.The study has been carried out by a pair of Swedish geneticists Svante Paabo and Hugo Zeberg. Germany’s Max Planck Institute, Japan’s Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology and Sweden’s Karolinska institute are affiliated with the project.The frequency of contracting the infection is higher in the people from south Asia (nearly 30 per cent) than in Europe (nearly eight per cent), the study said, because the piece of genome is prevalent in south Asia.The piece of genome that the study found is responsible for the infection, is common in those living in Bangladesh. More than 63 per cent of the population carry at least one copy of Chromosome 3, which was studied by the researchers in this case.The presence of this particular gene set is there in only four per cent of East Asians, and is completely absent in Africa, the study showed.According to another study published in Nature, modern Asian and European human genomes are made up of 2–3 per cent Neanderthal DNA. This is the result of inter-breeding that happened thousands of years ago, that study said.An abstract published on the study said that in the current pandemic, it is clear that gene flow from Neanderthals has tragic consequences. The study has not been published in any scientific journal yet.Meanwhile, global Covid-19 cases have crossed the 11 million mark - a yet anothet grim milestone in the spread of the disease that has killed more than half a million people in seven months.The number of cases is more than double the figure for severe influenza illnesses recorded annually, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO).Many hard-hit countries are easing lockdowns put in place to slow the spread of the coronavirus while making extensive alterations to work and social life that could last for a year or more until a vaccine is available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/modern-day-humans-inherited-dna-linked-to-covid-19-from-neandarthals-claims-study/story-5YvQ0l6jjCZscTSJ1tl7II.html
05-07-2020||World||To protest difficulties in burying Covid-19 victim, kin leave coffin in the street||The rising toll of Covid-19 deaths is overwhelming the Bolivian city of Cochabamba, where desperate relatives of one apparent victim of the new coronavirus left his coffin in the street for several hours on Saturday to protest difficulties in getting him buried.Neighbor Remberto Arnez said the 62-year-old man had died on Sunday and his body had been in his home ever since, “but that’s risky because of the possible contagion.”Follow latest updates on coronavirus here After a few hours, funeral workers showed up and took the coffin to a cemetery.Police Col. Iván Rojas told a news conference that the city is collecting “about 17 bodies a day. This is collapsing the police personnel and funeral workers” in the city of some 630,000 people.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “The crematorium oven is small, that is where the bodies are collecting,” said national Labor Minister Óscar Mercado, who told reporters that officials were preparing 250 new burial plots in the city’s main cemetery.The Andean nation has reported 36,818 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and 1,320 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-protest-difficulties-in-burying-covid-19-victim-kin-leave-coffin-in-the-street/story-bvgVNwXeE32VeNihqWFoaJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Tokyo first female governor favored to win reelection for handling virus||Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike is poised to be reelected in Sunday’s polls, buoyed by public support for her coronavirus handling despite a recent rise in infections that has raised concerns of a resurgence of the disease.The first woman to head the Japanese capital, Koike. 67, is also viewed as a potential candidate to succeed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe when his term ends in September 2021. For now, she says she’s focused on protecting the lives of the 14 million people in Tokyo, a megacity with a $1 trillion economy.“Fighting against the coronavirus for the residents of Tokyo is my first and foremost responsibility,” she said on the eve of the election. In her campaign message online, Koike pledged to balance disease prevention and the economy under Tokyo’s “new normal.”Tokyo’s infections started to rebound in late June to reach 131 confirmed cases on Saturday, topping 100 for a third straight day and hitting a two-month high since early May. New daily cases have also spiked in recent weeks nationwide to about 19,700 with 977 deaths.Koike’s challengers include popular actor-turned-politician Taro Yamamoto and veteran lawyer Kenji Utsunomiya. Yamamoto wants to cancel the Tokyo Olympics and use the funds to help people hurt by the coronavirus crisis, while Utsunomiya, known as the Bernie Sanders of Japan, is calling for better welfare support for a more inclusive and diverse society.Results are expected soon after polls close Sunday night. A recent poll by the Mainichi newspaper has Koike leading her opponents by a wide margin.Among other things, Koike says Japan should have its own version of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. She also tried to gain public understanding for a simpler version of the Tokyo Olympics after the Games were postponed to next year due to the pandemic.Though Koike has not fully delivered on promises to Tokyo residents to relieve congestion on commuter trains, ensure adequate availability of child and elder care facilities and end overwork, even her critics have lauded her handling of the pandemic. That’s in sharp contrast to Abe, who has been criticized for doing too little, too late.As the pandemic deepened in the spring, Koike often upstaged fellow conservative Abe, whose support ratings have plunged due to his handling of the crisis and its severe impact on the economy, on top of a slew of scandals.A former TV newscaster, Koike is stylish and media savvy. She earned the nickname “migratory bird” for hopping between parties and forming new alliances -- at least seven times -- a rarity among Japanese politicians famous for their loyalty to party factions.___Follow Mari Yamaguchi on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/mariyamaguchi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tokyo-first-female-governor-favored-to-win-r-eelection-for-handling-virus/story-UygSXmWAx3YtcKdeQep2gL.html
05-07-2020||World||US CDC reports 2,789,678 coronavirus cases, 129,305 deaths||The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) revised its count of coronavirus cases and deaths to 57,718 new cases and 661 deaths on Saturday, taking the total to 2,789,678 cases and 129,305 deaths. It had earlier reported 52,492 cases 749 deaths. CDC did not respond to requests for clarification on Saturday. The CDC reported its tally of cases of the respiratory illness known as Covid-19, caused by a new coronavirus, as of 4 pm ET on July 3 compared with its previous report a day earlier.The CDC figures do not necessarily reflect cases reported by individual states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-reports-2-789-678-coronavirus-cases-129-305-deaths/story-FU2oxx2GenCrDuuDm1oaON.html
05-07-2020||World||WHO reports record daily increase in global Covid-19 cases, up more than 212,000||The World Health Organization reported a record increase in global coronavirus cases on Saturday, with the total rising by 212,326 in 24 hours.The biggest increases were from the United States, Brazil and India, according to a daily report. The previous WHO record for new cases was 189,077 on June 28. Deaths remained steady at about 5,000 a day.Global coronavirus cases exceeded 11 million on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, marking another milestone in the spread of the disease that has killed more than half a million people in seven months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-reports-record-daily-increase-in-global-covid-19-cases-up-more-than-212-000/story-e9lPFgKHXrXpi0Z6iJS0UO.html
05-07-2020||World||Siberian tiger kills zookeeper in Zurich||A female Siberian tiger attacked and killed a 55-year-old zookeeper at Zurich’s zoo on Saturday, the authorities said.Rescue crews were unable to save the woman, who died on the spot. A park visitor reported the attack and zoo staff lured the five-year-old tiger named Irina away from the victim and into a stall, police and the zoo said.Circumstances of the attack were still under investigation.The tiger enclosure in Zurich also holds a four-year-old male called Sayan, according to the zoo’s website.Irina, who was still alive after the incident, originally came from a zoo in Odense, Denmark, a year ago and replaced a female who died from complications after a fight with Sayan.“This is a young animal that so far has behaved entirely naturally as a tiger does,” Zoo Director Severin Dressen told reporters, adding that it was unclear why the tiger and the zookeeper were in the enclosure at the same time.Witnesses to the incident and zoo staff were receiving counselling.The Zurich zoo reopened a month ago after being closed due to the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/siberian-tiger-kills-zookeeper-in-zurich/story-0WK0ibETHM26GZN9YcyRLL.html
05-07-2020||World||US holiday weekend adds to Covid-19 worries as case counts grow||Florida has reported a record number of coronavirus cases, the latest sign that the virus is surging in many parts of the United States, casting a pall over Fourth of July celebrations.Officials and health authorities warned people to take precautions or simply stay home on Independence Day, as confirmed cases are climbing in 40 states. The US set another daily record Friday with more than 54,000 newly reported infections, according to numbers kept by Johns Hopkins University. The daily toll reported Saturday also passed 50,000.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The US has more than 2.8 million confirmed cases — about a quarter of worldwide infections, according to the tally, which is widely thought to understate the true toll, partially because of asymptomatic cases and limited testing.Florida reported 11,445 confirmed infections on Saturday, bringing the statewide total to more than 190,000.Alabama this week also set a record for infections reported in a day, with more than 1,700 confirmed cases recorded Thursday, and state health officials worried that the holiday weekend could lead to the type of spike that followed Memorial Day weekend.“I’m really, really worried about the Fourth of July,” said Dr. Don Williamson, a former state health officer who now heads the Alabama Hospital Association.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “I think that will likely determine the trend for Alabama for the rest of the summer.” The sobering updates came as local officials and health experts across the country tried to minimize opportunities for the virus to continue spreading on a holiday weekend typically spent swimming, eating at backyard gatherings or crowding elbow-to-elbow to view parades and fireworks shows.Many communities cancelled those events and cautioned people against gathering on their own.In Florida, bars statewide are shut down and some regional attractions, such as Zoo Miami and Jungle Island, have closed. Officials in South Florida — including in Miami-Dade County and the Florida Keys — closed beaches through the weekend.Other beaches in the state remained open. At St. Pete Beach on the Gulf of Mexico, parking spaces were scarce Saturday afternoon and hundreds of people clustered in groups under umbrellas and in cabanas on the sand.Pinellas County Sheriff’s deputies patrolled on ATVs, telling folks they should stay with their own families or groups — and away from others.Keisha Pereira came to the beach from Osceola County — about 100 miles (160 kilometers) inland — with her daughter and two other children and said the group planned to stay away from others. She brought along hand sanitizer and masks in case they go anywhere other than the beach.“We’re going to stay with each other,” she said. “I feel pretty safe outside.” In several of California’s tourism-focused counties, economic woes prompted campaigns to convince state residents to travel within its borders. But public health experts and mayors of popular beach towns Santa Cruz and Half Moon Bay have pleaded with people to stay home for the holiday.Crista Luedtke said demand has been “bonkers” since reopening the 14-room Boon Hotel and Spa that she owns in the Sonoma County town of Guerneville. Guests must stay at least two nights and are assigned chaise lounges near the pool.“Tourism is not dangerous,” Luedtke said. “I think people not following the rules is dangerous.” The holiday weekend coincides with a big step back this week for California’s efforts to reopen the state’s economy. Gov. Gavin Newsom ordered a three-week closure of bars and many indoor establishments in counties that are home to about three-quarters of the state’s population.Local efforts to discourage holiday gatherings are in stark contrast to President Donald Trump’s weekend agenda, including a fireworks display Friday night at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota and Saturday’s “Salute for America” celebration set to include a presidential speech on the White House South Lawn and an enormous fireworks display that could pack people into downtown Washington in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-holiday-weekend-adds-to-covid-19-worries-as-case-counts-grow/story-3nfc0LhzHWBCkxvtoBjf1N.html
05-07-2020||World||China reports eight new coronavirus cases in mainland||China reported eight new coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 4, compared with three cases a day earlier, the health authority said on Sunday.Six of the new infections were imported cases, according to a statement by the National Health Commission, while the capital Beijing reported two new cases. There were no new deaths.China reported seven new asymptomatic patients, up from four a day earlier.As of Saturday, mainland China had 83,553 confirmed coronavirus cases, the health authority said. China’s death toll from the Covid-19 remained 4,634, unchanged since Mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-eight-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mainland/story-fLH6dC1ENWL5HIuMhV0hFJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Armed men gun down 40 people in brutal attacks in Mali’s villages||Unidentified armed men massacred 31 civilians in simultaneous attacks on several Mali villages this week, then killed nine soldiers responding to the assault as violence surges in the country’s conflict-wracked centre.An Islamist insurgency that erupted in the north of the vast West African country in 2012 has swept to its centre, inflaming ethnic tensions along the way. Clashes between the ethnic communities of Fulani, nomadic herders, and Dogon traditional hunters have increased in recent months, with community-based militias - initially formed for defence - now launching attacks.Armed uniformed men travelling in pick-up trucks attacked four Dogon villages on Wednesday, one local official said by telephone, speaking on condition of anonymity for security reasons.The attack left at least 30 dead, including women, children, and the elderly, while others were missing, the official added. “From 3 to 9 pm, nobody came to our rescue,” said Youssouf Tiessogue, an elder from Gouari, one of the villages attacked.Deploring the army’s “inaction,” he said: “It is always late and never confronts the bandits even if we tell them where they are.” A senior government official called the attacks “barbaric”. Officials did not immediately blame any group. A military unit was dispatched to the area, and helped bury 31 bodies on Wednesday.On Thursday, the army received information about a new attack and sent the unit to Gouari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armed-men-gun-down-40-people-in-brutal-attacks-in-mali-s-villages/story-rbKnKRvmqOKZehBhivC6TM.html
05-07-2020||World||WHO revises timeline as global Covid-19 cases surpass 11 million||The World Health Organization (WHO) has updated its account of the early stages of the Covid-19 crisis to say it was alerted by its own office in China, and not by China itself, to the first pneumonia cases in Wuhan.The development comes as the number of coronavirus cases globally crossed 11 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. The total number of fatalities has gone past 525,000.On April 9, WHO published an initial timeline of its communications. In that chronology, WHO had said only that the Wuhan municipal health commission in the province of Hubei had on December 31 reported cases of pneumonia. The UN health agency did not specify who had notified it.It shows that the WHO office in China on December 31 notified its regional point of contact of a case of “viral pneumonia” after having found a declaration for the media on a Wuhan health commission website on the issue.Meanwhile, the WHO said the number of cases worldwide is more than double the figure for severe influenza illnesses recorded annually.Spain’s Catalonia region on Saturday locked down an area with around 200,000 residents near the town of Lerida following a surge in cases. The move came as the summer holiday started in Spain and the country began readmitting foreign visitors from 12 countries outside the EU. It had already opened its frontiers to people from the EU’s visa-free Schengen zone and Britain on June 21.Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro on Friday watered down a law requiring the wearing of face masks in public places to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The Brazilian leader used his veto power to remove articles obliging people to wear masks in shops and churches.Australia’s Victoria state recorded 108 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, forcing authorities to lock down nine public housing towers and three more Melbourne suburbs.China rebuffs study, says G4 flu is not newSHANGHAI: China’s ministry of agriculture and rural affairs said the G4 strain of the swine flu virus is not new and doesn’t infect or sicken humans and animals easily, rebuffing a study published this week. That study, by Chinese scientists and published by the US journal PNAS, warned the new swine flu virus could become a potential “pandemic virus”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-revises-timeline-as-global-covid-19-cases-surpass-11-million/story-BshZe9rvAmQ4zToIvUn51J.html
05-07-2020||World||‘US was doing great until it was hit by China’s Covid-19’, says Donald Trump||Launching another scathing attack on China, US President Donald Trump addressed the second ‘Salute to America’ on America’s 244th Independence Day, saying that the country was doing great until it got hit by a virus that came from China.“The power of tariffs being imposed on foreign lands that took advantage of the United States for decades enabled us to make great trade deals where there were none. Tens of billions of dollars are now paid to the US treasury by the same countries but then we got hit by the virus that came from China,” Trump said.Also read: Can one be reinfected with Covid-19? No evidence yet, say expertsHe further said, “We’re producing gowns, masks, and surgical equipment...It was almost exclusively made in foreign lands, in particular, China where ironically this virus and others came from.”“China’s secrecy, deceptions, and cover-ups allowed it to spread all over the world and China must be held fully accountable.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Speaking on the coronavirus vaccines, Trump said, “We are now unbelievably doing well and are testing on vaccines, treatments and therapeutics. I want to send our thanks to scientists and researchers around the country and the world who are at the forefront of our historic effort to rapidly develop and deliver life-saving treatments and ultimately a vaccine. We are unleashing our nation’s scientific brilliance and we will likely have a therapeutic and vaccines solution long before the end of the year.”He said that the country has till now tested almost 40 million people and, hence, the country is showing “results that no other country is showing because no other country is testing like we have...we have the finest testing facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-was-doing-great-until-it-was-hit-by-china-s-covid-19-says-donald-trump/story-NosnzgWa6TvvcAFLXq9WEJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Trump marks July 4 with a pledge to defeat the ‘Radical Left’||President Donald Trump marked Independence Day by promising to defeat the “radical left” and boasting of his handling of the coronavirus, even as cases spike in the USWashington’s mayor urged people to stay away from the evening’s fireworks display and military flyover to avoid spreading the disease.Trump, speaking from the South Lawn of the White House, reprised themes from a speech he delivered in South Dakota the day before, by lashing out at those protesting statues of certain historical figures and other symbols they say celebrate racial injustice.“We are now in the process of defeating the radical left: the Marxists, the anarchists, the agitators, the looters and people who in many instances have absolutely no clue what they are doing,” Trump said, echoing remarks he gave at Mount Rushmore. “We will never allow an angry mob to tear down our statues, erase our history, indoctrinate our children or trample on our freedoms.”Trump has spent weeks demonizing a movement to re-examine the racial record of historic figures after the killing of George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, while in Minneapolis police custody. Those efforts have led to the removal, or calls for the removal, of statues, including Confederate generals and slave owners, from public and private facilities.Blaming ChinaTrump, lagging in national polls ahead of the November election, used the event to rally his supporters by reciting what he says are some of his achievements, stoking cultural wars and blaming China for the spread of the coronavirus.“China’s secrecy deceptions and cover up allowed it to spread all over the world,” Trump said in his 30-minute remarks. “China must be held fully accountable.”Trump, who has come under widespread criticism for his handling of the coronavirus, said the US is doing “unbelievably well” in finding remedies for the virus and is doing “deep testing” on vaccines. He praised the numbers of virus tests being administered in the US“We’ve made a lot of progress, our strategy has moved along well,” Trump said.New coronavirus cases have set daily records in the US recently while in Europe cases have fallen sharply in response to government-led measures to slow the spread.Concern over the coronavirus pandemic caused many to stay away from the event, leaving the National Mall with a fraction of the audience that normally attends Washington’s annual fireworks displays. New Covid-19 cases rose 1.7% in the US, surging in southern and western states, although cases have fallen off in the nation’s capital and surrounding areas.Guests at the White House were asked to socially distance, while District of Columbia Mayor Muriel Bowser, a regular Trump antagonist, urged residents to celebrate at home.The president hosted invited military families and administration staffers at the White House, pulling back from the 2019 event held at the Lincoln Memorial.Trump has sought to revamp the annual Fourth of July celebration in the nation’s capital into a bigger spectacle, with a larger fireworks show and muscular display of military equipment, mirroring events like the annual Bastille Day parade in France.Trump stood to watch a flyover of vintage and modern military aircraft, including members of the Blue Angels and Thunderbirds. Some 10,000 fireworks were expected to be launched, making this year’s show among the largest in recent history, according to the Interior Department.At Mount Rushmore on Friday night the president portrayed a dark vision of a “new far-left fascism” seeking to erase the nation’s history.Ridership ExpectationsEarlier this week the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority said in a statement that all indications were that crowds gathering to watch the fireworks “will be much lighter than in past years.” For many years the fireworks show has been paired with a free concert on the west lawn of the US Capitol.Bowser, who last year criticized Trump’s amped-up Independence Day event as self-serving and costly, encouraged city residents to steer clear.“We of course know that the White House has already announced its plans, and the National Park Service will conduct the fireworks to celebrate the nation’s birthday,” Bowser said at a news conference last week. “We will continue to support those activities in the way that we have traditionally. But we hope that the crowds that come in non-pandemic years won’t materialize this year.”The federal government said that a supply of at least 300,000 cloth face masks would be available and distributed to those attending the celebration on the National Mall. More than 100 hand-washing stations were available, and attendees were encouraged to stay at least six feet away from others.White House officials defended the decision to hold Saturday’s event. Adviser Kellyanne Conway told reporters on Wednesday that “we need to celebrate independence.”“It’s really a day to celebrate our military and veterans,” Conway said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-marks-july-4-with-a-pledge-to-defeat-the-radical-left/story-c0XSn7PsvcI0tTvBOhe4QJ.html
05-07-2020||World||Iran files lawsuit against United States over sanctions amid Covid-19 fight||Iran has filed a lawsuit in the International Court of Justice against the United States over effects of sanctions on Iran’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, Leila Joneidi, Iran’s presidential aide for legal affairs, said on Saturday.The continuous US sanctions against Iran at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic are an indication of “inhuman” move and against human rights, Joneidi was quoted as saying by Tehran Times daily.The official made the remarks during a visit to the Pasteur Institute in the capital Tehran.US President Donald Trump pulled Washington out of the Iranian nuclear deal, also known as the JCPOA, in May 2018 and reimposed heavy sanctions against Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-files-lawsuit-against-united-states-over-sanctions-amid-covid-19-fight/story-7RBDysmz6TD4VyoNyxR90I.html
05-07-2020||World||WHO halts hydroxychloroquine and combination of HIV drug trials among hospitalised Covid-19 patients||The World Health Organisation on Saturday has halted its trials of the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine and combination of HIV drug lopinavir/ritonavir for the treatment of hospitalised Covid-19 patients after they failed to reduce the death rate, Al Jazeera reported.“These interim trial results show that hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir produce little or no reduction in the mortality of hospitalised Covid-19 patients when compared to the standard of care. Solidarity trial investigators will interrupt the trials with immediate effect,” the WHO was quoted as saying in a statement.The WHO has added that this decision will now affect the other studies where the drugs are being used for non-hospitalised or as prophylaxis.Meanwhile, the WHO has reported a total of 212,326 new cases of coronavirus globally in 24 hours.The agency further stated that 5,134 deaths have been reported in past 24 hours, taking the total toll to 523,011.The WHO had declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-halts-hydroxychloroquine-and-combination-of-hiv-drug-trials-among-hospitalised-covid-19-patients/story-3pihI4hVqp8kk3tkhyi4pI.html
05-07-2020||World||Egypt’s top court upholds 15-yr sentence for activist behind nation’s 2011 uprising||Egypt’s highest criminal court Saturday upheld a 15-year sentence for one of the leading activists behind the country’s 2011 uprising who was convicted of taking part in clashes between protesters and security forces.The Court of Cassation also confirmed a fine of 6 million Egyptian pounds, or $372,000, against Ahmed Douma, a secular activist, over the same violence-related charges.Douma was one of 230 people sentenced in 2015 by the Cairo Criminal Court to life in prison. All defendants were tried in absentia except Douma, who was serving a three-year-sentence for breaking a draconian law regulating protests.Douma appealed the life sentence and the Court of Cassation ordered his retrial, ultimately leading to the reduced sentence of 15 years.Saturday’s verdict is final.The case concerns clashes in Cairo in December 2011, during which a fire gutted parts of a library housing rare manuscripts and books. Other government buildings, including the parliament, were damaged during the protests.The nearly weeklong clashes that left some 40 people dead erupted after mostly young activists took to the streets to protest the post-Mubarak political transition overseen by the military. The clashes brought international attention when riot police were filmed beating, stripping and kicking female demonstrators in Tahrir Square.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-s-top-court-upholds-15-yr-sentence-for-activist-behind-nation-s-2011-uprising/story-6FUuCbpWjZEUFjdosXGIgP.html
05-07-2020||World||Pakistan will complete CPEC project at all costs, says PM Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan vowed on Friday that his government would complete the ambitious China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) at “any cost” as the USD 60 billion project is a manifestation of the all-weather friendship between the two countries.Addressing a meeting held here to review progress on the CPEC projects, Khan said it is an excellent project for Pakistan’s socio-economic development and the “gigantic multi-faceted initiative would guarantee a bright future for the nation”, the Dawn newspaper reported.Lauding the performance of the CPEC Authority, he said measures must be taken to improve its working as well as capacity.“The corridor is a manifestation of Pakistan-China friendship and the government will complete it at any cost and bring its fruit to every Pakistani,” Khan said.Khan’s statement came a day after Chinese Foriegn Minister Wang Yi discussed the CPEC projects with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi during a phone conversation.Wang called for the two countries to speed up the projects under the CPEC to help Pakistan’s economic recovery. He also hoped that the Pakistani government would provide more protection for Chinese companies and citizens working in the country.The CPEC, which connects Gwadar Port in Pakistan’s Balochistan with China’s Xinjiang province, is the flagship project of China’‘s ambitious multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).A Chinese official last month admitted that the majority of the projects under the BRI are either adversely or partially affected by the coronavirus pandemic.About a fifth of the projects under the BRI, which aims to boost trade and investment across Asia, Africa and Europe to further China’‘s global influence, had been “seriously affected” by the pandemic, according to Wang Xiaolong, director-general of the foreign ministry’‘s international economic affairs department.About 40 per cent of the projects were “adversely affected”, and a further 30-40 per cent were “somewhat affected”, Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post quoted Wang as saying.The projects which were disrupted included the CPEC, it said.The CPEC is a collection of infrastructure and other projects under construction throughout Pakistan since 2013. Originally valued at USD 46 billion, the projects were worth USD 62 billion as of 2017.India has protested to China over the CPEC as it is being laid through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.The BRI was launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping when he came to power in 2013. It aims to link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa and Europe with a network of land and sea routes.The BRI is seen as an attempt by China to further its influence abroad with infrastructure projects funded by Chinese investments all over the world.The initiative also led to allegations of smaller countries reeling under mounting Chinese debt after Sri Lanka gave its Hambantota port in a debt swap to China in 2017 on a 99-year lease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-will-complete-cpec-project-at-all-costs-says-pm-imran-khan/story-y7HRWlOgxQwqRhwebv0G8O.html
05-07-2020||World||TikTok distances itself from China in response to India’s 59 app ban||Social media app TikTok distanced itself from Beijing after India banned 59 Chinese apps in the country, according to a correspondence seen by Reuters.In a letter to the Indian government dated June 28th and seen by Reuters on Friday, TikTok Chief Executive Kevin Mayer said the Chinese government has never requested user data, nor would the company turn it over if asked.TikTok, which is not available in China, is owned by China’s ByteDance but has sought to distance itself from its Chinese roots to appeal to a global audience. Along with 58 other Chinese apps, including Tencent Holdings Ltd’s WeChat and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd’s UC Browser, it was banned in India this week following a border clash with China.“I can confirm that the Chinese government has never made a request to us for the TikTok data of Indian users,” Mayer wrote, adding that data for Indian users is stored in servers in Singapore. “If we do ever receive such a request in the future, we would not comply.”The letter was sent ahead of a likely meeting next week between the company and the government, one source familiar with the matter told Reuters.One Indian government source told Reuters this week the ban was unlikely to be revoked soon. Lawyers have said a legal challenge was unlikely to be successful, given India has cited national security concerns for the ban.The ban, which upset India’s growing legion of TikTok stars, has also given a lift to local rivals such as Roposo, which added 22 million new users in the 48 hours after the ban took effect.TikTok has committed to spend $1 billion in the region. Since its launch in 2017, it has become one of the fastest- growing social media apps. India is its largest market by user, followed by the United States. In the letter, Mayer played up the company’s investment in the region, highlighting more than 3,500 direct and indirect employees and content available in 14 languages.“The privacy of our users, and the security and sovereignty of India, are of utmost importance to us,” Mayer wrote. “We have already announced our plans to build a data centre in India.”The correspondence was first reported by the Wall Street Journal and other media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-distances-itself-from-china-in-response-to-india-s-59-app-ban/story-4abePFmBPTn6PzLKGKYUGI.html
05-07-2020||World||US ‘loves’ India, Donald Trump tweets back at ‘friend’ Narendra Modi||President Donald Trump thanked “my friend” Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his greetings on the 244th anniversary of the American Independence Day.“Thank you my friend. America loves India!,” Trump tweeted.  Thank you my friend. America loves India! https://t.co/mlvJ51l8XJModi had earlier tweeted, “ I congratulate @POTUS, @realDonaldTrump and the people of the USA on the 244th Independence Day of the USA. As the world’s largest democracies, we cherish freedom and human enterprise that this day celebrates.”The two leaders are known to share an easy and increasingly close relationship, and often refer to each other as “friends”.Trump attended the July 4 American Independence Day celebrations in South Dakota. US Ambassador to India Kenneth I Juster also extended wishes to the Americans on the occasion of the country’s 244th Independence Day.“From all of us at the U.S. Mission in India, we wish our United States of America a very Happy 244th Birthday! #IndependenceDay #4thofJuly,” Juster tweeted on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-loves-india-donald-trump-tweets-back-at-friend-narendra-modi/story-mJZhohpC6rXXt3enJXv26J.html
05-07-2020||World||Amritsar’s Partition Museum shortlisted for UK prize||The Partition Museum in Amritsar has been shortlisted for the 2020 Museums + Heritage Awards for its 2019 collaborative exhibition ‘Jallianwala Bagh 1919: Punjab Under Siege’ with the Manchester Museum, organisers of the exhibition said on Saturday.The joint project has been short-listed under the category of ‘International Project of the Year < £1M’. The London-based Museums + Heritage Awards celebrate the very best within museums, galleries and heritage visitor attractions for over 10 years.The award function will take place virtually on September 22 out of London, a joint statement from the Partition Museum and the Manchester Museum said.The co-curated exhibition was the first time that two museums in cities affected by colonialism, Amritsar and Manchester, came together to re-examine the massacre that eventually brought about the end of the British empire.The exhibition included archival and audio-visual material which shared the narrative of the massacre through eyewitness accounts, photographs and official documents. It coincided with the centenary of the massacre in April 2019, and the bicentenary commemorations for the Peterloo massacre.“We are very excited to be shortlisted by the Museums + Heritage Awards Committee for our collaborative exhibition with the Manchester Museum. We continue our work to remember and commemorate local histories”, said Mallika Ahluwalia, curator of the Partition Museum.The museum in Amritsar was founded by the Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust and inaugurated in August 2017 as the first and only partition museum in the world, housing oral histories, donated personal artefacts and archival material, dedicated to those who lost their lives or loved ones in the largest mass migration in human history.Created through donations, the Partition Museum was awarded the Media, Arts and Culture Award at the second annual UK-India Awards 2018 in London. The Manchester Museum, part of the University of Manchester, opened in 1890 and is the UK’s largest university museum with a collection of about 4.5 million items from every continent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amritsar-s-partition-museum-shortlisted-for-uk-prize/story-fxY57NPr8cLalfIlOLtDyL.html
