12-07-2020||World||UK-China ties freeze with debate over Huawei, Hong Kong||Only five years ago, then-British Prime Minister David Cameron was celebrating a “golden era” in U.K.-China relations, bonding with President Xi Jinping over a pint of beer at the pub and signing off on trade deals worth billions.Those friendly scenes now seem like a distant memory.Hostile rhetoric has ratcheted up in recent days over Beijing’s new national security law for Hong Kong. Britain’s decision to offer refuge to millions in the former colony was met with a stern telling-off by China. And Chinese officials have threatened “consequences” if Britain treats it as a “hostile country” and decides to cut Chinese technology giant Huawei out of its critical telecoms infrastructure amid growing unease over security risks.All that is pointing to a much tougher stance against China, with a growing number in Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party taking a long, hard look at Britain’s Chinese ties. Many are saying Britain has been far too complacent and naive in thinking it could reap economic benefits from the relationship without political consequences.“It’s not about wanting to cut ties with China. It’s that China is itself becoming a very unreliable and rather dangerous partner,” said lawmaker and former Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith. He cited Beijing’s “trashing” of the Sino-British Joint Declaration — the treaty supposed to guarantee Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy when it reverted from British to Chinese rule — and aggressive posturing in the South China Sea as areas of concern.“This is not a country that is in any way managing itself to be a good and decent partner in anything at the moment. That’s why we need to review our relationship with them,” he added. “Those who think this is a case of separating trade from government … you can’t do that, that’s naïve.” Duncan Smith has lobbied other Tory lawmakers to cut Huawei out from Britain’s superfast 5G network. Not only that: He says all existing Huawei technology in the U.K. telecoms infrastructure also needs to be eliminated as soon as possible.The company has been at the center of tensions between China and Britain, as U.K. officials review how the latest U.S. sanctions — imposed over allegations of cyber spying and aimed at cutting off Huawei’s access to advanced microchips made with American technology — will affect British telecom networks.Johnson decided in January that Huawei can be deployed in future 5G networks as long as its share of the market is limited, but officials have since hinted that that decision could be reversed in light of the U.S. sanctions. A new policy is expected within weeks.Huawei says it is merely caught in the middle of a U.S.-China battle over trade and technology. It has consistently denied allegations it could carry out cyber espionage or electronic sabotage at the behest of the Chinese Communist Party.“We’ve definitely been pushed into the geopolitical competition,” Vice President Victor Zhang said Wednesday. U.S. accusations about security risks are all politically motivated, he said.Nigel Inkster, senior adviser to the International Institute for Strategic Studies and former director of operations and intelligence at Britain’s MI6 intelligence service, said the issue with Huawei was not so much about immediate security threats. Rather, he said, the deeper worry lies in the geopolitical implications of China becoming the world’s dominant player in 5G technology.“It’s less about cyber espionage than generally conceived because, after all, that’s happening in any place,” he said. “This was never something of which the U.K. was lacking awareness.” Still, Inkster said he’s been cautioning for years that Britain needed a more coherent strategy toward China that balances the economic and security factors.“There was a high degree of complacency” back in the 2000s, he said. “There was always less to the ‘golden era’ than met the eye.” Britain rolled out the red carpet for Xi’s state visit in 2015, with golden carriages and a lavish banquet at Buckingham Palace with Queen Elizabeth II. A cyber security cooperation deal was struck, along with billions in trade and investment projects — including Chinese state investment in a British nuclear power station. Cameron spoke about his ambitions for Britain to become China’s “best partner in the West.” Enthusiasm has cooled significantly since. The English city of Sheffield, which was promised a billion-pound deal with a Chinese manufacturing firm in 2016, said the investment never materialized. Critics have called it a vanity project and a “candy floss deal.” Economic and political grumbles about China erupted into sharp rebukes earlier this month when Beijing imposed sweeping new national security laws on Hong Kong. Johnson’s government accused China of a serious breach of the Sino-British Joint Declaration, and announced it would open a special route to citizenship for up to 3 million eligible Hong Kong residents.That amounts to “gross interference,” Chinese Ambassador Liu Xiaoming said. Liu also warned that a decision to get rid of Huawei could drive away other Chinese investment in the U.K., and derided Britain for succumbing to U.S. pressure over the company.Rana Mitter, an Oxford history professor specializing in China, said that the security law — combined with broader resentment about Chinese officials’ handling of information about the coronavirus — helped set the stage for a perfect storm of wariness among Britain’s politicians and the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-china-ties-freeze-with-debate-over-huawei-hong-kong/story-vOFZIdXpq5LODBPS31FQQP.html
12-07-2020||World||Man charged in Florida church arson attack||A man accused of setting a Florida church on fire was being held without bail Sunday on charges that include attempted second-degree murder and arson.The Marion County Sheriff’s Office charged Steven Shields, 23, on Saturday, hours after detectives say he plowed a minivan through the front door of Queen of Peace Catholic Church in Ocala, doused the foyer with gasoline and set it on fire, causing extensive damage.Several people were inside preparing for Mass when the attack occurred early Saturday, but no one was hurt.According to court documents, Shields told detectives he is mentally ill but had stopped taking his medication, the Ocala Star-Banner reported.Shields told detectives what he did was “awesome,” and he smiled and laughed, the affidavit said. He told detectives he was “on a mission,” called himself “king” and that he has problems with the Catholic Church and referenced passages in the Bible’s Book of Revelations.Services were being held Sunday in another part of the church.The Marion County Public Defender’s Office was closed Sunday and not accepting phone messages.Ocala is about 80 miles (about 130 kilometers) north of Orlando.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-charged-in-florida-church-arson-attack/story-97IbjU4dTTTPFpJdHXEBOK.html
12-07-2020||World||Florida reports largest, single-day increase in coronavirus cases||Florida shattered the national record Sunday for the largest single-day increase in positive coronavirus cases in any state since the beginning of the pandemic, adding more than 15,000 cases as its daily average death toll continued to also rise.According to state Department of Health statistics, 15,299 people tested positive, for a total of 269,811 cases, and 45 deaths were recorded.California had the previous record of daily positive cases — 11,694, set on Wednesday. New York had 11,571 on April 15.The numbers come at the end of a grim, record-breaking week as Florida reported 514 fatalities — an average of 73 per day. Three weeks ago, the state was averaging 30 deaths per day. Since the pandemic began in March, 4,346 people have died in Florida of Covid-19, the state says.Testing has doubled over the last month, going from about 25,000 tests per day to almost 50,000, but the percentage of people testing positive has risen even more dramatically. A month ago, fewer than 5% of tests came up positive on a daily average. Over the past week, the daily average exceeded 19%.About 10.7% of Saturday’s 143,000 tests came up positive. “I still think we need to increase our testing a little bit more,” said University of Florida epidemiologist Dr. Cindy Prins, adding that the state and local health departments should ramp up their contact tracing.Prins said that she’s still concerned about large crowds, gyms and some restaurants as being places of mass transmission. Reports of illegal clubs and raves in South Florida is also a worry, she said.“I really do think we could control this, and it’s the human element that is so critical. It should be an effort of our country. We should be pulling together when we’re in a crisis, and we’re definitely not doing it,” she said. “I know people want to live their lives. There have been a lot of other times, people have made those sacrifices in order to benefit our society. It’s almost like a war effort. That’s what we need right now.”Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez told CNN on Sunday that his county’s hospitals will soon reach capacity but he said more beds can be added, including for intensive care.“We still have capacity, but it does cause me a lot of concern,” he said.Throughout May and into June, the state reopened much of its economy with some restrictions — and the number of positive cases began rising, but it wasn’t until the last week that the daily death total began rising, too.Because of the increase in cases and the positivity rate, doctors have predicted a rise in deaths, saying the mortality rate usually increases two to four weeks later as some of those infected get sicker and eventually die. Health experts are concerned that people are gathering in crowds, and have expressed concern that the Republican National Convention’s nomination party for President Donald Trump will be held in Jacksonville in August.On Saturday, the Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom reopened at Walt Disney World in Orlando, concerning health experts who urge people not to gather in groups. Guests at the park said that people were wearing masks and social distancing, and videos showed near-empty parks.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said that even with the rising rates, he still wants the schools to reopen as scheduled next month, saying children have not proven to be vectors for the disease in states and countries where campuses are open. He said while each county will have to come up with procedures, depending on their local infection rate, not opening the schools would exacerbate the achievement gap between high- and low-performing students.“We know there are huge, huge costs for not providing the availability of in-person schooling,” he said. “The risk of corona, fortunately, for students is incredibly low.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-reports-largest-single-day-increase-in-coronavirus-cases/story-1ncHclIobvokS76eMa6TVJ.html
12-07-2020||World||Search of California lake resumes for missing ‘Glee’ star||The search to find “Glee” TV show star Naya Rivera in a Southern California lake resumed on Sunday, authorities said.The Ventura County Sheriff’s Office said last Thursday that they believe Rivera, 33, drowned in Lake Piru, northwest of Los Angeles. Her 4-year-old son was discovered alone in a rented boat.The boy, who was found asleep and wearing a life vest late Wednesday afternoon, told investigators that he and his mother went swimming and he got back on the boat, but “his mom never made it out of the water,” Sheriff’s Sgt. Kevin Donoghue said.Rivera began acting at a young age, but she rose to national attention playing a lesbian teen on “Glee,” which aired from 2009 until 2015 on Fox.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/search-of-california-lake-resumes-for-missing-glee-star/story-PIAyFKu8uzRGpbKzmzid1M.html
12-07-2020||World||Coronavirus spread, not politics should guide schools, doctors say||As the Trump administration pushes full steam ahead to force schools to resume in-person education, public health experts warn that a one-size-fits-all reopening could drive infection and death rates even higher.They’re urging a more cautious approach, which many local governments and school districts are already pursuing.There are too many uncertainties and variables, they say, for back-to-school to be back-to-normal.Where is the virus spreading rapidly? Do students live with aged grandparents? Do teachers have high-risk health conditions that would make online teaching safest? Do infected children easily spread COVID-19 to each other and to adults?Regarding the latter, some evidence suggests they don’t, but a big government study aims to find better proof. Results won’t be available before the fall, and some schools are slated to reopen in just a few weeks.“These are complicated issues. You can’t just charge straight ahead,” Dr. Tom Frieden, former director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Wednesday during an online briefing.Children infected with coronavirus are more likely than adults to have mild illnesses, but their risk for severe disease and death isn’t zero. While a virus-linked inflammatory condition is uncommon, most children who develop it require intensive care, and a few have died. Doctors don’t know which children are at risk.“The single most important thing we can do to keep our schools safe has nothing to do with what happens in school. It’s how well we control COVID-19 in the community,” Frieden said. “Right now there are places around the country where the virus is spreading explosively and it would be difficult if not impossible to operate schools safely until the virus is under better control.”Zahrah Wattier teaches high school in Galveston, Texas, where cases and deaths have been spiking. Until the state recently said schools must reopen to in-person classes, her district had been weighing options many others are considering, including full-time online teaching or a hybrid mix.Wattier’s school has mostly Hispanic and Black students, many from low-income families; almost 70% qualify for free or reduced-cost lunches and many have parents who work in “essential” jobs that increase potential exposure to the virus. Online education was hard for many with limited internet access, and Wattier knows in-person classes can help even the playing field.But she’s worried.“My school has over 2,000 students. That’s over 2,000 exposures in a day,” she said. “It’s a lot to think about. It’s my job. It’s something I choose to do, it’s something I love. Now it comes at a really high risk.’’She also worries about her 2-year-old twins in day care and a 4-year-old who has asthma and is starting preschool. Her parents live with the family and they’re both high-risk.The American Academy of Pediatrics, whose guidance the Trump administration has cited to support its demands, says the goal is for all students to be physically present in school. But it says school districts need to be flexible, consult with public health authorities and be ready to pivot as virus activity waxes and wanes.“It is not that the American Academy of Pediatrics thinks this is a done deal because we have put out guidance,” said Dr. Nicholas Beers, a member of the academy’s school health council. “But what we do know is that we need to have a more realistic dialogue about the implications of virtual learning on the future of children. We have left whole swaths of society behind, whether it’s because they have limited access to a computer, or broadband internet,” or because of other challenges that online education can’t address.Following academy guidelines would mean big changes for most schools. Mask-wearing would be strongly encouraged for adult staff and students except the youngest. Desks would be distanced at least 3 feet apart; the CDC recommends 6 feet. Both the academy and the CDC suggest limiting adults allowed in schools, including parents, and canceling group activities like choir and assemblies. Staggered arrival and dismissal times, outdoor classes, and keeping kids in the same classroom all day are other options.President Donald Trump has threatened federal funding cuts for districts that don’t fully reopen. While most funding typically comes from state and local sources, experts say schools will need more federal funding, not less, to reopen safely. Masks, extra cleaning supplies or janitors, additional classroom space, mental health support for students and staff traumatized by the pandemic are among potential costs. And with more parents out of work, more children will qualify for federally funded school lunches.Lynn Morales, 49, teaches 8th grade English at a high-poverty public school in Bloomington, Minnesota. Her district is considering several options including in-person classes; a final decision is expected Aug. 1.Some colleagues are considering not returning to the classroom because their children’s day care centers aren’t reopening. Some say they won’t come back until there’s a vaccine.“I am concerned and it’s because of the age group,” Morales said. ‘’Middle school students ... are lovely and I love them, but they touch, they get close, they roughhouse. It is their nature. They’re 13 years old. They are defiant.”“If masks are required and a kid isn’t wearing a mask, is my job description going to be to chase down this kid and insist they wear a mask? And what if they don’t?’’She’s heard outrage from parents angry at the prospect of some schools not reopening or incredulous about sending kids back into classrooms.‘’There is no win-win,’’ she said. ‘’Teachers are used to being scapegoats. This is just a whole new level of anger.’’Dr. Emily Landon, a University of Chicago infectious disease specialist, is helping the university and a campus preK-12 school decide how to reopen safely.“Things are evolving from, ‘We can’t do it unless it’s perfectly safe’ to more of a harm reduction model, with the caveat that you can always step back” if virus activity flares, Landon said.Single-occupancy dorms, outdoor classes, socially distanced classrooms and mask-wearing by students and faculty are on tap for the university. Face coverings will be required at the school too. Policies may change depending on virus activity.She dismisses complaints from some parents who say masks are a loss of personal freedom.“It’s not harmful for your child,” she said. “If you see wearing masks as a loss of personal freedom, then you have to think the same of pants.”Dr. Tina Hartert of Vanderbilt University is leading a National Institutes of Health-funded study aiming to determine what role children play in transmitting COVID-19. Almost 2,000 families are enrolled and self-test every two weeks. The idea is to find infected children without symptoms and see how easily disease spreads within families. Results may come by year’s end.“If we don’t see significant transmission within households, that would be very reassuring,” Hartert said.She noted that in other countries where schools have reopened, evidence suggests no widespread transmission from children.In France, public schools reopened briefly before a summer break, with no sign of widespread virus transmission. Masks were only required for upper grades, but students stayed in the same classroom all day. Frequent hand-washing was mandatory. A better test will be when the new school year starts Sept. 1.In Norway, schools closed in March for several weeks. Nursery schools reopened first, then other grades. Children were put in smaller groups that stay together all day. Masks aren’t required. There have been only a few virus cases, said Dr. Margrethe Greve-Isdahl of the Norwegian Institute of Public Health, but she noted virus activity is much lower than in the U.S.Kati Spaniak, a realtor in Northbrook, Illinois, says her five teenage daughters have struggled to cope with pandemic fears, school closures and deficits of online learning. She strongly supports getting kids back in the classroom, and all her girls will return to some form of that in the fall.It’s been hard for her high school senior, Kylie Ciesla. Prom, graduation and other senior rituals were canceled, and there were no good-byes. “Just to get ripped away from everything I’ve worked for 12 years, it’s really hard,” Kylie said.At college, classes will be in person, masks mandated and a COVID-19 test required before she can move into her dorm. Kylie isn’t sure all that is needed.“I hate that this thing has become so political. I just want the science. I want to know what we need to do to fix it,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-spread-not-politics-should-guide-schools-doctors-say/story-hVojoU5kxmoDqUnLpQ1BnM.html
12-07-2020||World||Donald Trump gives in, finally wears mask in public as Covid cases rise globally||President Donald Trump finally wore a mask, in public, during a visit to a military hospital Saturday, falling in line with the recommendations of his public health officials and experts.It was a navy blue mask with the golden presidential seal emblazoned on the left.“I’ve never been against masks, but I do believe they have a time and a place,” Trump told reporters shortly before leaving the White House for the Walter Reed military hospital just outside Washington DC in the adjoining state Maryland.Trump’s grudging capitulation came under mounting pressure from his aides, allies and critics, on a day when the cumulative total of Covid-19 infections in the United States climbed to nearly 3.25 million, with 61,352 new infections, and fatalities went up to 134,817 with with 685 more in the last 24 hours.The American president had refused to wear a mask in public — he did say he wore it once, out of public view though — triggering a political war about facial coverings, with many conservatives around the country following his lead. Many Republican-ruled states had refused to make it mandatory — such as Texas — until recently, when it was hit by a brutal spike.The United States federally introduced the use of masks, or any facial covering, in early April as a recommendation. But as the epidemic took hold of the country, states such as New York, which quickly emerged as the epicenter, made masks mandatory in public places. Other states followed at their own pace.But Trump’s top public health officials such as Anthony Fauci and Deborah Birx, members of the task force he set up to spearhead his administration’s battle agains virus, began recommending it urgently, along with social distancing measures, as the best bed to slow down the spread.President Trump had refused to wear masks in public interactions at the White House and outside, disregarding these urgent appeals. He and his campaign had even mocked Joe Biden, his presumptive Democratic rival for the White House in November, for wearing one.US states battling with the new surge in infections — deaths have been declining — are embracing masks more urgently than earlier. Texas, a Republican-ruled state, made masks mandatory in the first week of July and Arizona — also Republican-ruled state — has left it to its mayors to decide.Even some Democratic-led states have had their shares of mask problems. Louisiana, made masks mandatory Saturday. “Today, I am announcing a mandatory mask requirement for Louisiana, ordering bars closed to on-premises consumption and limiting indoor social gatherings to 50 total people,” John Bel Edwards. the governor, announced on twitter. The new measures go into effect Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-gives-in-finally-wears-mask-in-public-as-covid-cases-rise-globally/story-fu17we49eAPpvvuIJOhifI.html
12-07-2020||World||As coronavirus rages in US, New York guards against another rise||As coronavirus rages out of control in other parts of the U.S., New York is offering an example after taming the nation’s deadliest outbreak this spring — while also trying to prepare in case another surge comes.New York’s early experience is a ready-made blueprint for states now finding themselves swamped by the disease. It could also come in handy at home, as the region readies for a potential second wave of infection that experts predict will likely come at some point.Gov. Andrew Cuomo has offered advice, ventilators, masks, gowns and medicine to states dealing with spikes in cases and hospitalizations and, in some places, rising deaths. Some health care workers are heading to other states to help fight the virus, reciprocating the influx that gave New York hospitals some much-needed relief just months ago.At the same time, the Democratic governor has ordered travelers from more than a dozen states to quarantine for 14 days, while urging New Yorkers not to let up on wearing masks or social distancing.Yet with the virus tearing through the South and West, Cuomo warned Friday it would eventually rear up again in New York.“We’re doing everything we can,” he told WAMC radio, but “I can feel it coming.”A widely cited University of Washington model doesn’t project spikes — at least through its Nov. 1 time frame — in New York, New Jersey or Connecticut, whose Democratic governors have coordinated on traveler quarantines and, earlier, some shutdown policies. But that doesn’t mean the densely populated tri-state area is in the clear.“We expect the virus to return in all of those states,” said Dr. Christopher Murray, head of the university’s Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. “The question is one of timing.”As cases spiked in March and April, New York became the nation’s coronavirus nightmare, with New York City at the crux of it. Statewide, over 18,000 COVID-19 patients were in hospitals at one point in April. Daily deaths peaked at 799 in April, and have totaled over 24,000.Now, as states from Florida to Texas to California see new confirmed cases soar, hospitals fill up and daily death tolls hit new records, numbers have dropped precipitously in the tri-state region. New York reported six new deaths statewide Saturday, when hospitals were caring for a total of about 800 coronavirus patients.While New York has been gradually reopening, it also has been quietly preparing to handle another surge if it comes.After health workers in New York and elsewhere grappled with shortages of masks, gowns and other protective gear this spring, Cuomo said he would order hospitals to have a 90-day supply on hand. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city would build its own reserve of ventilators, protective equipment and coronavirus test kits, identifying local suppliers and manufacturers rather than looking to federal authorities or global markets.“We’ve learned a tough lesson that we have to create, and we have to protect ourselves,” said de Blasio, a Democrat, who also said the city would stockpile as many as 18 million shelf-stable meals.Others are preparing, too.Mount Sinai Hospital expanded from 94 intensive-care beds to 235 and converted an atrium and lobby into wards for less-critical patients at the height of the crisis. Now, it’s developing a coronavirus playbook of sorts, so clinicians will have how-tos immediately at hand, said Dr. Roopa Kohli-Seth, who oversees intensive care.New York’s nursing homes, which lost more than 6,400 residents to the virus, have set up wings to separate infected residents. They’re now required to test staffers weekly and have at least a two-month supply of protective gear. And they are no longer accepting recovering COVID-19 patients from hospitals, as the state initially directed them to do. They admitted over 6,300 patients before Cuomo reversed the policy under pressure May 10.“We know how to fight this virus now. We have the resources,” said Stephen Hanse, who heads an association of New York nursing homes.The health care system overall is better prepared now, said Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, a Columbia University epidemiology professor.“The difference now is we know the capacity of this virus to rapidly spread to cause disease, its impact on the health care system and our needs in terms of testing, personal protective equipment, ventilators — all the other things we didn’t know six months ago,” said Lipkin, who is working with the city to test hundreds of thousands of people a week.New York has taken reopening relatively slowly — and braked, postponing the resumption of indoor restaurant service in New York City, after cases began surging elsewhere. Thousands of contact tracers have been hired to try to keep the virus in check. And mask-wearing has been widespread in the nation’s biggest city since a city recommendation and subsequent state requirement in April, while some other states have only recently started telling residents to don masks in public.Still, with more New Yorkers getting out and about and riding mass transit, and police taking a hands-off approach to enforcing mask and distancing rules after several violent clashes caught on video, experts worry it’s inevitable case numbers will spike.“I’m not sure how long this progress is going to hold,” said Dr. Irwin Redlener, the director of the Pandemic Resource and Response Initiative at Columbia University.Rob Griffin, a professor of emergency management at the University of Albany, said the state needs to spell out rules for any future shutdowns, “so you don’t have to make a decision on the fly.”Some experts have said New York didn’t move quickly enough early on. New York City’s massive public school system closed March 16, and a statewide stay-at-home order took effect March 22.If such measures had been implemented by March 8, Columbia University researchers estimate about 17,500 lives could have been saved.To New York City’s elected public advocate, Jumaane Williams, the city and state responses to the crisis were frustratingly blind to foreseeable inequities.The city’s Black and Hispanic residents were hospitalized and died of the virus at more than twice the rates of whites and Asians, and people from very poor neighborhoods at twice the rate of residents of wealthy areas.Williams feels New York’s shutdown was too slow and limited, leaving too many workers — many of them people of color — obliged to commute to jobs that might not have been able to provide protective equipment. That can’t happen again, the Democrat said.“The big thing, for me, is to shut down swiftly, open up slowly and make sure there’s an infrastructure for communities we know are going to be impacted the most,” Williams said. “We learned lessons that we didn’t need to learn, and hopefully other people will, too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-coronavirus-rages-in-us-new-york-guards-against-another-rise/story-Fl56RpyxCyMPMe6zh1q46K.html
12-07-2020||World||After Harvard and MIT, Johns Hopkins sues Trump admin to block rule on foreign students||Johns Hopkins University has joined a growing list of prestigious higher education institutions in the US suing the Trump administration over its “cruel” decision not to allow foreign students to take online-only courses this fall semester.On Monday, the Trump administration announced new rules for international students for the upcoming fall semester (September to December) that requires them to take an in-person class to remain in the country. Many American universities have scaled back or eliminated in-person classes due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic.Johns Hopkins University (JHU) filed a lawsuit in federal court on Friday, pushing back against the Trump administration order that would abruptly rescind accommodations for online learning during the Covid-19 pandemic for the nearly 5,000 international students at the university and thousands more across the country.Johns Hopkins said the policy change sending international students back to their home countries if they don’t enroll in in-person classes, “suddenly and unexpectedly” plunged Johns Hopkins, and virtually all of higher education in the United States, into chaos.Hundreds of thousands of Indian students in the US will be affected by the decision of the Trump administration.According to a recent report of the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP), there were over 1,94,000 Indian students enrolled in various academic institutions of the US in January this year. The JHU’s complaint, filed in US District Court in Washington, D.C., seeks a temporary restraining order against the proposal by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), stating that it is “arbitrary and capricious,” unlawful, and a reversal of earlier guidance upon which months of careful planning is based.The Baltimore-based private institution joins other well-known schools such as Harvard University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the University of California system in filing litigation to stop the US government from enforcing the new rule.“The administration’s decision is gratuitous, cruel, and inimical to what this country is about,” JHU President Ronald J. Daniels said.“The university was left with no option but to bring an emergency lawsuit in federal court to stop the administration from pushing ahead with an illegal and unconstitutional directive that, if permitted to stand, would fundamentally undermine the educational freedoms and humanitarian values that animate higher education in our country,” he said in a statement.“This unjust and discriminatory attack on international students cuts to the core of our mission of education and research,” JHU Provost Sunil Kumar said.“It cannot be allowed to stand,” Kumar said.The ICE rule applies to holders of two types of visas, including F-1 visas, which allow nonimmigrant students to pursue academic coursework in the US.“The Trump administration’s sudden announcement upends that careful consideration. It accounts neither for the risks associated with switching to an all in-person approach, nor for the possibility that we may have no choice but to revert to all online classes if the pandemic takes a turn for the worse,” the JHU statement said.The Trump administration’s actions may force students to choose between increased exposure to a deadly virus and maintaining their visa status, the statement said, adding that the JHU will determine how it will execute its mission of research and education safely without government intervention.The virus has killed more than 134,000 people in the US and infected over three million others, making it the worst-hit nation.“The order came down without notice -- its cruelty surpassed only by its recklessness. It appears that it was designed purposefully to place pressure on colleges and universities to open their on-campus classrooms for in-person instruction this fall, without regard to concerns for the health and safety of students, instructors, and others,” Harvard University President Larry Bacow said while reacting to the ICE’s directive.The US has the largest international student population in the world, with more than 1 million of the nation’s higher education students, roughly 5.5 per cent of all college students in the US, coming from abroad, according to the nonprofit Institute of International Education.The US State Department said earlier this week that international students are welcome in the country, adding that the policy “provides greater flexibility for nonimmigrant students to continue their education in the United States, while also allowing for proper social distancing on open and operating campuses across America.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-harvard-and-mit-johns-hopkins-sues-trump-admin-to-block-rule-on-foreign-students/story-5JkJXF8huY1lZt6W9zJ49I.html
12-07-2020||World||Russian university successfully completes trials of world’s 1st Covid-19 vaccine||The clinical trials of the world’s first coronavirus vaccine on volunteers at Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University has been successfully completed, Vadim Tarasov, the director of the Institute for Translational Medicine and Biotechnology, told Sputnik, adding that the first group of volunteers would be discharged on Wednesday and the second on July 20.The university began clinical trials of the vaccine produced by Russia’s Gamalei Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology on June 18.“Sechenov University has successfully completed tests on volunteers of the world’s first vaccine against coronavirus,” Tarasov said.According to Alexander Lukashev, the director of the Institute of Medical Parasitology, Tropical and Vector-Borne Diseases at Sechenov University, the objective of this stage of the study was to show the vaccine’s safety for human health, which was successfully done.“The safety of the vaccine is confirmed. It corresponds to the safety of those vaccines that are currently on the market,” Lukashev told Sputnik.The further vaccine development plan is already being determined by the developer’s strategy, including the complexity of the epidemiological situation with the virus and the possibility of scaling up production, Lukashev added.“Sechenov University in a pandemic situation acted not only as an educational institution but also as a scientific and technological research center that is able to participate in the creation of such important and complex products as drugs ... We worked with this vaccine, starting with preclinical studies and protocol development, and clinical trials are currently underway,” Tarasov noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-sechenov-university-successfully-completes-trials-of-world-s-1st-covid-19-vaccine/story-Fj8MpR43zusjiYOriJy66L.html
12-07-2020||World||Iran blames bad communication, alignment for jet shootdown||A misaligned missile battery, miscommunication between troops and their commanders and a decision to fire without authorization all led to Iran’s Revolutionary Guard shooting down a Ukrainian jetliner in January, killing all 176 people on board, a new report says.The report released late Saturday by Iran’s Civil Aviation Organization comes months after the Jan. 8 crash near Tehran. Authorities had initially denied responsibility, only changing course days later after Western nations presented extensive evidence that Iran had shot down the plane.The report may signal a new phase in the investigation into the crash, as the aircraft’s black box flight recorder is due to be sent to Paris, where international investigators will finally be able to examine it. It also comes as public opinion remains low over Iran’s government as it faces both crushing U.S. sanctions and vast domestic economic problems.The shootdown happened the same night Iran launched a ballistic missile attack targeting U.S. soldiers in Iraq, its response to the American drone strike that killed Guard Gen. Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad on Jan. 3.At the time, Iranian troops were bracing for a U.S. counterstrike and appear to have mistaken the plane for a missile. The civil aviation report does not acknowledge that, only saying a change in the “alertness level of Iran’s air defense” allowed previously scheduled air traffic to resume.The report detailed a series of moments where the shootdown of Ukraine International Airlines Flight 752 could have been avoided.The report said the surface-to-air missile battery that targeted the Boeing 737-800 had been relocated and was not properly reoriented.Those manning the missile battery could not communicate with their command center, they misidentified the civilian flight as a threat and opened fire twice without getting approval from ranking officials, the report said.“If each had not arisen, the aircraft would not have been targeted,” the report said.Western intelligence officials and analysts believe Iran shot down the aircraft with a Russian-made Tor system, known to NATO as the SA-15. In 2007, Iran took the delivery of 29 Tor M1 units from Russia under a contract worth an estimated $700 million. The system is mounted on a tracked vehicle and carries a radar and a pack of eight missiles.The report did not say why the Guard moved the air defense system, though that area near the airport is believed to be home to both regular military and bases of the paramilitary Guard.The report notes that the Ukrainian flight had done nothing out of the ordinary up until the missile launch, with its transponder and other data being broadcast.“At the time of firing the first missile, the aircraft was flying at a normal altitude and trajectory,” the report said.The plane had just taken off from Imam Khomeini International Airport when the first missile exploded, possibly damaging its radio equipment, the report said. The second missile likely directly struck the aircraft, as videos that night show the plane exploding into a ball of fire before crashing into a playground and farmland on the outskirts of Tehran.The report put the blame entirely on the crew of the missile battery. Already, six people believed to be involved in the incident have been arrested, judiciary spokesman Gholamhossein Esmaili reportedly said in June. He said at the time three had been released on bail while the other three remained held.In recent months, Iran has repeatedly delayed releasing the aircraft’s so-called black box, which includes data and communications from the cockpit leading up to the shootdown. The U.S., under international regulations, has a right to be part of the investigation as the plane involved was a Boeing.Iran is to send the black box to France on July 20, where Ukrainian and French experts are expected to examine it, Iran’s state-run IRNA news agency recently reported. Iranian officials did not have the equipment on hand to read data from the box.The plane, en route to the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, was carrying 167 passengers and nine crew members from several countries, including 82 Iranians, 57 Canadians — including many Iranians with dual citizenship — and 11 Ukrainians, according to officials. The route was popular with those traveling onward to Canada.After the assassination of Soleimani in the U.S. drone strike, millions came out for funeral processions in his honor across Iran. However, his burial — which also saw a stampede that killed dozens — came just as the Guard shot down the airliner, igniting public anger against a paramilitary force that answers only to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-blames-bad-communication-alignment-for-jet-shootdown/story-ybFHxmUMncBMlUf9RdVxZP.html
12-07-2020||World||UK to spend $890 million on post-Brexit border preparations||With less than six months until the U.K.’s transitional membership of the European Union single market ends, ministers have announced plans to spend 705 million pounds ($890 million) on new border infrastructure.Cabinet Office Minister Michael Gove, in charge of the U.K.’s Brexit preparations, on Sunday insisted the U.K. would have everything in place for Jan. 1, 2021, when the existing temporary arrangement ends. The U.K. and EU have yet to agree on their future trading relationship.A leaked letter from Trade Secretary Liz Truss last week set out her department’s concerns about the government’s post-Brexit border plans, including an increased risk of smuggling and a possible challenge from the World Trade Organization. Speaking to the BBC, Gove said there was no disagreement in government and it was time to “get cracking on implementation.”Although Gove emphasized the “opportunities” he said would exist for U.K. businesses outside the EU, ministers are now preparing them for increased costs. A new government website offers advice on how to hire a business with a base inside the EU to handle the new customs bureaucracy that will be involved in moving goods across the English Channel.The government’s new border arrangements will focus on smart infrastructure, Gove said, without elaborating further.The government has purchased a 27-acre site about 20 miles (32 kilometers) from the port of Dover for “holding” delayed goods vehicles, The Guardian reported Friday. “It’s not the intention to create a massive concrete lorry park,” Gove told the BBC.The U.K.’s plans for its border with Ireland will be published later this month, according to Gove. While Prime Minister Boris Johnson has insisted there will be no checks on goods moving between Northern Ireland and Great Britain, Gove said there would probably be “one or two rather simple processes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-spend-890-million-on-post-brexit-border-preparations/story-MqA2AjlnfuNp3ypWMvFZ7K.html
12-07-2020||World||Lanka polls: Election rallies of president, PM cancelled temporarily after spike in Covid-19 cases||All election rallies of Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa have been cancelled temporarily, the SLPP announced on Sunday, following a spike in coronavirus cases in the country.The parliamentary elections in the island nation are scheduled for August 5. The country has so far reported 2,511 Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths. All election rallies of President Gotabaya and Prime Minister Mahinda scheduled for July 12, 13 and 14 have been cancelled, the Sri Lanka People’s Party (SLPP) said in a press release. The announcement came as the country recorded a jump in Covid-19 cases since the middle of this week. Sri Lanka on Friday recorded its highest single-day spike of 300 coronavirus cases in a rehabilitation centre for drug addicts in the north central region. Fifty-seven more cases were reported on Saturday.  Sri Lanka’s top election official had also expressed concern over the delay in enforcing the Covid-19 health guidelines for the August 5 parliamentary elections, warning that candidates and supporters were defying measures to contain the spread of the disease which could endanger public safety.Mahinda Deshapriya, Chairman of the National Election Commission, said the health guidelines for conducting the elections were announced on June 2 but they have not been legalised through a gazette notification.The health guidelines require wearing face masks, frequent hand washing and maintaining one-metre distance. The number of people at poll campaign gatherings has also been reduced to a bare minimum. President Gotabaya on March 2 dissolved the Parliament, six months ahead of schedule, and called for snap polls on April 25. However, the election commission in mid-April postponed the elections by nearly two months to June 20 due to the coronavirus outbreak in the island nation. The commission last month informed the apex court that the polls cannot be held on June 20 because of the coronavirus pandemic and the new date was decided following a unanimous decision reached between the members of the commission.There are over 16 million eligible voters in the country. The August 5 poll will elect a 225-member Parliament for a five-year term.Meanwhile, the ministry of education said schools would be closed again if adequate Covid-19 preventive measures are not taken by the respective school authorities. Schools were reopened last week in the country. The Sri Lanka Medical Association has also expressed concern over the “blatant lack” of measures required to control the spread of the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lanka-polls-election-rallies-of-president-pm-cancelled-temporarily-after-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-EiWWYUOBTjhS0zis1zEP0L.html
12-07-2020||World||Masks, disinfectant, social distancing: Japan responds to floods amid Covid-19||Boxes of surgical masks, bottles of disinfectant and a sign saying “Please wear a mask” mark the entrance to a public gym in Yatsushiro city, a shelter for residents fleeing devastating floods in southwestern Japan this week.Elsewhere in the gym, cardboard partitions separate the 233 evacuees’ sleeping areas and another sign instructs them to check their temperature each morning, then sterilise the thermometers.The measures show what a thorny issue it is for Japan to deal with natural disasters in the time of coronavirus. Japanese authorities have been warning local officials for months to include coronavirus measures in their disaster preparations. Residents have been urged to seek shelter with friends or relatives if possible to avoid overcrowding evacuation centres.But coronavirus contagion was the last thing on the mind of 78-year-old retiree Aiko Ishimura when neighbours knocked on her door on Monday to tell her about evacuation orders.Ishimura, who lives alone, had planned to shelter at home.“So we just came as we were. We were in such a rush to come here, we didn’t bring anything,” Ishimura, who fled with neighbours, told Reuters. “I wasn’t worried at all about coronavirus, not at all.” “We don’t have many cases here in the first place. We don’t really do the whole mask-wearing thing,” she added, although she said she keeps a mask in her pocket.Kumamoto prefecture, where Yatsushiro is located, has had only 49 of Japan’s more than 20,000 coronavirus cases, according to public broadcaster NHK.That compares with close to 7,000 in Tokyo, where cases are on the rise again among its 14 million residents.Misa Matsuda, a 48-year-old nurse, accustomed to the annual floods in the region, had also intended to remain at home. But she was stunned early Monday when she opened her door and found the river flowing just a few feet from her house.“I thought, there’s no way the water would come up here to our house, where it’s a bit of a hill,” she said. Extreme weather disasters have become increasingly common in Japan recently. Last year, Typhoon Hagibis killed nearly 100 people, a year after more than 200 died in western Japan in the worst flooding in decades.Matsuda said she wasn’t too concerned about coronavirus because basic steps were being taken, but did worry residents would congregate to chat, creating just the sort of crowded conditions authorities say increase infection risk.City official Takanobu Ono said the evacuation centre was limited to 300 people despite a capacity for 500. But he said the priority for evacuees was escaping with their lives.“Some of have just been saved by the skin of their teeth,” he said. “The reality is that coronavirus is less of a concern for them ... So we’re taking the measures we have to, but haven’t been so strict about it.”About 60 people have died or were feared dead from floods and landslides triggered by torrential rains that have pounded the southwestern island of Kyushu, including Kumamoto prefecture, since Saturday. Extreme rain warnings were issued for parts of central Japan on Wednesday. Disaster experts said persuading people to evacuate early and find alternative shelters was vital, but agreed that convincing people to plan ahead was often tough.“We kept saying, ‘Check your hazard map,’“ said Masako Yoneda of the Japan Academic Network for Disaster Reduction, which issued an urgent warning on the topic in May. “But still, there are people who don’t check.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/masks-disinfectant-social-distancing-japan-responds-to-disaster-amid-coronavirus/story-gxPiRdfoPcWUhbwwkwnWrK.html
12-07-2020||World||Coronavirus surge in Eastern Europe causes new restrictions||Countries in Eastern Europe are facing rising waves of coronavirus infections, leading to new restrictive measures such as the mandatory use of face masks in Croatia and travel bans or quarantines to be imposed by Hungary.Hungarian authorities said Sunday that they would put countries in three categories — red, yellow and green — based on their rate of new coronavirus infections, and would impose restrictions, including entry bans and mandatory quarantines, depending from which country people were coming from.“We see worrisome signs about an increase in the number of cases in the neighboring countries, Europe and the whole world,” said Gergely Gulyas, Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s chief of staff.Foreigners from countries in the red category — those with a high rate of infections, including Albania, Ukraine, Belarus and practically all of Asia, Africa and South and Central America — are banned from entering, while Hungarian citizens arriving from those locations will have to stay quarantined for two weeks or until they test negative twice, 48 hours apart.Both Hungarians and foreigners arriving from countries in the yellow category — which includes, among others, Bulgaria, Portugal, Romania and Sweden, as well as Britain, Russia, Serbia, Japan, China and the United States — will have to quarantine for two weeks, but will be allowed out if they test negative for the virus: once for Hungarians, or two negative tests 48 hours apart in the case of foreigners.Gulyas said the new rules would take effect Wednesday and would be reviewed at least once a week.Romania announced a new high of infections on Saturday, with 698, while 456 new cases were reported Sunday.Serbia reported 354 new infections on Saturday, although there have been increasing doubts about the accuracy of the figures. Officially, the country has over 18,000 confirmed infections and 382 deaths since March, with health authorities warning that Serbian hospitals are almost full due to the latest surge in cases.Croatia, whose Adriatic Sea coast is a major tourist destination, will make wearing masks mandatory in stores from Monday, while restaurant staff, but not patrons, will also have to wear face coverings.Infections are also on the rise in India, which has the most cases after the United States and Brazil, with a record surge of 28,637 cases reported in the past 24 hours as authorities announced a weeklong lockdown beginning Tuesday in the key southern technology hub of Bangalore, where the offices of top tech companies like Microsoft, Apple and Amazon are located.South Korea has also reported an uptick in infections around Seoul, its capital, and other major cities, with 44 new cases over the past 24 hours.The pandemic is also affecting elections in Europe.In Poland, which is holding a runoff presidential vote Sunday between conservative incumbent Andrzej Duda, and Rafal Trzaskowski, the liberal, pro-European Union mayor of Warsaw, voters must wear masks and gloves, maintain social distancing and use hand sanitizer. They even can use their own pens to mark ballots. Ballot boxes are being disinfected regularly and the polling stations are ventilated.Similar safety measures have been put in place for elections in two northern regions in Spain, but authorities in both the Basque Country and Galicia have prohibited over 400 people who have tested positive for the virus from leaving their homes to vote. Spain’s Supreme Court backed the decision in a ruling Friday in response to a complaint by opposition parties in both regions.In the U.S., there has been an upturn in coronavirus deaths, driven by fatalities in states in the South and West, with the seven-day rolling average for daily reported deaths increasing from 578 two weeks ago to 664 on July 10 — still well below the heights hit in April — according to an Associated Press analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University.A coronavirus death, when it occurs, typically comes several weeks after a person is first infected. And experts predicted states that saw increases in cases and hospitalizations would, at some point, see deaths rise too. Now that’s happening.“It’s consistently picking up. And it’s picking up at the time you’d expect it to,” said William Hanage, a Harvard University infectious diseases researcher.Researchers now expect deaths to rise for at least some weeks, but some think the count probably will not go up as dramatically as it did in the spring.___Associated Press writers around the world contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-surge-in-eastern-europe-causes-new-restrictions/story-WH2R9AQ25D67VVsqDuCABP.html
12-07-2020||World||Over 200,000 vote in Hong Kong pro-democracy primaries||Hundreds of thousands of Hong Kong residents turned up over the weekend to vote in an unofficial two-day primary election held by the city’s pro-democracy camp as it gears up to field candidates for an upcoming legislative poll.The primary was held two weeks after Beijing imposed a sweeping national security law on the semi-autonomous territory in a move widely seen as chipping away at the “one country, two systems” framework under which Britain handed Hong Kong over to China in 1997. It was passed in response to last year’s massive protests calling for greater democracy and more police accountability.Throngs of people lined up at polling booths in the summer heat to vote despite a warning last week by Hong Kong’s constitutional affairs minister, Eric Tsang, that the primaries could be in breach of the new national security law because it outlaws interference and disruption of duties by the local government.Organizers have dismissed the comments, saying they just want to hold the government accountable by gaining a majority in the legislature.The new law prohibits what Beijing views as secessionist, subversive or terrorist activities or as foreign intervention in Hong Kong affairs. Under the law, police now have sweeping powers to conduct searches without warrants and order internet service providers and platforms to remove messages deemed to be in violation of the legislation.On Friday, police raided the office of the Public Opinion Research Institute, a co-organizer of the primaries. The computer system was suspected of being hacked, causing a data leak, police said in a statement, and an investigation is ongoing.Hong Kong’s pro-democracy camp, which includes multiple parties, is attempting to join forces and use the primaries as a guide to field the best candidates in the official legislative election in September. Its goal is to win a majority in the legislature, which is typically skewed toward the pro-Beijing camp.To hold the primaries, pro-democracy activists had raised money via crowd funding. They pledged to veto the government’s budget if they clinch a majority in the legislature. Under Hong Kong’s mini-constitution, known as the Basic Law, the city’s leader must resign if an important bill such as the budget is vetoed twice.On Saturday alone, nearly 230,000 people voted at polling booths set up across the city, exceeding organizers’ estimates of a turnout of 170,000 over the entire weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-200-000-vote-in-hong-kong-pro-democracy-primaries/story-AkWfVSBRNQFcxdtvEReXNM.html
12-07-2020||World||Alumnus Swraj Paul donates $5 million to MIT, says studying there ‘changed his life’||Industrialist Swraj Paul has donated $5 million to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he studied mechanical engineering and later went on to found the Caparo Group that straddles various sectors, including value-added steel products.MIT’s Kresge Auditorium is to be named after the 89-year-old Paul, whose two sons, Akash and Angad, also went to MIT. The donation has been made through the Paul family’s charitable trust, the Ambika Paul Foundation, a statement from Paul’s office said on Sunday.Designed by Finnish-American architect Eero Saarinen, the Kresge Auditorium is architecturally significant as a leading example of a minimalist thin-shell concrete structure. Located in the central area of the MIT campus, Kresge opened its doors in 1955 and has played an important role in the life of the MIT community. It was renovated in 2016.In recognition of the gift, the large hall in the Kresge Auditorium will be named as the Lord Swraj Paul PC ’52 and Angad Paul ’92 Theatre; more generally known as the Swraj Paul Theatre at Kresge Auditorium.Paul, a member of the House of Lords, said, “I first came to MIT from India in 1949 at a time when there were very few Indian students in the United States, and the experience changed my life”.“Because of my time at MIT, I decided to expand my Caparo companies into the US, and for more than 30 years, we have made significant investments across the country in our Bull Moose Tube and XL Trailers businesses”.“I have always had a great respect for MIT as a world centre of technical excellence, and was delighted when my sons followed me there in the 1970s and 80s. MIT means a lot to our family, and I am honoured that we are able to support the continuation of its values and way of life through this iconic building.”The Kresge auditorium also serves as a venue for a variety of community activities including MIT events and symposiums and student performances, and Cambridge Symphony Orchestra and New England Philharmonic performances.The Ambika Paul Foundation was established in 1978 in memory of Paul’s daughter, Ambika, who died of leukaemia in 1968 aged 4. It was for her medical treatment that Paul first came to Britain in 1966, where he remained and went on to create Caparo, a diversified global association of businesses with interests predominantly in the design, manufacture, marketing, and distribution of value-added steel and niche engineering products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alumnus-swraj-paul-donates-5-million-to-mit-says-studying-there-changed-his-life/story-uSKZnsu4xqWGkznNbZVClO.html
12-07-2020||World||Bank accounts of Hafiz Saeed, other JuD leaders restored: Report||The bank accounts of people associated with banned terror groups Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) have been restored, reports in Pakistani media said.The people whose bank accounts have been restored include that of JuD chief Hafiz Saeed, The News reported. The decision was taken after formal approval of the Sanctions Committee of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). it further reported.The bank accounts of Abdul Salam Bhuttavi, Haji M Ashraf, Yahya Mujahid and Zafar Iqbal - all connected to these terror groups - have also been restored, The News said. All these members of the banned terror outfits are in jail, facing sentences ranging from one to five years.They were charged in terror financing cases by the Punjab Counter Terrorism Department (CTD).The paper quoted sources as claiming that each one of the defunct JuD leaders had appealed to the United Nations for restoring their bank accounts so that they could run their family affairs.A leader of one of these organisations was quoted by Pakistan news outlets that the leaders approached the UN Security Council since they wanted money to run their affairs.These leaders in their request to the government of Pakistan had also mentioned about their financial income and sources of earning, reports said. The same was forwarded to the UNSC along their bank account numbers and other related details, the newspaper report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bank-accounts-of-hafiz-saeed-other-jud-leaders-restored-report/story-unobmdxTzSg0aSFSDpcPDP.html
12-07-2020||World||Tehran police say blast at clinic caused by staff negligence||A deadly explosion in a Tehran clinic last month was caused by staff negligence, Tehran’s deputy police chief said, ruling out sabotage.A police investigation has concluded that the explosion and fire that killed 19 people in the Iranian capital on July 30 was “by no means a security issue,” Hamid Hadavand was cited as saying by the semi-official Fars news agency. About a dozen people, most of them clinic staffers, were arrested and released on bail until trial, he said, in the first official conclusion on the cause of the blast.The clinic blast was one in a string of mysterious explosions, including at a military site near Tehran and a nuclear enrichment facility, to have rocked Iran in recent weeks, giving rise to suspicions of sabotage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tehran-police-say-blast-at-clinic-caused-by-staff-negligence/story-uMlU9mr5lX8UmSFMK7fmaL.html
12-07-2020||World||Nepal’s political turmoil may get new twist as Madhesi party gets poll panel nod||A newly-formed Madhesi party officially registered with Nepal’s election commission on Sunday after all its documents were accepted by the poll panel.The Janata Samajbadi Party of Nepal (JSPN) was formed on April 23 after the merger of Samajbadi Party Nepal and Rastriya Janata Party Nepal.The party had applied for registration on June 7, but claimed that the process was delayed by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who is facing turmoil within his ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP).The certificate for registration was finally issued on Sunday.With 32 seats in the Lower House, the JSPN has now become the third-largest party after the NCP with 173 seats and the main Opposition Nepali Congress with 60 seats in the 275-member House of Representatives.Though it has supported the constitutional amendment bill passed by the Nepal government to change the country’s map, the JSPN has been against a new citizenship amendment bill being pushed by the Oli government which seeks to impose restrictions on people who are not the country’s citizens.The Madhesis, mostly of Indian-origin, belong to this category.They had launched a six-month-long agitation during Oli’s previous term in 2015-16 in which more than 50 people were killed. The agitation had also crippled the landlocked country’s economy as supplies from India were blocked.The new Madhesi party can play a crucial role in Nepal’s political spectrum as pressure is mounting on Oli to quit the post of the prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-s-political-turmoil-may-get-new-twist-as-madhesi-party-gets-poll-panel-nod/story-MUHrGVA5url1wElZhpDaeP.html
12-07-2020||World||Thailand plans November human testing for potential coronavirus vaccine||Thai researchers plan to begin human trials of a potential vaccine for the new coronavirus in November and are preparing 10,000 doses, a senior official said on Sunday, aiming for a vaccine that could be ready for use by late next year. Following favourable results in trials on primates, the next step is to manufacture doses for human trials, said Kiat Ruxrungtham, director of the Bangkok’s Chulalongkorn University vaccine development program. “At first we were going to send them in June, but it was not easy to plan everything,” Kiat told a news conference. There are no approved vaccines for the virus that causes Covid-19, but 19 candidates are being trailed in humans globally. China is leading the race, with an experimental vaccine by Sinovac Biotech LtdThailand’s first facility should complete production in October and send the products to a second facility, which should finish by November, he said. Originally the earliest target was September, but Kiat said not enough vaccine can be ready by then.Facilities in San Diego and Vancouver will produce 10,000 doses for the trials for 5,000 people. The first group, aged 18 to 60, will receive different doses of the vaccine, he said.The trials will not accept volunteers “until we receive approval from the Thai Food and Drug Administration and an ethics committee,” Kiat said. Thai company BioNet-Asia is preparing its facilities for large-scale manufacturing if the trials prove successful, he said. “If everything goes according to plan, the vaccine will be ready for Thailand in the third or fourth quarter next year,” Kiat said. Thailand on Sunday had a total of 3,217 confirmed infections, with no local transmissions reported in over a month, and 58 Covid-19 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-plans-november-human-testing-for-potential-coronavirus-vaccine/story-WRlguUzYf00obohIBVGIdO.html
12-07-2020||World||Dalai Lama is welcome to visit Taiwan, says foreign ministry||Taiwan would welcome a visit by exiled Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, its foreign ministry has said, adding that any invitation would be handled under “relevant rules” if a request to visit is received, reported Radio Free Asia, a US-funded international broadcasting corporation.The Dalai Lama is “welcome to come to Taiwan again to propagate the Buddhist teachings,” foreign ministry spokeswoman Joanne Ou said on Monday, adding that an application by the Dalai Lama to visit would be handled “in accordance with the principle of mutual respect and at a time of convenience for both sides.”A visit to Taiwan by the Dalai Lama would be his first since 2009 and would certainly anger Beijing, which claims self-governing Taiwan as a renegade province and regards the Tibetan spiritual leader as a dangerous separatist intent on splitting Tibet from Chinese rule.“As the political scenario changes, it may be that I’ll be able to visit you in Taiwan again soon. I hope so,” the Dalai Lama said in a video message sent to supporters in Taiwan on the occasion of his birthday, July 6, and referring apparently to recent moves by the country’s president Tsai Ing-wen to further distance from China.“Whatever happens, I’ll remain with you in spirit,” the Dalai Lama said.Greetings and well wishes poured in from around the world on Sunday, the Dalai Lama’s 85th birthday, with Tibetans in Tibet defying Chinese prohibitions on celebrations by offering prayers and posting images of the revered spiritual leader online.Western politicians and foreign dignitaries including former US President George Bush, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Nobel laureates, and European politicians meanwhile sent video messages voicing admiration and support.“The esteem in which you are held by the people of the United States is a demonstration of the deep and enduring affinity between Americans and Tibetans,” said US Ambassador to India Kenneth Ian Juster in a statement at celebrations held in Dharamsala, India, by Tibet’s government-in-exile, the Central Tibetan Administration.“I believe the warm feelings between Americans and Tibetans spring in part from the recognition that yours is a just and noble struggle--a struggle to secure for your people the same self-evident and unalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness that our Founding Fathers enshrined in the Declaration of Independence,” Juster said.The Dalai Lama fled Tibet into exile in India in the midst of a failed 1959 Tibetan national uprising against rule by China, which marched into the formerly independent Himalayan country in 1950. Since then he has been living in Dharamsala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dalai-lama-is-welcome-to-visit-taiwan-says-foreign-ministry/story-kRkJFSN5mOvd9Ego8XdTDK.html
12-07-2020||World||On fifth attempt, UN Security Council renews Syria aid via Turkey||The United Nations Security Council on Saturday approved aid deliveries to Syria through one border crossing from Turkey, a day after its authorization for the six-year-long humanitarian operation ended, leaving millions of Syrian civilians in limbo.The United Nations describes the aid delivered from Turkey as a “lifeline” for Syrians in the country’s northwest. The 15-member council had been deadlocked, with most members pitted against Syrian allies Russia and China, which abstained on Saturday in the council’s fifth vote this week on the issue.Veto-powers Russia and China wanted to halve the approved Turkey border crossings to one, arguing that the northwest of Syria can be reached from within the country. They also wanted to include language that Western diplomats said blamed unilateral sanctions on Syria for the humanitarian crisis.German UN Ambassador Christoph Heusgen told his Chinese and Russian counterparts to report back to their capitals that he had asked: “How those people who gave the instructions to cut off the aid of 500,000 children ... are ready to look into the mirror tomorrow.” Council members had also been split on whether to renew authorization for six months or one year. The short resolution finally adopted on Saturday, which was drafted by Germany and Belgium, simply authorized one crossing for one year.“Russia is consistently in favor of humanitarian deliveries to Syria with full respect of the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and with coordination of its legal government. This issue should not be politicized,” deputy Russian UN envoy Dmitry Polyanskiy said after the vote. Twelve members voted in favor, while the Dominican Republic also abstained. The successful vote came after two failed votes on Russian proposals and two vetoes by Russia and China of resolutions drafted by Germany and Belgium.Acting British UN Ambassador Jonathan Allen said after the vote that the loss of aid access through Bab al-Salaam border crossing would deprive “1.3 million people in northwest Syria of cross-border humanitarian assistance that they rely on.” Germany and Belgium said in a joint statement after the vote: “One border crossing is not enough, but no border crossings would have left the fate of an entire region in question.”When the Security Council first authorized the cross-border aid operation into Syria in 2014 it also included access from Jordan and Iraq. Those crossings were cut in January due to opposition by Russia and China. China’s UN Ambassador Zhang Jun said China always had reservations about the delivery of cross-border aid, but given the current situation in Syria it does not object to retaining it “at this stage.” Though he added that “it should adjusted accordingly in light of the developments on the ground.”Russia has vetoed 16 council resolutions related to Syria since Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad cracked down on protesters in 2011, leading to civil war. For many of those votes, Moscow has been backed in the council by China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-fifth-attempt-un-security-council-renews-syria-aid-via-turkey/story-MSex90Fa9c8e3P7jNQiqPJ.html
12-07-2020||World||US scientists may have found path to increase human life||Scientists at a university in United States’ Southern California may have found the beginnings of a path needed to extend the lifespan of human beings.The research by a team from USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences, published on July 10 by the Journal of Gerontology: Biological Sciences, shows the drug mifepristone can extend the lives of two very different species used in laboratory studies.Clinicians use mifepristone, also known as RU-486, to end early pregnancies as well as to treat cancer and Cushing disease.The study, Metabolic Signatures of Life Span Regulated by Mating, Sex Peptide and Mifepristone/RU486 in Female Drosophila, also suggests that the findings may apply to other species, including humans.John Tower, a professor of biological sciences at USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences, and his team found mifepristone extends the lives of the female fruit fly Drosophila that have mated.Female fruit flies receive sex peptide from males during mating and previous research has shown that the molecule causes inflammation and reduces the health and lifespan of female flies.Giving mifepristone to the fruit flies that have mated blocks the effects of sex peptide, reducing inflammation and keeping the female flies healthier, leading to longer lifespans than their counterparts who did not receive the drug, Tower and his team, including Gary Landis, a senior research associate and the lead researcher on the study, found.The drug’s effects in Drosophila appear similar to those seen in women who take it.“In the fly, mifepristone decreases reproduction, alters innate immune response and increases life span,” Tower said. “In the human, we know that mifepristone decreases reproduction and alters innate immune response, so might it also increase life span?” Tower was quoted as saying by News Medical, an open-access medical and life science hub.The team looked at the genes, molecules and metabolic processes that changed when flies were fed the drug to seek a better understanding of how mifepristone works to increase lifespan.They found that a molecule called juvenile hormone, which regulates the development of fruit flies throughout their life, from egg to larvae to adult, plays a central role. Sex peptide appears to escalate the effects of juvenile hormone, shifting the mated flies’ metabolism from healthier processes to metabolic pathways that require more energy. The metabolic shift promotes harmful inflammation and it appears to make the flies more sensitive to toxic molecules produced by bacteria in their microbiome, the study shows.When the mated flies ate the drug, their metabolism stuck with the healthier pathways and they lived longer than their mated sisters who did not get mifepristone. Tower has said that these metabolic pathways are conserved in humans and are associated with health and longevity, according to News Medical.Tower and his collaborators also gave the same drug to C elegans, a small roundworm, and found that mifepristone had the same life-extending effect on the mated worm.He said because Drosophila fruit flies and C elegans worms are relatively distant in terms of evolution, the similar results in such different species suggest other organisms, including humans, might see comparable benefits to lifespan.He said the fact that mifepristone can increase lifespan in both species suggests the mechanism is important to many species.“Our data show that in Drosophila, mifepristone either directly or indirectly counteracts juvenile hormone signalling, but the exact target of mifepristone remains elusive,” Tower said, according to News Medical.A clearer understanding of the intricacies of mifepristone’s actions is needed before drawing any firm conclusions, Tower added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-scientists-may-have-found-path-to-increase-human-life/story-eGmgfCwH7pAYs1lBCbV1AM.html
12-07-2020||World||China signals shrimp virus risk after salmon debacle||China said a handful of packaging samples of imported shrimp tested positive for the coronavirus, raising questions again over whether the pathogen can spread through food or frozen products.The virus tested positive on the outside of about five shrimp packages and the inside of one shipping container, said China’s General Administration of Customs. The samples were from three Ecuadorian plants, and imports from those processors will be halted, it said. A leading Ecuadorian shrimp exporter disputed the findings.“The test result doesn’t mean the virus is contagious, but reflects the loopholes in companies’ food safety regulations,” said Bi Kexin, director of the food import and export safety bureau in the customs department. “Customs will further strengthen control of the origins of imported cold-chain food.”China last month pointed to imported salmon as a possible culprit for Beijing’s fresh Covid-19 outbreak, sparking a boycott of the fish as supermarkets took the produce off their shelves. China also began mass testing of cold food imports at ports, and blocked shipments from meat plants abroad that reported infections among workers.Evidence suggests that it’s extremely unlikely for the virus to be transmitted through food, said Gorjan Nikolik, associate director of seafood at Rabobank.“It’s a typical food scare,” he said. “I expect them to be very short-lived.”The US Food and Drug Administration issued a fresh statement on the matter, saying there’s no evidence that Covid-19 is transmitted through food or food packaging.Ecuadorian shrimp exporter Santa Priscila questioned the findings and lamented the blow to the industry’s reputation, saying Chinese officials had refused to provide information on the testing in recent weeks.“They found one positive non-contagious test ‘inside the wall of the container’ as a result of 227,934 samples taken from the containers, that is 0.0000043%,” Santa Priscila President and founder Santiago Salem said in a statement.Low RiskChinese officials have also agreed with global experts that imported food poses a low risk of transmitting the virus. That’s led to confusion overseas over why China is continuing to test and halt shipments.The tests are “an important measure to prevent the risk of the virus being transmitted from imported cold chain food channels,” Bi said. “This is a necessary measure taken to protect the health of the people and does not interrupt normal international trade.”Employees in some countries are still working even after becoming infected with the virus, raising the risk of food contamination, Bi said. Because there are epidemic clusters at some overseas facilities, China halted meat imports from a total of 23 plants, including Brazil, the UK, the US and Germany, he said.For shrimp, China is a much bigger buyer than it is for salmon, Rabobank’s Nikolik said. Chinese purchases are on the same scale as the US and Europe, and Ecuador is a leading supplier, he said.Last year, Ecuador exported $3.2 billion of shrimp, including about $1.4 billion to China in shipments that take about three weeks to arrive.China’s customs authorities also tested a total of 227,934 samples and the rest of the samples were negative, it said. The samples which tested positive had been delivered to ports in Dalian and Xiamen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-signalling-of-shrimp-covid-19-risk-angers-ecuadorian-suppliers/story-UaOY1CUc1mlO1N8Q6X1NaO.html
12-07-2020||World||Lebanon records new coronavirus infection high||Lebanon’s number of new coronavirus infections increased for a third consecutive day to a record 86, the government said on Saturday.Lebanon has recorded 2,168 infections and 36 deaths since February.Health Minister Hamad Hassan told Reuters on Friday the spike was partly due to expatriates who came after the airport was reopened on July 1. One infected 12 people at a wedding and another infected 12 at a funeral, he said.A second cluster of infections had appeared among nurses and doctors and a third among refuse collectors, he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lebanon-records-new-coronavirus-infection-high/story-2m4crMZl4UnaAdH61IIsIJ.html
12-07-2020||World||Covid-19: Thousands of garment workers lose jobs across Asia||Hundreds of thousands of garment workers in Asia, a vast majority of them being women, were suspended or laid off when the coronavirus pandemic struck as stores closed across North America and Europe.As per WallStreet Journal reports, millions of people belonging from various Asia’s developing countries relied on factories producing T-shirts, trousers for employment. But owing to the pandemic, the western brands canceled orders worth billions of dollars, leaving shipments of sweaters and jeans with no takers. As a result, hundreds of factories closed in waves across Asian industrial belts near Phnom Penh, Dhaka and Yangon.Click here for full Covid-19 updatesIn recent months, Bangladesh, Vietnam and Myanmar are the most affected countries in Asia as many workers have returned to their villages, cut back on food and borrowed money to survive.The Journal cites an example of Zin Mar Oo, 22, who had to lose her job in Myanmar after the South Korean-owned factory where she worked closed down operations in April. The owner has not been there seen since and left no word about the fate of the jobs or the factory, according to Oo, the country’s garment manufacturers body and the local labor-relations official.Oo, who didn’t finish high school, made USD155 a month by working in the garment factory located in the outskirts of Yangon. Her role was to check that clothes being made did not have crooked stitching lines or mismatched thread colours. Her income supported her mother and helped repay the family’s debt.These setbacks could be longer lasting than the disruption to shopping. The global fashion industry, which was already facing headwinds before lockdowns decimated sales, is in deep turmoil and is likely to be reshaped by the pandemic.“I don’t think this is a sector which is going to come back to the same point again,” said Rubana Huq, president of the top industry group for garment manufacturers in Bangladesh, among the world’s largest clothing exporters.Meanwhile, J.C. Penney Co., Neiman Marcus Group Inc. and J.Crew Group Inc. have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent months.Western companies are expected to turn more to “near-shoring”--moving some of their production to Turkey, Eastern Europe and North Africa for European markets, and to Mexico for North American markets, said Achim Berg, senior partner at McKinsey & Co. who advises global fashion and apparel companies.For countries with limited infrastructure and low-skilled workers, garment manufacturing has been a key economic engine. Operating sewing machines does not require much education or training, unlike car or smartphone production, and low wages help meet the West’s demand for inexpensive clothing.Clothes make up nearly 85 per cent of Bangladesh’s export earnings, and the sector employs four million people there. In Cambodia, one in five households has at least one garment worker, and 75 per cent of exports are garments, footwear and travel bags. Vietnam and India are also top exporters, according to estimates by the World Trade Organization.Before they moved to the industrial area on the outskirts of Yangon, Oo’s mother sold vegetables in their village market, earning USD2 a day. That meant that on some days, the family don’t even have enough for a full meal. Oo is now helping a local nonprofit make cloth face masks for a small wage while she hunts for job openings.Myanmar, which suffered years of underdevelopment, appeared on the radars of garment manufacturers around 2013, when the military junta that had been in control for decades was loosening its grip. The US and European Union lifted sanctions that had long deterred investment and granted duty-free access to their markets under a program designed to help the world’s least developed countries.Hundreds of factories owned by firms from China, South Korea and elsewhere set up to make clothes for Western brands, seeking to take advantage of the low wages compared with locations like China and Vietnam. Myanmar became a part of a global production network in which designs are created in one country, the textiles woven in another and clothes sewn in a third place.However, the coronavirus pandemic started disrupting the cross-border supply chain behind the shirts and dresses that fill store racks.Developing Asia will grow by just 0.1 per cent this year--the slowest rate in six decades, the Asian Development Bank estimates.Globally, the pandemic could increase the number of people who are extremely poor--living on less than USD1.90 a day--by 71 million to 100 million, estimates a World Bank study. This would be the first increase since 1998, and almost half of the projected new poor would be in South Asia, the bank said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-thousands-of-garment-workers-lose-jobs-across-asia/story-AIKoj37wwDIDudoEcxviuL.html
12-07-2020||World||Video calls, separate bedrooms: Bolsonaro’s first Covid-19 week||After months in which Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro downplayed COVID-19 by flouting social distancing recommendations and mostly shunning masks, both coronavirus precautions became part of his cloistered life this week at the official residence in capital Brasilia.Bolsonaro, 65, announced on Tuesday that he tested positive for the virus and had experienced fever, aches and malaise. He scrapped a trip he had planned to northeastern Piauí state, and all his meetings for the week were converted to video calls.One was with former congressman Roberto Jefferson, president of the conservative PTB party. Jefferson told The Associated Press that he went to the presidential Planalto Palace and sat in front of a large television where he could see Bolsonaro in a makeshift office at his residence.“I found the president well, flushed, willing. In very good health,” Jefferson said Saturday. “I only saw him cough once, when I made a joke.” Since his diagnosis, Bolsonaro has held virtual meetings almost every day with Jorge Oliveira, secretary-general of government, to sign official documents. According to Oliveira’s office, a protocol was created so work could be carried out digitally.This was also how Bolsonaro interviewed candidates to head the education ministry, he said on Facebook on Thursday. The following day, he named to the post Milton Ribeiro, a former deputy dean of Mackenzie University in Sao Paulo who preaches at a Presbyterian church in Santos, outside the metropolis.Only a few aides who were previously infected by the new coronavirus could get close to Bolsonaro during the week, one of them said on Tuesday. The person declined to be named, citing lack of authorization to speak with journalists. Bolsonaro also spent some time in the afternoons in front of the palace with photojournalists 400 yards away, on the other side of a garden. He had met his supporters by that garden until his diagnosis, but no longer.The new routine marks a stark change for Bolsonaro, who spent months attending rallies with his fans, heading out to bakeries and food trucks to mix and mingle. He sometimes declined to wear a mask. He has scoffed at the restrictions mayors and governors implemented to contain the spread of the virus, arguing their economic impacts would cause more suffering than the virus, which he repeatedly called “a little flu.” Bolsonaro took hydroxychloroquine pills for five days, Monday through Friday, according to a member of the presidential medical team who asked to not be identified, citing patient confidentiality and because the person isn’t authorised to speak publicly. The drug has no proven effect on the treatment of COVID-19 and can cause side effects such as cardiac arrhythmia, according to medical studies. As a result, Bolsonaro was subjected to electrocardiograms and blood tests, the person said.Brazil’s presidential press office said in a statement that the president has experienced no medical problems with his treatment.The aide who spoke on condition of anonymity said Bolsonaro slept in a different bedroom to keep the first lady, Michelle Bolsonaro, safe. He lives with her, his daughter and step-daughter.On Saturday, the first lady shared a photo of her COVID-19 test results showing she was not infected.“My daughters and I tested negative for COVID-19,” she wrote in the post on her verified Instagram account. “I appreciate the prayers.” On Thursday, Jair Bolsonaro held his weekly live broadcast on Facebook. This time, he was not accompanied by a minister or a sign language interpreter, as usual. Despite saying he felt well, he said he should still be isolated next week, so as to avoid contaminating anyone.“I’m sorry I can’t interact with you here. Not even next week will it be possible, because I think I will not yet be completely free of the virus, so I will not have anyone on my side here,” Bolsonaro said on the broadcast.During the broadcast, he wasn’t wearing a mask. But the aide said Bolsonaro now regularly wears the equipment to protect both his family and the more than 100 employees who work at the residence. (AP) SCY SCY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/video-calls-separate-bedrooms-bolsonaro-s-first-covid-19-week/story-wYukV8yeY4nCWbDsSsnU6M.html
12-07-2020||World||‘Every death needs to be fully investigated’: UN on Thoothukudi custodial deaths||Every death, in all cases, as a principle, needs to be fully investigated, said Stephane Dujarric, Spokesperson for United Nations Secretary-General, on Thoothukudi custodial death case in Tamil Nadu.“I think every death, all these cases, as a principle, need to be fully investigated,” Dujarric said during a weekly briefing on Saturday when asked to comment on the killing of a father and son in the Indian State of Tamil Nadu in police custody.On June 19, Jayaraj (59) and his son J Benicks (31), were arrested and lodged in Kovilpatti sub-jail for keeping their shop open in Sathankulam main bazaar area during the lockdown. They were allegedly tortured by policemen, admitted to hospital and later succumbed to injuries.Initially, the matter was being probed by the CB-CID but later taken over by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).On July 4, five police personnel accused in the case were transferred from Tuticorin jail to Madurai Central Jail.The CBI has released the documents and confessions of the CB-CID inquiry into the case which has been presented to ADSP Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/every-death-needs-to-be-fully-investigated-un-on-thoothukudi-custodial-deaths/story-02cU7lr0emdZ6nCI6BwjHM.html
12-07-2020||World||Australia’s Victoria state marks week of triple-digit coronavirus cases||Australia’s Victoria state reported 273 new cases of the coronavirus and another COVID-19 death on Sunday, marking a week of triple-digit increases in infections, as state authorities battle fresh outbreaks of the pandemic. Melbourne, the capital of Australia’s second most-populous state, went under a six-week lockdown on Thursday after a spike in community-transmitted cases.“This is a dangerous time,” Victoria’s Premier Daniel Andrews told a news conference. “I know we are asking a lot of Victorians, but we simply have no choice but to acknowledge the reality that we face and to do what must be done, and that is to follow those rules, to only go out when you need to.” Sunday’s cases, the second highest for Victoria, home to a quarter of Australia’s 25 million people, follow a record 288 infections reported on Friday. The increase partly reflects increased testing, with the state conducting more than 30,000 tests daily. There have been multiple outbreaks of the virus, with cases recorded at some public and private hospitals, aged-care facilities, public housing complexes and supermarkets.A man in his 70s died over the weekend of Covid-19, Andrews said, taking the national toll to 108.Most primary and secondary school students in Melbourne will be learning remotely until at least Aug. 19, with exceptions for students with special needs, among others, the premier said.Australia’s other seven states and territories have banned travellers from Victoria amid concern that community transmission was causing a second wave of the virus.New South Wales, the most-populous state, recorded five new cases on Sunday, as it moved to charge all travellers flying in from overseas A$3,000 ($2,100) for a mandatory two-week quarantine in hotels. The decision to charge travellers, including Australian citizens, came after the federal government on Friday announced caps on the number of people arriving in Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-s-victoria-state-marks-week-of-triple-digit-coronavirus-cases/story-yjxteEwjvF8JD14omlqRcM.html
12-07-2020||World||UN approves aid to Syria’s rebel area through 1 crossing||Russia scored a victory for its ally Syria on Saturday by forcing the Security Council to limit humanitarian aid deliveries to the country’s mainly rebel-held northwest to just one crossing point from Turkey, a move that Western nations say will cut a lifeline for 1.3 million people.Russia argues that aid should be delivered from within the country across conflict lines, and says only one crossing point is needed.UN officials and humanitarian groups argued unsuccessfully — along with the vast majority of the UN Security Council — that the two crossing points in operation until their mandate expired Friday were essential for getting help to millions of needy people in Syria’s northwest, especially with the first case of COVID-19 recently reported in the region.The Security Council vote approving a single crossing from Turkey was 12-0, with Russia, China and the Dominican Republic abstaining.The vote capped a week of high-stakes rivalry pitting Russia and China against the 13 other council members. An overwhelming majority voted twice to maintain the two crossings from Turkey, but Russia and China vetoed both resolutions — the 15th and 16th veto by Russia of a Syria resolution since the conflict began in 2011 and the ninth and 10th by China.Germany and Belgium, which had sponsored the widely supported resolutions for two crossing points, finally had to back down to the threat of another Russian veto. The resolution they put forward Saturday authorized only a single crossing point from Turkey for a year.In January, Russia also scored a victory for Syria, using its veto threat to force the Security Council to adopt a resolution reducing the number of crossing points for aid deliveries from four to two, from Turkey to the northwest. It also cut in half the yearlong mandate that had been in place since cross-border deliveries began in 2014 to six months.Before adopting the resolution Saturday, the council rejected two amendments proposed by Russia, including one suggesting that US and European Union sanctions on Syria were impeding humanitarian aid. That contention was vehemently rejected by the Trump administration and the EU, which noted their sanctions include exemptions for humanitarian deliveries. It also rejected an amendment from China.Russia’s deputy UN ambassador, Dmitry Polyansky, said after the vote that from the beginning Moscow had proposed one crossing — from Bab al-Hawa to Idlib — and that Saturday’s resolution could have been adopted weeks ago. He said Russia abstained in the vote because negotiations over the resolution were marred by “clumsiness, disrespect.”Polyansky accused Western nations on the council of “unprecedented heights” of hypocrisy, saying they were ready to jeopardize cross-border aid over the references to unilateral sanctions.He said cross-border aid to Syria’s northwest doesn’t comply with international law because the UN has no presence in the region, which he described as being controlled “by international terrorists and fighters” that make it impossible to control and monitor who gets aid.German Ambassador Christoph Heusgen retorted that while Russia talks about delivery of aid across conflict lines, “in practice it doesn’t” happen.He said his side fought to maintain multiple crossing points for aid, including the Al-Yaroubiya crossing point from Iraq in the northeast that was closed in January, because that is what is needed for efficient delivery of aid to millions in need — and he asked Polyansky “this is clumsy?”“This is what we tried to do over these past weeks, to get the optimum to the population,” Heusgen said.US Ambassador Kelly Craft told the council: “Today’s outcome leaves us sickened and outraged at the loss of the Bab al-Salaam and Al Yarubiyah border crossings.”“Behind those locked gates are millions of women, children, and men who believed that the world had heard their pleas. Their health and welfare are now at great risk,” she said.Still, Craft called the authorization of access through Bab al-Hawa for 12 months “a victory” in light of Russia and China’s “willingness to use their veto to compel a dramatic reduction in humanitarian assistance.”“This solemn victory must not end our struggle to address the mounting human needs in Syria — that fight is far from over,” Craft said.Belgium and Germany said in a joint statement that 1.3 million people, including 800 000 displaced Syrians, live in the Aleppo area, including 500,000 children who received humanitarian aid through the Bab al-Salam crossing — and now have that aid cut off.“Today is yet another sad day. It is a sad day for this council, but mostly, it is a sad day for the Syrian people of that region.,” they said. “Both Yarubiyah and Bab al-Salam were vital crossings to deliver, in the most efficient way possible, the humanitarian help, those people deserve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-approves-aid-to-syria-s-rebel-area-through-1-crossing/story-yRGoKXa9YwSAxqwAMjtANJ.html
12-07-2020||World||US town grows money from trees during pandemic downturn||Tenino had become a ghost town, and small businesses were struggling to survive amid the coronavirus pandemic, so local officials revived an unconventional idea from the last century: printing the town’s own currency on thin planks of wood.“There was no trading, no selling and the city streets were dead. They looked the same at 3 pm as they did at 3 am,” said Wayne Fournier, mayor of the town of 1,800 people in Washington state, in the northwestern United States.“We were getting a lot of calls from businesses saying they were not sure if they would be able to hang on,” he told AFP.The town’s museum had a printing press, so it was put to use to make $10,000 worth of bills on wooden rectangles, each nominally worth $25. They feature a portrait of President George Washington and bear a Latin inscription that translates as “We’ve got it under control.”The money is being given as a grant to locals who demonstrate they have been economically harmed by the pandemic. Each resident is allowed up to $300 per month.Known as “Tenino dollars,” “Covid dollars” or, sometimes, “Wayne dollars” after the mayor himself, the bills are traded at almost all shops in the town at a fixed rate equivalent to $1.The currency is good only inside the town limits.Desperate timesThe idea is not new: town officials last tried it during an even worse period of economic devastation, the Great Depression in the 1930s.A national scarcity of dollars at the time prompted officials in Tenino to print money on spruce bark.“The concept became 1930s viral,” Fournier said, with other communities, businesses and chambers of commerce eager to emulate the town’s example.Media attention piqued the curiosity of investors, and over the years the wooden currency became a collector’s item sold on eBay and Amazon.The contemporary version of wooden currency, like the previous edition, aims to help the town through an economic crisis that forced businesses to close nationwide.“It’s more of an advertisement for the town itself,” said Chris Hamilton, the manager of the town’s main grocery store. “It brings a lot of people into town that may not even know about Tenino and want to check this place out that makes its own money.“They might stop off here, buy an ice cream or go down the street and buy a hamburger.”Similar complementary currencies exist elsewhere in the US and Europe, aimed not at replacing the national money but supporting the local economy -- a key distinction since American authorities take a dim view of anyone trying to create a bill to compete with the almighty dollar. The US Treasury declined to comment on its position regarding local currencies.Switzerland’s WIR system, created in 1934, is considered the oldest local currency in the world, used by thousands of small businesses every day.Response to globalizationFacing an unemployment rate of 11.1 percent in June -- one of the highest rates since the Great Depression -- American advocates of complementary currencies say now is the time to consider them as a means to help residents.“The crisis in municipal funding is pushing creativity. Administrators are exploring this concept of issuing their own currency instead of bonds to finance their Covid response,” said Susan Witt, director of the Schumacher Center for a New Economics.The research center developed BerkShares, a currency in circulation since 2006 in the Berkshires region of western Massachusetts, which is distributed by local banks. Witt is advising several US municipalities interested in similar initiatives.Advocates of local currencies also see them as a bulwark against unbridled globalization.“People are starting to realize that we went too global, too fast and we lost our local skills,” said Chris Hewitt, founder of Hudson Valley Current, a currency in upstate New York which operates as a mutual credit system.Supporters hope to create a nationwide movement.“If that happens across the country organically, that could be something that helps save us from a serious recession,” Fournier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-town-grows-money-from-trees-during-pandemic-downturn/story-suqcRqYwEqyUcU5e5iTWJL.html
12-07-2020||World||In a first, Donald Trump wears mask in public||US President Donald Trump wore a mask in public during a visit to a military hospital Saturday, falling in line with the recommendations of his public health officials and experts.It was a navy blue mask with the golden presidential seal emblazoned on the left.“I’ve never been against masks, but I do believe they have a time and a place,” Trump told reporters shortly before leaving the White House for the Walter Reed military hospital just outside Washington DC in the adjoining state Maryland.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTrump’s grudging capitulation came under mounting pressure from his aides, allies and critics, on a day when the cumulative total of Covid-19 infections in the United States climbed to 3.24 million, with 66,627 new infections, and fatalities went up to 134,740 with 802 deaths in the last 24 hours.The American president had refused to wear a mask in public — he said he wore it once out of public view — triggering a political war about facial coverings, with many conservatives around the country following his lead. Many Republican-ruled states had refused to make it mandatory — such as Texas — until recently, when it was hit by a brutal spike in Covid-19 cases.The United States federally introduced the use of masks, or any facial covering, in early April as a recommendation. But as the epidemic took hold of the country, states such as New York, which quickly emerged as the epicenter, made masks mandatory in public places. Other states followed at their own pace.But Trump’s top public health officials such as Anthony Fauci and Deborah Birx, members of the task force he set up to spearhead his administration’s battle against the virus, began recommending it urgently, along with social distancing measures, as the best bed to slow down the spread.President Trump had refused to wear masks in public interactions at the White House and outside, disregarding these urgent appeals. He and his campaign had even mocked Joe Biden, his presumptive Democratic rival for the White House in November, for wearing one.US states battling with the new surge in infections — deaths have been declining — are embracing masks more urgently than earlier. Texas, a Republican-ruled state, made masks mandatory in the first week of July and Arizona — also Republican-ruled state — has left it to its mayors to decide.Louisiana, a Democratic-governed state, also in the grip of the new surge, made masks mandatory Saturday. “Today, I am announcing a mandatory mask requirement for Louisiana, ordering bars closed to on-premises consumption and limiting indoor social gatherings to 50 total people,” John Bel Edwards. the governor, announced on twitter. The new measures go into effect Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-gives-in-uses-a-mask-finally/story-GcPe0AcwDA0p3NbJsnCt0O.html
12-07-2020||World||Japan needs to be on high alert as coronavirus cases rise, says minister||Japan needs to remain on high alert for further coronavirus outbreaks as the number of cases with unclear contagion routes increases, Yasutoshi Nishimura, the country’s economy minister and virus czar, said.The nation’s number of Covid-19 infections has spiked in the past week, with Tokyo reporting more than 200 cases for three straight days.The minister didn’t say the government is considering declaring a state of emergency, but warned of increased stress on public health centers’ resources, speaking on public broadcaster NHK on Sunday. Testing should be strategically and greatly increased, he said.Second-quarter gross domestic product figures are likely to be “severe,” given the pandemic’s impact on the global economy and the depressed levels of domestic consumption, Nishimura said. Local spending is showing signs of recovery, according to the minister.Japan is forging ahead with further steps to re-open the economy amid the increase in virus cases. Nishimura said that while those who show symptoms must stay home, in principle Tokyo residents are allowed to move to other prefectures.Japan Pushes Re-Opening as New Virus Cases Reach Record in Tokyo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-needs-to-be-on-high-alert-as-coronavirus-cases-rise-says-minister/story-ojW0seujYadfCz2DE79ThO.html
12-07-2020||World||5.1 magnitude earthquake jolts China’s Hebei province||An earthquake of magnitude measuring 5.1 on the Richter scale jolted Guye District of Tangshan City in north China’s Hebei Province on Sunday.The tremors were felt at 6:38 am Beijing time, reported Xinhua News citing China Earthquake Networks Center (CENC).The epicentre of the earthquake was monitored at 39.78 degrees north latitude and 118.44 degrees east longitude, with a depth of 10 km, the CENC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-1-magnitude-earthquake-jolts-china-s-hebei-province/story-6VkhNSEBibADLg5Kj4duyH.html
12-07-2020||World||World leaders join Bosnians to mark 25 years of Srebrenica genocide||Bosnians commemorated on Saturday the massacre of about 8,000 Muslim men and boys in Srebrenica, marking the 25th anniversary of killings that shocked the world and have stood out as Europe’s only atrocity since World War Two constituting genocide.Nine newly identified victims were buried at a flower-shaped cemetery near the town, where tall white tombstones mark the graves of 6,643 other victims. “After 25 years we succeeded in finding his mortal remains, so they can be laid to their final rest,” said Fikret Pezic, who buried his father Hasan. The remains of some 1,000 victims of the massacre in the eastern town during Bosnia’s 1992-1995 war are still missing. Ifeta Hasanovic decided to bury incomplete remains of her husband, saying: “We were aware they cannot be complete after 25 years, at least there are some, I did not want to make any new delays.” World leaders addressed the ceremony by video link, unable to attend because of coronavirus epidemic. Instead of the tens of thousands visitors who typically attend the commemoration each year, only a few thousand came after organisers banned organised visits.During the Bosnian war, Bosnian Serb forces pushed non-Serbs out of territories they sought for their Serb statelet. Fleeing Muslims took shelter in several eastern towns, including Srebrenica, that were designated as United Nations “safe zones”.On July 11, 1995, the Serb forces commanded by General Ratko Mladic overran Srebrenica, which was protected by lightly armed Dutch peacekeepers. They sent women and children away and captured and executed the men and boys they found. The bodies were dumped into mass graves and later exhumed by U.N. investigators and used as evidence in war crimes trials of Bosnian Serb leaders.“We grieve with the families that tirelessly seek justice for the 8,000 innocent lives lost, all these years later,” said US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Washington brokered Bosnia’s peace deal months after the massacre. Most people at the commemoration were Muslim Bosniaks, reflecting conflicting narratives about the bloodshed - which hinders reconciliation nearly 25 years after the end of war in which about 100,000 people were killed. The UN war crimes tribunal for the former Yugoslavia convicted Mladic and his political chief Radovan Karadzic over Srebrenica genocide but they remained heroes for Serbs, many of whom deny that genocide happened.On Saturday, the Serbs in the nearby town of Bratunac organised an event marking July 11 as the “Srebrenica Liberation Day”. Sefik Dzaferovic, the Bosniak chairman of Bosnia’s tripartite presidency, called for legislation that would ban denial of genocide.“There can be no trust as long as we witness attacks on the truth, denial of genocide and glorification and celebration of executors,” Dzaferovic told the commemoration gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-leaders-join-bosnians-to-mark-25-years-of-srebrenica-genocide/story-udFcqz3XJRiFux8WcyXVGL.html
12-07-2020||World||Donald Trump, Joe Biden win Louisiana’s presidential primary||President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden have won Louisiana’s twice-postponed presidential primary.Trump faced no true challenger for the Republican nomination, but four other GOP contenders ran against him on Louisiana’s ballot Saturday.Biden faced 13 other Democrats on the ballot, though he already had locked up enough delegates in other states to become the party’s nominee.Louisiana had one of the nation’s last presidential primaries. It was delayed twice from its original April 4 date because of the coronavirus pandemic and was pushed back so many months that it became irrelevant to the selection the party nominees.Voters had extra days of early voting and expanded mail-in balloting options because of the virus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-joe-biden-win-louisiana-s-presidential-primary/story-6yzRs06uWoKuFd1VLp1KGP.html
12-07-2020||World||Singapore’s version of a political shock upends the old playbook||Most political parties around the world would be thrilled to win 89% of seats in an election. Not in Singapore.The worst showing for the ruling People’s Action Party, or PAP, since independence in 1965 prompted analysts to declare a “vote for change” that will trigger “soul searching” among the country’s leaders. Supporters for the main opposition Workers’ Party -- which took 10 of 93 seats up for grabs -- waved flags, blew whistles and beat drums like they were about to take office.Much of that reaction reflects just how tightly the PAP has clenched the levers of power over the decades. It’s a very high bar for it to continue winning so many seats in every election even with an electoral system that has built-in advantages for the ruling party, and this vote was held when a global pandemic helped trigger the city-state’s worst-ever economic slump.Potentially more concerning for Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, however, was that the result upended the conventional wisdom that traditionally risk-averse Singaporeans would strongly back the PAP in an emergency. That alone could have a big impact on policy, raising questions about how leaders positioned to succeed Lee handled the virus and why more young voters are said to have embraced opposition calls for both a stronger social safety net and a more open democracy.“Look at this population -- the youngsters -- they are prepared to vote against the government in times of a crisis, which is very unprecedented,” said Bilveer Singh, associate professor at the National University of Singapore’s department of political science. “It has never happened.”In the early hours of Saturday, Lee said the PAP had won a “clear mandate” even though its 61.2% share of the popular vote -- slightly more than its all-time low in 2011 -- was less than he had hoped. He vowed to take Singapore “safely through the crisis and beyond” before handing over power to the so-called fourth generation of leaders.“The results show also a clear desire for a diversity of voices in Parliament,” Lee said, while adding that the outcome reflected the “pain and uncertainty” caused by a loss of income, anxiety over jobs and virus-related disruptions.Lee hinted at some changes ahead, saying government policies must reflect the younger generation’s “significantly different life aspirations and priorities” compared with older Singaporeans. Still, he implored the youth to heed lessons “hard won by their parents and grandparents so that they don’t have to learn them all over again and pay a high price.”As one of the most trade-reliant economies in the world, Singapore has taken a severe knock during the pandemic. Officials are predicting that gross domestic product will contract as much as 7% this year. Data on Tuesday will probably show the economy already entered a recession in the second quarter.“There may be a greater need to think out of the box for economic strategies in a post-Covid world,” said Selena Ling, head of treasury research and strategy at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., citing debates over fiscal sustainability and accountability, minimum wages, foreign worker policy and reliance on multinational corporations.​The Workers’ Party had campaigned on a slew of policies aimed at helping lower-income Singaporeans, including unemployment insurance, a minimum wage and incentives to hire locals over foreigners. Party chief Pritam Singh, who will become Singapore’s first official opposition leader, said he was humbled by the gains even though “it’s still not exactly a quantum leap.”“I’m not feeling euphoric at all,” Singh told reporters. “In fact I think there’s a lot of work to do.”The election results will likely spur the government to enact measures to strengthen the social safety net and recalibrate its foreign worker policy even while it stresses to the business community that it’s not turning insular, according to Leonard Lim, Singapore country director for regional consultancy firm Vriens & Partners. The government had already tightened restrictions on foreign labor in industries such as retail while allowing imported talent for higher-skilled roles.“Plenty of opposition candidates have rammed home the point that the PAP’s long-standing openness to foreign labor means less good quality jobs for citizens,” Lim said. “It’s low-hanging fruit and a very strategic tactic, especially when many citizens, especially middle-class white-collar workers, are losing sleep about job issues amid Covid-19.”On the campaign trail, Prime Minister Lee had emphasized the government’s moves to stabilize the economy and limit job losses through massive wage subsidies, pledges to create 100,000 fresh work and training opportunities, and re-skilling workers toward next-generation industries. His government allocated S$93 billion ($67 billion) in special budget support to cushion the economic blow, and dipped into its reserves for only the second time to finance the spending.In addition, the government is investing for research and development in areas such as artificial intelligence and biomedical sciences, supplementing ongoing digitization efforts that include building Singapore into a fintech hub and getting the island’s food stalls and wet markets to adopt e-payments.Still, Lee has repeatedly said Singapore needs to attract investments from multinationals to generate sustainable economic growth over the long haul. He blasted opposition proposals for a minimum wage and universal basic income as “fashionable peacetime slogans, not serious wartime plans.”Singapore in survival mode looks to reinvent itself. AgainFor Lee, who has run Singapore since 2004, the election was personal. He has signaled he intends to step down by the time he turns 70 in 2022, with Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat set to take over.Yet the election saw the prime minister being attacked by his own brother, Lee Hsien Yang, who criticized the government’s handling of the pandemic and the capabilities of the next generation of the PAP’s leaders. Singapore has been one of the hardest hit places in Asia, with cases topping 45,000 -- mostly migrant workers residing in dormitories -- even though the fatality rate remains low.Lee Hsien Yang also called for an overhaul of the political system, a view shared by the Workers’ Party. It has sought a range of political reforms, such as abolishing the group-representative constituency system that it says has helped the PAP maintain its lock on Parliament. It advocates single-member constituencies, an independent Elections Department and court reviews of government directives under a so-called fake news law passed last year.The extent to which the PAP will change hinges on internal discussions and some form of leadership transition that will happen before Singaporeans are scheduled to vote again in 2025, according to Bridget Welsh, an honorary research associate at the Asia Research Institute of University of Nottingham Malaysia.“If anything,” she said, “the pandemic has taught Singapore that the PAP needs to listen to alternative voices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-s-version-of-a-political-shock-upends-the-old-playbook/story-GA7lZaxizj3jZueB4Ix4LM.html
12-07-2020||World||Iran says forgetful operator helped trigger Ukraine jet crash||An Iranian air defense unit that “forgot” to adjust its radar system triggered a chain of communication and human errors that led to the deadly downing of a Ukrainian passenger jet in January, according to a report from Iran’s Civil Aviation Organization.Iran said it mistakenly shot down Ukraine International Airlines Flight 752 shortly after take-off, killing all 176 aboard. Decoding of the jet’s black boxes is expected to start July 20.The plane was downed by two missiles, fired 30 seconds apart, from an air defense unit that mistook the jet for a cruise missile. An operator had forgotten to re-adjust the north direction on the radar system after moving to a new position, an error that contributed to misreading the radar’s data, according to the report published on CAO’s website on Saturday.“The operator of the air defense system launched a missile at what it had detected as a hostile target without response from the command center,” CAO said in the report, adding that an unnamed person took action independently and without authorization from superiors.The incident took place hours after Iran’s defense systems were put on high alert following the country’s missile attack on a US air base in Iraq in retaliation for the killing of a top Iranian general by the order of President Donald Trump.Six people have been arrested in connection with the incident, authorities said in June without giving details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-forgetful-operator-helped-trigger-ukraine-jet-crash/story-2PgisFor9lcWnB7C8QoZYL.html
12-07-2020||World||IMF urges fiscal caution as global debt surges to record||The International Monetary Fund urged governments to exercise fiscal caution as they borrow more to support economies hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, saying debt levels could soar to a record this year.“The need for continued fiscal support is clear, but this begs the question of how countries can finance it without debt becoming unsustainable,” Fiscal Affairs Department Director Vitor Gaspar and Gita Gopinath, the fund’s chief economist, said in a blog Friday.While governments will benefit from record-low borrowing costs that are set to stay that way “for a long time,” their collective fiscal response of about $11 trillion to increase health capacity, replace lost incomes and stave off large-scale bankruptcies is set to take the world’s public debt to more than 100% of global gross domestic product in 2020, the highest yet, the IMF said.“Our balance of risks points to the fact that premature withdrawal of fiscal support is a more pressing danger than the high levels of debt,” Gaspar said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.The fund in June downgraded its outlook for the coronavirus-ravaged world economy, projecting a significantly deeper recession of 4.9% this year, the biggest slump since the Great Depression. It has provided more than 70 countries with emergency funds, and gave immediate debt-service relief to 29 nations.Public-Health PriorityThe fund warned that borrowing costs can increase rapidly, particularly for emerging economies and frontier markets, as was the case in March. Countries that entered the crisis with already elevated debt and low economic growth will need to find a path back to sustainable fiscal balances, it said.“Governments will need to pursue a credible medium-term fiscal plan that relies on improving revenue mobilization – including through minimizing tax avoidance, greater tax progressivity in some cases, carbon pricing and higher efficiency in spending,” like removing fossil-fuel subsidies, Gaspar and Gopinath said. They added that international institutions must ensure that access to liquidity is not disrupted by self-fulfilling market panics.With the virus causing “radical uncertainty,” the number one priority is public health, Gaspar said.“Only by controlling the epidemic are we going to be able to reduce uncertainty and so create conditions for the economy to pick up in a sustainable way, for investment to pick up, and for the transition to a new model for sustainable and inclusive growth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imf-urges-fiscal-caution-as-global-debt-surges-to-record/story-My4qzYsS5x1iUGYmDXdcEN.html
12-07-2020||World||Poles vote in presidential election that could define EU relations||Poles vote on Sunday in a knife-edge presidential election that may shape the country’s future relations with the European Union, which have been frayed by the bloc’s concerns over the rule of law.Incumbent Andrzej Duda, an ally of the ruling nationalists Law and Justice (PiS), takes on liberal Warsaw Mayor Rafal Trzaskowski after a campaign that has shown sharply contrasting visions for the future and exposed deep political divisions.Duda’s re-election is crucial if PiS is to deepen judicial reforms that the European Union says increase political control over the courts.The president holds the power of veto and Trzaskowski has said he will block legislation that he believes would undermine democratic norms.Given that Poland’s president holds few executive powers, it is unlikely Trzaskowski could bring about significant change if he won. But with the presidency as well as the upper house of parliament in opposition hands, PiS’s ability to implement its agenda would be hampered.The election is a run-off after a first round on June 28. Polling stations open at 0500 GMT and close at 1900 GMT, at which point the results of an exit poll will be announced.Duda has painted himself as a defender of Poland’s Catholic values and the generous social benefit programmes that have transformed life for many, especially in the poorer rural regions of the country, the EU’s largest post-communist member.“I believe we can build the Poland we dream of, a fair Poland, a rich Poland, a strong Poland... a Poland that can protect the weak and doesn’t have to fear the strong,” Duda told supporters on Friday, asking them to compare their standard of living now with what it was before he took office.However, while Duda vows to stand on the side of the weak, critics say his campaign has also drawn on homophobia and anti-Semitism.He has compared what he calls LGBT “ideology” to Soviet-era communist indoctrination, while state TV, the mouthpiece of the government, has used the sensitive issue of Jewish property restitution to attack Trzaskowski.“There are very energetic attempts, and at the centre of these attempts is Mr Trzaskowski, to see to it that in Poland different kinds of minorities can... terrorise the rest,” said Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the leader of PiS and Poland’s de-facto ruler.Trzaskowski became a target for religious conservatives for promoting gay rights after he took part in pride marches and pledged to introduce sex education classes in Warsaw schools.MORE TOLERANT POLANDTrzaskowski says he seeks a more open, tolerant Poland and has criticised PiS’s rhetoric, while vowing to abolish state news channel TVP Info.“Have you ever heard such homophobia, such anti-Semitism, such attacks on everybody who is brave enough to say ‘we have had enough’,” he asked supporters on Friday, contrasting PiS’s use of language with that of opposition politicians.But while vowing to block PiS’s judicial reforms and condemning attacks on minorities, Trzaskowski has stressed that he would leave PiS’s popular social benefit programmes intact and not seek to raise the retirement age.Trzaskowski has tried to portray himself as someone who can unite a divided nation, but many observers say a period of bitter conflict between the PiS dominated parliament and the presidential palace awaits if he wins.For Adam Schulz, a 36-year-old office worker enjoying an ice-cream in the central Warsaw sunshine, it is this deep division that could drive Sunday’s turnout to record levels.“As the years go by polarisation on the political scene means that more and more people want to express their opinions... that is why I think there is more interest,” he said. “There is no conversation between these sides.” (Reporting by Alan Charlish, Pawel Florkiewicz, Anna Wlodarczak-Semczuk and Anna Koper Editing by Frances Kerry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poles-vote-in-presidential-election-that-could-define-eu-relations/story-sSEwNmtjEZy5REu69uIgSK.html
12-07-2020||World||Robert Mueller defends Russia probe, says Stone remains a felon||Former special counsel Robert Mueller sharply defended his investigation into ties between Russia and Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, writing in a newspaper opinion piece Saturday that the probe was of “paramount importance” and asserting that a Trump ally, Roger Stone, “remains a convicted felon, and rightly so” despite the president’s decision to commute his prison sentence.The op-ed in The Washington Post marked Mueller’s first public statement on his investigation since his congressional appearance last July. It represented his firmest defense of the two-year probe whose results have come under attack and even been partially undone by the Trump administration, including the president’s extraordinary move Friday evening to grant clemency to Stone just days before he was due to report to prison.Mueller said that though he had intended for his 448-page report on the investigation to speak for itself, he felt compelled to “respond both to broad claims that our investigation was illegitimate and our motives were improper, and to specific claims that Roger Stone was a victim of our office.“The Russia investigation was of paramount importance. Stone was prosecuted and convicted because he committed federal crimes. He remains a convicted felon, and rightly so,” Mueller wrote.Mueller did not specify who was making the claims, but it appeared to be an obvious reference to Trump, who as recently as Saturday derided the investigation as this “whole political witch hunt and the Mueller scam.”The mere publication of the op-ed was striking in itself for a former FBI director who was tight-lipped during the investigation, refusing to respond to attacks by the president or his allies or to even make public appearances explaining or justifying his work. In his first public statement after the conclusion of his investigation, Mueller had said that he had hoped his report would speak for itself. When he later testified to House lawmakers, he was similarly careful not to stray beyond the report’s findings or offer new evidence.But that buttoned-up approach created a void for others, including at the Justice Department, to place their own stamp on his work. Even before the report was released Attorney General William Barr issued a four-page summary document that Mueller privately complained did not adequately capture the gravity of his team’s findings.In the months since, Barr assigned a U.S. attorney to investigate the origins of the Russia probe, and the Justice Department moved to dismiss the criminal case against former Trump administration national security adviser Michael Flynn even though Flynn had pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about contacts with the Russian ambassador during the presidential transition period.The op-ed traced the basis for the Stone prosecution, with Mueller recounting how Stone had not only tampered with a witness but also lied repeatedly about his efforts to gain inside information about Democratic emails that Russian intelligence operatives stole and provided to WikiLeaks, which published them in the run-up to the election.Those efforts, including his discussions with Trump campaign associates about them, cut to the heart of Mueller’s mandate to determine whether anyone tied to the campaign coordinated with Russia in the hacking or disclosure of the stolen Democratic emails.Stone was particularly critical to the investigation, Mueller writes, because he claimed inside knowledge about WikiLeaks’ release of the stolen emails and because he communicated during the campaign with people known to be Russian intelligence officers. He also communicated with members of the Trump campaign about the timing of the WikiLeaks releases, something that he denied.“We did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired with the Russian government in its activities,” Mueller wrote. “The investigation did, however, establish that the Russian government perceived it would benefit from a Trump presidency and worked to secure that outcome. It also established that the campaign expected it would benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts.”Stone was found guilty last fall of witness tampering, false statements and obstructing a congressional investigation into Russian election interference. He was sentenced in February to 40 months in prison and was due to surrender on Tuesday, until the president commuted his sentence.“Roger Stone was treated horribly. Roger Stone was treated very unfairly,” Trump told reporters on Saturday.He was one of six former Trump associates or advisers to be convicted in the Russia investigation. In total, the investigation produced charges against 34 individuals, including 25 Russians accused either of hacking into Democratic email accounts of engaging in a covert social media campaign to divide American public opinion ahead of the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/robert-mueller-defends-russia-probe-says-stone-remains-a-felon/story-OkdixRPfm7HMA57VCZGZPN.html
12-07-2020||World||Trump wears mask in public for first time during pandemic||President Donald Trump wore a mask during a visit to a military hospital on Saturday, the first time the president has been seen in public with the type of facial covering recommended by health officials as a precaution against spreading or becoming infected by the novel coronavirus.Trump flew by helicopter to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in suburban Washington to meet wounded service members and health care providers caring for Covid-19 patients. As he left the White House, he told reporters: “When you’re in a hospital, especially ... I think it’s a great thing to wear a mask.”Trump was wearing a mask in Walter Reed’s hallway as he began his visit. He was not wearing one when he stepped off the helicopter at the facility.The president was a latecomer to wearing a mask during the pandemic, which has raged across the US since March and infected more than 3.2 million and killed at least 134,000. Most prominent Republicans, including Vice President Mike Pence, endorsed wearing masks as the coronavirus gained ground this summer. Republican governors have been moving toward requiring or encouraging the use of masks as the pandemic has grown more serious in some states in the South and West.Trump, however, has declined to wear a mask at news conferences, coronavirus task force updates, rallies and other public events. People close to him have told The Associated Press that the president feared a mask would make him look weak and was concerned that it shifted focus to the public health crisis rather than the economic recovery. They spoke on condition of anonymity to describe private matters.While not wearing one himself, Trump has sent mixed signals about masks, acknowledging that they would be appropriate if worn in an indoor setting where people were close together. But he has accused reporters of wearing them to be politically correct and has retweeted messages making fun of Democrat Joe Biden for wearing a mask and implying that Biden looks weak.Questions remain whether Trump will wear a mask with any regularity.The wearing of masks became another political dividing line, with Republicans more resistant to wearing them than Democrats. Few masks were seen at recent Trump campaign events in Tulsa, Oklahoma, Phoenix and South Dakota’s Mount Rushmore.The only time Trump has been known to wear a mask was during a private part of a tour of a Ford plant in Michigan.On its website, Walter Reed carries this recommendation: “Whenever you’re out in public, like at your local grocery store or pharmacy, where it’s difficult to maintain 6 feet of social distance, you should wear a cloth face covering.” The facility also notes that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends wearing cloth face coverings to slow the spread of the coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-wears-mask-in-public-for-first-time-during-pandemic/story-kQp0GCLwOWvGlcRP47aJ5O.html
12-07-2020||World||5 dead in South Africa hostage situation||Five people are dead and more than 40 have been arrested after a hostage situation at a church near Johannesburg, police said on Saturday.Police and military who responded to reports of a shooting at the International Pentecostal Holiness Church in Zuurbekom found four people “shot and burned to death in a car” and a security guard shot in another car. Six others were injured.Police said they rescued men, women and children who had been held hostage and appeared to have been living at the church. The attack by a group of armed people “may have been motivated by a feud” between church members, the police said.Photos tweeted by the police showed more than a dozen men lying on the ground, subdued, along with rifles, pistols, a baseball bat and boxes of ammunition.Among those arrested were members of the police, defence forces and correctional services.The church has been the scene of violence between factions in recent years, with shots fired, rocks thrown and cars smashed. “Trouble has been brewing at the church following the death of its leader‚ Glayton Modise‚ in February 2016,” The Sowetan newspaper reported in 2018||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-dead-in-south-africa-hostage-situation/story-K7Xp2lneUCsLfcSZ8QDkLM.html
12-07-2020||World||Facebook mulls ban on advertisements for US elections||Facebook is planning to impose a ban on political ads on its social network in the days leading up to the US election on November 3, according to people familiar with the company’s plans.The potential ban is still only being discussed and hasn’t yet been finalised, said the people, who asked not to be named talking about internal policies. A halt on ads could defend against misleading election-related content spreading as people prepare to vote. Still, there are concerns that an ad blackout may hurt “get out the vote” campaigns, or limit a candidate’s ability to respond widely to breaking news or new information.This would be a big change for Facebook, which has so far stuck to a policy of not fact-checking ads from politicians or their campaigns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-mulls-ban-on-ads-for-us-polls/story-aPXoNeu5dFLBy8nHIGjMUI.html
12-07-2020||World||Crisis as US Marines in Japan test positive||Dozens of US Marines at two bases on the southern Japanese island of Okinawa have been infected with the coronavirus in what is feared to be a massive outbreak, Okinawa’s governor said on Saturday, demanding an adequate explanation from the US military.Governor Denny Tamaki said he could say only that a “few dozen” cases had been found recently because the US military asked that the exact figure not be released. The outbreaks occurred at Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, which is at the centre of a relocation dispute, and Camp Hansen, Tamaki said.Local media, citing unnamed sources, said about 60 people had been infected.“Okinawans are shocked by what we were told (by the US military),” Tamaki said. “We now have strong doubts that the US military has taken adequate disease prevention measures.” Tamaki demanded transparency in the latest development and said he planned to request talks between the US military and Okinawan officials. Okinawa is home to more than half of about 50,000 American troops based in Japan under a bilateral security pact.New cases rose by over 69,000 across the US on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, setting a record for the third consecutive day as Walt Disney Co stuck to its plans to reopen its flagship theme park in hard-hit Florida.A total of nine US states - Alaska, Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Louisiana, Montana, Ohio, Utah and Wisconsin - also reached records for single-day infections.In Texas governor Greg Abbott warned he may have to impose new clampdowns if the state cannot stem its record-setting caseloads. California announced on Friday the state will release up to 8,000 inmates early from prisons to slow the spread of Covid-19 inside the facilities. Australia has granted provisional approval to Gilead Sciences’ remdesivir as the first treatment option for Covid-19 in the country, the national regulatory body said.The approval is for adults and adolescent patients with severe Covid-19 symptoms and have been hospitalised. Remdesivir has become the treatment of choice for many countries against severely ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crisis-as-us-marines-in-japan-test-positive/story-GfI8AtfW8XhbGuZzaQZnVK.html
12-07-2020||World||World Council of Churches expresses dismay over Hagia Sophia||The interim secretary general of the World Council of Churches has written to Turkey’s president expressing his “grief and dismay” over Turkey’s decision to change the status of Istanbul’s landmark Hagia Sophia from a museum to a mosque.As a World Heritage museum, “Hagia Sophia has been a place of openness, encounter and inspiration for people from all nations,” Ioan Sauca said in the letter released Saturday by the Geneva-based group.The colossal Hagia Sophia was built 1,500 years ago as an Orthodox Christian cathedral and was converted into a mosque after the Ottomans conquered Constantinople, now Istanbul, in 1453. The secular Turkish government decided in 1934 to make it a museum.Sauca said the museum status had been “a powerful expression” of Turkey’s commitment to inclusion and secularism.Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday formally converted the building back into a mosque and declared it open for Muslim worship, hours after a high court annulled the 1934 decision turning it into a museum.Erdogan, a devout Muslim, has frequently used the debate over Hagia Sophia to drum up support for his Islamic-rooted party. The decision has provoked deep dismay among Orthodox Christians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-council-of-churches-expresses-dismay-over-hagia-sophia/story-JdW9e9pK77YssliRwsKwvI.html
12-07-2020||World||Egypt grounds kites for ‘safety’, ‘national security’||Egyptian police have seized kites from people flying them after a ban by a northern governorate for “safety” reasons and a lawmaker’s warning they posed a “national security threat”.Police seized 369 kites in Cairo on Friday, Al-Ahram reported, while Akhbar Al-Youm, another state newspaper, said police confiscated 99 kites and fined five people in the northern region of Alexandria.The ban was brought in “to ensure the safety of citizens after a number of accidents” involving kites, Alexandria’s governorate said this week on its Facebook page.Fines imposed for kite-flying in the Mediterranean city can reach up to 1,000 pounds (about $60).Egypt’s skies have been filled with thousands of colourful paper kites flown by youths from rooftops and on corniches, as the hobby took off during night-time curfews to limit the spread of coronavirus. But they have also raised complaints, including from an MP.Khaled Abu Taleb, a member of parliament’s Defence and National Security Committee, said last month he wanted the prime minister briefed on the dangers of flying kites because they posed “a national security threat”.The kites might be equipped with surveillance cameras, he said.Abu Taleb was roundly ridiculed on social media in Egypt, where operating a drone is only authorised with a special permit.A three-month curfew was lifted in June, even as cases of COVID-19 in Egypt continue to rise, with over 80,000 declared infections and nearly 4,000 deaths to date.ff/lg/hcFACEBOOK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-grounds-kites-for-safety-national-security/story-x54YCKSpI55YmBNUGv1JqN.html
12-07-2020||World||Iran’s president warns lockdowns could lead to protests||Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani said Saturday that lockdowns meant to curb the spread of the pandemic could lead to street protests over economic problems, his website reported.In a regular Cabinet meeting on the coronavirus, Rouhani said the easiest way to fight the virus is to close off all activities. But “then people come and stage protests because of chaos, famine and problems,” he said.Confirmed virus cases and deaths reached a record low in May after mass lockdowns were imposed in Iran. But since then, the numbers have spiked again, with officials saying a combination of improved testing and re-openings has driven the surge.Rouhani urged that ceremonies be held with a limited number of participants. Many experts blame an increase in virus-related deaths over the past week on wedding and funeral ceremonies with large crowds.Ali Reza Zali, the head of Tehran’s virus task force, in a letter to officials banned any conferences, festivals or exhibitions and limited participants in wedding and funeral ceremonies to 10.Earlier this week, Iran reported 221 fatalities in a 24-hour period, the highest single-day death toll.Rouhani’s remarks came as many experts urged a halt to business activities to stop the increase in virus related deaths that have exceeded 12,600 out of 255,117 confirmed cases.Iranian officials have been particularly eager to remove restrictions on its economy, already crippled by sanctions the U.S. imposed after the Trump administration’s 2018 withdrawal from the 2015 nuclear agreement.A sharp rise in subsidized gasoline prices led to four days of unrest in cities and towns across Iran in November, which rights group Amnesty International said led to more than 300 people being killed in clashes with police and security forces.Tehran has yet to release any official statistics about the scale of the unrest, though in June the government acknowledged that the security forces shot and killed protesters and a lawmaker said that 230 people were killed in the anti-government protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-s-president-warns-lockdowns-could-lead-to-protests/story-xx8kIN147s3ak1AKEWTL6I.html
12-07-2020||World||Iraq’s PM takes step in battle against border corruption||Iraq’s prime minister took a first step Saturday to combat cross-border corruption that has long plagued the country’s frontiers as part of a reform plan to grapple with unprecedented financial shortfalls.Mustafa al-Kadhimi launched a campaign to recover “hundreds of millions” of Iraqi dinars in import tax revenue lost to bribery in the northern province of Diyala. In the first phase, security forces from the Interior Ministry will supervise the work of border guards to ensure proper payment of tariffs at the Mandili border crossing with Iran, he told reporters.“Today, military forces were sent and allowed to shoot anyone who violates customs, in order to protect the people’s money and to search for ‘ghosts’ who blackmail businessmen.” he said.The scheme is expected to be repeated at other border points.Local security and government officials said enforcement brings with it the risk of contending with powerful armed groups.A Mandali border official with the rank of lieutenant colonel said “ghosts” referred to armed factions, some with links to groups within the state’s Popular Mobilization Forces, comprised of an array of militia groups, some with links to Iran. The officer spoke on condition of anonymity fearing retribution.Hours before the prime minister’s arrival at the frontier, Iraqi security forces announced the start of the fourth phase of a military campaign to root out Islamic State group elements from Diyala province, according to a military statement. At least 15 IS hideouts were destroyed since the dawn operation was launched.The launch of the border corruption campaign comes as Iraq’s government struggles to plug a widening budget deficit amid spiraling oil prices that has slashed expected state revenues, leaving the country with little liquidity to pay state salaries and finance a response to the coronavirus.In June, the crude exporting state received $2.68 billion in oil revenues, about half of what a draft 2020 budget projected.Attempts at financial reform have been met with protests and rejection from parliament, which voted down proposals to cut public salaries, which represent a chunk of the government’s monthly expenditure.The government plans to pay full salaries for the months of June and July by borrowing from reserves through state banks, but this is a short-term option, two Iraqi officials said. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.With strong opposition to wage cuts from political blocs in parliament, al-Kadhimi is considering measures that don’t require their approval, according two members of the government Crisis Cell, a high-level committee overseeing top economic issues. These include changing taxation methods and enforcing tariffs at customs. Iraq imports nearly all of its goods from neighboring Iran and Turkey.“We are in crisis mode, we have a 3-trillion (dinar) deficit every month,” said one official. “It’s not sustainable for the future.”Improving customs collections across Iraq’s 21 border crossings had been on the reform agenda of previous Iraqi governments but officials have repeatedly said enforcement was the key obstacle.Mandali crossing, recently re-opened after a virus-related closure, has fallen victim to armed groups in the past, said Omar al-Waeili, director of the border ports. Once they even confiscated prohibited items by force, he said. With stricter policing he expects the crossing to bring in around 250 million dinars per day.The government alleges that corruption arises from certain border officers accepting bribes for charging lower tariffs, while others say they are intimidated by armed gangs with links to militia groups that are dominant in the area.Some local officials say plans to introduce automated security technology at the crossing and clamp down on corrupt officials would introduce fresh obstacles.PMF groups and some Iraqi security forces maintain security in Mandali. Two officials, one lieutenant colonel at the border and another in the government, said armed factions with militia links were involved.“They give you a receipt of just 10 percent of what is paid, the rest will be theirs,” the officer said. He requested anonymity for fear of retribution. “If someone opposes them or wants to implement the law, they threaten them.”Al-Kadhimi visited the headquarters of the PMF during his trip to Diyala.“I ask for time and patience,” he said, in comments to reporters following his meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraq-s-pm-takes-step-in-battle-against-border-corruption/story-vad4VWbROWECCSdrNhsY9M.html
12-07-2020||World||US warns of ‘arbitrary detention’ risk in China||The United States on Saturday warned citizens of “heightened risk of arbitrary detention” in China as tensions between Beijing and Washington soared over issues including Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Tibet. US citizens in China “may be subjected to prolonged interrogations and extended detention for reasons related to ‘state security’“, the State Department warned in a security alert.The State Department said Chinese authorities may also impose exit bans as part of “arbitrary enforcement of local laws for purposes other than maintaining law and order”.Beijing and Washington have traded barbs and sanctions on a slew of issues in recent months, including the coronavirus pandemic and Chinese policies in the far west regions of Tibet and Xinjiang, with Chinese authorities threatening retaliation this week for US sanctions on Chinese officials. A controversial security law pushed on Hong Kong by China’s central government in June has also caused international concern over the wording of the legislation, which bans subversive acts and speech against the Chinese government made anywhere in the world.Australia and Canada have also issued travel warnings over fears of arbitrary detention by Beijing.Last year China arrested Australian-Chinese writer Yang Hengjun, who was indicted earlier this year for espionage.China has also arrested two Canadians after Canada detained a high-profile executive of Chinese telecom giant Huawei in late 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-warns-of-arbitrary-detention-risk-in-china/story-xTF29YavFTcTx2N3dvcGiI.html
12-07-2020||World||Trump commutes longtime friend Roger Stone’s prison sentence||President Donald Trump has commuted the sentence of his longtime political confidant Roger Stone, intervening in extraordinary fashion in a criminal case that was central to the Russia investigation and that concerned the president’s own conduct.The move came Friday, just days before Stone was to begin serving a 40-month prison sentence for lying to Congress, witness tampering and obstructing the House investigation into whether Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia to win the 2016 election.The action, which Trump had foreshadowed in recent days, underscores the president’s lingering rage over special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation and is part of a continuing effort by the president and his administration to rewrite the narrative of a probe that has shadowed the White House from the outset. Democrats, already alarmed by the Justice Department’s earlier dismissal of the case against Trump’s first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, denounced the president as further undermining the rule of law.Stone, 67, had been set to report to prison on Tuesday after a federal appeals court rejected his bid to postpone his surrender date. But he told The Associated Press that Trump called him Friday evening to tell him he was off the hook.“The president told me that he had decided, in an act of clemency, to issue a full commutation of my sentence, and he urged me to vigorously pursue my appeal and my vindication,” Stone said by phone from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where he was celebrating with friends. He said he had to change rooms because there were “too many people opening bottles of Champagne here.”Although a commutation does not nullify Stone’s felony convictions, it protects him from serving prison time as a result.The move is another extraordinary intervention by Trump in the nation’s justice system and underscores anew his willingness to flout the norms and standards that have governed presidential conduct for decades. As Trump stares down a coronavirus pandemic that has worsened his chances for reelection, he has been more willing than ever to test the limits of his power.Democrats denounced Trump’s action. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Saturday called it “an act of staggering corruption,” saying legislation is needed to prevent a president from pardoning or commuting the sentence of someone who acted to shield that president from prosecution.House Intelligence Committee Chair Adam Schiff called it “offensive to the rule of law and principles of justice. Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez asked, “Is there any power Trump won’t abuse?”Sen. Mitt Romney, a Utah Republican, also condemned the move. “Unprecedented, historic corruption: an American president commutes the sentence of a person convicted by a jury of lying to shield that very president,” he tweeted Saturday.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany, in a statement, called Stone a “victim of the Russia Hoax that the Left and its allies in the media,” and declared, “Roger Stone is now a free man!”Stone had been open about his desire for a pardon or commutation, appealing for the president’s help in a monthslong television and social media campaign and seeking to postpone his surrender date by months after getting a brief extension from the judge, in part by citing the coronavirus.Trump, who had made clear in recent days that he was inching closer to acting, had repeatedly publicly inserted himself into Stone’s case, including just before Stone’s sentencing.That earned a public rebuke from his own attorney general, William Barr, who said the president’s comments were “making it impossible” for him to do his job. Barr was so incensed that he told people he was considering resigning over the matter.“With this commutation, Trump makes clear that there are two systems of justice in America: one for his criminal friends, and one for everyone else,” Schiff said. “Donald Trump, Bill Barr, and all those who enable them pose the gravest of threats to the rule of law.”Stone, a larger-than-life political character who embraced his reputation as a dirty trickster, was the sixth Trump aide or adviser to have been convicted of charges brought during Mueller’s investigation.A longtime Trump friend and informal adviser, Stone boasted during the campaign that he was in contact with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange through a trusted intermediary and hinted at inside knowledge of WikiLeaks’ plans to release more than 19,000 emails hacked from the servers of the Democratic National Committee.But Stone denied any wrongdoing and consistently criticized the case against him as politically motivated. He did not take the stand during his trial, did not speak at his sentencing. His lawyers did not call any witnesses in his defense.Prosecutors had originally recommended Stone serve seven to nine years in prison. But in a highly unusual move, Barr reversed that decision after a Trump tweet and recommended a more lenient punishment, prompting a mini-revolt inside the Justice Department, with the entire prosecution team resigning from the case.Department officials have vehemently denied Barr was responding to Trump’s criticism and have insisted there was no contact with the White House over the decision. Barr has also pointed out that the judge, in imposing a 40-month sentence, had agreed with him that the original sentencing recommendation was excessive.Barr has said the prosecution was justified, and the Justice Department did not support Stone’s more recent effort to put off his surrender date. Though the Justice Department raised concerns about the handling of Flynn’s case, including what it said were irregularities about his FBI interview, prosecutors did not point to any similar issues or problems with the Stone prosecution.Even so, the commutation will almost certainly contribute to a portrait of a president determined to erase the impact of the Russia investigation and to intervene on behalf of allies.The commutation was the latest example of Trump using his unlimited clemency power to pardon powerful men he believes have been mistreated by the justice system.Trump went on a clemency spree in February, commuting the 14-year prison sentence of former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich, a Democrat, and pardoning former New York City police commissioner Bernie Kerik, financier Michael Milken and several others.Trump has also offered clemency to other political allies, including Joe Arpaio, an Arizona sheriff who was awaiting sentencing at the time, conservative commentator Dinesh D’Souza, who had been convicted on campaign finance violations, and Conrad Black, a newspaper publisher convicted of fraud who had written a flattering book about the president.Trump, however, has spent much more time trumpeting his decision to commute the sentence of Alice Marie Johnson, who was serving life in prison for nonviolent drug offenses and who came to Trump’s attention after reality star Kim Kardashian West took up her cause. Her story was featured in a Trump campaign Super Bowl ad.Stone told the AP he expressed his gratitude to Trump in the phone call.“You know, he has a great sense of fairness,” Stone said. “We’ve been friends for many, many years, and he understands that I was targeted strictly for political reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-commutes-longtime-friend-roger-stone-s-prison-sentence/story-R9qcA5uebDCOYdF722kqtM.html
12-07-2020||World||UN to vote on reduced extension of cross-border aid to Syria||The UN Security Council is due to vote again Saturday on an extension of cross-border humanitarian aid to Syria after Russia and China vetoed a previous measure to the chagrin of Western member states.Authorization for the transport of aid to war-torn Syria, a system in place since 2014, expired Friday following the two countries’ veto earlier in the day and the subsequent rejection of a counterproposal by Moscow.Saturday’s vote will be on a new draft text submitted overnight by Germany and Belgium, which would provide for a single aid access point into Syria.German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas called in a tweet Saturday “on all delegations to no longer obstruct a compromise.”European countries and the US had wanted to maintain two crossing points on the Turkish border -- at Bab al-Salam, which leads to the Aleppo region, and Bab al-Hawa, which serves the Idlib region.The latest draft measure calls only for the Bab al-Hawa crossing to be maintained “for a period of twelve months,” according to a text obtained by AFP. The Council would also ask the UN secretary-general for a report “at least every 60 days.”UN authorization allows the international body to distribute aid to displaced Syrians without needing permission from Damascus.But Russia and China argue that the authorization violates Syria’s sovereignty, and that aid can increasingly be channeled through Syrian authorities.Russia, Syria’s closest ally, has for weeks argued that Bab al-Salam should be removed as an access point, particularly as it leads to the Aleppo region.Bab al-Hawa, on the other hand, allows for aid to be funneled to nearly four million people in the insurgent Idlib region, which the Syrian regime does not control.- Multiple vetoes -Western member states reject Russia’s arguments that authorization for cross-border aid violates Syrian sovereignty.Those countries maintain that there is no credible alternative to the cross-border system and argue that Syrian bureaucracy and politics are preventing an effective flow of aid in areas not controlled by the Syrian regime.The US has gone so far as to describe having two entry points as “a red line.”The 15 members of the Security Council have until midday Saturday to submit amendments to the latest text before the vote.Russia has asked for two things -- a mention of the impact of unilateral sanctions on Syria (an implicit jab at the United States and Europe), and a statement acknowledging improvements in aid delivery carried out under the Syrian regime.However, those amendments have little chance of being adopted.China, for its part, has called for an amendment highlighting the work of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, “in particular his appeal for an immediate global ceasefire.”In January, Moscow succeeded in having the crossing points reduced from four to two and in limiting the authorization to six months instead of a year.This week Russia and China exercised their veto rights as permanent members twice -- on Tuesday and Friday -- even as NGOs and Western countries accused them of politicizing a humanitarian issue.To be adopted, Saturday’s draft text must get at least nine of the 15 votes, with none of the five permanent members voting against the measure.Friday’s vetoes by Moscow and Beijing marked the 16th for Russia and 10th for China on texts linked to Syria since the war began in 2011.In a report in June, Guterres called for a one-year extension of the aid to include the two current access points.prh/bfm/bbk||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-to-vote-on-reduced-extension-of-cross-border-aid-to-syria/story-HsuNoG7LWdZ7CooXgfHlgP.html
12-07-2020||World||Coronavirus deaths take a long-expected turn for the worse||A long-expected upturn in U.S. coronavirus deaths has begun, driven by fatalities in states in the South and West, according to data on the pandemic.The number of deaths per day from the virus had been falling for months, and even remained down as states like Florida and Texas saw explosions in cases and hospitalizations — and reported daily U.S. infections broke records several times in recent days.Scientists warned it wouldn’t last. A coronavirus death, when it occurs, typically comes several weeks after a person is first infected. And experts predicted states that saw increases in cases and hospitalizations would, at some point, see deaths rise too. Now that’s happening.“It’s consistently picking up. And it’s picking up at the time you’d expect it to,” said William Hanage, a Harvard University infectious diseases researcher.According to an Associated Press analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University, the seven-day rolling average for daily reported deaths in the U.S. has increased from 578 two weeks ago to 664 on July 10 — still well below the heights hit in April. Daily reported deaths increased in 27 states over that time period, but the majority of those states are averaging under 15 new deaths per day. A smaller group of states has been driving the nationwide increase in deaths.California is averaging 91 reported deaths per day while Texas is close behind with 66, but Florida, Arizona, Illinois, New Jersey and South Carolina also saw sizable rises. New Jersey’s recent jump is thought to be partially attributable to its less frequent reporting of probable deaths.The impact has already been felt by families who lost kin — and by the health care workers who tried to save them.Rublas Ruiz, a Miami intensive care unit nurse, recently broke down in tears during a birthday dinner with his wife and daughter. He said he was overcome by the number of patients who have died in his care.“I counted like 10 patients in less than four days in our ICU and then I stopped doing that because there were so many,” said the 41-year-old nurse at Kendall Regional Medical Center who lost another patient Monday.The virus has killed more than 130,000 people in the U.S. and more than a half-million worldwide, according to Johns Hopkins University, though the true numbers are believed to be higher.Deaths first began mounting in the U.S. in March. About two dozen deaths were being reported daily in the middle of that month. By late in the month, hundreds were being reported each day, and in April thousands. Most happened in New York, New Jersey and elsewhere in the Northeast.Deaths were so high there because it was a new virus tearing through a densely populated area, and it quickly swept through vulnerable groups of people in nursing homes and other places, said Perry Halkitis, the dean of the Rutgers University School of Public Health in New Jersey.Many of the infections occurred before government officials imposed stay-at-home orders and other social-distancing measures. The daily death toll started falling in mid-April — and continued to fall until about a week ago.Researchers now expect deaths to rise for at least some weeks, but some think the count probably will not go up as dramatically as it did in the spring — for several reasons.First, testing was extremely limited early in the pandemic, and it’s become clear that unrecognized infections were spreading on subways, in nursing homes and in other public places before anyone knew exactly what was going on. Now testing is more widespread, and the magnitude of outbreaks is becoming better understood.Second, many people’s health behaviors have changed, with mask-wearing becoming more common in some places. Although there is no vaccine yet, hospitals are also getting better at treating patients.Another factor, tragically, is that deadly new viruses often tear through vulnerable populations first, such as the elderly and people already weakened by other health conditions. That means that, in the Northeast at least, “many of the vulnerable people have already died,” Halkitis said.Now, the U.S. is likely in for “a much longer, slower burn,” Hanage, the Harvard researcher, said. “We’re not going to see as many deaths (as in the spring). But we’re going to see a total number of deaths, which is going to be large.”In other virus-related developments:— Walt Disney World’s Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom are reopening Saturday; Epcot and Disney’s Hollywood Studios will follow four days later. The move comes as there has been a surge in the number of Floridians testing positive for the coronavirus and the state set a record of nearly 500 confirmed deaths in a week.— The number of New Yorkers hospitalized with the coronavirus — 799 — has fallen to the lowest point since March 18. But Gov. Andrew Cuomo fears a resurgence in cases is inevitable amid outbreaks in other states.Kristin Urquiza is worried things may get dramatically worse soon in at least some American cities, like Phoenix, where her 65-year-old father died recently.When the dangers of the virus first became known, Mark Anthony Urquiza, a quality assurance inspector, took precautions such as wearing a face mask and staying home as much as possible, his daughter said.But that changed after Gov. Doug Ducey ended Arizona’s stay-at-home order on May 15, eased restrictions on businesses, and initially blocked local lawmakers from requiring residents to wear masks.By June 11, the elder Urquiza had developed a fever and cough. He was hospitalized and eventually placed on a ventilator. He died June 30.“His life was robbed. I believe that terrible leadership and flawed policies put my father’s life in the balance,” Kristin Urquiza said in an interview with The Associated Press.Ducey, a Republican, has more recently changed direction, closing many businesses and allowing mayors to make mask-wearing mandatory.But Kristin Urquiza is worried. Her father received the care at a time when beds in intensive care units were readily available. Now some Arizona ICUs are becoming swamped.“Other families are not going to be reassured the hospitals will have the capacity to give (coronavirus) victims the dignity and the health care that they deserve. And that breaks my heart,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-deaths-take-a-long-expected-turn-for-the-worse/story-9PgMkgR199FTqF0iCSzY6N.html
