15-07-2020||World||‘Torso, removed head, arms, legs’: Tech founder killed in NYC, body cut up||A Bangladeshi-origin technology entrepreneur who founded Nigeria’s Gokada ride-hailing app was found decapitated and dismembered in a luxury New York condo with a power saw plugged in nearby.The body of Fahim Saleh, 33, was found at around 3.30pm local time on Tuesday inside his apartment on the Lower East Side. Detectives found Saleh’s torso near a power saw and later discovered his head and limbs sorted into plastic bags, police told New York crime reporters.Saleh’s sister discovered the body and the fact the saw was still connected led detectives to suspect her arrival may have startled the perpetrator, who would have fled through another exit, The New York Times reported.“We have a torso, a head that’s been removed, arms and legs. Everything is still on the scene. We don’t have a motive,” said police spokesman Carlos Nieves.Security camera video showed Saleh in an elevator with a man in a dark suit, mask and gloves, media reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/torso-removed-head-arms-legs-tech-founder-killed-in-nyc-body-cut-up/story-R1SwWcnsKziF94SFUdAKgP.html
15-07-2020||World||US unloads punitive steps on China over Hong Kong law||The US has hit China with punitive measures over the Hong Kong security law and slapped visa curbs on those working with Beijing-linked firms such as Huawei.US President Donald Trump has signed into law a bill that authorises sanctions on individuals responsible for the Hong Kong law. He also signed an executive order that took away the preferential trade status of Hong Kong, putting it on par with the mainland. “Their freedom has been taken away. Their rights have been taken away. And with it, goes Hong Kong, in my opinion, because it will no longer be able to compete with free markets,” Trump told reporters at the White House.“Hong Kong will now be treated the same as mainland China: no special privileges, no special economic treatment, and no export of sensitive technologies,” he said.China vowed it will take strong countermeasures and sanction US officials and entities over the Hong Kong law. It urged the US to “correct its wrongdoings” and to stop interfering in Hong Kong’s affairs.On Wednesday, the US state department announced visa restrictions on employees of Chinese tech firms that “provide material support to regimes engaging in human rights abuses globally”.Companies impacted include Huawei, which it described as an arm of the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) surveillance state “that censors political dissidents and enables mass internment camps in Xinjiang and the indentured servitude of its population shipped all over China”. Certain Huawei employees provide material support to the CCP regime that commits human rights abuses, it said.The New York Times said it will transfer some of its staff out of Hong Kong because of uncertainties about practising journalism under the new security law. Its digital team of journalists will be moved to Seoul over the next year, the paper said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-unloads-punitive-steps-on-china-over-hong-kong-law/story-1zij7x9rvvuQrswRPJ7iUM.html
15-07-2020||World||UN warns Covid-19 has threatened child vaccination programs||The United Nations warned Wednesday about an alarming decline in childhood vaccinations because of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying that the likelihood a child born today will have all recommended vaccines by the age of 5 is less than 20 percent.Most of the 82 countries surveyed in May reported vaccination campaigns being disrupted because of coronavirus, according to the study carried out by UNICEF, the World Health Organization and Gavi, a public-private partnership started by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation that buys vaccines for about 60% of the world’s children.That survey found more than 30 measles campaigns around the world have been, or are at risk of being halted, a move likely to worsen outbreaks of the highly contagious disease.“The avoidable suffering and death caused by children missing out on routine immunizations could be far greater than Covid-19 itself,” said WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.Even before the pandemic hit, 14 million children around the world already weren’t receiving vaccinations, most of them in Africa. In South America, vaccination rates already have plummeted over the past decade in Brazil, Bolivia, Haiti and Venezuela.Now it’s become harder for health workers to give vaccines because many have been redirected toward the pandemic response. In other areas, health workers are having more difficulty because of movement restrictions or lack of protective equipment.Even when vaccines are still available, many parents are fearful of taking their children to health centers because of the virus.“Covid-19 has made previously routine vaccination a daunting challenge,” said UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore. “We must prevent a further deterioration in vaccine coverage and urgently resume vaccination programs before children’s lives are threatened by other diseases. We cannot trade one health crisis for another.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-warns-covid-19-has-threatened-child-vaccination-programs/story-zyOPqd7ZpVgIQVQJUWEYmI.html
15-07-2020||World||Floyd family sues Minneapolis officers charged in his death||George Floyd’s family filed a lawsuit Wednesday against the city of Minneapolis and the four police officers charged in his death, alleging the officers violated Floyd’s rights when they restrained him and that the city allowed a culture of excessive force, racism and impunity to flourish in its police force.The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Minnesota, was announced by attorney Ben Crump and other lawyers representing Floyd’s family members.“This complaint shows what we have said all along, that Mr. Floyd died because the weight of the entire Minneapolis Police Department was on his neck,” Crump said in a statement. “The City of Minneapolis has a history of policies, procedures and deliberate indifference that violates the rights of arrestees, particularly Black men, and highlights the need for officer training and discipline.”Crump said the lawsuit seeks to set a precedent “that makes it financially prohibitive for police to wrongfully kill marginalized people — especially Black people — in the future.”Floyd, who was Black and handcuffed, died May 25 after Derek Chauvin, a white police officer, pressed his knee against Floyd’s neck for nearly eight minutes as Floyd said he couldn’t breathe. Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and manslaughter. Three other officers at the scene — Tou Thao, Thomas Lane and J. Kueng — are charged with aiding and abetting both second-degree murder and manslaughter.All four officers were fired the day after Floyd’s death, which set off protests that spread around the world and turned into a national reckoning on race in America.Floyd’s death also sparked calls to abolish the Minneapolis Police Department and replace it with a new public safety department. A majority of City Council members support the move, saying the department has a long history and culture of brutality that has resisted change.A public hearing was planned later Wednesday on the proposal, which requires a change in the city’s charter that could go to voters in November.The lawsuit comes on the same day that a court allowed public viewing by appointment of video from the body cameras of Lane and Kueng. A coalition of news organizations and attorneys for Lane and Kueng have been advocating to make the videos public, saying they would provide a more complete picture of what happened when Floyd was taken into custody. The judge hasn’t said why he’s not allowing the video to be disseminated more widely.According to documents in state probate court, Floyd is survived by 11 known heirs, including five children and six siblings. They live in Texas, North Carolina, Florida and New York. All but one of Floyd’s children are adults. He has no living parents or grandparents. A trustee was named last week, paving the way for the lawsuit.The families of victims of other high-profile police shootings have received high payouts in Minnesota. Last year, Minneapolis agreed to pay $20 million to the family of Justine Ruszczyk Damond, an unarmed woman who was shot by an officer after she called 911 to report hearing a possible crime happening behind her home. The settlement came three days after the officer, Mohamed Noor, was convicted of murdering her and is believed to be the largest payout ever stemming from police violence in Minnesota.At the time, Mayor Jacob Frey cited Noor’s unprecedented conviction and his failure to identify a threat before he used deadly force as reasons for the large settlement.The mother of Philando Castile, a black motorist killed by an officer in 2016, reached a nearly $3 million settlement with the suburb of St. Anthony, which employed the officer. The officer, Jeronimo Yanez, was acquitted of manslaughter and other charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/floyd-family-sues-minneapolis-officers-charged-in-his-death/story-ZnnPY5TjUxDc8UcCgtCdsL.html
15-07-2020||World||US universities forced Trump administration to retreat on foreign students||President Donald Trump-led administration gave up within 5 minutes of the start of arguments in a federal court in Boston on Tuesday, and to the relief of hundreds of US universities and their hundreds of thousands of international students including many from India, its lawyer told the judge they were rescinding the controversial order issued last week.As a result of rescinding of the order, foreign students in US will not be asked to leave if they are enrolled at a university that offered only online classes for the upcoming fall semester because of Covid-19 lockdown. Additionally, no one will be have to switch course or university for in-person classes to stay “in-status”, as the administration had ordered on July 6.“The government has agreed to rescind the July 6 2020 policy directive and the frequently asked questions, the FAQs, that were released the next day on July 7,” district court judge Allison D. Burroughs said just as the hearing started. “They also agreed to rescind any implementation of the directive.”She added that the administration will go back to its March guideline, which allowed foreign students to stay and pursue their studies through online courses as colleges and universities had begun shutting down due to the Covid-19 disease outbreak sweeping through the country. US continues to remain the worst affected by the pandemic globally with 3,434,636 infection cases and 1,36,699 deaths, as recorded by Johns Hopkins universityThe Harvard Crimson, a campus news publication of Harvard, which was a joint plaintiff with MIT, reported that the judge also said the parties had reached an agreement within five minutes of the start of the arguments.Omkar Joshi, a doctoral student at the University of Maryland (UMD), said, “This is a good development and we are relieved that the order has been rescinded. We can return to the campus, if we choose to, without the fear of infection. This comes as a well deserved relief”.Though UMD opted for a hybrid model of teaching, it was still not clear to students how many courses they had to take under the new directive, or how many hours they had to spend on the campus”.Universities can still offer in-person courses, depending on their programmes but, Joshi said, “students cannot be forced to return to the campus, they have a choice now.”An estimated 1 million international students are enrolled in US colleges and universities every year. They are a significant source of revenue for the colleges, generating economic activity worth around $41 billion and supporting 450,000 jobs alongside. After China, US sees second largest student population from India — with around 200,000 in all at present — ahead of Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Canada.The July 6 order from the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency had come “out of the blue”, as one Indian student had then said, shaken, confused and scared as all other foreign students. Universities had been caught in the final planning stages for the fall, as they had weighed options and models for reopening with new Covid-19 infections surging around the country again.Tanujay Saha, of Princeton, said that while he is not personally impacted as he has finished most of his coursework as a doctoral student and now has research work lined up, some students in his lab hailing from other parts of the world had “completely freaked out”. The work in the lab grounded to a “standstill”, Saha said. “We couldn’t not work for a day or two,” he said of the days in the immediate aftermath of the order, which had added to worries and concerns already being felt around the campus because of the Covid-19 epidemic and travel restrictions.He also got calls from India from students who were to start this fall. They were worried, of course about what will happen now.Harvard had announced the same day on July 6, its fall courses will be taught online entirely. And just hours later, it discovered its students will be forced to either leave the country because of new directive from the Trump administration or switch to another university that offered a hybrid of in-person and online classes. Trump had directed his ire at Harvard, saying, the next day, its plans were “ridiculous” and that it had taken the “easy way out”.“This is a significant victory,” Lawrence S Bacow, president of Harvard University, wrote in an email to affiliates, after the court announcement Tuesday. “I have heard from countless international students who said that the July 6 directive had put them at serious risk. These students – our students — can now rest easier and focus on their education, which is all they ever wanted to do,” Bacow said. “It’s deeply encouraging that this case has inspired so much reflection about and enthusiastic recognition of the vital role international students play in academic communities across the United States – and absolutely at MI,” MIT president L Rafael Reif wrote in a note to the campus community. He added, taking a swipe at the administration, “This case also made clear that real lives are at stake in these ‘bureaucratic’ matters, with the potential for real harm. We need to approach policy making, especially now, with more humanity, more decency – not less.”Harvard and MIT’s lawsuit had been joined by more than 200 other universities and some states, which reflected the size and the swiftness of the blowback to the administration’s order.Elizabeth Warren, a Democratic senator and former presidential candidate, slammed the ICE order as a “dangerous & xenophobic #StudentBan policy”. The reference here was to other travel bans the president has ordered targeting people from certain countries, such as the “Muslim travel man”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-universities-forced-trump-administration-to-retreat-on-foreign-students/story-xvjgjoseycBnibpErbDOBK.html
15-07-2020||World||Pompeo amps up pitch, says will use all tools to support countries over South China Sea||The United States will use all available tools to support countries that believe China has violated their sovereignty in the South China Sea, said US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday. Pompeo’s statement amps up the pitch against China’s effort to push the envelope and its territory in the South China Sea region.Pompeo said the US will support these countries but stressed this would be done in multilateral and legal forums.“We will then go use the tools that we have available and we will support countries all across the world who recognize that China has violated their legal territorial claims as well – or maritime claims as well,” Pompeo told reporters, according to news agency Reuters. .@SecPompeo comments on the Chinese Communist Party’s implementation of national security legislation in Hong Kong, U.S. policy on the South China Sea, and Huawei and 5G. pic.twitter.com/jkj2rBRZYU“We will go provide them the assistance we can, whether that’s in multilateral bodies, whether that’s in ASEAN, whether that’s through legal responses, we will use all the tools we can,” he said, referring to the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).Pompeo, who had last week spoken about building a coalition against China, indicated the plan was on track. He announced a “quick trip” to the United Kingdom and Denmark on Monday next. I’m sure that the Chinese Communist Party and its threat to free peoples around the world will be high on top of that agenda,” Pompeo told a news conference.Pompeo also welcomed London’s ban on Chinese telecom giant Huawei and announced that the US would impose visa restrictions on some workers for Huawei Technologies Corp, continuing the Trump administration’s efforts to bar Huawei’s technology on the grounds that the Chinese technology company could be used by the government in Beijing as a back door for spying. Huawei has said it operates independently.The Trump administration has already delivered a harsh warning to Beijing, insisting that Washington could respond with sanctions against Chinese officials and enterprises involved in coercion in the South China Sea.“Nothing is off the table ... there is room for that. This is a language the Chinese understand - demonstrative and tangible action,” David Stilwell, assistant secretary of state for East Asia, had said earlier in the day.Stilwell’s comment came a day after the United States rejected China’s claims to offshore resources in most of the South China Sea as “completely unlawful”.The US has opposed China’s expansive territorial claims in the South China Sea in the past and sent warships through the strategic waterway, through which about $3 trillion of trade passes each year, to demonstrate freedom of navigation.China claims 90% of the potentially energy-rich sea, but Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also claim parts of it. Beijing has built bases on atolls in the region.China has described the US focus on the South China Sea and its threat of sanctions as an attempt to stir up trouble and destabilise the region.“The US arbitrarily talks about sanctions ... this is very pathetic,” she told reporters during a daily briefing in Beijing. “We are not afraid of sanctions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-amps-up-pitch-says-will-use-all-tools-to-support-countries-over-south-china-sea/story-I3nUnUD7Oks1dcikQ6zjPI.html
15-07-2020||World||Donald Trump’s ‘great news on vaccines’ tweet is short on details||United States President Donald Trump on Wednesday got the world guessing when he fired a one line tweet: “Great News on Vaccines!”It was not immediately clear as to where this vaccine was being developed and how far along was it as the US President was miserly with details. Positive news on initial trials of the University of Oxford’s potential Covid-19 vaccine that has been licensed to AstraZeneca could be announced as soon as Thursday, reported Reuters quoting an editor of Britain’s ITV.A Moderna Inc vaccine was able to produce antibodies in all patients in an early trial, a report in the New England Journal of Medicine said today.The developers of the vaccine earlier this month said they are encouraged by the immune response they have seen in trials so far.“I am hearing there will be positive news soon (perhaps tomorrow) on initial trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine that is backed by AstraZeneca,” Robert Peston, political editor of a Britain’s ITV, was quoted as saying by Reuters. The project has started Phase III of the human trials to assess how the vaccine works in a large number of people over the age of 18, but has yet to report Phase I trial results.US stocks opened higher today, buoyed by progress on the leading coronavirus vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-great-news-on-vaccines-tweet-is-short-on-details/story-h9C8UAww2JyOzZWVhk7JXK.html
15-07-2020||World||China accuses Britain of helping Washington hurt Huawei||China accused Britain on Wednesday of colluding with Washington to hurt Huawei after the Chinese tech giant was blocked from working on a British next-generation mobile phone network.A government spokeswoman said Beijing will protect Chinese companies but gave no indication of possible retaliation.Washington accuses Huawei Technologies Ltd., the biggest maker of switching gear for phone and internet companies, of being a security risk, which the Chinese company denies. The Trump administration wants European and other allies to exclude Huawei as they upgrade to fifth-generation, or 5G, networks.On Tuesday, the British government announced Huawei would be excluded from work on the network because U.S. sanctions made it impossible to ensure the security of Chinese-supplied equipment.“Without any concrete evidence, the United Kingdom took unfounded risks as an excuse and cooperated with the United States to discriminate, suppress and exclude Chinese companies,” foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said.Last year, Washington imposed curbs on Huawei’s access to American components and other technology. In May, the Trump administration tightened controls by blocking non-U.S. companies from using American technology to produce processor chips and other components for Huawei without Washington’s approval.Chinese officials accuse Washington of misusing national security concerns to block a rising competitor to U.S. tech suppliers.“China will fully and seriously evaluate this incident and take all measures to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese enterprises,” Hua said.On Tuesday, President Donald Trump said Washington told other governments to avoid Huawei “if they want to do business with us.”“We convinced many countries — many countries — and I did this myself, for the most part, not to use Huawei because we think it’s an unsafe security risk,” Trump said in Washington. “I talked many countries out of using it. If they want to do business with us, they can’t use it.”Huawei is at the center of U.S.-Chinese conflicts over technology development and possible spying. The company’s chief financial officer is under house arrest in Canada and fighting extradition to the United States to face charges related to possible violations of trade sanctions on Iran.Hua said Beijing would warn Chinese companies “to attach great importance to the increasing political security risks” they face in Britain.On Tuesday, Huawei reported its revenue grew 13.1% in the first half of 2020 compared with a year earlier despite U.S. pressure and the coronavirus pandemic.Huawei is, along with Nokia Corp. of Finland and Sweden’s LM Ericsson, a leader in development of fifth-generation technology.5G is meant to expand networks to support self-driving cars, remote surgery and other futuristic applications. That makes the technology more intrusive and sensitive politically.U.S. officials have suggested Washington might provide financing so that other countries can buy Nokia or Ericsson technology instead of Huawei’s lower-priced gear.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government agreed in January to allow Huawei to supply some equipment for the 5G network while it would be barred from providing core components.London reversed course after the Trump administration threatened to end an intelligence-sharing agreement due to concern that Huawei’s involvement might allow Beijing to infiltrate British networks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-accuses-britain-of-helping-washington-hurt-huawei/story-W8cDH7oZXVsTYKB2rkGtpO.html
15-07-2020||World||Coronavirus resurgence forces countries to reimpose restrictions||Countries around the world are reimposing lockdowns and implementing new health checks at their borders in an effort to curb a resurgence of the coronavirus before it spins even further out of control.Starting Wednesday, all travelers arriving in Greece from a land border with Bulgaria were required to carry negative coronavirus test results issued in the previous 72 hours and translated into English. The new rules, which follow an increase in tourism-related Covid-19 cases, triggered an immediate drop in arrivals compared to recent days.Residents of Australia’s second-largest city, Melbourne, were warned on Wednesday to comply with lockdown regulations or face tougher restrictions. Melbourne’s 5 million people and part of the city’s semi-rural surroundings are a week into a new, six-week lockdown to contain a new outbreak there.“The time for warnings, the time for cutting people slack, is over,” Victoria state Premier Daniel Andrews said. “Where we are is in a very serious and deadly position.”The developments come with more than 13 million cases of coronavirus cases confirmed worldwide, and with over 578,000 deaths, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.The actual numbers are thought to be far higher due to a number of reasons including limited testing.In Serbia, which has been hit hard by a spike in infections and anti-government protests, a government crisis team expanded a ban on gatherings of more than 10 people from Belgrade to encompass the entire country. Masks were also made mandatory in public spaces where there is no opportunity for 1.5 meters (around five feet) of distancing, such as in lines to enter shops and bus stations.Renewed restrictions took effect in Hong Kong on Wednesday, with public gatherings limited to four people, restaurants restricted to takeout after 6 p.m., and a one-week closure for gyms, karaoke bars, and selected other businesses. Masks were mandated on public transit for the first time, with the non-compliant being fined.After a surge in daily infections beginning last month, Israel moved last week to reimpose restrictions, closing events spaces, live show venues, bars and clubs. It has imposed lockdowns on areas with high infection rates, which in some cases sparked protests from residents.Officials warn that if case numbers don’t come down in the coming days, Israel will have no choice but to lock the entire country down again, as it did in the spring.“I don’t see what other tools we have aside from a lockdown,” Israeli Health Minister Yuli Edelstein told the Israeli news site Ynet. “Unless there is a miracle.”South Africa, Africa’s most developed country, is already showing signs of being overwhelmed by the pandemic — an ominous outlook for the rest of the continent of 1.3 billion people.A ban on alcohol sales and a night curfew have been reimposed this week to reduce the volume of trauma patients to hospitals that are struggling to cope with an influx of Covid-19 patients.Alcohol-related emergencies at hospitals dropped by nearly 60% when South Africa prohibited the sales of liquor in April and May. When that restriction was lifted in June, hospitals saw an immediate return to previous levels of trauma cases, especially on weekends, according to statistics from Health Minister Zwelini Mkhize.One result was more economic pain in a country which already has a high unemployment rate of 30%.“This return to the booze ban is causing havoc to the restaurant business, and it’s causing people to lose jobs,” said Gerald Elliot, owner of a popular Johannesburg restaurant, Ba Pita, which he said closed as a result of the restrictions, with a loss of 28 jobs. “You can look down our street and see several restaurants that are shut. It looks like they are closed permanently.”In Spain, authorities in the northeastern Catalonia region made fresh attempts to stem the spread of new coronavirus outbreaks as health experts warned that more and better contact tracing is needed.Since midnight Tuesday, 160,000 residents in and around the city of Lleida were forbidden to leave their homes unless it’s properly justified. The area is closed off, with police checkpoints outside every municipality. Bars and restaurants are only open for takeout or delivery.In Hospitalet de Llobregat, a densely populated town on the outskirts of the regional capital, Barcelona, dozens of people lined up Tuesday at a local health center to be tested for the virus, as infections have shot up from a few dozen to more than 200 in just over three days.Starting Wednesday, three neighborhoods are seeing more restrictions, including limits to the number of customers in shops and restaurants, while authorities are strongly urging people not to socialize.Authorities in the English town of Blackburn also imposed new restrictions on social mingling amid what they say is a “rising tide” of new coronavirus cases.Director of Public Health Dominic Harrison said that if infection numbers didn’t fall by July 27, officials would begin to reimpose lockdown measures such as the closing of shops and other businesses.Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike said Wednesday that the spread of the infections in the Japanese capital have escalated to levels tantamount to “issuing an alarm” and requested that residents and business owners step up their preventive measures.However, even as new restrictions are imposed, steps were being taken to help restore a sense of normalcy.On Tuesday night, Belarusian Prime Minister Roman Golovchenko announced reopening the border with Russia and resuming the transport connection between the two countries “in the coming days.”Travelers arriving in Russia starting Wednesday had to either provide coronavirus test results at the border or take a virus test within three days of arriving to the country. Those measures replace a mandatory two-week self-isolation for those arriving to Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-resurgence-forces-countries-to-reimpose-restrictions/story-KiaX3RHFUC7GBpVSek75lI.html
15-07-2020||World||Tanker off UAE sought by US over Iran sanctions ‘hijacked’||An oil tanker sought by the U.S. over allegedly circumventing sanctions on Iran was hijacked on July 5 off the coast of the United Arab Emirates, a seafarers organization said Wednesday.Satellite photos showed the vessel in Iranian waters on Tuesday and two of its sailors remained in the Iranian capital.It wasn’t immediately clear what happened aboard the Dominica-flagged MT Gulf Sky, though its reported hijacking comes after months of tensions between Iran and the U.S.David Hammond, the CEO of the United Kingdom-based group Human Rights at Sea, said he took a witness statement from the captain of the MT Gulf Sky, confirming the ship had been hijacked.Hammond said that 26 of the Indian sailors on board had made it back to India, while two remained in Tehran, without elaborating.“We are delighted to hear that the crew are safe and well, which has been our fundamental concern from the outset,” Hammond told The Associated Press.Hammond said that he had no other details on the vessel.TankerTrackers.com, a website tracking the oil trade at sea, said it saw the vessel in satellite photos on Tuesday in Iranian waters off Hormuz Island. Hormuz Island, near the port city of Bandar Abbas, is some 190 kilometers (120 miles) north of Khorfakkan, a city on the eastern coast of the United Arab Emirates where the vessel had been for months.The Emirati government, the U.S. Embassy in Abu Dhabi and the U.S. Navy’s Bahrain-based 5th Fleet did not respond to requests for comment. Iranian state media did not immediately report on the vessel and Iran’s mission to the United Nations did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In May, the U.S. Justice Department filed criminal charges against two Iranians, accusing them of trying to launder some $12 million to purchase the tanker, then named the MT Nautica, through a series of front companies. The vessel then took on Iranian oil from Kharg Island to sell abroad, the U.S. government said.Court documents allege the scheme involved the Quds Force of Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard, which is its elite expeditionary unit, as well as Iran’s national oil and tanker companies. The two men charged, one of whom also has an Iraqi passport, remain at large.“Because a U.S. bank froze the funds related to the sale of the vessel, the seller never received payment,” the Justice Department said. “As a result, the seller instituted a civil action in the UAE to recover the vessel.”That civil action was believed to still be pending, raising questions of how the tanker sailed away from the Emirates after being seized by authorities there.Data from the MT Gulf Sky’s Automatic Identification System tracker shows it had been turned off around 4:30 a.m. July 5, according to ship-tracking website MarineTraffic.com. Ships are supposed to keep their AIS trackers on, but Iranian vessels routinely turn theirs off to mask their movements.Meanwhile, the 28 Indian sailors on board the vessel found themselves stuck on board without pay for months, according to the International Labor Organization. It filed a report saying the vessel and its sailors had been abandoned by its owners since March off Khorfakkan. The ILO did not respond to a request for comment.As tensions between Iran and the U.S. heated up last year, tankers plying the waters of the Mideast became targets, particularly near the crucial Strait of Hormuz, the Persian Gulf’s narrow mouth through which 20% of all oil passes. Suspected limpet mine attacks the U.S. blamed on Iran targeted several tankers. Iran denied being involved, though it did seize several tankers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tanker-off-uae-sought-by-us-over-iran-sanctions-hijacked/story-yui3SCklRT3RQTu3bvzcaK.html
15-07-2020||World||Xi Jinping’s show of force against India is a strategic gift for Donald Trump||A brutal day of hand-to-hand combat on the India-China border last month may accomplish what years of Pentagon and White House outreach has struggled to achieve: draw the U.S. and India closer militarily.U.S. strategists have long wanted to get India firmly on America’s side, seeing the nation of 1.3 billion as a powerful counterweight to China. But while India has historically tried to balance its ties among global powers, the clashes with China at 14,000-feet (4,300 meters) laid bare the potential longer-term risks of not having the U.S. more clearly behind it.“My former Pentagon colleagues see the India dust-up as nothing you’d want but a great opportunity for further strengthening U.S.-India cooperation,” said Randy Schriver who stepped down as assistant secretary of defense for Indo-Pacific Affairs in December. “Our defense strategy is really getting a boost from all this.”Closer ties would represent a big strategic win for Donald Trump. The American president has courted Prime Minister Narendra Modi since taking office in 2017. In 2018, the two nations signed a defense agreement that allowed India to purchase advanced American weapons and share sensitive military technology. In 2019 the U.S. approved the largest defense deal between the two countries in four years when it confirmed the sale of $1 billion in naval guns to India.Last year the U.S. and Indian militaries also conducted their first-ever joint land, sea and air exercises. In February, just before the Covid-19 pandemic exploded in the U.S., the two leaders confirmed that $3 billion in defense deals would go forward, including $2.6 billion for MH-60R Seahawk maritime helicopters built by Lockheed Martin Corp. They promised more to come.Then came the border clash on the Tibetan plateau, just as tensions were soaring between Washington and Beijing. Trump, who used to regularly praise his friendship with Chinese President Xi Jinping, now lambastes Beijing over the origins of the coronavirus, its growing intervention in Hong Kong and its treatment of Muslim Uighurs in the western region of Xinjiang.That’s all playing out to New Delhi’s benefit as well as Trump’s.One official with Modi’s government who asked not to be identified discussing policy said India is now more likely to pursue complex military exercises with the U.S. and to purchase offensive weapons platforms. The official said India has become less concerned about provoking China since the clash along their remote Himalayan boundary that left 20 Indian troops and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers dead in a fierce skirmish.In the latest sign that New Delhi is open to closer military ties with the West, the country plans to invite Australia to join the annual Malabar naval exercise later this year that has so far included just Japan and the U.S. That would mark the first joint military drills by all the nations that take part in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, also referred to as the “Quad.”In the past, India was hesitant to engage in high-level defense exchanges with the other three powers to avoid irritating China, said Pramit Pal Chaudhuri, a distinguished fellow at the Aspen Center in New Delhi. Now, however, “India has no choice or incentive anymore to stay away from the U.S.,” Chaudhuri said.In Beijing, too, there’s a recognition that Sino-Indian tensions are likely to draw the U.S. further into South Asian geopolitics.“India has wanted to strengthen its military alliance with the U.S. in recent years, so the border incident with China may expedite this trend,” said Zhu Jiangming, a senior researcher at the Renmin University’s Overseas Security Research Institute.The geopolitical maneuvering comes after the Trump administration sought to build on an Obama-era effort to brand the region stretching from India to Hawaii as the “Indo-Pacific.” In 2017, Trump delivered a speech in Vietnam stressing the U.S. commitment to a “free and open Indo-Pacific.” A year later, then-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis renamed U.S. Pacific Command the “U.S. Indo-Pacific Command.”Intelligence SharingThe Pentagon’s strategy report for the region calls out the Chinese Communist Party’s efforts to “reorder the region to its advantage by leveraging military modernization, influence operations and predatory economics to coerce other nations.” The Indo-Pacific alliance, the document says, is meant to counter that effort.Enhanced cooperation is also likely in the field of military intelligence, according to Schriver, the former Pentagon official.“When it comes to things like PLA deployments in the Indian Ocean, it means sharing information, shadowing vessels and looking at whether you can hold a vessel and pass it onto another,” he said, referring to China’s People’s Liberation Army. The two sides are also likely to move beyond naval cooperation, branching out into ground force cooperation, Schriver said.Pakistan TiesDeteriorating U.S. ties with India’s South Asian rival Pakistan are easing the way for a closer U.S.-India defense relationship. In September 2018, the U.S. cut $300 million in military aid to Pakistan after longstanding frustration that the country was providing safe haven to the Afghan Taliban. The shift opened a path for “better and more fulsome engagement” with India, the Aspen Center’s Pal Chaudhuri said.U.S.-India ties also have been strengthening for reasons beyond the border spat. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo has touted India as a potential supply chain partner as the U.S. seeks to reduce its dependence on China’s economy.Still, many of the obstacles that have stymied US-India military cooperation in the past are likely to persist.New Delhi has continued to maintain friendly security ties with Moscow, going as far as to buy a Russian S-400 air defense system, echoing a move that hobbled U.S. ties with Turkey. Russia remains India’s largest arms supplier, accounting for 56% of its weapons imports from 2015 to 2019, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.For India, analysts say, the pursuit of closer U.S. military ties will be just part of a broader strategy to hedge against Chinese influence.“India will continue to have multiple alignments,” said Kashish Parpiani, a research fellow at the Observer Research Foundation in Mumbai. “While the U.S. will be the biggest gainer, major partners like France, Israel, Russia and Japan will gain too.”“India is not going to wholeheartedly pick a side,” Parpiani said. “It will signal, and signal hard. But unless the Chinese troops actually start marching down and India is cornered, it will not pick a side.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-s-show-of-force-against-india-is-a-strategic-gift-for-donald-trump/story-AP5QW5TFSVoxc8teZzrg8I.html
15-07-2020||World||Profile of a killer: Unraveling the deadly new coronavirus||What is this enemy?Seven months after the first patients were hospitalized in China battling an infection doctors had never seen before, the world’s scientists and citizens have reached an unsettling crossroads.Countless hours of treatment and research, trial and error now make it possible to take much closer measure of the new coronavirus and the lethal disease it has unleashed. But to take advantage of that intelligence, we must confront our persistent vulnerability: The virus leaves no choice.“It’s like we’re in a battle with something that we can’t see, that we don’t know, and we don’t know where it’s coming from,” said Vivian Castro, a nurse supervisor at St. Joseph’s Medical Center in Yonkers, just north of New York City, which struggled with its caseload this spring.Castro had treated scores of infected patients before she, too, was hospitalized for the virus in April, then spent two weeks in home quarantine. As soon as she returned to the emergency room for her first shift, she rushed to comfort yet another casualty -- a man swallowing the few words he could muster between gasps for air.“It just came back, that fear,” she said. “I just wanted to tell him not to give up.”The coronavirus is invisible, but seemingly everywhere. It requires close contact to spread, but it has reached around the globe faster than any pandemic in history.Covid-19 was not even on the world’s radar in November. But it has caused economic upheaval echoing the Great Depression, while claiming more than 570,000 lives. In the U.S. alone, the virus has already killed more Americans than died fighting in World War I.Even those figures don’t capture the pandemic’s full sweep. Nine of every 10 students worldwide shut out of their schools at one point. More than 7 million flights grounded. Countless moments of celebration and sorrow -- weddings and graduations, baby showers and funerals -- put off, reconfigured or abandoned because of worries about safety.In short, the coronavirus has rescripted nearly every moment of daily life. And fighting it -- whether by searching for a vaccine or seeking to protect family -- takes knowing the enemy. It’s the essential first step in what could be an extended quest for some version of normalcy.“There’s light at the end of tunnel, but it’s a very, very long tunnel,” said Dr. Irwin Redlener, director of the National Center for Disaster Preparedness at Columbia University.“There’s a lot we don’t know. But I think it’s absolutely certain we’re going to be adapting to a new way of life. That’s the reality.”___The new coronavirus is roughly 1,000 times narrower than a human hair. But scrutinized through an electron scope, it is clear this enemy is well-armed.Coronaviruses, including the newest one, are named for the spikes that cover their outer surface like a crown, or corona in Latin. Using those club-shaped spikes, the virus latches on to the outer wall of a human cell, invades it and replicates, creating viruses to hijack more cells.Find a way to block or bind the spikes and you can stop the virus.Once inside a human cell, the virus’ RNA, or genetic code, commandeers its machinery, providing instructions to make thousands of virus copies.But the coronavirus has a weakness: an outer membrane that can be destroyed by ordinary soap. That neutralizes the virus, which is why health experts emphasize the need to wash hands.Like organisms, viruses evolve, searching for traits that will ensure survival, said Charles Marshall, a professor of paleontology at the University of California and self-described “deep time evolutionary biologist.”“Coronaviruses fit into the standard evolutionary paradigm extremely well, which is if you’ve had some innovation, you get into some new environment ... you get into a human and you do well, you’re going to proliferate,” Marshall said.There are hundreds of coronaviruses, but just seven known to infect people. Four are responsible for some common colds. But in 2002, a virus called SARS, for severe acute respiratory syndrome, spread from China to sicken about 8,000 people worldwide, killing more than 700. Another coronavirus causes Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome, or MERS, identified in 2012, spread to humans through camels.The new coronavirus, though, has captivated scientists’ attention unlike any in decades.When researcher Thomas Friedrich logged on to his computer at the University of Wisconsin-Madison after a meeting in January, he found colleagues had been frantically posting messages to one another about the new virus.“People were getting increasingly excited and beginning to brainstorm ideas,” said Friedrich, who has spent years studying other infectious diseases.Now much of Friedrich’s lab is focused on the coronavirus, studying its spread in Wisconsin, and collaborating with scientists around the world examining the disease’s behavior in monkeys.Even early on it was clear this virus posed a major threat, he said. Human immune systems had never encountered it. And unlike Zika, whose spread can be controlled by targeting mosquitoes, or AIDS, which most often requires sexual contact, the new virus is readily transmitted through air.“It had all the hallmarks, to me, of a potential pandemic,” Friedrich said. “Basically, everyone in the world is susceptible.”___The new virus has breached borders and claimed victims with stealth and speed that make it difficult to track.Scientists are fairly certain the disease originated in bats, which harbor many coronaviruses. To get to humans, it may have been passed through another animal, possibly consumed for meat. By late January, when Chinese authorities walled off the city of Wuhan, where the disease was first diagnosed, it was too late to stop the spread.The most severe pandemic in recent history, the “Spanish flu” of 1918, was spread by infected soldiers dispatched to fight World War I. But aboard ships, it took weeks for the troops and the disease to cross oceans.Now, with more than 100,000 commercials flights a day ferrying tourists, business travelers and students around the globe, the new virus spread rapidly and virtually invisibly, said medical historian Mark Honigsbaum, author of “The Pandemic Century: One Hundred Years of Panic, Hysteria and Hubris.”“By the time we woke up to the outbreak in Italy, it had been there for weeks if not months,” he said.Soon after the first case in Wuhan, Chinese tourists with the virus traveled to France. But doctors there reported recently that a fishmonger contracted the disease even earlier than that, from an unknown source. On January 21, the first confirmed U.S. case was reported in Washington state, in a man who had traveled to Asia.“It’s one person coming in from China and we have it under control. It’s going to be just fine,” President Donald Trump said at the time. Ten days later, he blocked entry to most travelers from China.But genetic analysis of samples taken from New York patients showed most of the virus present arrived from Europe instead, and took root in February -- well before anyone thought about quarantining after a trip to Madrid, London or Paris.___Since February, when Dr. Daniel Griffin began treating patients suspected of having COVID-19, he’s cared for more than 1,000 people with the disease, first noted for attacking the lungs. But the infection certainly does not stop there.“I am actually shocked,” said Griffin, a specialist in infectious diseases at New York’s Columbia University Medical Center. “This virus seems to leave nothing untouched.”Scientists are getting a handle on the many ways the disease affects the body, but it’s a scramble.The lungs are, indeed, ground zero. Many patients find themselves gasping for breath, unable to say more than a word or two.Even after five days in the hospital, Vivian Castro, the nurse who became infected, said she returned home struggling for air.“I climbed two flights of stairs to my room and I felt like I was going to die,” she said.The reason why becomes clear in autopsies of those who have died, some with lungs that weigh far more than usual. Under a microscope, evidence of the virus’ destruction is even more striking.When Dr. Sanjay Mukhopadhyay examined autopsy samples from a 77-year-old Oklahoma man, he noted changes to the microscopic sacs in the patient’s lungs. In a healthy lung, oxygen passes through the thin walls of those sacs into the bloodstream. But in the Oklahoma patient, the virus had turned the sac walls so thick with debris that oxygen was blocked.The thickened walls “were everywhere,” preventing the lungs from sustaining the rest of the body, said Mukhopadhyay, of Ohio’s Cleveland Clinic.Autopsies reveal “what the virus is actually doing” inside patient’s bodies, said Dr. Desiree Marshall, a pathologist at the University of Washington who recently examined the heart of a Seattle man who died from disease.“Each autopsy has the chance to tell us something new,” she said. And those insights from the bodies of the dead could lead to more effective treatment of the living.The coronavirus, though, keeps raising fresh questions. It left the hearts of two men in their 40s, recently treated by Griffin, flaccid and unable to pump enough blood. Some younger people have arrived in emergency rooms suffering strokes caused by blood clotting, another calling card.Kidneys and livers fail in some patients and blood clots puts limbs at risk of amputation. Some patients hallucinate or have trouble maintaining balance. Some get a treatable paralysis in arms or legs. Many have diarrhea, but often don’t mention it until Griffin asks.Their explanation? “That’s the least of my problems when I can’t breathe.”Initially, doctors often put patients on ventilators if their blood oxygen levels dropped. But death rates were so high they now try other strategies first, like turning patients on their stomachs, which can help them breathe. The truth is that hospital workers are learning as they go, sometimes painfully.“Every patient that I see, I think that could’ve been me,” said Dr. Stuart Moser, a cardiologist hospitalized in New York in March after he was infected. He recalls fearing that he might be put on a ventilator and wondering if he’d ever see his family again. Now, back at work, he said much of what he and his colleagues have learned about the virus’ myriad effects enables them only to treat patients’ symptoms.“It’s difficult because they have so many problems and there are so many patients,” Moser said, “and you just want to do the right thing -- give people the best chance to get better.”____In recent weeks, researchers have recruited 3,000 patients from around the world in a bid to solve a puzzling anomaly. Why does the coronavirus ravage some previously healthy patients, while leaving others relatively unscathed?The project, called the COVID Human Genetic Effort, focuses on each person’s unique genetic makeup to seek explanations for why some got sick while others stay healthy. It’s one of several projects looking for genetic causes of susceptibility, including recent work by other labs suggesting a link between blood type and risk of serious illness.“Step one is understanding and step two is fixing. There is no other way,” said one of the project’s leaders, Jean-Laurent Casanova, of The Rockefeller University in New York. He is paid by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, which also helps fund The Associated Press Health and Science Department.His project focuses on people 50 or younger who had no health problems before the coronavirus put them in intensive care. But the question of why the disease affects people so differently has broader implications.It’s not clear, for example, why the disease has had such a limited impact on children, compared to other age groups. People older than 65 are well over 100 times more likely to be hospitalized for the virus than people under 18. But so far, there’s no explanation why.Do children resist infection for some reason? Or is it that, even when infected, they are less likely to develop symptoms? If so, what does that mean about their chances for passing the infection along to others, like their grandparents?These aren’t just academic questions. Answers will help in assessing the risks of reopening schools. And they could eventually lead to ways to help make older people resistant to the disease.In largely sparing children, the pandemic virus echoes the bugs that caused SARS and MERS, said Dr. Sonja Rasmussen, a professor of pediatrics and epidemiology at the University of Florida.Scientists wonder if children might have some key difference in their cells, such as fewer of the specialized proteins that the coronavirus latch onto. Or maybe their immune systems react differently than in adults.While the virus has mostly bypassed children, researchers have recently been troubled by a serious, albeit uncommon, condition in some young patients, that can cause inflammation in hearts, kidneys, lungs and other organs. Most patients recovered, but the potential for long-term damage remains uncertain.“This is what happens with a new virus,” Rasmussen said. “There’s a lot we don’t know about it. We’re on that steep learning curve.’’___With states and countries reopening in the face of an ongoing pandemic, it’s even more crucial to find solutions. At least the last few months have spotlighted the most critical questions.Can people who have been infected with the disease get it again?Dr. Anthony Fauci, the U.S. government’s top infectious disease expert, has said that having the disease once should confer some degree of immunity. But it’s not clear how much or for how long, or what levels or types of antibodies people must have to protect them against future illness.If some people harbor the virus without symptoms, how can we block transmission?The reality is that many infected people will never feel symptoms or get sick. That means temperature checks and other strategies based on symptoms won’t be enough to stop it. Instead, many experts believe, widespread testing is needed to find silent carriers, isolate them until they are no longer contagious, and track down those they may have infected. Masks and distancing can help prevent infection and slow the spread of the virus.Will researchers find medicines that can be used to treat the disease?Hundreds of studies are under way, testing existing medicines and experimental ones. So far, only one -- a common steroid called dexamethasone -- has been shown to increase survival. An antiviral medicine, remdesivir, has been shown to shorten recovery time. Two others -- the malaria drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine -- have not proven safe or effective for treating Covid-19 in large-scale trials, but some studies are still testing them to see if they might help prevent infection or illness.How long will it take to find a vaccine?Scientists in more than 150 labs around the world are pursuing a vaccine and nearly two dozen candidates are in various stages of testing. But there’s no guarantee any will pan out. Finding out if any offer true protection will require testing thousands of people in places where the virus is spreading widely. Some huge studies are expected to begin this month.“It’s almost the Manhattan Project of today, where an enormous amount of resources are being devoted to this,” said Rene Najera, an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University and the editor of a vaccine history website run by The College of Physicians of Philadelphia.In the U.S., the goal is to have 300 million doses of potential vaccines by January. But any that fail tests will have to be thrown out. The World Health Organization has called for equitable sharing of any eventual vaccine between rich and poor countries, but how that will happen is far from clear.It’s also uncertain how useful any vaccine will be if a sizable number of people, their skepticism fed by misinformation, refuse to be inoculated.Even an effective vaccine will not address the likelihood that, given the large number of coronaviruses and increasing contact between people and the animals harboring them, the world is very likely to face other pandemics, said Honigsbaum, the medical historian.That means uncertainty will linger as a hallmark of the new normal.The knowledge gained about the coronavirus could prove invaluable in defusing that doubt and, eventually, in defeating the enemy. The real uncertainty, Redlener said, is whether people will use the lessons learned to protect themselves from the virus -- or downplay the threat at their peril.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/profile-of-a-killer-unraveling-the-deadly-new-coronavirus/story-66u1nInQMnndGImdAkdLhK.html
15-07-2020||World||‘Black lives still matter’: Protester’s statue installed in Bristol||A produced statue by a London-based artist of a protestor was quietly installed early on Wednesday morning in Bristol on the plinth of the statue of 17th century slave trader Edward Colston, which was pulled down on June 7, with a note left behind: ‘Black lives still matter’.The BLM movement was sparked by the death of George Floyd in the US, with several protests and demands for statues and public spaces in the UK to be reviewed, renamed or restructured to remove vestiges of slavery and colonialism.One of the images of the day Colston’s statue was pulled down and consigned to the Avon river was of Jen Reid, a protestor of Afro-Caribbean origin, who stood on the empty plinth with a raised fist. The image went viral, prompting artist Marc Quinn to produce the statue.After Reid’s statue was illegally installed, she expressed her delight: “This is going to continue the conversation. I can’t see it coming down in a hurry.”Marvin Rees, the Labour mayor of Bristol, said permission was not given for her statue to be installed, but said the people of Bristol will decide on its future: whether to retain it or install that of another person.Rees said: “My relentless commitment is to build a city for all Bristolians, with all our differences. To this end, the future of the plinth and what is installed on it must be decided by the people of Bristol”. “This will be critical to building a city that is home to those who are elated at the statue being pulled down, those who sympathise with its removal but are dismayed at how it happened and those who feel that in its removal, they’ve lost a piece of the Bristol they know and therefore themselves. We need change”.Bristol in south-west England has a long history of slave trade, prompting demands that the city removes statues and reminders of the trade in public spaces. The police did not prevent Colston’s statue being pulled down on June 7. It has since been retrieved from the river, to be placed in a city museum.Rees added: “We have set out a process to manage our journey. We have established a history commission which will help us tell our full city history. As we learn this fuller history including the part played by black people, women, the working class, trade unions, and children among others, we will be in a better position to understand who we are, how we got here and who we wish to honour”. “Crucial to our heritage has been the harbour and the docks, manufacturing and industry, research and innovation, transport, slum clearances, housing, modern gentrification and faith. As the commission shares this information, the city will decide on city memorials and the future of the plinth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-still-matter-protestor-s-statue-installed-in-bristol/story-fOT8wZAhjd67qpFxiP3qGL.html
15-07-2020||World||Teenage boy dies of bubonic plague in Mongolia||A 15-year-old boy has died from the bubonic plague in Mongolia, health authorities said Tuesday, one of a handful of cases that recently emerged in the country and neighbouring China.The boy, who lived in the remote southwest province of Gobi-Altai, caught the rare bacterial illness after hunting and eating a marmot, according to the health ministry.“We quarantined the first 15 people who came into contact with the deceased and those 15 people are receiving antibiotic treatment,” Narangerel Dorj, head of public relations at the health ministry, told reporters.Five districts of the province were placed under six-day quarantine.Earlier this month two other cases of bubonic plague were registered in Khovd province. More than 140 people were tested, but no other cases were found.A herdsman also contracted the plague in China’s northern Inner Mongolia region, prompting local authorities to ban the hunting and eating of animals that could carry the plague until the end of the year.At least one person dies of the plague every year in Mongolia despite government campaigns to discourage people from eating marmot or approaching the animal.But many in rural areas grow up learning to hunt and eat the large ground quirrel, and some believe eating its innards is good for health.An ethnic Kazakh couple died of the plague last year after eating raw marmot kidney.The recent cases prompted Russia’s eastern Siberian region of Burytia to test rodents for the bubonic plague and urge residents not to hunt or eat marmot.It also comes as Mongolia’s borders remain closed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/teenage-boy-dies-of-bubonic-plague-in-mongolia/story-uKzAu6cl7AQnTa6EyO3ufL.html
15-07-2020||World||Flooded southern China braces for more storms||Heavy rain is forecast for five more days in the Yangtze River basin, China’s meteorological agency said Wednesday, in a region already devastated by flooding this year.At least 141 people have been reported dead or missing across the nation.In some good news, the water level in China’s biggest freshwater lake began to recede after setting a record Monday.Soldiers have built temporary embankments to try to prevent Poyang Lake from overflowing into Lushan city in southeastern China’s Jiangxi province.The seasonal flooding has forced 1.5 million people to evacuate so far this month, the official People’s Daily newspaper said, citing the Ministry of Emergency Management. Floodwaters have inundated villages, cities and farms in many parts of southern China.The Agriculture Ministry, declaring its second highest emergency response level, has sent teams to Jiangxi and four other provinces to help with disaster relief and minimize the damage.Rain was forecast Wednesday for nine provinces, the national meteorological agency said. Sichuan province in the southwest could see 10 to 12 centimeters (4 to 5 inches) of rain per hour.This month’s flooding forced a rare two-day delay for college entrance exams for more than 2,000 students on the Yangtze River in Anhui province. The tests are supposed to be taken by students nationwide on the same days.China’s worst floods in recent years were in 1998, when more than 2,000 people died and almost 3 million homes were destroyed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/flooded-southern-china-braces-for-more-storms/story-WMyOr4s5C2Ih6LDR6ZmDQP.html
15-07-2020||World||Trump says he’ll sign merit-based immigration plan ‘very soon’||President Donald Trump said he will soon sign a merit-based immigration measure and would address “in a very Republican way” a program he has sought to end that shields 670,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation.“We’re going to be signing an immigration act very soon,” Trump told reporters Tuesday at a White House press briefing. “It’s going to be based on merit. It’s going to be very strong.”Trump has previously said he would seek sweeping changes to US immigration policy through an executive order. Critics -- including high-profile lawmakers in the president’s own party -- have questioned whether he has the legal authority to overhaul immigration laws without passing legislation through Congress.The president cast immigration in partisan terms on Tuesday, attacking Democratic rival Joe Biden over what he described as lax policies toward those illegally entering the US Trump is seeking to reprise an issue that helped him win election in 2016 as he lags in polls behind Biden.Trump, who has been repeatedly stymied on Capitol Hill as he has pursued efforts to toughen immigration criteria, said he believed the Supreme Court provided him new powers when it rejected the administration’s efforts to dismantle the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, which provides legal status for some young migrants in the country illegally.“Very importantly, we’ll be taking care of people from DACA in a very Republican way,” Trump said.Last month, a divided Supreme Court rebuked Trump by blocking him from ending the Obama administration program.Trump has offered no specific explanation of why he believes the Supreme Court decision -- which found his administration did not follow proper procedure in eliminating DACA -- granted him substantial new immigration authority.His foray into immigration comes even as the US has largely shut down the issuance of new work visas and green cards for the remainder of the year because of the coronavirus pandemic.The US on Tuesday reversed a new policy on student visas after a high-profile confrontation with Harvard University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and hundreds of other colleges, ending a standoff that could have sent thousands of students back to their home countries and left schools rushing to plan for the fall semester.US District Judge Allison Burroughs announced at an online hearing on Tuesday that the government had agreed to rescind last week’s requirement that international students take at least one in-person class, even amid the resurgent virus and as colleges prepare online-only coursework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-he-ll-sign-merit-based-immigration-plan-very-soon/story-P0ymHx9nDZQqqr8JLeb8YJ.html
15-07-2020||World||WhatsApp recovers from outage disabling service for some||WhatsApp, the world’s largest messaging service, stopped working Tuesday for some users around the world, according to Downdetector, which tracks app outages. The issue has since been resolved.Downdetector showed reports of technical issues with the app owned by Facebook Inc. jumped after 4pm New York time and its map illustrated problem hot spots around Europe, North America and South America. In some cases, the app didn’t load new messages.“Earlier today, an internal update made to our WhatsApp servers caused some people to have trouble sending messages,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said. “We quickly resolved this issue for everyone and we apologize for any inconvenience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/whatsapp-recovers-from-outage-disabling-service-for-some/story-ZblVixXQFSocIkIzTQeivI.html
15-07-2020||World||Hospital staffer admits to murdering 7 patients with insulin in US||A former staffer at a veterans hospital in West Virginia pleaded guilty Tuesday to intentionally killing seven patients with fatal doses of insulin, capping a sweeping federal investigation into a series of mysterious deaths at the medical center.Reta Mays, a former nursing assistant at the Louis A. Johnson VA Medical Center in Clarksburg was charged with seven counts of second-degree murder and one count of assault with the intent to commit murder of an eighth person. She faces life sentences for each murder.At a plea hearing, Mays, 46, admitted to purposely killing the veterans, injecting them with unprescribed insulin while she worked overnight shifts at the hospital in northern West Virginia between 2017 and 2018. Her voice cracked throughout the hearing as she answered a judge’s questions. She shook and appeared to weep as details of the charges were read aloud.US Attorney Bill Powell told reporters that Mays’ motive is still unclear, saying that authorities did not receive a “satisfactory response” to questions about the reasoning behind her actions.“Though we can’t bring these men back because of her evil acts, we hope the conclusion of the investigation and guilty plea helps ease the pain of the victims’ families,” Powell said.Court records unsealed Tuesday, which named Mays publicly for the first time, came after multiple families initiated civil lawsuits against VA leadership alleging a widespread system of failures at the hospital, where victims were wrongfully given insulin and suddenly died.The widow of one of the victims, 81-year-old George Nelson Shaw Sr., filed a case against the VA alleging the retired Air Force member was given four insulin shots without a doctor’s order in March 2018, accusing the hospital of failing to securely store insulin and prevent its access by unauthorized personnel. As a nursing assistant, Mays did not have authorization or qualifications to administer medications.In a statement, a spokesman for the Louis A. Johnson VA Medical Center said hospital officials reported the deaths to the VA inspector general and noted that they fired Mays.Powell has described a criminal investigation of the deaths, which initially involved at least 11 fatalities, as a top priority that required the exhumation of multiple victims. He told reporters Tuesday that prosecutors brought charges in all instances where there was sufficient evidence against Mays.US Sen. Joe Manchin, who previously expressed “grave concerns over the pace of the investigation” to Attorney General William Barr, said then that the VA inspector general told his office that the probe was opened in July 2018, after at least nine patients were diagnosed with unexplained low blood sugar.“While overdue, today justice is finally being served,” Manchin said in a statement Tuesday. “I hope today’s announcement brings some semblance of peace to their hearts and to the families who are still uncertain about the fate of their Veterans.”The VA is the government’s second-largest department, responsible for 9 million military veterans. The agency’s former director was fired in 2018 in the wake of a bruising ethics scandal and a mounting rebellion within the agency, and the doctor who Trump nominated to replace him had to withdraw his nomination amid accusations of misconduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hospital-staffer-admits-to-murdering-7-patients-with-insulin-in-us/story-FnSq0vEZfDTVu07GRd4glJ.html
15-07-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: Latest on Gilead’s remdesivir, Moderna’s experimental candidate and others||Some of the top contenders in the race to develop a Covid-19 vaccine are making great strides and showing promise. From Moderna, Gilead Sciences to experts at the Oxford University and other participants, the combined effort of the world of science is now racing toward finding an antidote to the coronavirus disease. According to the World Health Organization, there are 23 candidate vaccines in the clinical evaluation phase while 140 candidate vaccines are currently in the preclinical evaluation phase.Gilead Sciences Inc’s remdesivir is at the forefront of the efforts to treat the disease after it helped shorten hospital recovery times in a clinical trial. Latest reports suggest that Moderna Inc’s experimental vaccine for Covid-19 was found safe in an ongoing early-stage trial and also provoked immune responses in all healthy volunteers. China’s Sinovac and a combined effort led by British-Swedish drug company AstraZeneca and experts at the University of Oxford have their Covid-19 vaccine contenders in the third phase of trials.Also read: Moderna Phase 1 results show Covid-19 vaccine safe, induces immune responseHere’s taking a look at the latest on Covid-19 vaccine development:• China-based Sinovac Biotech Ltd. recently received a nod for a phase III clinical trial to test the efficacy and safety of its inactivated Covid-19 vaccine.• AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford’s viral vector vaccine is in a phase II/III trial in England and in phase III trials in Brazil and South Africa.• CanSino Biological Inc. and Beijing Institute of Biotechnology’s vaccine candidate has gone up to phase II of the trial.• Then comes US biotech firm Moderna Inc., which on Tuesday, announced it would enter the final stage of human trials for its Covid-19 vaccine on July 27. The announcement came shortly after the New England Journal of Medicine published results from the first stage of Moderna’s vaccine trial, which showed the first 45 participants all developed antibodies to the virus, news agency AFP reported.• Pennsylvania-based Inovio Pharmaceuticals’ vaccine candidate is currently in phase I/II phase of the trial. It posted positive interim results from the initial two cohorts in phase I clinical trial of its INO-4800 vaccine candidate.• Covid-19 vaccine candidates from Osaka University/ AnGes/Takara Bio; Cadila Healthcare Limited; Wuhan Institute of Biological Products/Sinopharm; Bharat Biotech; Novavax; BioNTech/Fosun Pharma/Pfizer are currently in phase I/II of trials.• Hyderabad-based biotech company Bharat Biotech has started human trials on its vaccine candidate, ‘Covaxin’. The contender is pegged as India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine which is being developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).• The ICMR on Tuesday said that human clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine has been initiated in the country with approximately 1,000 volunteers participating in the exercise for each of the two indigenously developed vaccine candidates, news agency PTI reported. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has permitted two vaccines - one developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the ICMR and another by Zydas Cadila Healthcare Ltd to go in for the first and second phase of human clinical trials.• Life sciences company IQVIA Holdings Inc said it would collaborate with AstraZeneca Plc to speed up clinical studies of the British drugmaker’s potential Covid-19 vaccine in the United States, news agency Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-latest-on-gilead-s-remdesivir-moderna-s-experimental-candidate-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-and-others/story-9PEEwOP9eKRbyAHXEZgfdO.html
15-07-2020||World||US Navy warship stable, fire could be out in 24 hours, says official||Hundreds of sailors have isolated the fire ravaging the USS Bonhomme Richard down to two areas of the warship and a top Navy official said Tuesday it’s possible the blaze could be extinguished over the next 24 hours.Rear Adm. Philip Sobeck said the ship, which has been listing because of the water being poured on it to douse the flames, was stable and the structure was safe, giving a sign that it may still be saved.“We have made significant progress,” he said.Helicopters had dumped 1,200 buckets of water on the amphibious assault vessel, allowing crews to move further on board to fight the blaze. Tugboats were assisting from the waterline.Sobeck said the fire’s threat of moving toward the million gallons (3.8 million liters) of fuel on board had subsided because of the significant progress crews made overnight.When asked if the blaze could be put out within 24 hours he said, “It’s absolutely possible.”The ship was emitting much less smoke than the previous two days, when acrid billows blanketed parts of the region.The U.S. Coast Guard has hired an oil clean-up crew to put a containment boom in place that could be ready if any oil were to be spilled. It also halted boat and air traffic within a nautical mile of the vessel.On Monday, health officials warned people to stay indoors as acrid smoke wafted across San Diego from one of the Navy’s worst shipyard fires in recent years. At least 61 people, including 38 sailors and 23 civilians, have been treated for heat exhaustion, smoke inhalation and minor injuries. None were in the hospital Tuesday.About 400 sailors along with Navy helicopters and firefighters poured water on the carrier-like ship, which erupted in flames Sunday morning.Sobeck, commander of Expeditionary Strike Group 3, said fire temperatures had reached up to 1,000 degrees (538 Celsius), causing the mast to collapse and threatening the central control island where the captain operates the vessel. He said Tuesday there were now more than two decks between the fire and the fuel supplies.The 840-foot (255-meter) amphibious assault ship was undergoing maintenance when the fire was first reported in a lower cargo area where seafaring tanks are parked. It appears to have started where cardboard boxes, rags and other maintenance supplies were being stored, Sobeck said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-navy-warship-stable-fire-could-be-out-in-24-hours-says-official/story-JxUf9cVtyNLkLZjnft9VrK.html
15-07-2020||World||China set to post return to growth after easing lockdowns||China’s economy is set to post a return to growth for the second quarter, with a range of indicators due Thursday to confirm the upward trend as the nation slowly climbs out of the virus-induced slump.Gross domestic product is forecast to have expanded 2.4% in the three months to June, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That reverses the historic decline of 6.8% in the first quarter compared to the same period last year.The steady resumption of growth in the Chinese economy will be a signal for a world still mired in an accelerating pandemic that the virus can be contained and output can recover. At the same time, China remains vulnerable to the effects of demand-sapping containment measures elsewhere, and local consumer confidence is fragile.“Since mid-March, China’s economy has staged an impressive comeback, bolstered by pent-up demand, a catch-up in production, a surge in medical product exports and stimulus in both China and other major economies that has bolstered demand for goods made in China,” Wang Tao, chief China economist at UBS Group AG in Hong Kong, wrote in a note.Industrial output likely continued to lead the rebound in June, jumping 4.8% from a year earlier, survey results showed.Fixed-asset investment in the first six months is expected to decline 3.3%, a much slower pace than previously. Retail sales, the weak link in China’s fragile recovery, is projected to have grown for the first time since the pandemic, expanding by 0.5% on the year.However, for the first six months of the year, none of the main indicators are forecast to have recovered the level they were at in June 2019, showing how hard it will be to climb out of the deep slump. GDP is forecast to have shrunk 2.4% compared to the first six months of 2019.The pace of China’s recovery will depend to an extent on the effectiveness of the moderate stimulus measures rolled out so far. The government has earmarked a record 3.75 trillion yuan ($534 billion) in special local government bonds this year, most of which will be channeled to infrastructure projects. However, infrastructure investment has so far remained a drag on growth, while property investment is expected to have returned to expansion, despite Beijing’s reluctance to further support the property market.“The economic recovery has been slow domestically due to the unexpectedly slow kick-off of infrastructure investments,” said Iris Pang, chief economist for greater China at ING Bank NV. “The slow growth in infrastructure investments is dragging on growth, and is very damaging on future economic growth as jobless rates would increase with a slow recovery, and then will feed back into the economy with shrinking consumption.”Uneven RecoveryWhile the incremental recovery has demonstrated the resilience in the world’s second-largest economy, it remains an uneven one, mainly driven by supply rather than demand. Industrial production growth has already returned to pre-virus levels with the possibility to rise further, but consumers have so far stayed wary as small outbreaks within the country and shrinking income hurt sentiment.That unevenness can also be seen in the gap between the state and private sector, with the former receiving more resources. However, domestic demand is picking up faster than external demand, with China being the first to reopen most of its economy and the rest of the world still largely under lock-downs.Uncertainty and HeadwindsLooking ahead, the recovery momentum may weaken on rising uncertainty and strong headwinds.Pent-up demand that has supported growth in the second quarter will naturally lose some steam. Exports that have been bolstered by demand for medical equipment may fall significantly when production catches up overseas. Rising trade tensions could also hit China’s exports and export-related manufacturing investment.The risks of a second wave will also linger. The recent resurgence of cases in Beijing triggered a re-imposition of restrictions, and sporadic cases around the country continue to occur.Serious floods in southern China could threaten to wipe out much of the country’s output this summer, with 27 provinces being hit to some extent and the current direct losses standing at 61.8 billion yuan, according to state media.Considering the other factors weighing on growth, including unemployment and deflation pressure, a reversal from the current accommodative policy stance is unlikely.“Despite the strong recovery between March and mid-June, we believe a full economic recovery remains distant,” Lu Ting, chief China economist at Nomura International Ltd in Hong Kong, wrote in a note. “It is too early for Beijing to reverse its easing stance.”Global ImplicationsAs the country first hit by the coronavirus pandemic and first to climb out of the slump, China’s recovery still implies a brighter outlook for the rest of the world ahead if the pandemic can be arrested.“China is showing that the virus can be contained, but the trade-off has been very tight pandemic mitigation policies, among the tightest across major economies,” said Shaun Roache, Asia-Pacific chief economist at S&P Global Ratings. “The lesson here is that virus containment is not enough to drive a quick rebound and that we may have to wait for a lasting medical solution to truly get back to business-as-usual.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-set-to-post-return-to-growth-after-easing-lockdowns/story-hvJvuuA2ppy5iC2yex5nqI.html
15-07-2020||World||US welcomes UK’s Huawei ban, says carriers like Jio have prohibited its equipment||Welcoming the United Kingdom’s decision to ban Huawei from future 5G networks, US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, on Tuesday said London joins a growing list of countries from around the world that are standing up for their national security by prohibiting the use of “untrusted, high-risk vendors”.In a statement, Pompeo said that clean carriers like Jio in India and others have also prohibited the use of the Chinese company’s equipment in their networks. He said that countries need to be able to trust that 5G equipment and software will not threaten national security, economic security, privacy, intellectual property, or human rights.“We welcome news that the United Kingdom plans to ban Huawei from future 5G networks and phase out untrusted Huawei equipment from existing networks. With this decision, the UK joins a growing list of countries from around the world that are standing up for their national security by prohibiting the use of untrusted, high-risk vendors,” Pompeo said in a statement.“We will continue to work with our British friends on fostering a secure and vibrant 5G ecosystem, which is critical to Transatlantic security and prosperity,” it added.The momentum in favour of secure 5G is building. The UK joins democracies such as the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Poland, Romania, and Sweden in banning Huawei from future 5G networks, he said.“Clean carriers like Jio in India, Telstra in Australia, SK and KT in South Korea, NTT in Japan, and others have also prohibited the use of Huawei equipment in their networks,” he addedThe UK on Tuesday announced its decision to ban British companies from buying Huawei-produced equipment for 5G networks from the end of the year.“We have been clear-eyed from the start that Chinese vendors Huawei and ZTE were deemed to be high-risk...The NCSC (National Cyber Security Centre) has now reported to ministers that they have significantly changed their security assessment of Huawei’s presence in the UK’s 5G network...The UK can no longer be confident it will be able to guarantee the security of future Huawei 5G equipment...,” Oliver Dowden, Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, told the UK Parliament.This comes in the backdrop of US designating Chinese telecom companies Huawei and ZTE Corp as national security threats, saying they have close ties with the Chinese Communist Party and China’s military apparatus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-welcomes-uk-s-huawei-ban-says-carriers-like-jio-have-prohibited-its-equipment/story-ZftWXIBMQiV0IO93AQEnvK.html
15-07-2020||World||Donald Trump says he will soon sign new merit-based immigration act||US President Donald Trump on Tuesday said he will soon sign a merit-based immigration act that will also take care of the immigrants brought to the country illegally as children and protected under the DACA programme.“We are going to be signing an immigration act very soon. It is going to be based on merit, it is going to be very strong,” Trump told reporters at a Rose Garden press conference at the White House.“We are going to work on DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) because we want to make people happy and I will tell you even conservative Republicans want to see something happen with DACA,” he said.Trump said the Democrats had their chance for three years to do something with DACA and they always turned it down.Also read: Donald Trump administration rescinds foreign students order“They always turned it down. They used it as politics. I am using it to get something done, but we will be signing a very powerful immigration act. It will be great, it will be merit-based. The country has tried to get it for 25 or 30 years,” he said in response to a question.“It will be strong on the border, but you will come in legally and you will be able to come in legally and very importantly, we will be taking care of people from DACA in a very Republican way,” the president said.He said the Democrats had their chance and they blew it. “But we are going to take care of DACA because I am going to be doing in the not-too-distant future, pretty soon I am going to be signing a new immigration action, very, very big merit-based immigration action based on the DACA decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-he-will-soon-sign-new-merit-based-immigration-act/story-ZV4I4inJdoW157gkWDw5wK.html
15-07-2020||World||Britain bans China’s Huawei, handing US big win||Britain on Tuesday bowed to growing US pressure and ordered the phased removal of Chinese telecoms giant Huawei from its 5G network despite warnings of retaliation from Beijing.The policy reversal hands a long-sought victory to US President Donald Trump’s administration in its geopolitical tug-of-war with China.The White House said the decision “reflects a growing international consensus that Huawei and other untrusted vendors pose a threat to national security, as they remain beholden to the Chinese Communist Party”.But the move threatens to further damage Britain’s ties with the Asian power and carry a big cost for UK mobile providers that have relied on Huawei equipment for nearly 20 years.Huawei called it “politicised” and likely to put Britain “in the digital slow lane”.China’s ambassador in London, Liu Xiaoming, called it a “disappointing and wrong decision”.“It has become questionable whether the UK can provide an open, fair and non-discriminatory business environment for companies from other countries,” he wrote on Twitter.The politically-fraught change in Britain’s digital future was made by Prime Minister Boris Johnson during a meeting with his cabinet and National Security Council.It requires companies to stop buying new 5G equipment from Huawei starting next year and strip out existing gear by the end of 2027.“This has not been an easy decision, but it is the right one for the UK telecoms networks, for our national security and our economy,” digital minister Oliver Dowden told parliament.- US sanctions -Johnson infuriated Trump and upset some members of his own Conservative party by allowing the Chinese leader in global 5G technology to help roll out Britain’s speedy new data network in January.The UK was then completing its tortuous departure from the European Union and looking to establish strong ties with powerful Asian economies that could fulfil Johnson’s vision of a “Global Britain”.But the Trump administration told the UK government that its choice imperilled intelligence sharing because British signals could be intercepted or manipulated by China.Washington believes the private company can also shut down rival countries’ 5G networks under Beijing’s orders in times of war.Huawei has always denied this and pointed to two decades of cooperation with British security agencies that checked on the safety of its existing 3G and 4G networks.The British review was triggered by Washington sanctions in May that blocked Huawei’s access to US chips at the heart of 5G networks.The sanctions did not impact older 3G and 4G providers and Britain left its guidance for those networks unchanged.‘Outages’Johnson had come under intensifying pressure to not only dump Huawei but also adopt a tough line with China for its treatment of Hong Kong and repression of ethnic Uighurs in the western Xinjiang region.But he also pledged to voters last year to bring broadband access to all Britons by 2025.British telecoms companies had lobbied strongly against the policy reversal because of the cost of taking existing equipment out and finding untested alternatives.Dowden conceded Britons will now have to wait longer to get full access to the rapid new network.“This means a cumulative delay to 5G roll-out of two to three years and costs of up to £2 billion ($2.5 billion, 2.2 billion euros),” he said. “This will have real consequences for the connections on which all our constituents rely.”But officials insisted that Huawei had managed to install only a “small amount” of equipment since the 5G system began being offered to UK consumers last year.DiversificationJohnson has challenged the Trump administration to come up with a reliable and cost-effective alternative to the Chinese firm.Britain is pushing for the creation of a 5G club of nations that can pool their resources and provide individual components for an alternative solution that could be applied across the world.The UK government said the process would begin with South Korea’s Samsung and Japan’s NEC -- two veterans with broad production capabilities -- while offering protection for Finland’s Nokia and Sweden’s Ericsson to ensure they remained viable players in the field.Ericsson’s regional head Arun Bansal said his firm was “ready to work with the UK operators to meet their timetable, with no disruption to customers”.Nokia’s chief executive for UK and Ireland, Cormac Whelan, said the firm also has “the capacity and expertise to replace all of the Huawei equipment in the UK’s networks at scale and speed”.But UK officials caution that all existing players have some Huawei equipment in their supply chains that needs to be taken into account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-bans-china-s-huawei-handing-us-big-win/story-hPh9rMBXbjHvHkXSAzRmLM.html
15-07-2020||World||Moderna Phase 1 results show Covid-19 vaccine safe, induces immune response||Moderna Inc’s experimental vaccine for Covid-19 showed it was safe and provoked immune responses in all 45 healthy volunteers in an ongoing early-stage study, US researchers reported on Tuesday. Volunteers who got two doses of the vaccine had high levels of virus-killing antibodies that exceeded the average levels seen in people who had recovered from Covid-19, the team reported in the New England Journal of Medicine. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNo study volunteers experienced a serious side effect, but more than half reported mild or moderate reactions such as fatigue, headache, chills, muscle aches or pain at the injection site. These were more likely to occur after the second dose and in people who got the highest dose.Experts say a vaccine is needed to put an end to the coronavirus pandemic that has sickened millions and caused nearly 575,000 deaths worldwide. Moderna was the first to start human testing of a vaccine for the novel coronavirus on March 16, 66 days after the genetic sequence of the virus was released.Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, whose researchers developed Moderna’s vaccine candidate, called the results “good news,” noting that the study found no serious adverse events and the vaccine produced “reasonably high” levels of virus-killing or neutralizing antibodies. “If your vaccine can induce a response comparable with natural infection, that’s a winner,” Fauci said in a telephone interview. “That’s why we’re very pleased by the results.”Moderna shares jumped more than 15% in after-hours trading on Tuesday.The US government is supporting Moderna’s vaccine with nearly half a billion dollars and has chosen it as one of the first to enter large-scale human trials. A successful vaccine could be a turning point for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Moderna, which has never had a licensed product.Moderna’s shot, mRNA-1273, uses ribonucleic acid (RNA) - a chemical messenger that contains instructions for making proteins. When injected into people, the vaccine instructs cells to make proteins that mimic the outer surface of the coronavirus, which the body recognises as a foreign invader, and mounts an immune response against.The results released Tuesday involved three doses of the vaccine, tested in groups of 15 volunteers aged 18-55 who got two shots, 28 days apart. The groups tested 25, 100 or 250 micrograms of the vaccine.Adverse events after the second dose occurred in seven of the 13 volunteers who got the 25-microgram dose, all 15 participants who received the 100 microgram dose and all 14 who got the 250 microgram dose. In the highest-dose group, three patients had severe reactions such as fever, chills, headache or nausea. One of these had a fever of 103.28 Fahrenheit (39.6 C). “We didn’t see any events that are characterized as serious adverse events,” said lead author Dr Lisa Jackson of Kaiser Permanente Washington Health Research Institute in Seattle, referring to reactions that require hospitalization or result in death. In June, Moderna said it selected the 100-microgram dose for its late-stage study to minimize adverse reactions. At that dose, Moderna said the company is on track to deliver about 500 million doses per year, and possibly up to 1 billion doses per year, starting in 2021, from the company’s internal US manufacturing site and strategic collaboration with Swiss drugmaker Lonza
15-07-2020||World||Trump signs bill, order rebuking China, and slams Biden||President Donald Trump signed legislation and an executive order on Tuesday that he said will hold China accountable for its oppressive actions against the people of Hong Kong, then quickly shifted his policy speech into a political one, hurling broadsides against Democratic rival Joe Biden.The legislation and order are part of the Trump administration’s stepped-up offensive against China for what he calls the rising Asian superpower’s exploitation of America and its effort to conceal details about the human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus from the world. The almost daily administration attacks on Beijing come as Trump defends his own response to the virus, with cases surging in parts of the United States, and as he works ahead of the election to portray Biden as soft on China.“So Joe Biden and President Obama freely allowed China to pillage our factories, plunder our communities and steal our most precious secrets,” Trump said, adding, “I’ve stopped it largely.”Trump said that as vice president, Biden advocated for the Paris Agreement addressing climate change; Trump withdrew the US from the accord. “It would have crushed American manufacturers while allowing China to pollute the atmosphere with impunity, yet one more gift from Biden to the Chinese Communist Party,” Trump said.Trump talked up his own tough approach to Beijing, though he spent the early weeks of the pandemic praising Chinese President Xi Jinping. The two nations signed phase one of a trade deal, but since then, relations have soured and Trump told reporters in the Rose Garden that he has no interest in talking to Xi.The legislation Trump signed into law targets police units that have cracked down on Hong Kong protesters as well as Chinese Communist Party officials responsible for imposing a new, strict national security law widely seen as chipping away at Hong Kong’s autonomy. The mandatory sanctions are also required to be imposed on banks that conduct business with the officials.While he signed the bill into law, Trump issued a statement saying the administration would not view as binding certain sections of the law that the White House believes limit a president’s powers to conduct foreign policy.Lawmakers from both parties have urged Trump to take strong action in response to China’s new national security law that erodes the “one country, two systems” framework under which Britain handed Hong Kong over to China in 1997. Hong Kong is considered a special administrative region within China and has its own governing and economic systems.“This law gives my administration powerful new tools to hold responsible the individuals and the entities involved in extinguishing Hong Kong’s freedom,” Trump said. “Their freedom has been taken away. Their rights have been taken away, and with it goes Hong Kong in my opinion because it will no longer be able to compete with free markets. A lot of people will be leaving Hong Kong, I suspect.”The executive order he signed did not appear to go beyond his administration’s previous determinations that Hong Kong is no longer eligible for preferential treatment from the United States. Trump said the order strikes those privileges but, in fact, the administration already has been in the process of eliminating them for nearly two months.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo first made the determination in late May that China’s decision to impose a new national security law in Hong Kong meant the former British territory was no longer a democracy and so was no longer eligible for trade, commercial and other US perks it had enjoyed. Just three days later, when Trump announced the US was withdrawing from the World Health Organization because of Chinese influence, he echoed Pompeo’s determination and instructed his administration to immediately begin eliminating the preferences, which it did.In late June, the administration barred Hong Kong from importing US weapons, saying its purchase of items that have both civilian and military applications would be subject to the same licensing requirements as mainland China. Other actions in the works include suspending an extradition treaty with Hong Kong, something Australia has already done, as well as ending legal cooperation agreements, taxation accords and financial understandings that cover accounting rules for Chinese businesses that work in the USAt the same time, the administration has pressed ahead with travel bans for Chinese, Hong Kong and communist party officials the US believes are responsible for curtailing democracy in Hong Kong.The administration also also gone after China by imposing travel bans on officials for repressing minorities in western China and hindering foreigners’ access to Tibet. On Monday, Pompeo announced that the US had decided to reject outright virtually all Chinese maritime claims in the South China Sea, a determination that could lead to increased tensions in disputed, critical international shipping lanes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-signs-bill-order-rebuking-china-and-slams-biden/story-VXALGlvRk5Vk0BedvgpldN.html
15-07-2020||World||New York Times editor resigns, saying she was harassed for her ideas||Bari Weiss, an opinion editor at The New York Times, quit her job on Tuesday with a public resignation letter that alleged harassment and a hostile work environment created by people who disagreed with her.Andrew Sullivan, another prominent journalist who expressed concern that a “woke” culture is crowding out dissenting opinion, similarly announced his resignation from New York magazine.Sullivan is a conservative columnist and Weiss is considered conservative by some, although she labels herself a centrist.“Intellectual curiosity is now a liability at The Times,” said Weiss, who was also a writer at the newspaper.She was brought to the Times in 2017 by James Bennet, the opinion editor who lost his job in the aftermath of an op-ed published by U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton that advocated using federal troops to quell unrest in the wake of George Floyd’s death. Some Black reporters at The Times said they felt endangered by the piece and they were supported by dozens of colleagues.She wrote that she was hired to attract new voices to the Times in the wake of President Donald Trump’s election, but that lessons from that time hadn’t been learned.“Instead, a new consensus has emerged in the press, but perhaps especially at this paper: that truth isn’t a process of collective discovery, but an orthodoxy already known to an enlightened few whose job is to inform everyone else,” she wrote.She said she was openly smeared and demeaned by colleagues who didn’t fear their behavior would be checked.“Showing up to work as a centrist at an American newspaper should not require bravery,” Weiss wrote.Kathleen Kingsbury, acting editorial page editor at the newspaper, said she wants to ensure that viewpoints from across the political spectrum are published.The Times didn’t address Weiss’ specific harassment allegations.“We’re committed to fostering an environment of honest, searching and empathetic dialogue between colleagues, one where mutual respect is required of all,” spokeswoman Eileen Murphy said.On Twitter, Sullivan wrote that “the mob” bullied Weiss for thought crimes “and her editors stood by and watched.”Later, he tweeted that he was resigning as a columnist at New York magazine for “reasons that are pretty self-evident.” He didn’t specify those reasons but said he’ll have a farewell column later this week and will continue his work elsewhere.In a June 12 column titled “Is There Still Room to Debate?” Sullivan wrote about an increasingly furious campaign to quell dissent from the central idea that society’s evils stem from discrimination against Blacks.“In these past two weeks, if you didn’t put up on Instagram or Facebook some kind of slogan or symbol displaying your wokeness, you were instantly suspect,” he wrote.David Haskell, editor-in-chief of New York magazine, said he and Sullivan both agreed that his ideas and the magazine’s were no longer a match.“While I found myself often disagreeing with his politics, I also found it valuable to be publishing work that challenged my thinking,” he said in a memo to staff members.He said he’ll continue to push work that challenges the liberal assumptions of much of New York’s readership, while acknowledging that such commentary is difficult to get right in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-times-editor-resigns-saying-she-was-harassed-for-her-ideas/story-bC4jDwp3F4yWbaS0erDiKP.html
15-07-2020||World||‘Not interested in talking to China’: Donald Trump on Phase 2 of trade deal||As tensions between China and US heighten, President Donald Trump on Tuesday said he is not interested in talking to China regarding a Phase Two of the trade deal.“I’m not interested right now in talking to China,” Trump said in an interview with CBS News. “We made a great trade deal. But as soon as the deal was done, the ink wasn’t even dry and they hit us with the plague.”Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping signed the Phase One deal in January. The two sides described the pact as a first-phase agreement, to be followed by new negotiations toward a more expansive deal in a second and possibly third phase.The world’s two largest economies never set a timeline for the second phase, however, and trade negotiations were quickly overshadowed as countries around the world grappled with the coronavirus pandemic.The economic fallout from the pandemic also made it increasingly unlikely that China would meet its targets for expanded purchases of US goods under the Phase-One deal, fueling further doubts about prospects for new talks.The US had a USD 308 billion trade deficit in goods and services with China in 2019, due to the US importing far more goods than it exports. That deficit is little changed since 2016, when Trump took office but is down from a peak imbalance of nearly USD 380 billion that was reached in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-interested-in-talking-to-china-donald-trump-on-phase-2-of-trade-deal/story-DSifs7oCAKjTegGBUUERTJ.html
15-07-2020||World||Man killed by police after mask dispute at Michigan store||A Michigan sheriff’s deputy on Tuesday fatally shot a man suspected of stabbing another man who had challenged him about not wearing a mask at a store, police said.The shooting occurred in Eaton County, southwest of Lansing, about 30 minutes after the stabbing at a Quality Dairy store, state police Lt. Brian Oleksyk said.A sheriff’s deputy spotted the man’s vehicle in a residential neighborhood and shot him when he got out of his car and tried to attack her, Oleksyk said.“Drop the weapon! Drop the weapon!” the officer, a 22-year veteran, demanded, according to neighborhood security video released by police.The man, Sean Ruis, was holding a screwdriver and knives, Eaton County Sheriff Tom Reich said.“It’s very unfortunate she had to use her weapon, but she had to save her life,” Reich said. “She had to use deadly force. She did it properly.”Ruis, 43, of Grand Ledge, who worked at the Michigan Department of Transportation, died at a hospital. He was suspected of stabbing a 77-year-old man inside the store when he was confronted about not wearing a mask, Oleksyk said.The stabbing victim was in stable condition at a hospital. Gov. Gretchen Whitmer has ordered people to wear masks in stores to reduce the risk of spreading the coronavirus.“The goal here is to be safe. We all have to do our part so this doesn’t spread,” Reich said.The decision about whether to wear a mask in public for some has become a political statement, and there have been other violent encounters. In May, a security guard at a Family Dollar store in Flint was fatally shot after denying entry to a customer without a mask.Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey, a Republican, said masks are important. But he also urged the general public not to confront people over a lack of a mask.“There is no reason to risk your health or your life over the debate of wearing masks in public,” Shirkey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-killed-by-police-after-mask-dispute-at-michigan-store/story-BPLKLn4q6hiuQmSHaPYTxJ.html
15-07-2020||World||Donald Trump ends Hong Kong’s special status with US to punish China||President Donald Trump said he issued an order to end Hong Kong’s special status with the US and signed legislation that would sanction Chinese officials responsible for cracking down on political dissent in Hong Kong, the latest escalation in tensions between the world’s largest economies.“No administration has been tougher on China than this administration,” Trump said Tuesday at the White House.Trump, speaking in the Rose Garden, announced both moves, and used the event to repeat attacks on his Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, portraying him as having been cozy with China during his time as vice president.Trump approved the legislation on Tuesday after spending weeks blaming Beijing for the coronavirus pandemic and criticizing its handling of Hong Kong. The president has faced widespread criticism over his response to the virus, with cases once again surging as businesses reopen.Under the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, the US treats Hong Kong, a semi-autonomous part of China with its own legal and economic system, differently than the Chinese mainland in trade, commerce and other areas.Trump said that his order meant that Hong Kong would now be treated the same as mainland China.The bipartisan legislation that Trump also signed comes in response to the Chinese government’s new national security law for the former British colony, which critics say is aimed at quashing political protests and stifling dissent. People found guilty under the law could, in some cases, face life imprisonment.Targeting BanksThe legislation would penalize banks doing business with Chinese officials involved in the national security law the country is seeking to impose on Hong Kong. It’s the latest in a series of efforts designed to pressure China amid tensions over the spread of the coronavirus, implementation of a trade pact finalized earlier this year, and efforts to tighten control over Hong Kong.The legislation would require the State Department to report to Congress every year about officials who seek to undermine the “one country, two systems” model that applies to the special administrative region. It also gives the president the power to seize the assets of and block entry to the US for those individuals.Under the legislation, banks are granted a kind of year-long grace period to stop doing business with entities and individuals the State Department determines to be “primary offenders” when it comes to undermining Hong Kong’s autonomy.After that period, the Treasury Department can impose a variety of penalties on those institutions, including barring top executives from entering the US and restricting the ability to engage in US dollar-denominated transactions, according to Pat Toomey, a Pennsylvania Republican who co-sponsored the legislation.Hong Kong AnnouncementTrump announced last month that he would end preferential treatment for Hong Kong, and signed legislation aimed at punishing Chinese officials for oppression of Uighurs and members of other Muslim minority groups.The tougher stance toward Beijing represents a pivot for Trump, who largely avoided human rights-related interventions as he was negotiating the first phase of his trade deal. On Monday, the US president said the deal was still “intact” because China was purchasing the promised agricultural products. But Trump also expressed frustration with the country over the spread of the coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan.“What they did to the world should not be forgotten,” Trump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-ends-hong-kong-s-special-status-with-u-s-to-punish-china/story-TcH9QqOsZivNodKExecJtN.html
15-07-2020||World||UN court rules in Qatar’s favour in aviation boycott case||Qatar won a legal battle Tuesday in its efforts to end a long-running aviation boycott by Arab neighbours when the United Nations’ highest court ruled in its favour in a procedural dispute linked to the boycott.The International Court of Justice rejected an appeal by Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates of a June 2018 decision by the International Civil Aviation Organization to dismiss the countries’ challenge to its jurisdiction to rule in the aviation dispute.The ruling clears the way for the ICAO to be able to rule in Qatar’s case, filed in October 2017, claiming the boycott breached an international convention governing international aviation.Qatar’s Minister of Transport and Communications, Jassim Saif Ahmed Al-Sulaiti, welcomed the ruling.“We are confident that the ICAO will ultimately find these actions unlawful,” he said. “This is the latest in a series of rulings that expose the Blockading Countries’ continued disregard for international law and due process. Step by step their arguments are being dismantled, and Qatar’s position vindicated.” Egypt, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates cut ties with Qatar in the summer of 2017 over its support for Islamist opposition groups that they view as terrorists.They also launched an economic boycott, stopping Qatar Airways flights from using their airspace, closing off the small country’s sole land border with Saudi Arabia and blocking its ships from using their ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-court-rules-in-qatar-s-favour-in-aviation-boycott-case/story-J1azmAvlRACG00LMo0UC8K.html
15-07-2020||World||Trump administration rescinds foreign students order||The Trump administration told a US court Tuesday it was rescinding an order that made it mandatory for international students to be enrolled in universities that also offered in-person reaching in the upcoming fall semester or they will be either not allowed to enter the country or be deported.The administration conveyed its decision to a federal district court in Massachusetts that was hearing a lawsuit challenging the order from Harvard and MIT, joined by hundreds of other schools and colleges and some states.“I’m glad the Trump admin agreed to rescind this dangerous & xenophobic #StudentBan policy after we demanded they reverse course & MA schools sued them. I’ll keep fighting to make sure it stays that way,” Elizabeth Warren, Democratic senator and former presidential candidate, wrote on twitter. “When we fight back, we can make a real difference.”Foreign students enrolled in US institutions offering online-only classes for their fall semester will be not allowed to come to the US and if they are already here they may be forced to leave, unless a majority of their coursework was taught in-person, according to a proposed rule the Trump administration announced Monday, according to an announcement from the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency last week. It was expected to be notified later this month.But foreign students of colleges and universities that were shifting to a hybrid model of mixed online and in-person classes will be allowed opt for more online classes than previously allowed. But these institutions had show to authorities that hey had indeed shifted to this model, also called “blended”.The Unites States has admitted an estimated 1 million international students every year, who generated around $41 billion worth of economic activity and supported 450,000 jobs, according to the American Council on Education, which represents US colleges and universities. Incomes generated from foreign students are critical to the financial health of many US colleges.China, India, South Korea, Saudi Arabia and Canada are the top-five sources of international students, in that order.Indian government has raised the issue with the United States at a meeting of senior officials, called Foreign Office Consultations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-rescinds-foreign-students-order/story-1FT9ytQGts5kmfomV4AmVJ.html
