17-07-2020||World||After dwindling Covid-19 cases, UK PM Johnson hopes for normalcy by Christmas||Pleased with ‘steady progress’ on dealing with the coronavirus challenge, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday hoped that the UK will be able to allow a more significant return to normality from November, “possibly in time for Christmas”.Several restrictions have been eased in recent weeks. Johnson said people could now return to work in ‘Covid-secure’ conditions in workplaces, while maintaining social distancing and other measures, as much as possible. Public transport is also open to all, with face coverings.Johnson announced additional £3 billion funding to deal with a possible second wave of the virus over the winter months, when hospitals usually deal with a surge of illnesses.He said: “But even as we plan for the worst, I strongly believe we should also hope for the best. That means looking ahead with optimism – now extending our plan to lift the remaining national measures which have restricted our lives since March so we can get back to something closer to normal life”.“It is my strong and sincere hope that we will be able to review the outstanding restrictions and allow a more significant return to normality from November at the earliest – possibly in time for Christmas”, he added.More areas of public life are to be opened shortly. From August 1, most remaining leisure settings, such as bowling, skating rinks and casinos will reopen, besides close-contact services such as beauticians.Under Covid-secure conditions, Johnson said the government will restart indoor performances to a live audience, subject to the success of pilots, and also pilot larger gatherings in venues like sports stadia, with a view to wider reopening in the autumn.“We will also allow wedding receptions for up to 30 people. All of these measures for 1 August should be done in a Covid Secure way. In September, schools, nurseries and colleges will be open for all children and young people on a full-time basis, as planned”.“And universities are also working to reopen as fully as possible. From October, we intend to bring back audiences in stadia and to allow conferences and other business events to recommence – again, these changes must be done in a Covid Secure way, subject to the successful outcome of pilots”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-dwindling-covid-19-cases-uk-pm-boris-hopes-for-normalcy-by-christmas/story-B9C7prBG5UcrJiYJRCrQ8N.html
17-07-2020||World||China says it’s not trying to replace US, will fight back against ‘malicious slander’||China isn’t seeking to confront or replace the United States as the world’s top technological power, but will fight back against “malicious slander” and attacks from Washington, a foreign ministry spokesperson said Friday, responding to a litany of recent accusations from the Trump administration.Hua Chunying said China’s chief concern was improving the livelihoods of its citizens and maintaining global peace and stability, despite what critics say is an increasingly aggressive foreign policy that looks to expand Chinese influence in the military, technology, economic and other spheres.“As an independent sovereign state, China has the right to safeguard its own sovereignty, security and development interests, to defend the achievements made by the Chinese people with hard work, to refuse any bullying and injustice against China, and to fight back against malicious slander and attacks by the U.S. against China,” Hua told reporters at a daily briefing.Her comments came in response to a speech Thursday by Attorney General William Barr in which he cautioned American business leaders against promoting policies favourable to Beijing. He asserted that China at the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic had not only dominated the market on protective gear, exposing American dependence on Beijing, but had also hoarded supplies and blocked producers from exporting them to countries in need.Barr also accused hackers linked to the Chinese government of targeting American universities and businesses to steal research related to coronavirus vaccine development, levelling the allegation against Beijing hours after Western agencies made similar claims against Russia.“The People’s Republic of China is now engaged in an economic blitzkrieg — an aggressive, orchestrated, whole-of-government (indeed, whole-of-society) campaign to seize the commanding heights of the global economy and to surpass the United States as the world’s pre-eminent technological superpower,” Barr said.Numerous Trump allies have issued strongly worded messages over China in recent days, coming at a time when bilateral relations have fallen to their lowest point in decades over issues from accusations of technology theft to China’s claims in the South China Sea.Hua dismissed Barr’s accusations of cyber theft related to vaccine development as “absurd.”“Because everyone knows that China is in a leading position in the research and development of new coronavirus vaccines, we have first-class scientific research personnel, and we do not need to gain a leading position with theft,” Hua said.Chinese companies have moved swiftly to develop a coronavirus vaccine, as countries compete for the prestige and profits that would come with being the first to bring such a product to market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-it-s-not-trying-to-replace-us-will-fight-back-against-malicious-slander/story-pZareoZASfEE04mExqSUVI.html
17-07-2020||World||Nepal PM Oli changes tack after pressure to quit, asks who will replace me||Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli, who has been hemmed in by his rivals in the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) for weeks, has suggested that his replacement should be from the CPN (Unified Marxist–Leninist) faction of the party. The suggestion, made at his meeting with Pushpa Kamal Dahal on Thursday, is seen as a new effort to drive a wedge between leaders of the rival faction. Dahal, who has been widely seen to be his replacement, is from the CPN (Maoist Centre). The two parties had merged in 2018 to form the Nepal Communist Party.PM Oli, who came to power in a 50-50 power sharing deal with Pushpa Kamal Dahal, renegotiated the agreement in November 2019 that envisaged letting Dahal run the NCP while he continues to hold the reins of the government. But pressure has lately been building on PM Oli from the triumvirate in the communist party - former prime ministers Dahal, Jhala Nath Khanal and Madhav Nepal - to step down.“It is a ploy to split his opposition and get Dahal and Madhav Nepal fighting among themselves. But I don’t think it will succeed. They (Madhav Nepal and Dahal) are determined that the prime minister should first step down,” an NCP leader told Hindustan Times.PM Oli had survived the last rebellion in April-May this year when he picked up a feud with New Delhi over a 80-km road built near Nepal’s border and came up with a new political map. Later when his rivals, who have overwhelming support in the party’s standing committee tried to push him out, he hit back with accusations that they were working at India’s behest to destabilise him.Dahal did reject the charge, even hardened his stand against PM Oli, but ended up slowing down their campaign against the prime minister. There were occasions when PM Oli skipped the meeting of the standing committee where he is in a minority, ostensibly because he wasn’t feeling well, even when the meeting was being held at his official residence.The 44-member standing committee, which last met on July 2, was scheduled to meet at 3 pm this afternoon. But the meeting, the panel’s first in a fortnight, was postponed again at the last minute. It has been rescheduled to meet on Sunday, July 19.Earlier this month, PM Oli’s associates floated the idea that it was meaningless to discuss their differences at the standing committee and PM Oli should try to arrive at an arrangement with Dahal at one-on-one meetings. There had been no meeting ground; PM Oli wouldn’t step down.At his last round of meeting with Dahal on Thursday, PM Oli made the surprise suggestion about his replacement. Some see it as an attempt to buy time for himself, something that he has particularly excelled in over the last few months.People familiar with the discussions within the Nepal Communist Party said one of the possibilities being explored by party leaders was that the PM Oli standoff be referred to the 445-member central committee, which would have the last word.“This could give him more time to work something out but would narrow his options, a party source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-nepal-s-political-stand-off-pm-oli-in-minority-tries-to-divide-rivals/story-eBUp9HCjNXcVEjZhQRP7iI.html
17-07-2020||World||UN says India has recorded largest reduction in number of impoverished people||About 273 million Indians moved out of multidimensional poverty between 2005-06 and 2015-16, according to a UN report, which noted that India has recorded the largest reduction in the number of people living in this category.The data, released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI), shows that 65 out of 75 countries studied significantly reduced their multidimensional poverty levels between 2000 and 2019. Multidimensional poverty encompasses the various deprivations experienced by poor people in their daily lives – such as poor health, lack of education, inadequate living standards, poor quality of work, the threat of violence, and living in areas that are environmentally hazardous, among others. Of the 65 countries that reduced their Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) value, 50 also reduced the number of people living in poverty.“The largest reduction was in India, where approximately 273 million people moved out of multidimensional poverty over 10 years,” the report said.The report said that four countries—Armenia (2010–2015/2016), India (2005/2006–2015/2016), Nicaragua (2001–2011/2012) and North Macedonia (2005/2006–2011) halved their global MPIT value and did so in 5.5–10.5 years. “These countries show what is possible for countries with very different initial poverty levels. They account for roughly a fifth of the world’s population, mostly because of India’s large population,” the report said.MPIT is the Multidimensional Poverty Index estimate that is based on harmonized indicator definitions for strict comparability over time.“Four countries halved their MPI value. India (2005/2006–2015/2016) did so nationally and among children and had the biggest reduction in the number of multidimensionally poor people (273 million),” it said.The report noted that India saw the most people moving out of multidimensional poverty – some 270 million people between 2005/06 and 2015/16. In a footnote related to the number of 273 million people moving out of poverty, the report said that the number of people living in multidimensional poverty in India is based on population data from United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA) (2019), which imply a larger number of multidimensionally poor people in 2006; previous estimates were based on UNDESA (2017).The report additionally notes that India and Nicaragua’s time periods cover 10 and 10.5 years respectively, and during that time both countries halved their MPIT values among children. “So decisive change for children is possible but requires conscious policy efforts,” it said.Fourteen countries reduced multidimensional poverty in all their subnational regions: Bangladesh, Bolivia, the Kingdom of Eswatini, Gabon, Gambia, Guyana, India, Liberia, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nicaragua, Nepal and Rwanda.The report stressed that while the new figures released show that before the Covid-19 pandemic hit, progress was being made in tackling multidimensional poverty, that progress is at risk. “Covid-19 is having a profound impact on the development landscape. But this data - from before the pandemic - is a message of hope. Past success stories on how to tackle the many ways people experience poverty in their daily lives, can show how to build back better and improve the lives of millions,” Director of OPHI at the University of Oxford Sabina Alkire said.While data is not yet available to measure the rise of global multidimensional poverty after the pandemic, simulations for 70 countries in the developing world, based on the anticipated impacts of the virus on just two components of the global MPI – nutrition and school attendance – suggests how much impact the crisis could have unless it is addressed.In three scenarios of varying deterioration in which 10, 25 and 50 per cent of people who are multidimensionally poor or vulnerable become undernourished, and half of primary school-aged children no longer attend school, poverty levels could be set back 8 to 10 years. “But even if we look only at the impact on nutrition, if anticipated increases in undernutrition are not prevented or swiftly reversed, the setback could range between 3–6 years,” it said.“Covid-19 is the latest crisis to hit the globe, and climate change all but guarantees more will follow soon. Each will affect the poor in multiple ways. More than ever, we need to work on tackling poverty – and vulnerability to poverty - in all its forms,” Director of the Human Development Report Office at UNDP Pedro Conçeicão said.The data shows that across 107 developing countries, 1.3 billion people—22 per cent—live in multidimensional poverty. The data also reveals that the burden of multidimensional poverty disproportionately falls on children. Half of the 1.3 billion poor (644 million) have not yet turned 18, while 107 million are 60 or older, a particularly important figure during the Covid-19 pandemic. About 84.3 per cent of multidimensionally poor people live in Sub-Saharan Africa. The report also said that 10 countries account for 60 per cent of unvaccinated children, and 40 per cent of children unvaccinated for DTP3 live in just four countries: Nigeria, India, Pakistan and Indonesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-says-india-has-recorded-largest-reduction-in-number-of-impoverished-people/story-r4zOtASU7znvR0MYIlMpzN.html
17-07-2020||World||Canada to infuse CA$ 19 bn into provinces to generate economic recovery||The Canadian Federal Government will pump CA$ 19 billion into the country’s provinces and territories as part of Safe Restart Agreement aimed at economic recovery with precautions being exercised to prevent another outbreak of Covid-19.Many provinces across the nation have accelerated reopening of various sectors of the economy, but Trudeau said that till the time an effective vaccine against the coronavirus was available “the daily threat of COVID-19 will not disappear.”The “safe restart” programme will focus on preventive measures, including enhanced capacity for testing, contact tracing, and data management and information sharing to mitigate future outbreaks, investments in health care to respond to the pandemic, support for those considered most vulnerable like residents of long-term care facilities, and funding to secure a reliable source of personal protective equipment. Also announced was a temporary countrywide sick leave programme covering 10 days for those who did not have access to it.“As we continue to deal with the impacts of the virus, we are committed to working with the provinces and territories to provide the support they need to help Canadians make it through this crisis. Together, our priority is to keep Canadians safe and healthy, while building a stronger, more resilient Canada for everyone,” Trudeau said in a statement issued by his office. He made the announcement during a media interaction at Parliament Hill in Ottawa. He was joined by Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland who stated that these investments will “help ensure a safe restart” of the “economy over the next six to eight months”, pointing out there was no use pretending that anyone could predict what the scenario will be in that time period. Seven priority areas have been outlined under the agreement.Trudeau said the pandemic had resulted not just in a health crisis but also an economic crisis. “When we talk about the recovery phase, it’s not just about making sure we can detect, control and prevent future outbreaks. It’s also about helping people, businesses and entire communities adjust to our new normal,” he told reporters, according to the outlet CBC.Canada has recorded 8827 deaths so far and over 109,000 confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-to-infuse-ca-19-bn-into-provinces-to-generate-economic-recovery/story-rpIfAjvmUviWahyehhLIdO.html
17-07-2020||World||After US, India has done most Covid-19 tests, says White House||After the US, which has carried out a record 42 million Covid-19 tests, India has done the second largest number of 12 million coronavirus tests, the White House has said. More than 3.5 million people have tested positive with the coronavirus and 138,000 died in the US. Globally, more than 13.6 million have tested positive and over 586,000 have died. “With regard to (the coronavirus) testing, we’ve done more than 42 million tests. The second-highest number is 12 million from India. We’re leading the world in testing,” White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters at a news conference here on Thursday. The White House was responding to questions related to the coronavirus pandemic in the US. “We have done more than any country in the world on testing; there’s no doubt about that -- 42 million tests. The country with the next highest number is India at 12 million,” McEnany said. This record testing, she said, is in a very stark contrast than the previous administration. CBS is reporting that in 2009 under Obama-Biden, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention abruptly advised states to stop testing for the H1N1 flu and stopped counting individual cases, she said. “Ron Klain, Vice President Biden’s former Chief of Staff said this: It is “purely a fortuity that (H1N1) isn’t one of the great mass casualty events in American history. It had nothing to do with us doing anything right.” This is former VP Biden’s Chief of Staff. It just had to do with luck,” she said. “Contrary to that, this President led the world in testing; led the world in ventilators -- redistributing ventilators for therapeutics; 13 vaccine candidates -- one going into phase three clinical trial. This response has been extraordinary and historic. We didn’t pause testing; the Obama-Biden administration did, and that was a shameful decision,” McEnany said. There has been encouraging news on vaccines, the press secretary said. “Moderna’s vaccine candidate is showing promising signs. They produced a positive, neutral immune response among the 45 participants in the study. This is comparable to what we see in recovered patients. The bottom line is that, so far, we are seeing exactly what you would hope to see in a vaccine. The Moderna vaccine in particular is expected to reach phase three by late July, with 30,000 participants. “On the therapeutics front, I just want to note: A very encouraging Regeneron contract. A USD 450 million contract for a monoclonal antibody cocktail. This is a bioengineered version of convalescent plasma, one of the several therapeutics available to treat Covid-19. It can be used for prophylaxis and treatment. They say they could have up to 70 to 300 thousand doses -- by the end of the summer or early fall,” she said. As such there is encouraging news on the therapeutics front, McEnany added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-us-india-has-done-most-covid-19-tests-says-white-house/story-qX8niE5cXkPzBxt3hA49UN.html
17-07-2020||World||‘Slept on this for too long’: Pompeo calls for global push back against Xi||The time has come for the world to push back against the challenge posed by the Chinese Communist Party, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said as he contended that the US “slept on this threat for too long.” Pompeo also said the Chinese government was aware of human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus before they shared this information with the world.“Countries not only in Southeast Asia but in Asia more broadly, in Europe, have come to understand the threat that the Chinese Communist Party presents. The United States slept on this for too long,” Pompeo told Bill Hemmer of Fox News in an interview on Thursday.“I think they all did too, and I think they’re coming to a joint conclusion that it’s time for the world to make sure that we get this right.“For democracies and freedom-loving people around the world, it is an imperative that we push back against the challenge that the Chinese Communist Party presents to us all,” Pompeo said.He said that for 40 years, successive US administrations just looked the other way and allowed China to trample on America.President Donald Trump said “no more,” he said.The US is going to have fair, reciprocal trade relationships; and it is going to demand that the Chinese Communist Party treat Americans the same way that the US treats people who go there, he said.Hemmer asked Pompeo to comment on claims by Hong Kong-based virologist Dr Yan Li-Meng, who recently fled to the United States, that Beijing knew that the virus could spread between humans three weeks before that knowledge was made public.Pompeo said that “the World Health Organisation itself was co-opted into the same effort to deny the world the knowledge it needed to respond to this threat, to this threat from the virus that emanated from Wuhan, China.” “This is a simple understanding, and President Trump is going to demand that it happens,” he said.“And of course, now too, we’ve seen the virus that started in Wuhan, China cost the globe hundreds of thousands of people and trillions and trillions of dollars, and I believe the world is going to unite to hold the Chinese Communist Party accountable for having covered this up when they could have prevented so much of this tragedy,” said the top American diplomat. The United States has been the worst-hit country with over 3.5 million coronavirus cases. The country has reported more than 137,000 deaths so far.Pompeo refrained from responding to news reports that there could be a ban on US travel for Chinese party members and their families.“We’re working our way through, under the president’s guidance, about how to think about pushing back against the Chinese Communist Party. You see it in trade, you see it in other economic activity, you see it in diplomatic engagement,” he added.“The rights that we have that the Declaration of Independence set forth, that are in our Constitution, are central to American foreign policy. We have to get that right. We have this deep tradition. It’s under attack,” he said in response to a question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/slept-on-this-for-too-long-pompeo-calls-for-global-push-back-against-xi/story-d4J4PvKOn650v2zBKsh9iP.html
17-07-2020||World||QUAD is ready but no more free lunches for ASEAN on South China Sea||In September 2007 under the UPA-I regime, India, US, Japan, Australia, Singapore participated in Malabar Naval exercises in Bay of Bengal. This was before the concept of QUAD - US, India, Japan and Australia - was not even born but Chinese Communist Party (CCP) ruled Beijing sent demarche to all four countries and virtually blaming the exercises partners for targeting the Middle Kingdom. With the Indian Left parties badgering the Manmohan Singh regime already over India-US nuclear deal and not willing to earn the wrath of Chinese rulers, the naval exercise concept was dropped like a hot potato by all barring the US. Thirteen years later, India, Japan and Australia are again on the same cross-road with Chinese dragon breathing on Ladakh land borders with India, contesting Senkaku Islands with Japan, openly threatening Australia with trade war, and talking nuke missiles to exercising US navy in South China Sea (SCS).Also Read: Apex China Study Group reviews East Ladakh: Key stand-off points record withdrawalWhile the call on QUAD naval exercises is still to be taken, US Navy following the new maritime policy in SCS has sent a guided missile destroyer into the contested waters at Spratly islands as part of the freedom of navigation operation. USS Ralph Johnson is backed by two super carrier task forces led by USS Ronal Reagan and USS Nimitz, who are exercising in international waters off the Chinese coast.With the Narendra Modi government not a believer in free lunches as the ASEAN regimes, India has rejected the Chinese claims on SCS by calling it a global commons and openly advocated its long held position of freedom of navigation and overflights. Even though the Russian trade to the port of Vladivostok passes through SCS, Moscow has been silent on the SCS issue given its perceived closeness to the Chinese authoritarian state. Australia and Japan have also bilaterally discussed the SCS issue and like ASEAN want America to be at the fore-front. The so-called Tiger economies of ASEAN talk against China behind closed doors to the QUAD but are virtually servile before the Middle Kingdom as they do not have either the political or military heft to challenge China.Also Read: US backs ASEAN on South China Sea, challenges China’s predatory world viewAlthough China is the first to call out any country opposed to its political and military objectives, the same cannot be said in reverse with exception of a few. And this is despite the fact that Beijing cavorts with most repressive regimes in the world like North Korea, Pakistan and lately Iran. It is this unchallenged belief that China today runs roughshod over most of the countries in the world, either through money or muscle power. The Chinese penetration into the democratic world through its US listed companies is a matter of extreme serious concern as is evident to Delhi with Indian Universities signing scores of MoUs with Chinese fronts without even understanding the cultural implications of the move. The story of Chinese infiltration into global telecom sector is so humongous that it requires another article in this paper.Also Read: How PM Modi called China’s bluff in LadakhThe world seemed to be humouring China like an errant child prodigy till the Galwan flare-up took place on June 15. The US, which had decided not to spill any more American blood for global causes, also turned around and threw the SCS gauntlet and challenged the PLA Navy on high seas. While the PLA Navy looks formidable on the paper, China is still to gain expertise on carrier operations as landing a fighter on a moving floating deck in rough seas requires decades of experience. US Navy has it and so has Indian Navy. Also Read: Canada’s Trudeau has exposed China’s attempt at hostage diplomacyThe PLA Navy may have Russian made or copy destroyers but dealing with an Indian submarine in equatorial waters is a different cup of tea. The huge difference between surface and temperatures at sea depth, the refraction causes optical paradox and makes the task of detecting submarines very hard and perilous. To cut the long story short, the PLA Navy is unproven on high seas and the PLA Army has not fought a war since 1979. This holds as much truth as the political fact that the objectives of Chinese communist rulers are totally at variance with the democratic world at large.While the middle-powers like India, Japan, Australia and South Korea have started to rise, it is the democratic world that needs to hold hands together to make China sombre to the global truth. Otherwise, like in 1999 Sci-Fi film, there will be only Mr Smiths left in the Communist matrix.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quad-is-ready-but-no-more-free-lunches-for-asean-on-south-china-sea/story-Vx16PS5BHqYUtXqUWqf3OP.html
17-07-2020||World||Trump administration exempts European students from Covid travel restrictions||Foreign students coming from Europe are exempt from a travel ban the United States imposed because of the coronavirus pandemic, the US State Department told congressional offices on Thursday.The State Department also told lawmakers that it would offer exemptions for some au pairs and family members of visa holders in the United States, according to a memo sent to lawmakers and seen by Reuters.The moves are part of a Trump administration effort to gradually reopen international travel following months of sweeping restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic. President Donald Trump banned travelers from most European countries in March as Covid-19 cases soared in the region before the disease took hold in the United States.The European Union began to allow non-essential travel from a limited number of countries last month, but such travelers from the United States, where coronavirus cases have risen rapidly in recent weeks, remain banned.The US decision to allow European students comes days after the Trump administration agreed to drop a policy that could have forced tens of thousands of international students to leave the United States if their classes went entirely online. The reversal came amid legal challenges by major universities and pressure from business and tech companies.China, Brazil and Iran face similar travel bans, but students from those nations were not included in the US exemptions. Students in European countries who already have visas to study in the United States are exempt from the ban, according to the memo.The State Department also said spouses and children of certain foreign workers coming to the United States could qualify for exemptions, including the spouses of skilled workers with H-1B visas.The State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-exempts-european-students-from-covid-travel-restrictions/story-SVPEzv32NWXIjZQlqASpTM.html
17-07-2020||World||Want to do everything possible to keep peace for people of India, China: Trump||US President Donald Trump has said that he wants to do everything possible to keep peace for the people of India and China, according to his spokesperson. Over the past several weeks, the Trump administration has come out in support of India against China. “He (Trump) said I love the people of India and I love the people of China and I want to do everything possible to keep the peace for the people,” White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters at a news conference here on Thursday. She was responding to a question on Trump’s message to India, which recently had a standoff with China in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control. Earlier in the day, White House Economic Advisor Larry Kudlow described India as a great ally, saying President Trump is a great friend of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Wednesday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that India has been a great partner of the US. “India has been a great partner… They are an important partner of ours. I have a great relationship with my foreign minister counterpart. We talked frequently about a broad range of issues. We talked about the conflict they had along the border with China. We’ve talked about the risk that emanates from the Chinese telecommunication infrastructure there,” Pompeo told reporters in response to a question. Travelling in Europe, US National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien told reporters that China has been very aggressive with India. O’Brien said that India is a democracy and is a great friend of the United States. Prime Minister “Modi and President Trump have a super relationship,” he said. “In fact, it was the last foreign trip that I took with the president before the COVID-19 crisis hit, was to India, and we had a great reception of the Indian people there. We have a lot in common with them, we speak English, we’re democracies. We’ve got a growing, very strong relationship with India,” O’Brien said. Welcoming the White House statement, Al Mason, co-chair of the Trump Victory Indian American Finance Committee, said that unlike his predecessor, President Trump has come out openly in support of India. “Most of the Indian-Americans have observed that every earlier president - be it a Democrat or Republican, like Clinton or Bush Senior or Bush Jr or Obama have been very scared to side with India openly, for fear of hurting China. “Only President Trump has had the courage to say that… I love India, America respects India… US stands with India - and that also, to over one billion Indians in India at the Namaste Trump rally held in India… and that too… near India’s neighbour China,” Mason said in a statement. “And he is consistent in his love for India and Indian-Americans,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/want-to-do-everything-possible-to-keep-peace-for-people-of-india-china-trump/story-9mujv19CKeDl9dEqKUA9ZO.html
17-07-2020||World||WE Charity controversy: Trudeau’s finance minister to be investigated||The controversy over a contract to a charity with ties to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his family has become more complicated with the revelation it could have earned more than twice what was originally stated, and the country’s Ethics Commissioner launching an investigation into the Finance Minister in connection with this issue.WE Charity which was given the contract to administer a nearly one billion dollar programme was originally stated to be in line for a payment of CA $ 19.5 million, but that amount could have touched CA $ 43.53 million if it achieved certain targets. This was revealed by Minister of Diversity and Inclusion and Youth Bardish Chagger while being questioned by the House of Commons Finance Committee, one of two Parliamentary panels looking into the matter.The country’s Conflict of Interest and Ethics Commissioner Mario Dion had earlier announced that Trudeau’s links to the WE organisation will be investigated in this regard given that his mother, brother and wife have made appearances paid for by the WE organisation’s organs. Now, Dion has launched an investigation into Finance Minister Bill Morneau since one of his daughter’s was employed with WE and another volunteered with them. Trudeau has already apologised for not recusing himself when the Cabinet took a decision to give the contract to WE. The contract was cancelled after the furor over Trudeau’s connection to WE exploded.However, Chagger, an Indo-Canadian Minister, said that she had not been directed by Trudeau’s office to arrive at the agreement with WE nor had she personally held discussions in this regard with either Trudeau or Morneau. She stated that a bureaucrat “made a clear recommendation that WE Charity was the organization that was able to deliver this program in the timeline that was needed.”The Parliamentary committees examining the matter have also sought Trudeau’s appearance but the Canadian PM has yet to confirm he will do so, as he faces an ethics investigation for the third time, with the prior two having resulted in finding him in violation of Federal norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-charity-controversy-trudeau-s-finance-minister-to-be-investigated/story-HnEPPTUcBQUMHs2IqE7cJO.html
17-07-2020||World||US prepares push to reduce ‘unnecessary’ Covid-19 testing: Report||The United States is preparing to issue guidance on reducing “unnecessary” testing for Covid-19 as it works to reduce turnaround times for tests, a senior US health official said on Thursday. Details of the guidance are still being hammered out but it would be aimed partly at discouraging Covid-19 patients who have completed home quarantine from getting retested before returning to work or school, said Brett Giroir, assistant secretary for health at the US Department of Health and Human Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prepares-push-to-reduce-unnecessary-covid-19-testing-report/story-K1PXbKeYBApiSOol5aEMUJ.html
17-07-2020||World||Taiwan might see immigrant influx from Hong Kong as fear against security law grows||Amid fear of persecution under the new Hong Kong security law, a growing number of Hong Kongers are mulling relocating to Taiwan to protect themselves from the Chinese crackdown.Many people have preferred Taiwan due to its proximity and cultural similarities, DW reported.The Taiwanese government has opened an office on July 1 to help Hong Kongers who seek legal residency in Taiwan, in anticipation of an influx of immigrants.“The new office was created precisely to more efficiently evaluate and process applications on a case-by-case basis,” said Kolas Yotaka, spokesperson at Taiwan’s presidential office, adding that existing resources are sufficient to handle the possible increase in arrivals.According to the Mainland Affairs Council in Taiwan, which sets Taiwan’s policy towards mainland China, within a week of its opening, the office has received hundreds of phone calls and emails inquiring about how to move to Taiwan.“We think the number of inquiries could increase as the Chinese government continues to impose the national security law. The Taiwan-Hong Kong Services and Exchange Office will closely monitor the development in Hong Kong,” a council official told DW.During 2019 protests, nearly 6,000 Hong Kongers moved to Taiwan, a sharp increase compared to the previous year, according to Taiwan’s immigration agency.Renowned Hong Kong bookseller Lam Wing-Kee is a Hong Kong immigrant who came to Taiwan in April 2019.Since then, he reopened his bookstore, Causeway Bay Books, in Taipei, and has been vocal about the drastic changes that have been taking place in Hong Kong.“Certain books written by pro-democracy figures are viewed as banned books in Hong Kong and raising a piece of white paper during a protest can be deemed illegal under the national security law,” Lam told DW. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-might-see-immigrant-influx-from-hong-kong-as-fear-against-security-law-grows/story-U0Uzz4TO3bE44K2OfiLJlK.html
17-07-2020||World||UN designates Pakistan Taliban leader Noor Mehsud as global terrorist||The United Nations on Thursday (local time) designated Pakistan based terror organisation Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan’s leader, Mufti Noor Wali Mehsud, as a global terrorist.The United States Security Council 1267 Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee added Mehsud to its ISIL (Da’esh) and Al-Qaida Sanctions List.Mufti Noor Wali Mehsud was listed pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of resolution 2368 (2017) for “participating in the financing, planning, facilitating or perpetrating of acts or activities by, in conjunction with, under the name of, on behalf of, or in support of” entities associated with Al-Qaida. The United States has welcomed the development.“Welcome news that the @UN has added Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan leader Noor Wali Mehsud to its ISIL & AQ sanctions list. TTP is responsible for many deadly terrorist attacks in Pakistan. The United States domestically designated Noor Wali as a terrorist in September 2019,” State SCA tweeted.TTP, also known as Pakistan Taliban, is responsible for carrying out multiple suicide bombings, and have killed hundreds of civilians. TTP was earlier designated as Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) by the Department of State.Noor Wali, also known as Mufti Noor Wali Mehsud, was named the leader of TTP in June 2018 following the death of former TTP leader Mullah Fazlullah. Under Noor Wali’s leadership, TTP has claimed responsibility for numerous deadly terrorist attacks across Pakistan, according to the US State Department. Last year in September, The United States had domestically designated Mehsud as a terrorist.This comes as another blow to Pakistan which has been repeatedly called out by the world community for supporting the terrorist groups. Pakistan has been under the FATF radar for its complicity towards terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) among others.Last year, the United Nations designated Jaish-e-Mohammed chief, Masood Azhar as a “global terrorist”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-designates-pakistan-taliban-leader-noor-mehsud-as-global-terrorist/story-9yK4GCFfgnIH46CWwfBQNO.html
17-07-2020||World||Brazil’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2 million; death toll at 76,000||A thousand deaths a day. Since late May, three months after Brazil’s first reported case of the coronavirus, it has recorded more than 1,000 daily deaths on average in a gruesome plateau that has yet to tilt downward. On Thursday evening, the federal health ministry reported that the country had passed 2 million confirmed cases of virus infections and 76,000 deaths. Even as cases wane somewhat in the biggest and hardest-hit Brazilian cities, the virus is peaking in new locations across the largest country in Latin America. Experts blame denial of the virus’ deadly potential by President Jair Bolsonaro and lack of national coordination combined with scattershot responses by city and state governments, with some reopening earlier than health experts recommended. An interim health minister untrained in the field is presiding over pandemic response. Bolsonaro himself is sick with Covid-19 after repeatedly flouting social distance recommendations and undermining local leaders’ restrictions on activity. Brazil’s roughly 7,000 Covid-19 deaths in each of the last seven weeks is equal to several airplanes packed with Brazilians crashing every day, former health minister Luiz Henrique Mandetta told The Associated Press. “People have become callous,” Mandetta said. “When you say, ‘Yesterday there were 1,300 deaths,’ people say, ‘OK, then it didn’t go up. It was 1,300 people the day before, too.’” Brazil’s nearly 2 million cases is second only to the United States and experts believe the number to be an under count due to widespread lack of testing. A model created by professors from several Brazilian academic institutions, based on the number of confirmed deaths, estimates Brazil has had 10 million infections. “The virus would have been difficult to stop anyway. But this milestone of 2 million cases, which is very underestimated, shows this could have been different,” said Dr. Adriano Massuda, a health care administration specialist and professor at the Getulio Vargas Foundation, a Sao Paulo university. “There’s no national strategy for testing, no measures from the top, ... too little effort to improve basic care so we find serious cases before they become too serious, no tracking.” The virus has begun reaching cities and states previously spared, offsetting declines elsewhere. The number of deaths has been ebbing in states including Rio de Janeiro and Amazonas, where people were buried in mass graves in the capital, Manaus. In the last two weeks, 10 of Brazil’s 26 states and its Federal District saw increases, with two southern states’ average daily death tolls doubling. Bolsonaro has consistently downplayed Covid-19’s severity, saying strict social distancing measures that sacrifice jobs and income will ultimately be more harmful than the virus itself, and calling on supporters to encourage their local leaders to lift restrictions on activity. Many mayors and governors have struggled to hold the line. In Ribeirao Preto, a city in Sao Paulo state, protesting shopkeepers on Wednesday demanded they be allowed to reopen. They surrounded the mayor’s car as he left City Hall, punching his windows and cursing at him. Campinas, a city of 1.2 million people closer to the state’s capital, adopted quarantine measures early, but succumbed to political pressure and reopened commerce on June 8, said Pedro de Siqueira, a Campinas city councilman. The city center swarmed with shoppers like an overturned anthill, he said in an interview. Two weeks later, the number of Covid-19 deaths had roughly tripled to 253, as did the number of confirmed cases, to 6,324. Intensive-care beds refilled with patients, prompting the mayor to reinstate restrictions on commerce on June 22, but allowing offices and churches to continue operating. “Campinas reopened prematurely and erroneously, supported by the state government,” Siqueira, who is also a public health physician, said at the time. “This reopening was so catastrophic that Campinas had to step back, but did so only partially.” Since then, Campinas’ number of cases and deaths has doubled once more. On Wednesday, the city extended restrictions until July 30. Daniel Soranz, a researcher at state-run biology institute Fiocruz’s national health school, said Brazil’s center-west that includes the agricultural heartland will be the last region slammed by the virus. And, looking at deaths from severe respiratory insufficiency, it appears Brazil as a whole has begun turning the corner, he said. “By the end of August, we should be at a much better place than today,” Soranz said. In Sao Paulo, Brazil’s most populous state with 46 million residents, the number of deaths has stabilized at a level slightly below its peak. At one of the capital’s cemeteries on Wednesday, Michelle Caverni buried her 88-year-old aunt, who died of Covid-19 and also suffered from pulmonary emphysema. The same day a friend of Caverni’s buried her 57-year-old mother. She also died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-million-death-toll-at-76-000/story-C3GFjXH2dRWYWXQOLKhimK.html
17-07-2020||World||Russia accused of stealing Covid-19 vaccine research||The US, UK and Canada have accused Russia of trying to steal coronavirus vaccine research as the pandemic surges across the world, with Brazil announcing it has surpassed two million confirmed cases.The virus has killed more than 585,000 people, infected more than 13.6 million and crippled the global economy since emerging late last year, and the world’s hopes have turned to a vaccine to end the onslaught.In the latest positive sign, British media reported on Thursday that an Oxford University trial had shown its prototype vaccine generated an immune response against the virus.But hours later, the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre said a hacking group called APT29 had targeted British labs conducting vaccine research to “steal valuable intellectual property”.The agency said it was “almost certain (95%+) that APT29 are part of the Russian Intelligence Services” and its targeting of researchers was “highly likely (80-90%)” to “collect information on COVID-19 vaccine research”.The US, UK and Canada all accused Russia in a joint security advisory.Moscow denied any involvement, with Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov saying: “Russia has nothing to do with these attempts.”The dispute came as the need for a vaccine was underscored once more with Brazil, the second hardest hit country in the world, passing the bleak milepost of two million coronavirus cases. The number of deaths recorded in the country are now over 76,000.‘Horrible experience’Experts say the true case load in Latin America’s largest economy, home to some 209 million people, could be understated by as much as a factor of ten and fatalities as much as twofold. Like the US, which has the world’s biggest epidemic by far, Brazil is led by a populist leader, Jair Bolsonaro who has downplayed the virus and railed against restrictions.Bolsonaro was himself diagnosed positive a week ago.The United States has recorded by far the most deaths and infections in the pandemic, setting a record on Wednesday with more than 67,000 new cases in 24 hours.Florida is the country’s new epicentre, and is shaping up as a key battleground in a partisan-tinged fight playing out nationally over reopening schools in the fall.US President Donald Trump meanwhile has been escalating a conflict with Anthony Fauci, the country’s top infectious disease specialist, but has so far stopped short of firing the scientist from his coronavirus task force.Fauci’s warnings on the dangers of reopening states too fast are at odds with Trump, who has placed his re-election hopes on declaring victory over the virus and jumpstarting the economy.South Asia new epicentre?While the virus runs rampant across the US and Latin America, the Red Cross warned that South Asia is fast becoming the next epicentre.India is on course to hit one million cases in the coming days and the 125 million people in the impoverished Bihar state, neighbouring Nepal, started a new 15-day lockdown on Thursday.“We have not faced such a situation in my life before, it is really a horrible experience,” housewife Radhika Singh said in Patna, the capital of Bihar, where all schools, clubs, temples and non-essential businesses were ordered closed.Governments in many other countries have been forced to reimpose restrictions as COVID-19 refuses to fade, including Spain, which has locked down a northeastern area as it fights more than 120 active outbreaks.Spain honoured its more than 28,000 virus dead at a solemn state ceremony joined by bereaved families and top EU and World Health Organization figures on Thursday.Elsewhere in Europe, Germany’s federal and regional governments agreed on tougher, more localised lockdowns to contain fresh outbreaks.France meanwhile said it will make mask-wearing compulsory in indoor public spaces from next week after an uptick in infections.In Italy, the first European country to lock down, the official death toll topped 35,000. In north Africa, Algeria is planning a law to protect health workers after an increase in “physical and verbal attacks” since the country’s outbreak began, as it registered another record number of daily cases.On Monday, the director of a hospital around 125 kilometres (78 miles) southeast of the capital jumped out of a window to escape the angry family of a patient suspected of having died from the COVID-19 disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-accused-of-stealing-covid-19-vaccine-research/story-tIheVl9ECp3gmkBiQOkJEK.html
17-07-2020||World||New US travel restrictions may target China’s Communist Party||President Donald Trump is weighing a sweeping travel order banning members of the Chinese Communist Party and their relatives from entering the United States, according to news reports that citied officials. The New York Times reported the order could target a narrower group of the 25 members of the politburo or a wider list that includes members of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and state-owned enterprises.The potential presidential proclamation, which was likened to the controversial 2017 Muslim travel ban that targeted citizens from certain Muslim-majority countries, was said to be in the draft stage. Trump could still reject it as a final decision is yet to be taken.If approved, the proclamation will use the same statute in the Immigration and Nationality Act, which was used by the administration to bring in the Muslim travel ban.The proclamation will be a marked escalation in tensions between the two countries, with the US announcing a slew of punitive measures against China in recent weeks, targeting it over Uighur Muslims, a new security law in Hong Kong, and the handling of the coronavirus disease pandemic.Earlier on Thursday, China said it will stick to the Phase 1 trade deal it had reached with the US earlier this year, but warned it will respond to “bullying” tactics and hit out at Washington over its actions targeting Huawei.Foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying also invited secretary of state Mike Pompeo to come to China and visit the Xinjiang region to see that there are no human rights violations, responding to US sanctions over abuse of Uighurs living there.Asked whether the recent US sanctions would impact the trade deal, Hua said China hopes it can still be implemented. “We always implement our commitments but we know that some in the US are oppressing China and bullying China,” she said. “China must respond to the bullying practices by the US side; we must say no, we must make responses and take reactive moves to it.” Hua slammed the US clampdown on Chinese telecom giant Huawei as “dirty play”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-us-travel-restrictions-may-target-china-s-communist-party/story-mfFnHXRea8pKWvfq1SmhbI.html
17-07-2020||World||UK frowns at opposition to new Hindu temple in Pakistan||The Boris Johnson government has expressed concern over opposition in Pakistan to the construction of a new Hindu temple in Islamabad and has raised the issue of freedom of religion or belief with the country’s authorities at a senior level.Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi, speaker of the Punjab assembly, is among several elements who have opposed the proposed Shri Krishna temple after the Imran Khan government allocated Rs 100 million for its construction. They contend that it is against the spirit of Islam.Tariq Ahmad, minister in the Foreign Office, told crossbench peer David Alton, who raised the issue in the House of Lords, that the government is in contact with Hindu community groups in Pakistan and is monitoring the situation closely.Ahmad said: “We are concerned by any comments which suggest that there should be restrictions on Freedom of Religion or Belief (FoRB)… We engage at a senior level with the Pakistani Government on our concerns about FoRB and the mistreatment of religious and ethnic groups”.“Our High Commission in Islamabad frequently engages with the Hindu community to understand their needs. I raised our concerns about FoRB and the protection of minority religious communities with Pakistan’s Human Rights Minister, Dr Shireen Mazari, on 5 June”.“The UK High Commissioner to Pakistan raised our concerns about FoRB with Pakistan’s Human Rights Minister on 8 June. We will continue to urge the Government of Pakistan at senior levels to guarantee the fundamental rights of its citizens, regardless of their belief, in accordance with international standards”.Alton, a former Liberal Democrats MP from Liverpool and now a member of the House of Lords, asked the government what assessment it had made of the statement by the Punjab assembly speaker opposing the temple.“(What) representations they intend to make to the government of Pakistan about (1) the obligations under Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and (2) the freedom of religion or belief”, he asked.Besides opposition from Elahi and religious groups, the row over temple construction has also reached Pakistan’s courts. A partially built boundary wall as part of the temple construction has reportedly been demolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-frowns-at-opposition-to-new-hindu-temple-in-pakistan/story-zpAKv94NUVzcHHWJWMUnkM.html
