19-07-2020||World||Surging attacks by Baloch separatists increase risks, costs of BRI projects in Pak: Report||A surge in the deadly attacks by Baloch separatists in Pakistan has increased the risks and costs of China’s ambitious Belt and Road projects, including the CPEC, while its interests at the strategic Gwadar Port on the Arabian Sea are caught up in the proxy war between Islamabad and Tehran, according to a media report.Security risks and costs of the USD 60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) are rising amid a resurgence of the deadly attacks by separatists in the troubled Balochistan province, home to the Chinese-operated Gwadar Port, a report in Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post said on Saturday.The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) aims to link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa and Europe with a network of land and sea routes. The CPEC is the flagship project of President Xi Jinping’s ambitious BRI.In the third such attack since May, militants opened fire on a patrolling paramilitary convoy in Panjgur district on Tuesday, killing three soldiers and wounding eight others, including an army colonel.Militant ethnic Baloch factions have also recently expanded their range of operations to adjoining Sindh province and its provincial capital Karachi, according to the report.Beijing’s stakes in Sindh are as high as they are in resoure-rich Balochistan, it said.China’s state-owned enterprises run container terminals at Karachi port and have invested in nuclear and coal power projects established both under the umbrella of the CPEC and in partnership with local corporations, it said.On June 29, four militants were killed by police commandos when they tried to shoot their way into the Karachi Stock Exchange, which is 40 per cent owned by a consortium of three Chinese bourses.“Baloch groups have not only intensified their attacks but also expanded the outreach of their terrorist violence beyond Balochistan, but it is hard to predict whether this trend will persist,” Mohammad Amir Rana, director of the Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies, an Islamabad-based think tank, told the Post.He said Baloch insurgent factions had historically preferred to conduct low-intensity attacks, while their high-intensity attacks had tended to come in waves lasting “only for a few weeks”.Rana said the CPEC projects and Chinese personnel remained well protected by the dedicated 13,700-strong Special Security Division, led by a two-star Pakistan Army general, established in 2017.“Only low-intensity attacks have been reported around the CPEC project sites, but the financial cost of the security (to Pakistan) is high,” he said.Beijing’s political risks are also escalating because of a renewed wave of public anger in many parts of Balochistan against human rights abuses by Pakistani troops deployed to crush the low-intensity insurgency in the province, the report said.In June, Akhtar Mengal, leader of the Balochistan National Party-Mengal, parted ways with the ruling coalition led by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan’s party, citing the government’s failure to bring a halt to state-enforced disappearances.In a subsequent interview with the BBC’s Urdu-language service, Mengal said more than 1,500 Baloch had “disappeared” since Prime Minister Khan took office in 2018 and claimed that he had personally secured the release of nearly 500 people from the custody of the security forces.Because of the political and security situation in Balochistan, China’s CPEC investments in the province have hitherto been limited to the development of the Gwadar Port and a road linking it to the coastal highway to Karachi.The port is not yet fully operational and only recently handled its Afghan transhipment cargo. The city continues to suffer severe power and water shortages, the report said.Also, Chinese geopolitical interests at Gwadar, the Arabian Sea outlet of the corridor, running overland from Xinjiang, have become caught up in a web of espionage and proxy warfare involving Pakistan and Iran, it said. Iran is highly suspicious of Pakistan and its relationship with arch-rival Saudi Arabia, especially since Riyadh was invited in late 2018 to establish a USD 10 billion oil refinery and storage facility at Gwadar.“The Iranians feel that Pakistan is not doing enough to secure the border on its side,” said Seyed Mohammed Marandi, a professor of English literature and oriental studies at the University of Tehran and renowned political commentator.“A lot of Saudi money has gone to extremist groups in this region and the Saudis have funded these [Jaish ul-Adl] terrorists,” he told the Post.Similarly, Pakistan is deeply concerned about India’s involvement at Iran’s Chabahar Port, which is competing with Gwadar for transit cargoes heading to landlocked Afghanistan.Politicians have warned that popular resentment towards federal government policies in Balochistan is dangerously close to igniting a wider uprising, it said.Pakistan’s former president Asif Ali Zardari last month said the state needed “to be more careful in Balochistan”.Journalist Kiyya Baloch said Chinese security concerns would continue to drag on the pace at which the CPEC projects in Gwadar have been developed.“Despite increasing diplomatic engagement, it is highly unlikely Beijing will make any significant further investment in Gwadar until security is improved,” Baloch said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surging-attacks-by-baloch-separatists-increase-risks-costs-of-bri-projects-in-pak-report/story-8Iuo5t3SFyYzRNQS3WVdFN.html
19-07-2020||World||Donald Trump not ready to commit to election results if he loses||President Donald Trump is refusing to publicly commit to accepting the results of the upcoming White House election, recalling a similar threat he made weeks before the 2016 vote, as he scoffs at polls showing him lagging behind Democrat Joe Biden. Trump says it’s too early to make such an ironclad guarantee.“I have to see. Look ... I have to see,” Trump told moderator Chris Wallace during a wide-ranging interview on ”Fox News Sunday.” “No, I’m not going to just say yes. I’m not going to say no, and I didn’t last time either.” The Biden campaign responded: “The American people will decide this election. And the United States government is perfectly capable of escorting trespassers out of the White House.”Trump also hammered the Pentagon brass for favoring renaming bases that honor Confederate military leaders — a drive for change spurred by the national debate about race after George Floyd’s death. “I don’t care what the military says,” the commander in chief said.The president described the nation’s top infectious diseases expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, as a “a little bit of an alarmist” about the coronavirus pandemic, and Trump stuck to what he had said back in February — that the virus is “going to disappear.” On Fox, he said, “I’ll be right eventually.” The United States tops the global death toll list with over 140,000 and confirmed infections, with 3.7 million.It is remarkable that a sitting president would express less than complete confidence in the American democracy’s electoral process. But for Trump, it comes from his insurgent playbook of four years ago, when in the closing stages of his race against Hillary Clinton, he said he would not commit to honoring the election results if the Democrat won.Pressed during an October 2016 debate about whether he would abide by the voters’ will, Trump responded that he would “keep you in suspense.” The president’s remarks to Fox are certain to fuel conversation on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers had already been airing concerns in private about a scenario in which Trump disputes the election results.Trump has seen his presidential popularity erode over his handling of the coronavirus pandemic and in the aftermath of nationwide protests centered on racial injustice that erupted after Floyd’s death in Minneapolis nearly two months.Trump contends that a series of polls that show his popularity eroding and Biden holding an advantage are faulty. He believes Republican voters are underrepresented in such surveys.“First of all, I’m not losing, because those are fake polls,” Trump said in the taped interview, which aired Sunday. “They were fake in 2016 and now they’re even more fake. The polls were much worse in 2016.”Trump was frequently combative with Wallace in defending his administration’s response to the pandemic, weighing in on the Black Lives Matter movement and trying to portray Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, as lacking the mental prowess to serve as president.Among the issues discussed was the push for wholesale changes in policing that has swept across the nation. Trump said he could understand why Black Americans are upset about how police use force disproportionately against them.“Of course I do. Of course I do,” the president said, adding his usual refrain that “whites are also killed, too.”He said he was “not offended either by Black Lives Matter,” but at the same time defended the Confederate flag, a symbol of the racism of the past, and said those who “proudly have their Confederate flags, they’re not talking about racism.”“They love their flag, it represents the South, they like the South. That’s freedom of speech. And you know, the whole thing with ‘cancel culture,’ we can’t cancel our whole history. We can’t forget that the North and the South fought. We have to remember that, otherwise we’ll end up fighting again. You can’t just cancel all,” Trump said.Wallace challenged Trump on some of his claims and called out the president at time, such as when Trump falsely asserted that “Biden wants to defund the police.” The former vice president has not joined with activists rallying behind that banner. He has proposed more money for police, conditioned to improvements in their practices.Trump continues to insist that Biden “signed a charter” with one of his primary rivals on the left, Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont. At one point in the interview, Trump calls on aides to bring him documentation to support his assertion. Trump, however, is unable to point to language from a Biden-Sanders task force policy document released this month by the Biden campaign.Trump stood behind his pledge to veto a $740 billion defense bill over a requirement that the Defense Department change the names of bases named for Confederate military leaders. That list includes Fort Bragg in North Carolina, Fort Hood in Texas and Fort Benning in Georgia.The president argued there were no viable alternatives if the government ever tried. “We’re going to name it after the Reverend Al Sharpton?” Trump asked, referring to a prominent civil rights leader. “What are you going to name it?”Trump, 74, stuck to a campaign charge that Biden, 77, is unable to handle the rigors of the White House because of his age. As for polls showing the incumbent is trailing, Trump noted he was thought to be behind for much of the 2016 contest. “I won’t lose,” he predicted.The president and top advisors have long accused Biden of using the pandemic as an excuse to stay in “his basement” in his Delaware home. Biden has indeed shifted much of his campaign online, but frequently travels in Delaware and Pennsylvania, organizing speeches and small gatherings with voters and community leaders that are within driving distance of his home. Biden’s campaign says it will begin resuming normal travel and campaign activities, but only when health officials and state and local authorities say it is safe.Questioned about the coronavirus, Trump chided Fauci, the National Institutes of Health expert, and repeated false claims that anybody could get a test and that increased testing was the only reason that the U.S. was seeing more cases. When Wallace cited criticism about the lack of a national plan to confront the virus, Trump said, “I take responsibility always for everything because it’s ultimately my job, too,” and claimed, “I supplied everybody.”Case are rising because people are infecting each other more than they were when most everyone was hunkered down. The percentage of tests coming back positive for the virus has been on the rise across nearly the entire country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-not-ready-to-commit-to-election-results-if-he-loses/story-gO8GN2Em777svpKx1UN6aL.html
19-07-2020||World||Coronavirus rebounds around the world, deaths top 600,000||The coronavirus pandemic has found fresh legs around the world, as confirmed deaths pass 600,000 and countries from the U.S. to South Africa to India struggle to contain a surge of new infections. Hong Kong issued tougher new rules on wearing face masks, Spain closed overcrowded beaches and Germany reported another outbreak at a slaughterhouse.Pope Francis said “the pandemic is showing no sign of stopping” and urged compassion for those whose suffering during the outbreak has been worsened by conflicts.The World Health Organization said that 259,848 new infections were reported Saturday, its highest one-day tally yet.While the U.S. leads global infections, South Africa now ranks as the fifth worst-hit country in the pandemic with more than 350,000 cases, or around half of all those confirmed on the continent. Its struggles are a sign of trouble to come for nations with even fewer health care resources.India, which has now confirmed more than 1 million infections, on Sunday reported a 24-hour record of 38,902 new cases.In Europe, where infections are far below their peak but local outbreaks are causing concern, leaders of the 27-nation European Union haggled for a third day in Brussels over a proposed 1.85 trillion-euro ($2.1 trillion) EU budget and coronavirus recovery fund.German Chancellor Angela Merkel said there is “a lot of good will, but there are also a lot of positions” in the talks, which have have laid bare divisions about how the countries hit hardest by the pandemic, such as Italy and Spain, should be helped. She said the talks, which were initially scheduled to end on Saturday, could still end without a deal.As scientists around the world race to find a vaccine to halt the pandemic, Russia’s ambassador to Britain on Sunday rejected allegations by the United States, Britain and China that his country’s intelligence services have sought to steal information about vaccine efforts.“I don’t believe in this story at all, there is no sense in it,” Ambassador Andrei Kelin said when asked in a BBC interview about the allegations. “I learned about their (the hackers’) existence from British media. In this world, to attribute any kind of computer hackers to any country, it is impossible.”Confirmed global virus deaths risen to nearly 603,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins. The United States tops the list with over 140,000, followed by more than 78,000 in Brazil. Europe as a continent has seen about 200,000 deaths.The number of confirmed infections worldwide has passed 14.2 million, with 3.7 million in the United States and more than 2 million in Brazil. Experts believe the pandemic’s true toll around the world is much higher because of testing shortages and data collection issues.Infections have been soaring in U.S. states such as Florida, Texas, Arizona, with many blaming a haphazard, partisan approach to lifting lockdowns as well as the resistance of some Americans to wearing masks. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said Sunday that the situation was so dire in his California city that authorities were considering a new stay-at-home order.Even where the situation has been largely brought under control, new outbreaks are prompting the return of restrictions.Following a recent surge in cases, Hong Kong made the wearing of masks mandatory in all public places and told non-essential civil servants to work from home. Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said the situation in the Asian financial hub is “really critical” and that she sees “no sign” that it’s under control.Police in Barcelona have limited access to some of the city’s beloved beaches because sunbathers were ignoring social distancing regulations amid a resurgence of coronavirus infections. Authorities in Amsterdam urged people not to visit the city’s famous red light district and have closed off some of the historic district’s narrow streets because they are too busy.Slaughterhouses also have featured in outbreaks in the U.S., Germany and elsewhere. Authorities in northwestern Germany’s Vechta county said 66 workers at a chicken slaughterhouse tested positive, though most appeared to have been infected in their free time. An earlier outbreak at a slaughterhouse in western Germany infected over 1,400 and prompted a partial lockdown.Cases in the Australian state of Victoria rose again Sunday, prompting a move to make masks mandatory in metropolitan Melbourne and the nearby district of Mitchell for people who leave their homes for exercise or to purchase essential goods.Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews said those who fail to wear a mask will be fined 200 Australian dollars ($140).“There’s no vaccine to this wildly infectious virus and it’s a simple thing, but it’s about changing habits, it’s about becoming a simple part of your routine,” Andrews said.Speaking on Sunday from his window overlooking St. Peter’s Square, Pope Francis renewed his appeal for an immediate worldwide cease-fire that he said “will permit the peace and security indispensable to supplying the necessary humanitarian assistance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-rebounds-around-the-world-deaths-top-600-000/story-SRJEgnm52k8TtpWivAYi7K.html
19-07-2020||World||Florida coronavirus ‘out of control,’ need to close down again: Ex-HHS Chief||Democratic Representative Donna Shalala said Florida’s Covid-19 outbreak is “totally out of control” and called for a lockdown of the third most-populous U.S. state.“It’s terrible,” and talking about reopening schools is “ridiculous,” Shalala, whose South Florida district sits within Miami-Dade County, said Sunday on ABC’s “This Week.”She faulted the Trump administration and Governor Ron DeSantis for reopening the state too soon, adding that low-income minority residents were bearing the brunt because employers are demanding they return to work.“It’s the working poor, it’s seniors, it’s now young people and it’s totally out of control,” said Shalala, who served as Health and Human Services Secretary under President Bill Clinton. “We need to close down again in Florida.”DeSantis has declined to impose a mask-wearing mandate in Florida, which reported a record 156 virus-related deaths among residents on Thursday. Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez has signaled he wouldn’t rule out a full lockdown after imposing restrictions including a 10 p.m. curfew in an attempt to curb the spread of the virus.Florida deaths and new infections have slowed in the last two days; on Sunday the state reported that cases had risen by 3.7% against the previous 7-day average of 4.1%.“I care deeply about the economy, but first I care about human life,” Shalala said.“With our hospitals filled and the lack of appropriate testing and getting results, the lack of medicines -- we’ve had to beg for medicines that would save lives -- we simply cannot protect the economy if we don’t protect the lives of the people in our community,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-coronavirus-out-of-control-need-to-close-down-again-ex-hhs-chief/story-OlEKJeN7G653AhBndfzkVM.html
19-07-2020||World||Donald Trump minimizes spike in coronavirus cases, calls Anthony Fauci ‘alarmist’||President Donald Trump played down rising coronavirus cases in the U.S., saying many people experience nothing more than “sniffles,” that positive tests are only up because of wider testing, and that the U.S. response is the “envy of the world.”Trump also said that Anthony Fauci, the U.S. government’s top infectious-disease expert, is a “little bit of an alarmist” but that the two men have a “great relationship.”Trump made the comments in a lengthy interview on “Fox News Sunday” that was recorded Friday.Asked about rising Covid-19 diagnoses, Trump offered that “many of those cases are young people who would heal in a day, they have the sniffles and we put it down as a test.”“Show me the death chart,” Trump said when asked about daily cases in the U.S. now exceeding 75,000. “The death chart is much more important.”The daily U.S. death toll from Covid-19 is down sharply from the spring but has been creeping up again this month. Total deaths now exceed 140,000.“We have embers and we do have flames. Florida became more flame like, but it’s -- it’s going to be under control,” Trump said.Pressed about past statements that the coronavirus would at some point disappear, Trump said “I’ll be right eventually. I will be right eventually,” adding, “It’s going to disappear, and I’ll be right.”Undermining FauciIn the past week members of Trump’s administration have criticized Fauci, listing what they said were errors made by the longtime head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. White House trade adviser Peter Navarro penned a scathing op-ed about Fauci for USA Today.“Dr. Fauci’s made some mistakes,” Trump said. “But I have a very good -- I spoke to him yesterday at length. I have a very good relationship with Dr. Fauci.”Trump added: “He’s a little bit of an alarmist. That’s OK. A little bit of an alarmist.”Fauci was once a ubiquitous figure in daily White House coronavirus task force briefings but hasn’t spoken publicly at the White House since late April. Fauci has been more candid in warning of the virus’s risks, and the dangers of a hasty reopening, than Trump and other administration officials.As coronavirus cases have spiked in the U.S. in recent weeks, public opinion has increasingly turned against Trump, and Democrat Joe Biden has opened a growing lead in polls ahead.Trump also said he’d heard the U.S. has the “best mortality rate” related to the virus. He provided White House data that undercut his argument, showing the U.S. rate isn’t the lowest. His data also didn’t include some countries with lower mortality rates.“We are the envy of the world,” Trump said about testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-minimizes-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-calls-anthony-fauci-alarmist/story-mH59seeYELpQEWWdcEYEtO.html
19-07-2020||World||Donald Trump calls Joe Biden ‘incompetent,’ says he’d cry ‘mommy’||President Donald Trump again questioned the competence of Joe Biden as the Democratic nominee continues to lead in polls ahead of the November election.“Let Biden sit through an interview like this, he’ll be on the ground crying for mommy,” Trump said in an often contentious interview with correspondent Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” “He’ll say, ‘Mommy, mommy, please take me home.’”Trump added: “He can’t do an interview. He’s incompetent.”As the number of coronavirus cases surges in the U.S. and Biden gains in polls nationally and in battleground states, Trump has tried to portray the former vice president as unfit to assume office. Trump’s campaign has repeatedly highlighted Biden gaffes and misstatements.Asked whether he thinks Biden is senile, Trump responded: “I don’t want to say that.” He added: “To be president, you have to be sharp and tough and so many other things. He doesn’t even come out of his basement.”Cognitive ChallengeThe Biden campaign, in response, said Trump was recycling self-defeating attacks that have already failed to gain traction.“He lurched from smear to smear, all while being forcefully corrected on most, including the lie that Joe Biden wouldn’t keep the American people safe and supports defunding the police -- which has been fact checked into oblivion over the last month,” Kate Bedingfield, Biden’s deputy campaign manager, said in a statement.Biden has made his campaign events almost entirely virtual, making about one public appearance a week before small groups of reporters and supporters and maintains strict social distancing and mask requirements for attendance.He has been sharply critical of Trump’s handling of the coronavirus and is pushing a plan to revive the economy from the virus-related recession, offering a contrast with Trump’s insistence the economy is bouncing back.In the Fox interview Trump also challenged Biden to take the same cognitive test recently administered to the president. “I’ll guarantee you that Joe Biden could not answer those questions,” he said. “And I answered all 35 questions correctly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-calls-joe-biden-incompetent-says-he-d-cry-mommy/story-C3mF5MGq83wt2m60MMxVbK.html
19-07-2020||World||How the coronavirus spread through one immigration facility in US||Gregory Arnold walked into the warden’s office April 1 as the novel coronavirus ripped through one of the largest immigration detention centers in the United States. Waiting with about 40 guards to begin his shift, he heard a captain say face masks were prohibited.Incredulous, he and a guard who recently gave birth wanted to hear it from the boss. Arnold told Warden Christopher LaRose that he was 60 years old and lived with an asthmatic son.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Well, you can’t wear the mask because we don’t want to scare the employees and we don’t want to scare the inmates and detainees,” Arnold recalls the warden saying.“With all due respect, sir, that’s ridiculous.” Arnold retorted.He said he wanted to wear a mask and gloves, and “everyone else should be doing the same.” But the warden was unmoved. And in the weeks that followed, Otay Mesa Detention Center would see the first big outbreak at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s 221 detention centers.The origins of the outbreak are uncertain, but accounts of workers and detainees reveal shortcomings in how the private company that manages the center handled the disease: There was an early absence of facial coverings, and a lack of cleaning supplies. Symptomatic detainees were mixed with others.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Other centers would follow with their own outbreaks, and a Homeland Security Department internal watchdog survey of 188 detention centers taken in mid-April echoed some of what The Associated Press found at Otay Mesa: 19% of facility directors said there weren’t enough standard surgical masks, 32% said there weren’t enough N95 respirator masks, and 37% felt there wasn’t enough hand sanitizer for detainees.Like prisons, living conditions are cramped -- except people held in immigration detention centers aren’t accused of any crimes. They wait to appear before an immigration judge to argue they should be allowed to remain in the country.Otay Mesa sits on a tucked-away periphery of San Diego amid vehicle storage lots, a gas-fired power plant, a state prison, county jail and juvenile detention camp. ICE’s average daily population of 956 detainees last year made it the agency’s 11th-busiest detention center.The squat, two-story facility -- managed under contract by CoreCivic Inc. and shared with U.S. Marshals Service inmates -- is surrounded by two layers of chain-link fence topped by razor wire. Rooms of two to four bunk beds open into common areas with televisions, sofas and board games.Margarita Smith, a guard who was named CoreCivic’s Otay Mesa employee of the year in 2019, said managers frequently discouraged workers from wearing masks. The topic came up during briefings in March.“They didn’t want anyone wearing masks,” said Smith, who was tapped by CoreCivic to lead an employee morale committee in January. “They said it would frighten the detainees and make them think that we’re sick or something.”In a court filing, LaRose, the warden, said policies on masks evolved with guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Staff was required to wear them around quarantined detainees and they were optional for other employees starting the third week of March, he said, a statement that Arnold and Smith dispute.Arnold said he wore a mask after learning about the detention center’s first case on March 31, an employee who handed out equipment to guards starting their shifts. Unaware of any ban on facial coverings, detainees thanked him.“I was disgusted,” Arnold said. “It’s obvious this thing was ramping up. I knew it was going to happen. I could just tell.”The contractor gave masks to detainees on April 10 but on condition they sign an English-language liability waiver, according to several detainees. It quickly retreated after a tense showdown with detainees.“Everyone was screaming,” said Issis Zavala of Honduras, who refused to sign but was released with an ankle bracelet because a 2007 bout of tuberculosis made her vulnerable. “They said, ‘You just sign it. OK, if you don’t want to sign, we’ll just go.’”___On March 17, the day that San Diego limited public gatherings to 50 people and closed restaurants, colleagues gathered to grill the warden. Smith recalls wondering why so many people -- including about half the lieutenants -- were allowed to gather so closely together in one room.When an employee pressed for clean rags, the warden answered twice that there was no need because the chemicals used for cleaning were very powerful. Others asked when they would get more wipes and gels.Gloves were hard to find, Smith said. Arnold said the ones he saw were too small for his hands. Hand sanitizer dispensers were often empty.Feeling the warden wasn’t taking the virus seriously, Smith felt she had no choice. At 48, she missed a week of work in early March with pneumonia, has asthma and had been sick off and on since November.She quit. “I thought to myself I’m not going to get sick again,” she said. “I just had a feeling that things weren’t going to go good.”The detainees, of course, had not choice but to stay. Carlos Gonzalez Gutierrez, Mexico’s consul general in San Diego, wrote ICE April 16 about a “generalized fear” among detainees, raising concerns about mixing ill and asymptomatic detainees and requiring liability waivers for masks. A consulate hotline got more than 100 calls.Common grievances included a lack of personal hygiene products, social distancing and masks, Gonzalez Gutierrez said. They complained that they were instructed to drink saltwater to deal with pain, and that employees were not wearing personal protective equipment.CoreCivic spokeswoman Amanda Gilchrist said the contractor rigorously followed guidance of health officials and ICE. She noted the CDC didn’t fully embrace masks until the first week of April and said employees and detainees get face coverings without having to sign a waiver.“We have responded to this unprecedented situation appropriately, thoroughly and with care for the safety and well-being of those entrusted to us and our communities,” she said.Zelaya, 35, said instructions came to wipe surfaces every hour on March 30 but rags were dirty. She used the same towel to clean toilets, door handles, phone receivers -- and her hands.“I clean houses,” Zelaya remembers telling guards. “You can’t use the same towel.”“Oh, we have a special chemical. It kills the bacteria,” Zelaya said she was told.Victor Rodriguez, 44, was among 35 detainees who went on a five-day hunger strike April 4. The Guatemalan man was upset about a detainee who worked in the dining hall handling food and appeared to have a fever, for which he was given ibuprofen. (CoreCivic said it prohibited detainees with symptoms from working in the kitchen and that it followed CDC guidelines on cleaning and disinfectants.)Authorities insist detainees had plenty of free soap -- 23,300 bars from March 24 to April 23 -- but Rodriguez said the bar he got daily was barely enough to wash his hands or shower. Hand-sanitizer requests were denied because authorities worried they could be used for homemade alcohol.Elizabeth Cruz, 22, said a detainee who was coughing badly in their cell the first week of April was removed for about a week, returned and removed again before testing positive. Cruz said she reported chest pain and breathing difficultly for two weeks but couldn’t get more than allergy medication.“I know my body and I am not well,” she remembers telling a nurse, who told her there was nothing more she could do.Cruz, of El Salvador, eventually tested positive and was placed in isolation with eight other infected detainees.___The virus has brought renewed scrutiny to ICE. The agency housed an all-time high of more than 56,000 people last year, with more than 500,000 bookings over a 12-month period, but policies to severely limit asylum and recent releases aimed at controlling the virus reduced the population to 22,340.Overall, ICE has had 3,596 detainees test positive -- 27% of those tested. Of those, 967 are currently in custody -- the rest were released, deported or have recovered. At ICE, 45 detention center workers have tested positive, along with an undisclosed number of contractors.Chad Wolf, acting Homeland Security secretary, told reporters in May in San Diego that ICE stopped taking detainees at Otay Mesa and “one or two others” and will continue to release the elderly and medically fragile. ICE cut the population at Otay Mesa by more than half in three months to 376 from 761 on April 1.For weeks, Otay Mesa had the dubious distinction of the most cases in the ICE system but the spread effectively stopped; 168 detainees have tested positive since the start of the outbreak, as have 11 ICE employees and more than 30 CoreCivic workers. ICE said in a statement that increased testing and isolating detainees who tested positive contributed to improved conditions.Cases are surging at facilities in Farmville, Virginia, with 315 detainees having tested positive, Anson, Texas, with 290, Eloy, Arizona, with 250 and Houston with 206, At Eloy, 128 of about 315 employees had tested positive as of earlier this month, according to CoreCivic, which manages the facility.Arnold resigned after his April 1 confrontation with the warden, just as the virus was tearing through Otay Mesa. Smith took a two-week leave before resigning, torn over her loyalty to the job and what she considers is CoreCivic’s tendency to “cut corners.” Both have sued the company in federal court.CoreCivic will address the guards’ accounts in court, Gilchrist said, but “we can say generally that we deny their specious and sensationalized allegations that are designed to obtain a favorable outcome in court.” Daniel Struck, an attorney for the warden, didn’t respond to a request for comment.Smith and Arnold believe the spread started with someone from outside -- perhaps a guard or lawyer. Smith called detainees “sitting ducks.”“After the first officer got it, it was like a fire there,” Smith said. “It just took off after that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-the-coronavirus-spread-through-one-immigration-facility/story-pT3l1bOB6P9Udz2SS97rdM.html
19-07-2020||World||Donald Trump calls Joe Biden ‘not competent’ to lead US, says ‘he’s mentally shot’||President Donald Trump assailed likely opponent Joe Biden as “not competent” to lead the country, speaking as polls over the weekend showed deepening voter disenchantment with his own handling of the coronavirus pandemic.“He’s shot, he’s mentally shot,” Trump said about Biden in a wide-ranging interview with “Fox News Sunday.” He said that if Biden is elected on November 3, he will “destroy this country.”Facing the multiple challenges of a spreading pandemic, racial unrest and a struggling economy, Trump made several unfounded or highly speculative accusations against the former vice president, saying Biden would “triple your taxes” and “defund the police.” He added, “Religion will be gone,” referring to Democratic officials banning large church services to stem the virus spread.Asked whether he would accept the election result in November, even if he loses, Trump echoed his position of 2016, saying, “I have to see ... I’m not going to just say yes.”The interview, which was taped in advance, came as new polling results showed support for Biden surging as doubts about Trump’s handling of the pandemic grow amid a resurgence in many states. Interviewer Chris Wallace told the president that a new Fox opinion poll showed Biden with a substantial lead over Trump not only on his ability to manage the pandemic (with a 17-point edge) and to deal with racial unrest (by 21 points), but even -- by a single point -- on handling the economy, long a Trump strong point.And a new Washington Post-ABC News poll has Biden leading Trump among registered voters nationwide by a resounding 15-point margin, 55-to-40 percent.Trump dismissed such polling as “fake,” saying White House surveys show him winning both nationally and in key swing states.- ‘Mommy, Mommy...’ -He repeatedly pummeled Biden, who has kept a relatively low profile amid the restraints imposed by the pandemic.Trump claimed that the Democrat wanted to “defund the police” -- a battle cry of some anti-racist protesters -- and insisted that such language was in a Biden policy document, though he was unable to produce it when challenged by Wallace.As he repeatedly questioned his rival’s mental acuity, Wallace asked him directly if thought Biden was senile.“I don’t want to say that,” Trump replied. “I say he’s not competent to be president.”He questioned whether the Democrat could pass a cognitive ability test that he said he had “aced,” and said the former vice president would fall apart under tough questioning.“Let Biden sit through an interview like this, he’ll be on the ground crying for Mommy. He’ll say, ‘Mommy, Mommy, please take me home.’“- ‘Envy of the world’ -Trump again defended his handling of the pandemic, claiming that “we are the envy of the world” on testing; and, of his early prediction that the virus would someday disappear, said, “I’ll be right eventually.”He again opposed any national mandate for mask-wearing, saying, “I want people to have a certain freedom.”Referring to the racial unrest in the country, and a recent spike in violent crime in some cities, the president blamed “Democrat-run cities,” which he said were “stupidly run.”Asked about statistics showing American blacks are twice as likely to be shot and killed by police as whites, Trump replied, “Many whites are killed also. You have to say that.”And he equated those who fly the Confederate flag with those saying that “Black Lives Matter,” adding, “It’s freedom of speech.”- ‘Long overdue’ -Trump again stated his opposition to renaming US military bases named after Confederate generals -- even after the military supported the idea.“I don’t care what the military says,” the president said.“We’re going to name it after the Reverend Al Sharpton?” he asked rhetorically, referring to a prominent African-American civil rights leader.There was no immediate response to the interview from Biden or his campaign, though the former vice president did tweet that “Banning the Confederate flag from military installations was long overdue.”On other subjects, Trump said the economy was “doing very well,” even as millions remain jobless, with some states reimposing lockdowns. The stock market, he said, was near record highs.bbk/jm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-calls-joe-biden-not-competent-to-lead-us-says-he-s-mentally-shot/story-tVVeSnyq8fdPNdKr8w4eAI.html
19-07-2020||World||Black lives matter: ‘Kolkata has Clive statue, why remove it in UK?’||Arguing that there is a statue of Robert Clive in Kolkata, a council in England has rejected a petition signed by thousands of people to remove the statue of the controversial 18th century colonialist in the wake of the ‘Black lives matter’ campaign.The Shropshire council has voted in favour of retaining the statue of the man who is credited with laying the foundation of the British empire in India. The first governor of the presidency of Fort William, Bengal, Clive died in London 1774, leaving behind a controversial legacy.Peter Nutting, the Conservative leader of the council, mentioned the statue in Kolkata as one of the reasons to retain it, implying that when post-colonial India has chosen to retain it, the statue in the England should also be kept in place.Steve Charmley, deputy leader and portfolio holder for assets, economic growth and regeneration, said the statue, which has stood in Shrewsbury’s square since 1860, is listed (a protected monument) and would require consultation with authorities to remove it.Reports from Shropshire said that at the full council meeting, 28 councillors voted in favour of the recommendation of no further action on the removal of the statue, while 17 voted against the proposal and one councillor abstained.After thousands signed a petition to remove the statue, thousands more signed a counter-petition, insisting that “removing statues does not change history nor help us learn from it. Shropshire has been influenced by the actions of Robert Clive, whether we condone all of his actions or not”.Clive’s statue is among several across the UK sought to be removed by campaigners. They include Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Leicester, where the local council is due to decide on a petition calling for it to be removed from the arterial Belgrave Road, the hub of Asian culture and business.The BLM campaign witnessed protests across the UK after George Floyd’s death in the US, gathering momentum after the statue of slave trader Edward Colston was pulled down in Bristol in early June. The campaign has prompted a review of public spaces in London and elsewhere on symbols of racism, colonialism and slave trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-matter-kolkata-has-clive-statue-why-remove-it-in-uk/story-IYfMY7j1K5H0IJZXGfux7M.html
19-07-2020||World||Covid-19: Lockdown like N-option, won’t need again, says PM Boris Johnson||Staying upbeat over coronavirus-related conditions in the UK, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday compared imposing a nation-wide lockdown to pushing the nuclear button, one he hoped will not be needed in the future again.Lockdown imposed in the UK on March 23 has been differentially relaxed in England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales, with more areas of public activity to be reopened in the near future. New cases have dwindled in recent days and weeks.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Johnson told the Sunday Telegraph in an interview that health officials were getting better at identifying and isolating local outbreaks, adding that the power to order national action will remain an option. Leicester in the east Midlands remains in lockdown.He said: “I can’t abandon that tool any more than I would abandon a nuclear deterrent. But it is like a nuclear deterrent, I certainly don’t want to use it. And nor do I think we will be in that position again”.Johnson’s optimism about improving conditions has led to reopening several sectors of the British economy that has taken a severe hit due to the pandemic. But top officials warn that another lockdown may be needed as the challenging winter months near.Patrick Vallance, chief scientific officer, cautioned in a parliamentary hearing on Friday that relaxing measures would inevitably lead to new cases in the coming months, which could need another nation-wide lockdown.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage He said: “As you release measures it is inevitable as you get more contacts that you will see more cases … Come winter, the challenges will be very much greater and of course there is a risk that this could need national measures”.“Everyone that I’ve spoken to thinks it’s highly likely that this disease will continue to circulate and will come back in waves. And therefore the measures of reducing contact to reduce spread, the sorts of social distancing measures that we’ve talked about, and the hygiene measures that go along with that, will be necessary,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-lockdown-like-n-option-won-t-need-again-says-pm-boris-johnson/story-2LLj6CoWhwCyFvlURKtSFM.html
19-07-2020||World||Clear that Uighurs in China suffered human rights abuses, says Dominic Raab||British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said on Sunday it was clear the Uighur minority in China had suffered abuses of their human rights.“It is clear that there are gross, egregious human rights abuses going on, which is why in Geneva at the UN we raised this with 27 partners ... to call out the government of China for its human rights abuses of the Uighurs, also of Hong Kong,” Raab told the BBC’s The Andrew Marr Show.Beijing’s ambassador to Britain Liu Xiaoming told the same programme that most Uighurs were living happily and that ethnic minorities in China were treated as equals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/clear-that-uighurs-in-china-suffered-human-rights-abuses-says-dominic-raab/story-zqQ3K7LDJTDuzUNgpuVTEJ.html
19-07-2020||World||Covid-19: Australia’s Victoria state to impose a mandatory face cover rule||Australia’s coronavirus hot spot, Victoria state, will enforce a mandatory face cover rule in view of rising new coronavirus infections in the state. Victoria reported 363 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, said state Premier Daniel Andrews. “We are going to be wearing masks in Victoria, and potentially in other parts of the country, for a very long time. There’s no vaccine to this wildly infectious virus, and it’s a simple thing but it’s about changing habits,” Andrews said. “Common sense” will guide the new rules, and despite being mandatory, Andrews advised the measure be done “whenever practical”. “If you are out of your home for one of the four (permitted) reasons, then you need to be wearing a mask and I stress it need not be a hospital-grade mask,” he said, adding, “Any face covering is better than no face-covering.” Andrews said the move was the “powerful next step” in mitigating the spread of coronavirus in the state. “It doesn’t come at an enormous cost to the Victorian economy,” he said. “It still allows us to go about our business — particularly those who can’t work at home and for going shopping for the basics.” Anyone who fails to wear a mask could be fined 200 Australian dollars (Rs 10,479) with some exceptions including for those with a medical reason, kids under age of 12 years, those who have a professional reason. The new rule will be enforced from 11.59 pm (local time) on Wednesday night. Victoria is currently struggling with the second wave of coronavirus cases that has taken the state’s death toll to 38 as of Sunday and the national toll to 122. “About 80 per cent of our new cases since mid-May are being driven by transmission in workplaces, including private sector aged care,” Andrews said. Currently, there are 2,837 active cases in Victoria, 130 people in hospital and 28 of those in intensive care. Meanwhile, New South Wales recorded 18 new cases in the last 24 hours while no new cases were recorded in Queensland and Western Australia. NSW Health deputy chief health officer Jeremy McAnulty has asked residents to remain vigilant. “It wouldn’t take much for us to be in Melbourne’s situation and we need everyone’s assistance,” he said, adding, “Everyone has got a role to play. Don’t be complacent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-australia-s-victoria-state-to-impose-a-mandatory-face-cover-rule/story-99HzuksviAU858uKIB2GXN.html
19-07-2020||World||Coronavirus cannot be transmitted by mosquitoes, says study||Scientists have confirmed for the first time that the novel coronavirus behind the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be transmitted to people by mosquitoes, a finding that adds evidence to WHO’s claim that the disease is not mosquito-borne. The research, published in the journal Scientific Reports, provided the first experimental evidence on the capacity of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 disease, to infect and be transmitted by mosquitoes. “Here we provide the first experimental data to investigate the capacity of SARS-CoV-2 to infect and be transmitted by mosquitoes,” the study noted. “While the World Health Organization (WHO) has definitively stated that mosquitoes cannot transmit the virus, our study is the first to provide conclusive data supporting the theory,” said Stephen Higgs, a co-author of the research from Kansas State University in the US. According to the study, conducted at the university’s Biosecurity Research Institute, the virus is unable to replicate in three common and widely distributed species of mosquitoes -- Aedes aegypti, Aedes albopictus and Culex quinquefasciatus, and hence cannot be transmitted to humans.Samples collected by the scientists within two hours of inoculation in mosquitoes confirmed efficient delivery of infectious viruses to these insects. However, based on the lack of detectable infectious virus in any of the 277 samples collected at all time points beyond 24 hours post-inoculation, the scientists said SARS-CoV-2 cannot replicate in mosquitoes. “Even if a mosquito fed on a person with virus in the blood, the mosquito would not be a vector if feeding on a naive host,” they concluded. “We demonstrate that even under extreme conditions, SARS-CoV-2 virus is unable to replicate in these mosquitoes and therefore cannot be transmitted to people even in the unlikely event that a mosquito fed upon a viremic host,” the scientists wrote in the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-cannot-be-transmitted-by-mosquitoes-says-study/story-ngOh9oIzyrp5pzbiElrisO.html
19-07-2020||World||Russian ambassador to Britain rejects Covid-19 vaccine hacking claims||Russia’s ambassador to Britain has rejected allegations that his country’s intelligence services sought to steal information about a coronavirus vaccine.Andrei Kelin said in a BBC interview broadcast Sunday that there was “no sense” in the allegations made last week by the United States, Britain and Canada.“I don’t believe in this story at all, there is no sense in it,” he said when asked about the allegations. “I learned about their (the hackers) existence from British media. In this world, to attribute any kind of computer hackers to any country, it is impossible.”Intelligence agencies in the US, Britain and Canada on Thursday accused the hacking group APT29 — also known as Cozy Bear and believed to be part of Russian intelligence — of using malicious software to attack academic and pharmaceutical research institutions involved in Covid-19 vaccine development. It was unclear whether any useful information was stolen.British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab also said that “Russian actors” had tried to interfere in last year’s general election by “amplifying” stolen government papers online.Kelin said in the interview that his country had no interest in interfering in British domestic politics.“I do not see any point in using this subject as a matter of interference,” he said. “We do not interfere at all. We do not see any point in interference because for us, whether it will be (the) Conservative Party or Labour’s party at the head of this country, we will try to settle relations and to establish better relations than now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-ambassador-to-britain-rejects-covid-19-vaccine-hacking-claims/story-5Rm3NjHcrF7W6k86uisN4K.html
19-07-2020||World||Syrians vote for new parliament amid health measures against Covid-19||Syrians headed to polling stations in government-held parts of the war-torn country on Sunday to elect a new parliament amid strict health measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus amid an increase of cases in recent days.The vote is the third to take place in Syria since the conflict began in March 2011. It has killed more than 400,000, displaced half the country’s population and sent more than five million as refugees mostly into neighbouring countries.The vote this year comes amid a new wave of US sanctions that came into effect last month and a campaign to fight corruption that saw a wealthy cousin of President Bashar Assad come under pressure to pay back tens of millions of dollars to the state.Some 1,658 government-approved candidates are running this year for the 250-seat People’s Assembly. The total number of eligible voters hasn’t been announced.As in previous votes in Syria, the vote will produce a rubber-stamp body loyal to the president.Inside polling stations, all workers were wearing masks and gloves and voters had to use their own pens in the sanitized booths. Once they cast the ballots they have to leave immediately as no gatherings were allowed inside. People also have to keep a safe distance while waiting for their turn.Assad has twice postponed the country’s parliamentary elections this year in light of restrictions in place to combat the spread of the coronavirus. Assad himself is not standing for election.Syria, that had a pre-war population of 22 million, has reported 496 cases of infections and 25 deaths because of Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus. However, the actual numbers are likely far higher.The head of the Higher Judicial Committee for the Elections, Judge Samer Zumriq, confirmed on Saturday in a statement to state news agency SANA that more than 7,400 polling stations have been set up in 15 voting districts. They include 1,400 stations where troops and members of the country’s security services will vote.No vote was being held in the northwestern province of Idlib, the last rebel stronghold in Syria or in the country’s northeast, which is controlled by US-backed Kurdish-led fighters.Polling centers opened at 7 a.m. (0400 GMT) and are scheduled to close 12 hours later. Results are expected to be announced the following day.Some 167 seats are allocated for Assad’s ruling Arab Socialist Baath Party — guaranteeing it a solid majority — while the rest are allocated for independents, including merchants, businessmen and industrialists.“We hope that the members of the new council would work to improve the living conditions of citizens by enacting new legislation,” said Samir Sulaiman, a 50-year-old employee.This year’s vote comes as the country is also witnessing harsh economic conditions including a crash in the local currency worsened by US sanctions and an economic crisis in neighbouring Lebanon.The so-called Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act, envisages sanctions on Syrian troops and others responsible for atrocities committed during Syria’s civil war and funding for war crimes investigations and prosecutions.Syria calls the sanctions acts of “economic terrorism.”Outgoing legislator Mohannad Haj Ali, who is under US and European sanctions, said the country is experiencing a “suffocating economic and political siege.” He also said Syrian citizens are aware of corruption within state institutions adding that Assad has started “dealing with corruption by tracking down on the corrupt.”Haj Ali did not give any names but his comments came after Assad’s maternal cousin Rami Makhlouf, who was once described as central to Syria’s economy, has been pleading for Assad to help prevent the collapse of his business.The last parliament was elected in April 2016, when large parts of Syria were outside of government control and people there did not take part in the polling. Since then Assad’s forces have captured much of Syria with the help of his allies Russia and Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syrians-vote-for-new-parliament-amid-health-measures-against-covid-19/story-LQ3ifEJG8Ur3qxyYyntbPN.html
19-07-2020||World||Germany’s Merkel warns of summit failure on EU recovery fund||European Union leaders may not reach a deal on a coronavirus stimulus plan on Sunday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said as marathon negotiations ran into a third day and acrimony mounted over the demands of rich but thrifty countries.Germany and France, the EU’s powerbrokers, are seeking a deal on a 1.8 trillion euro ($2.06 trillion) economic recovery package to rescue the bloc’s economies that are facing their worst recession since World War Two.After two exhausting days of negotiations, a “frugal” group of northern, richer states led by the Netherlands appeared no more willing to back down from demands for cuts to the package, underscoring the depth of the EU’s north-south split.“There is a lot of goodwill, but also many positions. I will make every effort but it is possible that there is no result,” Merkel said in Brussels as she arrived for a third day of talks.Late on Saturday, she and French President Emmanuel Macron left the day’s final stretch of informal talks early, refusing to accept that the level of free grants to ailing economies in the package fall below 400 billion euros.Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte had earlier accused the Netherlands and its allies Austria, Sweden, Denmark and Finland of “blackmail”. Stockholm proposes to cut grants to 155 billion euros.ANNOYED DEPARTURESIn their first face-to-face summit since the spring outbreak of the coronavirus in Europe, leaders wearing face masks have framed the summit as a ‘make-or-break’ moment for nearly 70 years of European integration.Failure to come together amid an unprecedented health and economic crisis would raise serious questions about the continued viability of the bloc, officials and experts say.Macron said there was a willingness to compromise, but it should not deter “from the legitimate ambition that we need to have,” referring to the level of money available in the planned 750 billion euro recovery fund, which is to be funded by money raised on capital markets.Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, who faces parliamentary elections by March 2021, was frank about the divisions with France and Germany on Saturday night.“They walked away annoyed,” Rutte said of Merkel and Macron. “Large differences still remain,” he said.While the Netherlands and its allies held out, other obstacles remained, not least because Britain’s departure from the EU means others have to stump up more cash to cover the gap in the bloc’s joint coffers.Hungary, backed by its eurosceptic ally Poland, has threatened to veto the package over a new proposed mechanism, supported by the Dutch and most other EU countries, to freeze out countries flouting democratic principles.“There are very different positions,” Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis told reporters. “The Netherlands insists that rule of law must be one of the conditionalities to provide funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-s-merkel-warns-of-summit-failure-on-eu-recovery-fund/story-EcgvidoqzFy99HZ036J3bN.html
19-07-2020||World||Hong Kong tightens coronavirus restrictions as new cases spike||Non-essential Hong Kong civil servants will work from home from Monday as the global financial hub tightens social distancing restrictions further amid an escalating third wave of coronavirus cases, the city’s leader Carrie Lam said on Sunday.Lam said the city recorded more than 100 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally since late January close to 2,000 patients, 12 of whom have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-tightens-coronavirus-restrictions-as-new-cases-spike/story-LIBxrcLmMBOpkZ1ivwLoBI.html
19-07-2020||World||‘Ugly face’: US, China trade barbs in Myanmar as South China Sea rift deepens||China’s embassy in Myanmar on Sunday accused the United States of “outrageously smearing” the country and driving a wedge with its Southeast Asian neighbors over the contested South China Sea and Hong Kong, as tensions mount between the superpowers.Responding to US claims Beijing was undermining the sovereignty of its neighbors, the Chinese embassy said US agencies abroad were doing “disgusting things” to contain China and had showed a “selfish, hypocritical, contemptible, and ugly face”.The United States last week hardened its position on the South China Sea, saying it would back countries in the region that challenge Beijing’s claim to about 90% of the strategic waterway.In a statement on Saturday, the US embassy in Yangon called China’s actions in the South China Sea and Hong Kong, where Beijing has imposed tough new national security laws, part of a “larger pattern to undermine the sovereignty of its neighbors”.The US statement drew parallels between China’s actions in the South China Sea and Hong Kong with large-scale Chinese investments projects in Myanmar that the United States warned could become debt-traps, along with trafficking of women from Myanmar to China as brides, and the inflow of drugs from China into Myanmar.“This is how modern sovereignty is often lost - not through dramatic, overt action, but through a cascade of smaller ones that lead to its slow erosion over time,” the US embassy said.In its rebuke, China said the statement showed a “sour grapes” attitude by the United States towards “flourishing China-Myanmar relations” and was “another farce on a global tour by the US authorities to shift the attention on domestic problems and seek selfish political gains”.“The US should first look in the mirror to see whether it still looks like a major country now,” it said.The Chinese embassy in Yangon did not answer phone calls seeking further comment. The US embassy was not immediately available for comment.Myanmar has increasingly become a battleground for influence between the two countries since relations between the government led by Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and the West became strained over its treatment of the Rohingya Muslim minority.Author and historian Thant Myint-U told Reuters in an email although the country was of negligible economic value to the rivals, its strategic importance as a bridge between mainland China and the Bay of Bengal was hard to ignore.“Myanmar’s instincts since independence in 1948 are to try to be friends with everyone, but it’s not clear that’s going to remain possible, in this coming period of increasingly febrile superpower rivalry,” he said.“The sheer weight of China’s giant industrial revolution next door is already transforming Myanmar; if multi-billion dollar infrastructure projects are added to the mix, the border between the two countries will become increasingly difficult to see,” he said.“It’s important to remember that Myanmar was one of the few countries in the world where the last Cold War led to proxy armed fighting which in turn led to military dictatorship and decades of self-imposed isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ugly-face-us-china-trade-barbs-in-myanmar-as-south-china-sea-rift-deepens/story-ipf3c22KVa66OgeW6gI0HK.html
19-07-2020||World||Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu’s graft trial resumes amid country’s Covid-19 anger||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s corruption trial resumed on Sunday, as the long-serving leader faces mounting discontent over his handling of the coronavirus crisis.Netanyahu is charged with fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes in a series of scandals in which he is alleged to have received lavish gifts from billionaire friends and exchanged regulatory favours with media moguls for more agreeable coverage of himself and his family.Netanyahu denies wrongdoing, painting the accusations as a media-orchestrated witch-hunt pursued by a biased law enforcement system.The trial opened in May. Just before appearing in front of the judges, Netanyahu took to a podium inside the courthouse and flanked by his party members bashed the country’s legal institutions in an angry tirade.Netanyahu was not expected to appear at Sunday’s hearing, which is taking place at a Jerusalem court and is mostly a procedural deliberation that will determine the pace at which the trial will proceed.The trial resumes as Netanyahu faces widespread anger over his government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis.While the country appeared to have tamped down a first wave of infections, what’s emerged as a hasty and erratic reopening has sent infections soaring. Yet even amid the rise in new cases Netanyahu and his emergency government — formed with the goal of dealing with the crisis — appeared to neglect the numbers and moved forward with other policy priorities and its reopening plans.It has since paused them and even reimposed restrictions, including a weekend only lockdown set to begin later this week.Netanyahu and his government have been criticized for a baffling, halting response to the new wave, which has seen daily cases rise to nearly 2,000. It has been slammed for its handling of the economic fallout of the crisis.While Israel has pledged billions of dollars worth of aid, it hasn’t all been doled out to those in need, and a plan to give a stipend to all Israelis, even the wealthy, has been panned by the country’s leading economists. The first and second round of restrictions has battered the economy and sent unemployment skyrocketing to more than 20%, up from 3.9% before the outbreak.The anger has boiled over into protests over the past few weeks that have culminated in violent clashes with police.The protests haven’t been on a massive scale, partly due to restrictions on large gatherings, but the rising frustration appears to be among the greatest challenges Netanyahu has faced in his decade-plus in power.His trial thus comes at inopportune timing. Netanyahu had hoped to ride on the goodwill he gained from overcoming the first wave of infections going into his corruption trial but the increasingly souring mood has dropped his approval ratings and may deny him the public backing he had hoped for.Although his base remains firmly behind him, only a smattering of supporters turned up outside the court to voice their backing for the prime minister, far fewer than the throngs at the trial’s opening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-pm-benjamin-netanyahu-s-graft-trial-resumes-amid-country-s-covid-19-anger/story-SnqHwl06oM5DbLBAFw01BP.html
19-07-2020||World||Fears of second wave of Covid-19 outbreak loom large in Chinese province Xinjiang||While the coronavirus epidemic is wreaking havoc across the world with over 14 million people infected worldwide, the original epicentre China may be heading toward a second wave of outbreak. Fears of an outbreak loom in China’s Xinjiang province which has now moved on to offer free coronavirus tests. Malls and hotels here have been shut and housing compounds locked down.The local government on Saturday said that the testing will be carried out in two phases in Urumqi where China’s 13 locally-transmitted virus cases were found, Bloomberg reported. The city of has 30 confirmed cases and 41 asymptomatic carriers since it reported its first infection in five months on July 15.Also read: How to deal with dengue during Covid-19? States come up with new protocolsThose who came in contact with the confirmed and suspected cases will be the first ones to get tested followed by residents in other housing compounds, government and civil servant in the second phase of testing.Meanwhile, China reported 16 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, Sputnik reported citing the country’s National Health Commission said on Sunday. 13 of these are local cases while the rest are imported. China registered 42 asymptomatic coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, the commission stated. Capital city Beijing, on the other hand, reported no new confirmed domestically transmitted Covid-19 cases on Saturday, as per the municipal health commission.China, the original epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak, reported its first case around December 2019. In a matter of months, the country reported a spurt in cases which went up to over 80,000. By the time Beijing said it has reached its virus peak, the infection had already travelled across the world and assumed the form of a pandemic. The World Health Organization described it as a global health crisis. Europe soon became the next epicentre with countries like Italy, Spain and the UK reporting massive rise in Covid-19 cases and fatalities. Cases also began to rise in the United States which is the worst-hit country at the moment followed by Brazil and India at the third spot. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fears-of-second-wave-of-covid-19-outbreak-loom-large-in-chinese-province-xinjiang/story-4GCKJLT4m4z7KjYQTZcbmI.html
19-07-2020||World||China raises flood alert levels along Huai River||China on Sunday raised the flood alert level in the Huai River region in the country’s east to Level II from Level III, the second highest on its four-tier scale, after days of torrential downpours and amid expectations of further heavy rainfall.Ten reservoirs on the Huai River have seen water levels exceeding warning levels by as much as 6.85 metres, according to the Huaihe River Commission of China’s Ministry of Water Resources.The 1,000km (620 mile) Huai River flows through major agriculture and manufacturing hubs in Henan, Anhui and Jiangsu provinces.Torrential rains have battered China for two weeks from Chongqing in the southwest to Shanghai on the east coast.Several regions alongside the Yangtze River, including Wuhan city in Hubei province and in Jiangxi province, where China’s largest freshwater lake is located, declared the highest flood alerts.“Floods are occurring at the same time at the Yantze River, Huai River and Tai Lake...The flood prevention situation is very severe,” the water resources ministry said. Water levels in the region were likely to exceed the maximum level that reservoirs can withstand, the ministry added.At Lake Tai, on the border of the wealthy coastal provinces of Jiangsu and Zhejiang, water levels have already risen above the safety guaranteed level, according to government data.The summer rainy season brings floods to China almost every year but the impact of the disruption they cause is being felt further afield as Chinese goods become more important in global supply chains for various items, including personal protective equipment, vital in the fight against the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-raises-flood-alert-levels-along-huai-river/story-UGXIl1EcOImGPv83tv3TTL.html
19-07-2020||World||Brazil hospitals struggling to deal with influx of coronavirus patients||With the coronavirus cases crossing two million mark in the world’s second-worst hit nation by the pandemic, the Brazilian hospitals are struggling to deal with the influx of Covid 19 patients. Over 45,000 new infections were reported by the health ministry on Thursday (July 16). The real figures, however, are believed to be much higher due to a lack of testing. The total confirmed coronavirus-related deaths in the country stood at 76,688, also the second-highest globally behind the United States, Al Jazeera reported.Even as cases eased a bit in the biggest and hardest-hit Brazilian cities, infections are still rising in new locations through the country.At a public hospital in the city of Campinas, northwest of Sao Paulo, a video recorded by a doctor who works at the facility showed that there were no intensive care (ICU) facilities, available to treat Covid-19 patients.Health officials in the city say that the coronavirus has become a major factor of threat to public health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-hospitals-struggling-to-deal-with-influx-of-coronavirus-patients/story-0ImnXbdFaPaJGrvmWumh0H.html
19-07-2020||World||Baloch families seek answers from Pakistan as more disappear amid insurgency||For over 11 years relatives of people who disappeared in the murk of a separatist insurgency in southwestern Pakistan have gathered outside the Press Club of Quetta wanting to know who took their fathers, husbands and sons.The daily sit-in protest in the provincial capital of Balochistan began on June 28, 2009 after a doctor, Deen Muhammad, was abducted by “unknown men”.Relatives suspect Muhammad, like many other missing ethnic Balochs, was snatched by Pakistani security forces hunting separatists, who for decades have waged a campaign for greater autonomy or independence.Sometimes less than a dozen join the daily protest, other days many more, but Muhammad’s two daughters have been among the regulars since they were eight and ten years old.“Our little hands were holding pictures of our father back then; now we have grown up and we still have no clue if he is alive,” Sammi Baloch, now 21, told Reuters by telephone from Quetta.Even when the weather is too extreme in Quetta to hold protest, a sit-in is observed by Balochs in front of the press club in Karachi, Pakistan’s largest city and a melting pot for different ethnic groups.The insurgency in Balochistan, a sparsely populated, mountainous, desert region bordering Afghanistan and Iran has sometimes waned and sometimes intensified over the years.But for all the durability of the Baloch struggle, the conflict has seldom drawn international attention. It grabbed headlines however, in late June when a group of young Baloch militants launched an attack on the Pakistan Stock Exchange in Karachi.On Tuesday, three soldiers were killed and eight wounded in an area known for attacks by Baloch fighters. But beyond giving the grinding casualty toll, the veil of secrecy over the conflict is seldom lifted, and foreign journalists are often discouraged from visiting Balochistan.Multiple calls, texts and emails to Pakistan’s human rights ministry, the military and Balochistan’s provincial government, seeking comment for this story went unanswered.The military did issue a statement last year sympathising with families of missing Balochs, while saying that some may have joined militant groups and “not every person missing is attributable to the state.”Pakistan has repeatedly blamed India for fanning militancy in Balochistan, a charge New Delhi has consistently denied.MORE MISSINGLast month, the Balochistan National Party (BNP) quit Prime Minister Imran Khan’s parliamentary bloc, frustrated by unfulfilled promises to address Baloch grievances including the festering issue of the disappeared.When he led the BNP into an alliance with Khan’s coalition two years ago, Akhtar Mengal gave the government a list of 5,128 missing persons.Since then over 450 of the people on the list have been found or returned to their families, but during the same period Mengal says another 1,800 were reported to have disappeared.“If you cannot recover people, at least stop disappearing more people,” said Mengal.Another Baloch party - set up in the months prior to the 2018 elections with backing from the military establishment, according political analysts - is in a coalition with Prime Minister Khan’s party at both federal and provincial level.Balochistan Awami Party Senator Anwar-ul-Haq Kakar told Reuters the numbers of missing are “exaggerated”.But, Mama Qadeer, who heads a group called Voice for Baloch Missing Persons, keeps his own count.“In last six months, the number of Baloch missing persons has risen,” he told Reuters by telephone. His son disappeared a decade ago.In February last year, Qadeer’s group handed a list of 500 missing to provincial officials. Since then nearly 300 have been returned to their homes, but 87 others disappeared in the first half of this year, according to the group.CHINA RAISES STAKESA federal commission set up nine years ago listed 6,506 cases of enforced disappearances nationwide by the end of 2019. Most came from the northwestern province of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.Only 472 were registered from Balochistan. Advocacy groups say Balochistan’s number is far higher, pointing to difficulty in having cases accepted by the commission.“There’s hardly a home in Balochistan that hasn’t had a relative or loved one picked up,” Mohammad Ali Talpur, an aged activist who once fought alongside Baloch insurgents in the 1970s, told Reuters.The conflict has a long, complex history, but since that time the stakes have risen as Balochistan’s wealth of copper, gold, gas and coal deposits caught China’s eye.The prospects of Pakistan’s most reliable ally pouring in money excited successive governments, while fuelling Baloch resentment over how little would come their way.Separatist militants have frequently targeted Chinese construction in Gwadar, a port on the Balochistan coast, near the entrance to the strategically-important Gulf.And in 2018, the Balochistan Liberation Army launched an assault on the Chinese consulate in the southern port city of Karachi, killing four Pakistani police and civilians.It was the most high profile attack by the group until June 29 this year, when its fighters attacked the stock exchange, again killing four people.The attack came a day after hundreds of relatives of missing Balochs gathered in Quetta to mark the four thousandth day of their protest since the disappearance of Dr Muhammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/baloch-families-seek-answers-from-pakistan-as-more-disappear-amid-insurgency/story-AwL7Gkum7i2QhXYxe94JvN.html
19-07-2020||World||Twitter disables Donald Trump’s tweet over copyright complaint||Twitter Inc disabled a campaign-style video that President Donald Trump retweeted on Saturday, citing a copyright complaint.The video, which included music from the group Linkin Park, disappeared from the president’s Twitter feed late Saturday with the notification: “This media has been disabled in response to a report by the copyright owner.”Twitter removed the video, which Trump had retweeted from White House social media director Dan Scavino, after it received a Digital Millennium Copyright Act notice from Machine Shop Entertainment, according to a notice posted on the Lumen Database which collects requests for removal of online materials.Machine Shop is a management company owned by the rock band Linkin Park, according to its LinkedIn page.“We respond to valid copyright complaints sent to us by a copyright owner or their authorized representatives,” a Twitter representative said in an email statement.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Twitter began challenging Trump’s tweets in May and has repeatedly clashed with him since. The social media company has several times disabled or commented on tweets by the president because of what it said were copyright complaints or violations of a policy against threatening violence.Twitter removed an image the president tweeted on June 30, which included a picture of Trump, because of a complaint from the New York Times, whose photographer had shot the image.The company also put a tweet from the president behind a warning label in late May, saying that he had violated its rules against “glorifying violence” when he advocated that Minneapolis authorities be tough in responding to protests over the death of George Floyd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-disables-donald-trump-s-tweet-over-copyright-complaint/story-KJxBu2taKfS7g3ajOCb4iJ.html
19-07-2020||World||Texas coronavirus cases include more than 80 infants||A health official on the Texas Gulf Coast said 85 infants have tested positive for the coronavirus.Corpus Christi Nueces County Public Health Director Annette Rodriguez said Friday that the 85 infants are each younger than 1, but offered no other details, including how the children are suspected to have become infected.“These babies have not even had their first birthday yet. Please help us to stop the spread of this disease” by staying home except for necessary trips, socially distancing and wearing masks in public, Rodriguez said.Rodriguez did not return messages for comment Saturday from The Associated Press.Republican Gov. Greg Abbott is also stressing that the widespread use of face coverings could avoid another lockdown, which he hasn’t ruled out.Texas health officials reported more than 10,000 new cases for a fifth consecutive day on Saturday and said 130 more people have died due to Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus, bringing the number of reported cases to 317,730 and the number of deaths to 3,865.The true number of cases is likely higher because many people have not been tested, and studies suggest people can be infected and not feel sick.For most people, the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms that clear up within weeks. But for others, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, the highly contagious virus can cause severe symptoms and be fatal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-coronavirus-cases-include-more-than-80-infants/story-e1aRMGodQfKCYKRrwVCuzO.html
19-07-2020||World||Hong Kong new security law sends jitters through city’s feisty press||Hong Kong’s status as a bastion of press freedom is in crisis as authorities toughen their line against international media and fears grow about local self-censorship under the city’s sweeping new security law.For decades the former British colony has been a shining light for journalists in Asia, lying on the fringes of an authoritarian China where the ruling Communist Party keeps a tight grip on public opinion.The civil liberties that have stewarded the city’s success were promised to Hong Kongers for another 50 years under a deal that returned the trading hub to Chinese rule in 1997.But Beijing’s new national security law -- imposed in response to last year’s huge and sometimes violent pro-democracy protests -- has sent a shiver through the financial hub’s media landscape.“It’s a body blow. It’s the end of press freedom as we knew it in Hong Kong,” Yuen Chan, a former local reporter now lecturing at London’s City University, told AFP.The New York Times, CNN, Bloomberg, the Wall Street Journal, CNBC, the Financial Times and AFP are among numerous international media outlets with a presence in the city, many basing their regional headquarters there.Free from the harassment, censorship and restrictions pervasive on the authoritarian Chinese mainland, semi-autonomous Hong Kong has thrived as a safe haven for both local and foreign reporters.But signs of the sands shifting have begun to emerge since China introduced its draconian new law earlier this month.On Tuesday the New York Times announced it would relocate a third of its staff to Seoul, saying it faced unprecedented trouble obtaining visas.Hong Kong authorities recently launched a review of independent but state-funded broadcaster RTHK following accusations it was overly sympathetic to pro-democracy protests.Immediately after the security law was passed, two columnists quit the city’s rambunctious Apple Daily newspaper, a staunch advocate for greater democracy.The tabloid is owned by Jimmy Lai, a tycoon who Chinese state media has labelled a leading “black hand” colluding with foreign forces to destroy the mainland.‘Open season’ Beijing has made little secret of its desire to rein in Hong Kong’s media, both domestic and foreign.One provision of the national security law orders authorities to “strengthen the management” of foreign news organisations.“It seems like they are starting to at least consider using the visa as a means to punish the people they don’t like,” said Keith Richburg, director of the Journalism and Media Studies Centre at the University of Hong Kong and a former foreign correspondent for the Washington Post.In 2018, Financial Times journalist Victor Mallet was refused a visa renewal weeks after he hosted a talk at the city’s foreign press club with an independence activist.Sharron Fast, deputy director at Hong Kong University’s journalism programme, said the clause about foreign media in the new law “sounds ominously like Hong Kong will move towards a China-style press credential requirement”.The legislation also grants the territory’s police and China’s intelligence apparatus sweeping surveillance powers, something Fast said could make it harder for journalists to protect their sources.“It is basically open season on interception of communications and online surveillance,” she told AFP.Much of the law is broadly worded and criminalises certain speech, such as a ban on instigating hatred towards the government or advocating independence.Journalists fear they may inadvertently cross a red line by reporting what others say.Self-censorship Media groups warn local outlets are particularly vulnerable.Hong Kong reporters have historically been a crucial conduit of information out of mainland China. And the city’s press corps routinely barrages officials with the kind of critical questioning that would be unthinkable north of the border.Last week, city leader Carrie Lam was asked if she could “100 percent guarantee” media freedoms.Her reply was that if reporters “guarantee that they will not commit any offences under this piece of national legislation”, then she could.However, even before the security law, local media were under pressure, with advertising often drying up for the most Beijing-critical outlets.“The problem of self-censorship, which has already been a concern, will get worse,” said Chris Yeung from the Hong Kong Journalists Association.“It is likely that the mainland-style media control system and mechanism will be gradually introduced in Hong Kong.”But London City University lecturer Chan said the press would not be easily tamed.“Journalists in Hong Kong will do as much as they can for as long as they can,” she said.Apple Daily boss Lai was asked in an online Q&A on Friday about the future of his reporting staff.“It’s very difficult to protect them. All I can do is tell them to do things according to their conscience,” he said. “I cannot ask them to be a martyr.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-new-security-law-sends-jitters-through-city-s-feisty-press/story-swKa5TMe3MzURAHobjAxBO.html
19-07-2020||World||Masks made mandatory in Melbourne as Covid-19 cases continue to rise||People in Melbourne must now wear masks when leaving their homes as Victoria, Australia’s second most-populous state, marked two weeks of triple-digit increases in new coronavirus infections on Sunday.Melbournians not wearing face coverings will be fined A$200 ($140), said Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews.Victoria, which has forced nearly 5 million people into a partial six-week lockdown on July 9, reported 363 new cases of the coronavirus on Sunday, after 217 cases the previous day. “We’re going to be wearing masks in Victoria and potentially in other parts of the country for a very long time,” Andrews told a televised briefing.“There’s no vaccine to this wildly infectious virus,” he said. Masks are “a simple thing, but it’s about changing habits, it’s about becoming a simple part of your routine.”Australia has recorded about 11,800 cases of Covid-19, a fraction of what has been seen in other countries or even some US states, but an outbreak of community transmission in Victoria has been growing, prompting authorities to restrict social distancing.Three Covid-19 deaths were reported in Victoria on Sunday, bringing the total to 38 and raising Australia’s death toll to 121. New South Wales, the most populous state, has seen new cases in the low double digits in recent weeks and growing. Health officials are concerned about the transmission rate, which they say is higher than in Victoria.About 60 people in Sydney face a fine of $1,000 each after attending a party Saturday night and breaking the public health guidelines of no more than 20 visitors to a home, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/masks-made-mandatory-in-melbourne-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise/story-08m6HXVA1j8lSfhw6UuyeK.html
19-07-2020||World||Mexico reports more than 7,600 fresh Covid-19 cases||Mexico continues to register near-record levels of confirmed coronavirus infections, frustrating plans to reopen the economy.The Health Department reported 7,615 more cases Saturday and 578 more deaths. That brings Mexico to a total of 38,888 confirmed Covid-19 deaths since the pandemic began and 338, 913 cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThose numbers are widely considered significant undercounts because Mexico has done so little testing. Government labs have administered slightly more than 800,000 tests so far, or about one out of every 150 people in the country with a population of nearly 130 million.Mexico had hoped to begin a gradual reopening starting in June, but several states have had to reverse course, closing beaches and hotels again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-reports-more-than-7-600-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-NS6WmHqMQRuTJsyyVivy6J.html
19-07-2020||World||Merkel and Macron walk out on Rutte in dispute over EU stimulus||European Union leaders failed to unlock an agreement on a 750 billion-euro ($860 billion) response to the coronavirus pandemic after a second day of sparring in Brussels and will come back to try again on Sunday.Leaders continued with informal talks after negotiations broke up at at 11 p.m. on Saturday as they tried to find common ground on the composition of the fund and the conditions attached to it. A crucial late-night meeting including Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, Germany’s Angela Merkel and Emmanuel Macron of France ended abruptly in a dispute over how much of the package should be disbursed as grants and how much as loans.Germany and France are insisting that at least 400 billion euros should be handouts and Rutte and four other fiscal hawks from northern Europe are pushing for a much lower figure, a French diplomat said. After several attempts at finding a compromise, Merkel and Macron left the meeting and returned to their hotel together for further discussions, the diplomat said.“They are walking away grumpy,” Rutte told reporters afterward. “A compromise is possible tomorrow but there remain big issues.”With investors already pricing in a deal after a series of bold announcement in recent weeks, leaders are under intense pressure to bridge their differences before financial markets open on Monday.Yet the battle has exposed the fault lines at the heart of the EU. Fiscally hawkish countries from northern Europe are showing their resentment at paying for the pandemic while the southern countries worst affected are struggling to contain their outrage at the lack of solidarity.“We will keep going because we have to resolve it,” Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte told reporters. “Delaying this does no good to anyone.”Rutte and his allies from Austria, Denmark, Sweden and Finland are trying to water down the handouts that the highly indebted South sees as critical for shoring up its finances. While Saturday proved less bad-tempered and more constructive than Friday’s gathering, it was still difficult to discern much progress. Conte called it a “deadlock” while a German diplomat said the talks had reached a critical phase.The 27 leaders were meeting in person for the first time since February, when initial talks over the EU’s seven-year, 1 trillion-euro budget also ran into a wall. Now, with more than 100,000 Europeans dead from the virus and an economy to rebuild, investors are looking to the group to muster a display of unity to maintain the rally in stocks.Saturday started with a fresh compromise proposal drafted by EU Council President Charles Michel but as time wore on, frustration grew. While Rutte, the hardliners’ ringleader, welcomed a proposal to reduce the amount of grants to 450 billion euros from 500 billion euros, his allies from Austria and Finland pushed for the total to go lower still setting up a clash with Merkel and Macron.In an attempt to bend to another of Rutte’s demands, the new plan had also included a mechanism that would give any country the right to put the brakes on disbursement if it didn’t think the money was being spent correctly. The Dutch saw it as a step in the right direction, but the southerners fretted that it could slow up the cash they need to get their economies going. Leaders must agree unanimously if there’s to be a deal.Power BrokersThe deliberations are proving to be a baptism of fire for Michel, a former Belgian Prime Minister, and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, who drew up the original plan. They only took up their jobs in December and have faced criticism from governments over their handling of the pandemic response.Merkel and Macron have been pressing for an agreement before the summer but haven’t yet been able to bring to their weight to bear to force a result. The bloc’s two largest economies but are seen as crucial power brokers and they were photographed sitting on a sunny terrace as they searched for a breakthrough.Adding to the complications is the number of side issues that are being tied to the fund.Many leaders want to see access to financing linked to member states’ compliance with democratic standards and that’s something that Poland and Hungary strongly oppose, since both are subject to EU legal proceedings over rule-of-law backsliding.Leaders spent the last part of the Saturday discussing the latest proposal, seen by Bloomberg, which stipulates that rule-of-law “conditionality under the regime will be genuine” and that when transgressions are identified, the European Commission will propose “appropriate and proportionate” measures. Those measures will be approved by a qualified majority rather than unanimously, meaning that the Poles and the Hungarians won’t have vetoes to bail each other out as they do in other areas.Adding another layer of complexity, Hungary’s parliament passed a declaration this month that called on Prime Minister Viktor Orban to reject any stimulus package until the EU investigation into its democratic standards was withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/merkel-and-macron-walk-out-on-rutte-in-dispute-over-eu-stimulus/story-EWPkc7gzVivcwBER37kWhP.html
19-07-2020||World||How soon can the world get Covid-19 vaccine? A look at which country stands where||The number of coronavirus cases in the world has crossed the 14 million-mark and more than six lakh people have died. The entire world is racing to find a vaccine to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.Many countries like the US, Russia, China and the UK, along with India, are trying to find a vaccine for Covid-19.More than 130 vaccines are under various stages of testing across the world. Here is a look at the efforts being made by different countries in a bid to find Covid-19 vaccine:RussiaThe researchers in Russia have claimed that they will launch the first Covid-19 vaccine in August. The Moscow State Medical University has claimed that it has successfully completed clinical trials for the vaccine. The trials started on June 18; the first batch of the volunteers were discharged on July 15 while the second one will be released by July 20.Also read: Russia is trying to beat the west to a Covid-19 vaccineChinaThe human trials being conducted by Chinese company Sinovac Biotech have reached the third stage. This is the first vaccine to reach the third stage of human trials. The first dose was given to 15,000 registered volunteers in Abu Dhabi. They were administered the vaccine twice within 28 days and the researchers saw development of anti-bodies in them. There are four vaccines being developed in China for Covid-19.The UKThe vaccine being developed by Oxford University and Imperial College are in second and third stage of human trials. In the second stage, 105 people are expected to be administered the vaccine. The stage 3 trial is expected to begin in November and will cover 6,000 people.IndiaCovaxin and ZyCov-D, the two medicines being developed in India, are in the first and second stage of trials. While Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech, a pharmaceutical company based in Hyderabad, Zydus has come up with ZyCov-D. There have been no side effects on the volunteers who have been administered the vaccine. At least 100 million doses will be prepared after the successful completion of these trials, which are expected to be over by March.Also read| First phase trial of Covaxin, India’s Covid-19 vaccine, starts on 375 people: ReportUnited StatesBiotechn company Moderna is preparing to conduct final stage of human trial by July 27. It will conduct these trials at 87 places, all in the US. The US government will fund the development of this vaccine.Germany, AustraliaWhile German companies have reached the second stage of vaccine development for Covid-19, Suatralian companies are still on the first stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-soon-can-the-world-get-covid-19-vaccine-a-look-at-which-country-stands-where/story-kweR8xCNlXwyvhFp4Bdy6I.html
19-07-2020||World||WHO reports record daily increase in global Covid-19 cases for second day in a row||The World Health Organization reported a record increase in global coronavirus cases for the second day in a row, with the total rising by 259,848 in 24 hours.The biggest increases reported on Saturday were from the United States, Brazil, India and South Africa, according to a daily report. The previous WHO record for new cases was 237,743 on Friday. Deaths rose by 7,360, the biggest one-day increase since May 10. Deaths have been averaging 4,800 a day in July, up slightly from an average of 4,600 a day in June.Total global coronavirus cases surpassed 14 million on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, marking another milestone in the spread of the disease that has killed nearly 600,000 people in seven months. The surge means that 1 million cases were reported in under 100 hours.The WHO reported 71,484 new cases in the United States, 45,403 in Brazil, 34,884 in India and 13,373 in South Africa.India on Friday became the third country in the world to record more than 1 million cases of the new coronavirus, behind only the United States and Brazil. Epidemiologists say India is still likely months from hitting its peak. Cases in Brazil crossed the 2 million mark on Thursday, doubling in less than a month and adding nearly 40,000 new cases a day. A patchwork of state and city responses has held up poorly in Brazil in the absence of a tightly coordinated policy from the federal government.The United States, which leads with world with over 3.7 million cases, has also tried to curb the outbreak at the state and local levels with only limited success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-reports-record-daily-increase-in-global-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row/story-ORKCPBrn30SFJVa2mbDQVI.html
19-07-2020||World||Given a chance, Trump would push court pick before election||President Donald Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell have tried to make it clear: Given the chance, they would push through a Supreme Court nominee should a vacancy occur before Election Day.The issue has taken on new immediacy with the disclosure Friday that Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is receiving chemotherapy for a recurrence of cancer after four earlier bouts with the disease. The 87-year-old liberal, who apologized in 2016 for her pointed public criticism of Trump during his first campaign, says she has no plans to retire.The development has focused even more on what’s at stake this election, with the winner in position to help shape the trajectory of the court for years to come.Trump administration officials have underscored that Trump would not hesitate to fill an opening before voters have their say Nov. 3, less than four months away, on whether to give him a second term.Four years ago, also in a presidential election year, the GOP-controlled Senate refused to hold a hearing or vote when President Barack Obama, a Democrat, nominated federal judge Merrick Garland to succeed Justice Antonin Scalia after his death in February. Nine months before that year’s election, McConnell said voters should determine who would nominate the person to fill that seat.Fast forward to this past week. Trump’s chief of staff, Mark Meadows, told reporters: “I can’t imagine that if he had a vacancy on the Supreme Court that he would not very quickly make the appointment and look for the Senate to take quick action.”Meadows spoke shortly after the court said Ginsburg was briefly hospitalized, but before the justice announced she had a recurrence of cancer and has been treated with chemotherapy since May 19.Ginsburg is the oldest justice, followed by Stephen Breyer, 81, Clarence Thomas, 72, and Samuel Alito, 70.Trump sees his efforts at reshaping the judiciary as a signature achievement of his presidency. Last month he marked his 200th judicial appointment. Earlier in his term, he won confirmation of Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh to the high court.The president has sought to remind fellow Republicans that should he win a second term, he would have the chance to push the Supreme Court and lower courts further to the right.Last month, after the court rejected his administration’s attempt to end an Obama-era program that provided legal protections to roughly 650,000 immigrants illegally brought to the United States as children, Trump said more needed to be done to push the court to the right.He said he would release a “new list of Conservative Supreme Court Justice nominees” by Sept. 1. “Based on decisions being rendered now, this list is more important than ever before (Second Amendment, Right to Life, Religous Liberty, etc.) – VOTE 2020!” he tweeted.Carl Tobias, a University of Richmond law school professor, said Republicans “have shown no consistency” between their refusal to give Garland a hearing and their insistence it would be proper to move forward on a vacancy during the waning days of a potentially lame-duck presidency.Tobias said Trump and Republicans are calculating that playing up their commitment to adding another conservative justice is such an attractive pitch to base voters that it’s worth risking being labeled hypocrites by their opponents.Leading Republicans, including the Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, Republican Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, now say it’s OK to consider an election-year appointment when the Senate and the White House are held by the same party.“Merrick Garland was a different situation,” Graham said in May. “You had the president of one party nominating, and you had the Senate in the hands of the other party. A situation where you’ve got them both would be different.”McConnell was even more blunt. “Yeah, we’d fill it,” he said in a February interview.Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, a member of the Judiciary panel who is facing reelection, told Iowa PBS on Friday that she would also be supportive of holding hearings and a vote on a Trump nominee this year, even if the president lost reelection.“There’s likely not to be a lot of disagreement” between the Senate and the White House on the selection of a nominee, unlike in 2016, Ernst said.At least one key Republican has expressed reservations.Iowa Sen. Chuck Grassley, the former chairman of the Judiciary panel who blocked Garland’s nomination in 2016, said two years ago that he would not take up a new nomination if he were still the committee chairman in 2020 and there were a Supreme Court vacancy. But Grassley, who now heads the Senate Finance Committee, said if there were a different chairman that person would have to make the call.Grassley told Fox News in 2018 that the wouldn’t take up the nomination because “I pledged that in 2016 … That’s a decision I made a long time ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/given-a-chance-trump-would-push-court-pick-before-election/story-MSRtRmdzyXBhfaOAGPJoiK.html
19-07-2020||World||TikTok considers London and other locations for headquarters||TikTok has been in discussions with the UK government over the past few months to locate its headquarters in London, a source familiar with the matter said, as part of a strategy to distance itself from its Chinese ownership.London is among one of several locations the company is considering, but no decisions have been made, the source said.It was not immediately clear what other locations are under consideration. But it has hired aggressively in California this year, including poaching Kevin Mayer, a former Walt Disney Co executive, to be TikTok’s chief executive. He is based in the United States.TikTok is facing heavy scrutiny in Washington over suspicions China could force the company to turn over user data. TikTok is owned by China-based ByteDance.The source said the company is largely focused on its issues in the United States over the last few weeks, but has not ruled out London as a potential location for its new headquarters. TikTok is expected to “significantly” increase the size of its workforce in London and other key locations outside of China over the next several years, the source said.The Sunday Times reported has broken off talks with the UK government to open a global headquarters in Britain.A source said Tiktok was still in discussions with Britain’s government.TikTok declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-considers-london-and-other-locations-for-headquarters/story-GdGmyaeaRZqX4KdA07BIrO.html
19-07-2020||World||EU talks go into overtime with stimulus push facing headwinds||European Union leaders failed to unlock an agreement on a 750 billion-euro ($860 billion) response to the coronavirus pandemic after a second day of sparring in Brussels and will come back to try again on Sunday.Talks broke up at at 11 p.m. on Saturday after 12 hours of tussling over the composition of the fund and the conditions attached to it, leaving the group under intense pressure to get a deal before financial markets open on Monday.The struggle exposed the fault lines at the heart of the EU as leaders from the fiscally hawkish countries in northern Europe voiced their resentment at paying for the countries worst affected by the virus in the south.“We will keep going because we have to resolve it,” Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte told reporters afterward. “Delaying this does no good to anyone.”Leaders spent the day wrangling over the balance of grants and loans in the plan, with fiscal hardliners trying to water down the handouts that the highly indebted South sees as critical for shoring up its finances. While Saturday proved less bad-tempered and more constructive than Friday’s gathering, it was still difficult to discern much progress. Conte called it a “deadlock” while a German diplomat said the talks had reached a critical phase.The 27 leaders were meeting in person for the first time since February, when initial talks over the EU’s seven-year, 1 trillion-euro budget also ran into a wall. Now, with more than 100,000 Europeans dead from the virus and an economy to rebuild, investors are looking to the group to muster a display of unity to maintain the rally in stocks.Saturday started with a fresh compromise proposal drafted by EU Council President Charles Michel but as time wore on, frustration grew. While the hardliners’ ringleader, Mark Rutte of the Netherlands, welcomed a proposal to reduce the amount of grants to 450 billion euros from 500 billion euros, his allies from Austria and Finland pushed for the total to go lower still.German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron insisted that they wouldn’t allow the ambition of the plan to be scaled back in a side meeting with Rutte and his allies after dinner, a French diplomat said. The leaders of Europe’s two biggest countries then went back to a hotel for further conversations one-on-one.In an attempt to bend to another of Rutte’s demands, the new plan had also included a mechanism that would give any country the right to put the brakes on disbursement if it didn’t think the money was being spent correctly. The Dutch saw it as a step in the right direction, but the southerners fretted that it could slow up the cash they need to get their economies going. Leaders must agree unanimously if there’s to be a deal.Power BrokersThe deliberations are proving to be a baptism of fire for Michel, a former Belgian Prime Minister, and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, who drew up the original plan. They only took up their jobs in December and have faced criticism from governments over their handling of the pandemic response.Merkel and Macron have been pressing for an agreement before the summer but haven’t yet been able to bring to their weight to bear to force a result. The bloc’s two largest economies but are seen as crucial power brokers and they were photograph sitting on a sunny terrace as they searched for a breakthrough.Adding to the complications is the number of side issues that are being tied to the fund.Many leaders want to see access to financing linked to member states’ compliance with democratic standards and that’s something that Poland and Hungary strongly oppose, since both are subject to EU legal proceedings over rule-of-law backsliding.Leaders spent the last part of the Saturday discussing the latest proposal, seen by Bloomberg, which stipulates that rule-of-law “conditionality under the regime will be genuine” and that when transgressions are identified, the European Commission will propose “appropriate and proportionate” measures. Those measures will be approved by a qualified majority rather than unanimously, meaning that the Poles and the Hungarians won’t have vetoes to bail each other out as they do in other areas.Adding another layer of complexity, Hungary’s parliament passed a declaration this month that called on Prime Minister Viktor Orban to reject any stimulus package until the EU investigation into its democratic standards was withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-talks-go-into-overtime-with-stimulus-push-facing-headwinds/story-sME01AwtT1MGFAbTgV5ALO.html
19-07-2020||World||‘Black Lives’ mural outside Trump Tower defaced for 3rd time||A “Black Lives Matter” mural painted on the street in front of President Donald Trump’s namesake New York City tower has quickly become a target for vandalism, defaced with bucketfuls of paint three times in less than a week.In the latest incident, two women were arrested around 3 p.m. Saturday after police said they poured black paint on the block-long mural outside Trump Tower on Manhattan’s chic Fifth Avenue.Bystander video showed police officers surrounding one of the women as she rubbed the paint on the mural’s bright yellow letters and screamed: “they don’t care about Black lives” and “refund the police.”One of the officers slipped on the paint and tumbled to the ground, sustaining injuries to his head and arm, police said. He was listed in stable condition at Bellevue Hospital.A police department spokesperson said the women’s names and information on possible charges against them weren’t immediately available.The city’s largest police union, the Police Benevolent Association, tweeted: “Thankfully our brother will be OK, but this nonsense needs to stop. Our city is in crisis. Paint on the street helps no one.”Saturday’s vandalism happened less than 24 hours after three people were caught on surveillance video smearing blue paint on the mural around 4 p.m. Friday while a woman littered it with flyers that referenced the recent shooting death of a 1-year-old boy in Brooklyn, police said.Officers found the trio nearby a short time later with blue paint on their hands and clothing, police said. According to the video of the incident, one of them was wearing an “All Lives Matter” shirt as well as other apparel indicating support for President Donald Trump.They were arrested, charged with criminal mischief and released with a order to appear in court at a later date.The woman, 64, was issued a criminal court summons for illegal posting of flyers. A photo provided by police showed one of the flyers designed like an internet meme, with a close-up picture of 1-year-old shooting victim Davell Gardner Jr. under the words “DID MY LIFE MATTER” followed by a crying emoji.Next to Gardner’s picture was a message written in red marker: “I wasn’t killed by a cop. I was killed by a Black person. Where’s BLM?”Police have released surveillance video showing two men running and pointing guns who are believed to be suspects in the July 11 shooting. Witnesses say they jumped out of a car and fired multiple shots at the group before driving away. No arrests have been made.Meanwhile, police are continuing to look for a man in black shorts and a dark blue T-shirt who was seen splashing red paint on the “Black Lives Matter” mural around noon on Monday.The words “Black Lives Matter” have been painted on streets in New York and elsewhere in recent weeks to show support for the movement demanding justice and reforms after the recent police killings of George Floyd and other Black people.Mayor Bill de Blasio helped paint the mural in front of President Donald Trump’s namesake tower last week.Trump said last month in a tweet that affixing the words to Fifth Avenue in front of his building would denigrate “this luxury Avenue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/black-lives-mural-outside-trump-tower-defaced-for-3rd-time/story-IkHf5B8oH6kPvGNZ4RescM.html
19-07-2020||World||Mass protests rock Russian Far East city, challenge Kremlin||Mass rallies challenging the Kremlin rocked Russia’s Far East city of Khabarovsk again on Saturday, as tens of thousands took to the streets to protest the arrest of the region’s governor on charges of involvement in multiple murders.The massive unauthoritized crowds gathered despite local officials’ attempts to discourage people from taking to the streets, citing the coronavirus epidemic and an alleged averted terrorist threat.Local media estimated the rally in the city 3,800 miles east of Moscow drew 15,000 to 50,000 people, while city authorities put the number at 10,000. Hundreds of people have rallied in the city every day this week against the arrest of Sergei Furgal, reflecting widespread anger over the arrest of the popular governor and a simmering discontent with the Kremlin’s policies.Furgal, the Khabarovsk region governor, was arrested on July 9 and flown to Moscow where he was put in jail for two months. Russia’s Investigative Committee says he is suspected of involvement in several murders of businessmen in 2004 and 2005.Furgal has denied the charges, which relate to his time as a businessman importing consumer goods ranging from timber and metals. Khabarovsk residents dismissed the charges against him as unsubstantiated and denounced the Kremlin for targeting a governor they elected.“It’s not only about this (whether Furgal arrest is legal or not). People are fed up with the way we are treated, that they can simply take away our choice,” protester Mikhail Yerashchenko told The Associated Press on Saturday.A member of the nationalist Liberal Democratic Party, Furgal was elected governor in 2018, defeating the Kremlin-backed incumbent. His victory was unexpected: Furgal didn’t actively campaign and toed the Kremlin’s line, publicly supporting his rival.People voted for him nonetheless, delivering a humiliating blow to the main Kremlin party, United Russia, that has been losing seats in regional governments over the past two years.During his two years in office, Furgal has earned a reputation of being “the people’s governor.” He cut his own salary, ordered the sale of an expensive yacht that the previous administration bought, met with protesters when rallies happened and significantly reduced flight fares for residents in remote areas.“Furgal became a political symbol for the residents of the region, and all accusations — no matter how grave — are from another, non-political dimension,” political analyst Abbas Gallyamov said in a Facebook post.Last Saturday, crowds of reportedly up to 35,000 people rallied in Khabarovsk. Protesters demanded that Furgal’s trial be moved to Khabarovsk, with one saying “we have elected him and it’s up to us to judge him.” Some questioned the timing of the arrest, pointing to Furgal’s decade-long stint as a lawmaker in the Russian parliament before running for governor, during which the murder charges never came up.The unauthorised protests are the largest ever in Khabarovsk, a city of 590,000. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov called the situation “not standard” this week. Moscow has not yet appointed an acting governor 11 days after Furgal’s arrest.Police didn’t interfere with Saturday’s rally. Protesters held banners demanding Furgal’s freedom and chanted “I, you, he and she – the entire country is for Furgal”.Smaller rallies in support of Furgal also took place Saturday in Komsomolsk-on-Amur, another big city in the Khabarovsk region, and in the city of Vladivostok in the neighbouring Primorye region.“Though I’m almost 70, I worry sincerely about my region, about Russia and our nation, about Furgal and freedom. I want us to be free,” Alla Sokolova, a protester in Khabarovsk, told the AP. (AP) MRJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mass-protests-rock-russian-far-east-city-challenge-kremlin/story-x1sKw6VIXceh5kdBF3aDnN.html
19-07-2020||World||14 hours later, Trump says he is ‘saddened’ by Lewis’ death||In the hours after the death of American civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis, President Donald Trump took to Twitter to retweet old missives about Democratic rival Joe Biden and lash out at his former national security adviser and his niece for writing tell-all books about him.Trump then headed to his golf course in northern Virginia with a political confidant, Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, for a nearly four-hour outing.Shortly after 2 p.m., as Trump was returning from his golf outing — and more than 14 hours after Lewis’ death was announced — he offered his and the first lady’s condolences in a two-sentence Twitter message.“Saddened to hear the news of civil rights hero John Lewis passing. Melania and I send our prayers to he and his family,” Trump wrote.By that point all four living former US presidents, Vice President Mike Pence and scores of lawmakers had publicly remarked on the passing of the lawmaker whose brutal beating on the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, 50 years earlier marked a turning point in the civil rights movement.Trump had battled publicly with Lewis, 80, the youngest and last living member of the Big Six civil rights activists who organized the 1963 March on Washington.Lewis, D-Ga., memorably tangled with Trump days before the president’s inauguration in 2017. The congressman said he did not see Trump as a “legitimate president,” prompting Trump to blast Lewis as “all talk” and denigrate his majority Black district as “crime infested” and “falling apart.”For the only time during his long service in Congress, Lewis in 2017 skipped the swearing-in ceremony.In December of that year, Lewis refused to speak at the opening of Mississippi civil rights and history museums because Trump would be there. He said the president’s “hurtful policies are an insult to the people portrayed in this civil rights museum.”Then, as this year’s election battle heated up in the spring, Lewis threw his weight behind Biden and urged young Black voters to help make sure the former vice president wins in November.He didn’t mention Trump by name during his April endorsement, but made clear that he saw Biden’s mission as a chance to “redeem the soul of America.”Rep. Karen Bass, the Democratic chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, wrote on Twitter that she hoped that Trump would stay silent about Lewis’ death.At that point, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany had noted that Lewis “was an icon of the civil rights movement,” and Pence had issued a statement praising Lewis for his place in American history and noting that as colleagues in the House that “even when we differed, John was always unfailingly kind.”Bass wrote: “@realDonaldTrump while the nation mourns the passing of a national hero, please say nothing. Please don’t comment on the life of Congressman Lewis. Your press secretary released a statement, leave it at that.”The White House did not respond to a request for comment about Bass’ statement.The White House also issued a proclamation from the president ordering the lowering of US flags at federal buildings for Lewis’ death. By law the flag is lowered the day after a sitting member of Congress passes.In some ways, Trump’s perfunctory offering of condolences showed a measure of restraint compared with some past episodes involving political opponents.The president was not invited to attend Sen. John McCain’s funeral in 2018. Trump had said earlier that he didn’t think McCain was a hero because the senator was captured in Vietnam. McCain was tortured and held prisoner for more than five years.Trump seemed unable to forget one of McCain’s Senate votes in particular, the thumbs-down that sank the Republican effort in 2017 to repeal the Obama health care law. Trump was furious, and it showed even after McCain’s death. The administration lowered the American flag over the White House to half-staff, but then raised it again two days later. The flags were lowered again after a public outcry.And Trump’s anti-McCain Twitter tirades continued long after his death from brain cancer. The president also complained that he was never properly thanked for McCain’s funeral at Washington’s National Cathedral.Trump drew criticism late last year for suggesting the late Rep. John Dingell, a Democrat, might be “looking up” from hell during a rally in Dingell’s home state of Michigan.The dig at Dingell, whose wife, Rep. Debbie Dingell, succeeded him in the House, came during Trump’s impeachment. Days earlier, Trump expressed anger that the congresswoman had supported his impeachment.“The last time I spoke to Debbie Dingell was her call thanking me for granting top memorial and funeral service honors for her then just departed husband, long time Congressman John Dingell,” Trump tweeted. “Now I watch her ripping me as part of the Democrats Impeachment Hoax. Really pathetic!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/14-hours-later-trump-says-he-is-saddened-by-lewis-death/story-ulwGSaDOWvW5wHCGrtIkmM.html
19-07-2020||World||Back to normal by Christmas: UK Scientists dismiss Boris’ claim, says vaccine needed||British scientists are dismissing Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s hope the country may emerge from coronavirus lockdown and return to normality by Christmas.Johnson has announced more easing of restrictions, with people urged to return to public transit and workplaces. He says sports fans should return to stadiums by October and remaining restrictions could be lifted from November, “possibly in time for Christmas.” But epidemiologist John Edmunds, a member of the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, says a return to pre-pandemic normality wouldn’t be possible until there’s a vaccine for the virus.He says a world where people can “go to work normally, travel on the buses and trains, go on holiday without restrictions, meet friends, shake hands, hug each other and so on — that’s a long way off, unfortunately.” England’s Chief Medical Officer, Chris Whitty, also says social distancing rules would have to be in place for a “prolonged period.” Britain has registered more than 45,000 confirmed COVID-19 deaths, the highest total in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/back-to-normal-by-christmas-uk-scientists-dismiss-boris-claim-says-vaccine-needed/story-n21nDlatlJToxIl2W6oRAK.html
19-07-2020||World||Firebrand civil rights leader John Lewis from 1960s America passes away||John Lewis, the civil rights warrior who marched with Martin Luther King Jr and was nearly killed in police beatings before serving for decades as an American congressman, died on Friday.Lewis, a Congressman from Atlanta who had announced in December that he had advanced pancreatic cancer, was 80.The African-American icon spent his life getting into what he liked to call “good trouble” - the confrontations necessary to improve the US democracy by racial injustice. “John Lewis was a titan of the civil rights movement whose goodness, faith and bravery transformed our nation - from the determination with which he met discrimination at lunch counters and on Freedom Rides, to the courage he showed as a young man facing down violence and death on Edmund Pettus Bridge, to the moral leadership he brought to the Congress for more than 30 years,” House speaker Nancy Pelosi said of the 17-term congressman from Georgia.The son of sharecroppers, Lewis was just 21 when he became a founding member of Freedom Riders, who fought segregation in the US transportation system in the early 1960s. He was the youngest leader of the 1963 March in Washington, DC in which King delivered his famous “I Have a Dream” speech. Lewis entered Congress in 1986 and became a figure of moral authority. Lewis kept up the fight for civil rights until the end of his life. He made his last public appearance in June, as protests for racial justice swept the United States and the world.He stepped away from his congressional duties in recent months for undergoing cancer treatment.“Our conscience, he was a griot of this modern age, one who saw its hatred but fought ever towards the light,” said Stacey Abrams, a Democratic activist and founder of Fair Fight, a voting rights group in Lewis’ home state of Georgia.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/firebrand-civil-rights-leader-john-lewis-from-1960s-america-passes-away/story-B2b4iyoEcAdRm2w48gGCMN.html
19-07-2020||World||Coronavirus crisis: A million infected in just 100 hours||Global coronavirus infections passed 14 million on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, marking the first time there has been a surge of a million cases in under 100 hours.The first case was reported in China in early January and it took three months to reach 1 million cases. It has taken just four days to climb to 14 million Covid-19 cases from 13 million recorded on July 13.The number of cases globally is around triple that of severe influenza illnesses recorded annually, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).The pandemic has now killed at least 600,000 people in almost seven months, edging towards the upper range of yearly influenza deaths reported worldwide. The first death was reported on January 10 in Wuhan, China before infections and fatalities then surged in Europe and later in the US.In China, Xinjiang reported 16 new domestically transmitted cases for Friday, health authorities said on Saturday as the country readies to battle a new front against the outbreak in the remote northwestern region.The jump in cases followed one new case, and eight more asymptomatic ones. All the cases have been reported from the regional capital Urumqi, and at least 269 people in the city have been put under medical observation. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison is moving to cancel the next two-week sitting of parliament because of the recent spread of the virus.Parliament has been scheduled to meet on August 4-13 and then sit again for a two-week session starting August 24.Morrison said on Saturday that he has written to the parliamentary speaker asking for a cancellation, but the request is considered only a formality.Saudi hosts G20 talks on recovery, debtG20 finance ministers and central bankers held talks on Saturday aimed at spurring global economic recovery from a recession amid calls to widen debt relief for crisis-hit poor countries.The virtual talks, hosted by Saudi Arabia, come as the surging pandemic continues to batter the global economy and campaigners warn of a looming debt crisis across poverty-wracked developing nations.The ministers and bankers seek to “discuss the global economic outlook and coordinate collective action for a robust economic recovery,” G20 organisers in Riyadh said in a statement.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-crisis-a-million-infected-in-just-100-hours/story-Z82r4KndaychnYAez26YrK.html
19-07-2020||World||UK to roll out free antibody kits||Britain is making plans to distribute millions of free coronavirus antibody tests after a version backed by the UK government successfully passed its first major trials, The Daily Telegraph reported on Friday.The finger-prick tests, which can tell within 20 minutes if a person has ever been exposed to the coronavirus, were found to be 98.6% accurate in secret human trials held in June, involving nearly 300 people and conducted by scientists at Ulster University, the newspaper reported.It added that the test was developed by the UK Rapid Test Consortium (UK-RTC), a partnership between Oxford University and leading UK diagnostics firms.Britain’s only antibody tests approved thus far have involved blood samples being sent to laboratories for analysis, which can take days, The Telegraph said.Anticipating a regulatory approval in the coming weeks, tens of thousands of prototypes have already been manufactured in factories across the United Kingdom, the report added.Ministers are hoping that the AbC-19 lateral flow test will be available for use in a mass screening programme before the end of the year, the newspaper reported.“It was found to be 98.6% accurate, and that’s very good news,” Chris Hand, the leader of the UK-RTC, was quoted as saying by The Telegraph.The tests are likely to be free and would be ordered online instead of being sold in supermarkets, according to plans cited by the newspaper.“While these tests will help us better understand how coronavirus is spreading across the country, we do not yet know whether antibodies indicate immunity from reinfection or transmission,” a Department of Health and Social Care spokesman was quoted as telling the newspaper.Britain has so far reported more than 295,000 Covid-19 cases and at least 45,000 deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-roll-out-free-antibody-kits/story-tzQ4SgP92aDM9BKM8f8zWJ.html
19-07-2020||World||US 2018 cable triggered claims Covid-19 epidemic may have started in Wuhan lab||The United States has released an internal diplomatic cable that had triggered speculation by senior officials of the Trump administration that the Covid-19 epidemic might have started because of an accident at a virology lab in Wuhan, a Chinese city that became the epicenter of the outbreak last December.Officials of the US embassy China, who wrote this cable in January 2018 after a visit to the lab, had raised concerns in this state department cable about “serious shortage of appropriately trained technicians and investigators needed to safely operate this high-containment laboratory”.And, though the lab could conduct study SARS-like coronaviruses extracted from bats, it needed the permission of designated authority to research strains that could infect humans, officials wrote in the cable, whose release was secured by the Washington Post this week through a lawsuit.But the cable did not prove or disprove the lab origin theory of the outbreak. “I don’t see any evidence to support the idea that this was released deliberately or inadvertently,” Ian Lipkin, the director of Columbia University’s Center for Infection and Immunity, told the Washington Post after being being made aware of the content of the cable.“You can’t just say someone is guilty of accidentally releasing a virus. You have to prove it.”The Trump administration, however, appeared to have made that determination already in an effort to deflect blame for the spiraling infections and fatalities in the United States. President Donald Trump said in May he had a “high degree of confidence” that it had indeed started from the Chinese lab. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo followed up claiming “enormous evidence”.But, also in May, the US intelligence community punctured that theory. The office of the director of National Intelligence said in a statement it was still investigating outbreak started through contacts with infected animals “or if it was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan”.The Trump administration has not pushed the lab theory much in recent days, but it has blamed China for the outbreak, broke off ties with the WHO accusing it of being complicit in China’s cover-up of it responsibility for the outbreak. Trump and Pompeo have called the virus the “Chinese virus” and the “Wuhan virus”.Covid-19 infections, meantime, are soaring in the United States, with nearly 78,000 new cases reported in the last 24 hours and 843 deaths. Texas, Florida, Arizona and other southern states are the worst hit in this second surge. ICUs are running to full capacity in some of their worst affected counties, and, in a repeated of the grim situation in New York some weeks ago, refrigerated trucks are being used to store bodies because of overwhelmed morgues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cable-about-wuhan-lab-released-nearly-78-000-new-covid-19-cases-reported/story-5XFRFKqNzhDy1XCOVZADDK.html
