26-07-2020||World||Some US police resist enforcing coronavirus mask mandates||Lang Holland, the chief of police in tiny Marshall, Arkansas, said he thinks the threat of the coronavirus has been overstated and only wears a face mask if he’s inside a business that requires them. He doesn’t make his officers wear them either.So the day after Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson signed an order requiring masks to be worn in public throughout Arkansas, Holland made it clear his department wasn’t going to enforce the mandate in the Ozarks town of about 1,300, calling it an unconstitutional overreach.“All I’m saying is if you want to wear a mask, you have the freedom to choose that,” said Holland, who said he supports President Donald Trump. “It should not be dictated by the nanny state.”Holland is among a number of police chiefs and sheriffs in Arkansas and elsewhere who say they won’t enforce statewide mask requirements, even within their departments. Some say they don’t have the manpower to respond to every mask complaint, treating violations of the requirement as they would oft-ignored minor offenses such as jaywalking. Others, including Holland, reject the legal validity of mask requirements.The pushback is concerning to health officials, who say a lack of enforcement could undermine what they say is a much-needed and simple step that can be taken to slow the spread of the coronavirus.“If people undermine that mandate, they undermine the public health benefits of masking in the setting of this pandemic, and that just doesn’t make any sense to me,” said Dr. Cam Patterson, the chancellor of the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, who had called for a statewide requirement.More than half the states have issued orders to wear masks in most public settings, with virus cases and hospitalizations on the rise. Polling shows overwhelming public support for such requirements, and even Trump, who had long been dismissive of wearing masks, last week said it was patriotic to wear one.The most vocal police pushback to mask requirements is coming from Republican-led states that aggressively reopened businesses or previously opposed stricter measures such as mask requirements. Hutchinson, who was among a handful of governors who didn’t issue a stay-at-home order, long resisted issuing a mask mandate in Arkansas, but he relented in the face of the state’s worsening numbers.Arkansas’ active virus cases, meaning those excluding people who have died or recovered from Covid-19, have nearly quadrupled since Memorial Day. The number of people hospitalized with the disease in the state is almost five times higher than it was that day.“This is a way to enlist the support of everyone in this fight,” Hutchinson said before signing the order, which took effect Monday.Several police chiefs and sheriffs immediately said they wouldn’t enforce Hutchinson’s order, which prohibits people from being jailed for violations and only imposes fines for repeat offenders. The Texarkana Police Department said it wouldn’t enforce the order, saying its primary responsibility was “fighting crime and providing police services.”John Staley, the sheriff of Lonoke County in central Arkansas, said he agrees with the need for masks and his deputies wear them when in contact with the public. But he said his department doesn’t have the manpower to respond to complaints about them.“I support the governor’s position and his decision, but we’re not going to be out writing tickets for masks,” Staley said.None of the resistant law enforcement agencies are refusing to respond to disturbances related to masks, which have turned violent or deadly in some incidents. Staley and officials from several other law enforcement agencies have said they would respond if businesses complain about people refusing to wear masks or to leave the premises.Several sheriffs in neighboring Texas have also said they wouldn’t enforce a mask requirement issued by Republican Gov. Greg Abbott. And a group of 38 sheriffs in Montana signed an op-ed this months saying they believe that the mask requirement issued by the state’s Democratic governor this month “is not a mandate for law enforcement to issue citations and arrest violators.“Enforcement of Alabama’s mask rule, which took effect this month, has also varied. Some police said they would provide masks to those not wearing them in public, and others said they didn’t plan to ticket people for violations.“We as law enforcement are NOT the social distancing police OR the face mask police. Just be responsible, that’s all, and be safe,” the Bay Minette Police Department announced in a Facebook post.In New York City, which was at the heart of the U.S. coronavirus outbreak early on in the pandemic, the nation’s largest police department has struggled with how to enforce mask mandates. Police initially assigned 1,000 officers this spring to enforce mask wearing and social distancing rules, but they backed off after some violent arrests were caught on video.Now, the city relies chiefly on civilian workers and community group members to hand out masks and encourage people to wear them.Hutchinson said he would defer to local police and sheriffs on how to enforce his order, saying it was their prerogative on how to prioritize offenses. But he also said police “don’t pick and choose” which laws they enforce. The difficulty of enforcing a mandate in a rural state like Arkansas was one of the reasons Hutchinson gave for resisting the requirement until recently.Not all police departments are resistant to enforcing mask mandates, though they’re hoping to avoid the need to write anyone up for not complying.“I am confident that the overwhelming majority of Fort Smith residents and visitors care about each other and will choose to help us through personal accountability, making the need for enforcement action non-existent,” Danny Baker, the chief of police in Fort Smith, an Arkansas city along the Oklahoma border, said in a statement.Supporters of mask mandates say penalties were never their goal and that they never envisioned police having to respond to every complaint about someone not wearing one.“Nobody’s asking for a masking gestapo,” Patterson said. “We’re just asking for good behavior and support from our local communities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/some-us-police-resist-enforcing-coronavirus-mask-mandates/story-3z8pIJcaYbMkynVm9wckxL.html
26-07-2020||World||Indian man sentenced to life for stabbing wife to death in Dubai: Report||A 44-year-old Indian man has been sentenced to life for stabbing his wife to death in broad daylight at the parking lot of her office in Dubai after suspecting infidelity, according to a media report on Sunday. The court heard that Vidhya Chandran, 40, a mother of two, was stabbed to death by her husband, Ugesh C S, on September 9 last year.Hailing from Kerala, Vidhya was supposed to fly home with her children that night to celebrate Onam, the Gulf News reported. While Vidhya’s family said her husband had been harassing her for several years, Ugesh told police that he suspected she was cheating on him by having an affair with another man, the paper said.According to official records, the victim’s manager testified that he had called her, but she didn’t answer his calls. He then asked an employee to look for her.“I went outside and I saw her covered with blood and [lying] motionless. She was stabbed and I think she was dead when I saw her,” the 32-year-old Indian manager said.The police identified the victim and her husband, who had entered the UAE on a visit visa. The husband was arrested the same day in Jebel Ali.The defendant said that he had received a text message from his wife’s manager, alerting him that his wife was in a relationship with another man.“The defendant claimed that he was talking to the manager about the message as he too was suspicious of her behaviour. When his wife came, she got angry with her husband because he had embarrassed her in front of the manager,” a policeman said.After a heated argument, he stabbed her three times with a knife and left the spot.The Dubai Court of First Instance found the defendant guilty and sentenced him to life in jail, to be followed by deportation. The verdict will be subject to appeal within 15 days from July 20, the paper said. Reacting to the verdict, Vidhya’s elder brother Vinay Chandran said he appreciated the life sentence given to the convict though the family was expecting a capital punishment for him. A friend of Vidhya in the UAE said the victim struggled to make ends meet and would sometimes live on biscuits to send money home.“Though she was constantly harassed by her husband, she silently suffered everything and just lived for her daughters,” she said. In the UAE, a life sentence means a 25-year jail term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-man-sentenced-to-life-for-stabbing-wife-to-death-in-dubai-report/story-58NYfnbpVIdjYnxFE6HA6M.html
26-07-2020||World||Indian businessman dies of coronavirus in Nepal: Report||A 65-year-old Indian national has become the latest victim to succumb to the coronavirus in Nepal, a day after he tested positive for the disease, a media report said on Sunday.The deceased, a businessman in Nepal’s Birgunj, was a patient of diabetes, cardiac ailment and tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, My Republica reported. “He was tested positive for Covid-19 in the Rapid Diagnostic Test (RDT) conducted earlier on Saturday. However, the result of an advanced test to diagnose the disease called Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) of the old man is still awaited,” the report said.He was admitted to Narayani Hospital on Saturday afternoon as he complained of fever, cough and breathing difficulties. After collecting his swab samples for the PCR test, he was referred to Corona Hospital for further treatment.“The old man was also suffering from heart disease and diabetes,” Niraj Kumar Singh, a doctor at the hospital, was quoted as saying in the report.Nepal registered 130 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 18,613, the health ministry said on Sunday.The Himalayan nation’s coronavirus death toll stands at 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-businessman-dies-of-coronavirus-in-nepal-report/story-zvsCH7hc0kjJYkZ4HLWPZL.html
26-07-2020||World||100 Days: Challenge mounts for Donald Trump as 8 in 10 Americans say US heading in wrong direction||With the November election 100 days away, more Americans say the country is heading in the wrong direction than at any previous point in Donald Trump’s presidency, putting the incumbent in a perilous position as his reelection bid against Democrat Joe Biden enters a pivotal stretch.A new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research also finds Trump’s approval for his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic falling to a new low, with just 32% of Americans supportive of his approach. Even Trump’s standing on the economy, long the high water mark for the president, has fallen over the past few months after seeming ascendant earlier this year.Those political headwinds have sparked a sudden summer shift in the White House and the Trump campaign. After spending months playing down the pandemic and largely ignoring the virus’ resurgence in several states, Trump warned this past week that the situation is likely to get worse before it gets better. After repeatedly minimizing the importance of wearing masks to limit the spread of the virus, Trump urged Americans to do exactly that. And after insisting he would press forward with a large campaign convention in August, the president announced that he was scrapping those plans.Trump’s abrupt about-face underscores the reality of the situation he faces just over three months from Election Day. Even as he tries to refocus his contest with Biden on divisive cultural issues and an ominous “law and order” message, Trump’s reelection prospects are likely to be inextricably linked to his handling of the pandemic and whether voters believe the country will head back in the right direction under his leadership.The AP-NORC poll makes clear the challenge ahead for Trump on that front: 8 in 10 Americans say the country is heading in the wrong direction. That’s more than at any point since Trump took office. The poll also finds just 38% of Americans say the national economy is good, down from 67% in January, before the pandemic upended most aspects of everyday life.Biden’s campaign is eager to keep the final months of the campaign focused squarely on Trump, confident that the former vice president can emerge victorious if the contest is a referendum on whether the current commander in chief has succeeded during his four years in office.“People are sick and tired of a government that is divided and broken and unable to get things done,” said Kate Bedingfield, Biden’s deputy campaign manager. “What people feel like they’re getting from Trump right now is a hodgepodge mess of self-interested political talk.”The past few months have proved to be beneficial for Biden’s campaign. He managed to swiftly consolidate the Democratic Party in ways Hillary Clinton, the party’s 2016 nominee, struggled to do. Biden’s fundraising, a weakness for him in the primary, has surged, allowing his campaign to build out infrastructure and start ad spending in both traditional battleground states and more aspirational targets, including Texas and Georgia.Biden has also benefited from Trump landing on the wrong side of the public in his initial reactions to the pandemic. For example, 3 in 4 Americans back requiring people to wear masks in public, which Trump initially dismissed.Another pandemic test for the president lies ahead in August and September, as Trump and his administration aggressively try to sell a skeptical public on reopening schools. The poll finds that about third of Americans are opposed entirely to the idea, while close to half say major adjustments to instruction will be required.The limitations the pandemic placed on the candidates’ ability to travel and hold large rallies have also played more to Biden’s strengths. While Trump relishes headlining rallies at packed arenas, Biden is less adept in those settings. He’s instead spent the past several months delivering speeches to small groups of invited guests and journalists within driving distance of his home in Delaware, and holding virtual events with supporters and donors.Trump argues that shows Biden doesn’t have the stamina for a full-blown campaign; Biden’s advisers say voters want to see their leaders abide by the same public health guidelines they’re urging others to follow.Democrats have been buoyed by public polls finding Biden ahead of Trump both nationally and in some battleground states by a comfortable margin. However, Biden advisers caution that they expect the race to tighten in the final stretch before Election Day as more Republicans who may be dissatisfied with Trump’s job performance gravitate back to their party’s leader.Overall, 38% of Americans approve of the president’s job performance — well within the narrow range that Trump’s approval ratings have stayed throughout this presidency, but down slightly from earlier this year before the pandemic. Most Republicans — 81% — approve of Trump’s job performance, but just 68% of Republicans support his handling of the pandemic.Publicly, Trump and his advisers say they have been here before: underestimated and counted out. They point to public polls throughout the summer of 2016 that showed Trump trailing Clinton, only to eclipse her on Election Day.But privately, Trump’s political aides and allies have spent months trying to sound the alarm bells for the president, warning that he could lose the Midwestern battlegrounds he carried in 2016, as well as some reliably red states, if the trajectory — both of his campaign and the virus — continues.One of the most concrete signs that Trump recognized he had gone off course came this month, when he demoted longtime campaign manager Brad Parscale, replacing him with experienced GOP operative Bill Stepien.Stepien told reporters he expects the campaign to “be a knock-down, drag-out fight to the very end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/100-days-challenge-mounts-for-donald-trump-as-8-in-10-americans-say-us-heading-in-wrong-direction/story-XDmGeMECrf4ITeC4Zcdd7J.html
26-07-2020||World||Workers praise Disney coronavirus safety, but will visitors come?||Every week, it seems, Kaila Barker, her husband and their five children change their minds about whether to travel from their home in Connecticut to Florida’s Walt Disney World as planned in September.On the one hand, the lack of crowds means more opportunities to go on rides without long waits. On the other hand, Connecticut and Florida have implemented pandemic-related quarantines for each other’s residents and visitors, and the Barkers worry whether the Disney “magic” will get lost with mandatory mask-wearing for visitors and workers, temperature checks and no parades, fireworks shows or up-close “meet-and-greets” with costumed characters.“We keep going back and forth. It’s such a hard decision to make,” Barker said last Tuesday.Two weeks after Disney World started opening its theme parks for the first time since closing in March because of Covid-19, the Barkers’ quandary affects not only Disney World’s future but that of central Florida’s tourism-reliant economy.More than 75 million visitors came to Orlando in 2018, mostly due to its reputation as a theme park mecca, which also includes Universal Orlando and SeaWorld Orlando. But the coronavirus has upended Orlando’s status as the most visited place in the U.S.In the week that Disney World’s Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom started welcoming back visitors, occupancy of hotel rooms in the Orlando area was down more than 60% from the previous year, a much deeper drop than the state as a whole, which declined more than 41%, according to STR, which tracks hotel data.Less than half of Disney World’s 43,000 unionized workers have been recalled to their old jobs, contributing to two Orlando-area counties having the state’s highest unemployment rates last month — Osceola at 22.9% and Orange at 17.2%. Disney World has an overall workforce of 77,000 employees, the nation’s largest single-site labor force.Many of those still-furloughed workers are about to lose federal benefits at the end of the month.“This is an extremely difficult moment,” said Paul Cox, president of the local union that represents stagehands and show technicians at Disney World. “There are still a majority of workers who are staying at home and they’re about to lose support. Things are going to get bad.”Union officials estimate the Disney parks are no more than a third full, but that may be more by design to maintain social distancing. Disney World doesn’t release attendance figures, but in pre-pandemic times its four parks and two water parks could host around 150,000 visitors a day.Florida has had a surging coronavirus caseload recently, and other Disney parks around the globe have run into coronavirus-related roadblocks. Hong Kong Disneyland Park was forced to close earlier this month following the city’s decision to ban public gatherings of more than four people, and Disney’s California parks delayed reopening while they awaited state guidelines.Cowen Inc. estimated recently that Disney’s parks and resorts won’t return to pre-pandemic profitability until fiscal year 2025, and there is a “meaningful” probability that Disney World could close again because of the pandemic.Leaders of the Disney World workers’ unions describe the virus-related safety measures Disney has taken as “exemplary.”After workers complained about patrons walking around with their masks pulled down while eating food like turkey legs, Disney World updated its mandatory mask policy, requiring visitors to eat in one place while maintaining social distancing.In response to other worker concerns, Disney has distributed personal hand sanitizer containers for workers to wear on their belts, added additional break rooms to limit the number of workers in them and reduced the number of riders on buses that shuttle workers from parking lots to the parks. Performers dressed as Disney princesses being driven in a horse-powered carriage through the parks now sit individually in rows separated by clear-plastic window partitions.“Singing their praises seems so strange,” said Julee Jerkovich, an official with a United Food & Commercial Workers union, which represents Disney merchandise and banquet workers. “As far as this grand experiment, I would have to say Disney has done a really good job.”But not all unions are happy. The union that represents actors and singers has filed a grievance with Disney World, saying their 750 members were locked out of returning to work after they complained about Disney ignoring their demands for getting coronavirus tests since they can’t wear masks while performing. Some performers, though, are eager to return to work and are pushing the union to reach an agreement with the company, as they worry about Disney replacing their shows with temporary ones featuring non-actors.There have been isolated cases of workers and visitors connected to the theme parks getting sick with COVID-19, “but we haven’t seen any large number of positive cases that come from any of the parks,” Dr. Raul Pino, health officer for Florida’s Department of Health, said last Monday.Disney’s policy of granting sick workers with paid time off so they can quarantine has made a difference, said Eric Clinton, president of Unite Here! Local 362, which represents Disney World park greeters, attractions workers and custodians.But Clinton wonders if the current operating model can last until the pandemic is over, given that just over 20,000 of the 43,000 workers represented by unions have returned to work, only half of Disney World’s 30 onsite hotels currently are back open and several in-park restaurants still are closed.“Disney is a strong brand. They have a great product, but does the novelty wear off? Do people want to go to a theme park now? Is it more appealing with less crowds?” Clinton said. “I’m hopeful but nervous.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/workers-praise-disney-coronavirus-safety-but-will-visitors-come/story-xAKel164vjG2q0QHyqFjQO.html
26-07-2020||World||UN says thousands of anti-Pakistan militants in Afghanistan||A UN report says more than 6,000 Pakistani insurgents are hiding in Afghanistan, most belonging to the outlawed Pakistani Taliban group responsible for attacking Pakistani military and civilian targets.The report released this week said the group, known as the Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP), has linked up with the Afghan-based affiliate of the Islamic State group. Some of TTP’s members have even joined the IS affiliate, which has its headquarters in eastern Afghanistan.The Afghan government did not respond Sunday to requests by The Associated Press for comment.The report said IS in Afghanistan, known as IS in Khorasan province, has been hit hard by Afghan security forces as well as U.S. and NATO forces, and even on occasion by the Afghan Taliban. The report was prepared by the U.N. analytical and sanctions monitoring team, which tracks terrorist groups around the world.The report estimated the membership of IS in Afghanistan at 2,200, and while its leadership has been depleted, IS still counts among its leaders a Syrian national Abu Said Mohammad al-Khorasani. The report also said the monitoring team had received information that two senior Islamic State commanders, Abu Qutaibah and Abu Hajar al-Iraqi, had recently arrived in Afghanistan from the Middle East.“Although in territorial retreat, (the Islamic State) remains capable of carrying out high-profile attacks in various parts of the country, including Kabul. It also aims to attract Taliban fighters who oppose the agreement with the United States,” the report said, referring to a U.S. peace deal signed with the Taliban in February.That deal was struck to allow the U.S. to end its 19-year involvement in Afghanistan, and calls on the Taliban to guarantee its territory will not be used by terrorist groups. The deal is also expected to guarantee the Taliban’s all-out participation in the fight against IS.The second and perhaps most critical part of the agreement calls for talks between the Taliban and Kabul’s political leadership.Late Saturday, the U.S. State Department issued a statement saying its peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad was again shuttling through the region seeking to jump start those negotiations, which have been repeatedly postponed as both sides squabble over a prisoner release program.The U.S.-backed deal calls for the Afghan government to release 5,000 Taliban prisoners and the Taliban to free 1,000 government and military personnel as a so-called good will gesture ahead of talks. Until now the government is refusing to release nearly 600 Taliban prisoners it calls high-profile criminals and has offered to free alternatives. The Taliban have refused.“The parties are closer than ever to the start of intra-Afghan negotiations, the key next step to ending Afghanistan’s 40-year long war,” said the U.S. State Department statement. “Although significant progress has been made on prisoner exchanges, the issue requires additional effort to fully resolve.”The Taliban’s political spokesman earlier this week said it was ready to hold talks with Kabul’s political leaders after the Islamic holiday of Eid al-Adha at the end of the month, providing the prisoner release is completed.A big worry for Pakistan is the presence in Afghanistan of militants, particularly linked to the TTP or Jamaat-ul-Ahrar or Lashkar-e-Islam, as well as those with the Baluchistan Liberation Army, which has taken responsibility for high-profile attacks this month in the southern Sindh province as well as in southwestern Baluchistan Province. Several Pakistan military personnel have been killed this month in southwestern Baluchistan province in battle with insurgents.The TTP took responsibility for one of the most horrific attacks in Pakistan in 2014, when a Pakistani army school was attacked and 140 were killed. Most were students, and some were as young as 5.“The total number of Pakistani foreign terrorist fighters in Afghanistan, posing a threat to both countries, is estimated at between 6,000 and 6,500, most of them with TTP,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-says-thousands-of-anti-pakistan-militants-in-afghanistan/story-1MHskwonXvgq7EIitVovxH.html
26-07-2020||World||Serbia seeks more warplanes amid Balkan tensions||Serbia will strengthen its armed forces and is seeking to purchase more warplanes amid simmering tensions in the Balkans, the Serbian president said Sunday.President Aleksandar Vucic said “certain initiatives” have been made to buy a fleet of fighter-bombers, accusing the US and other Western countries of arming Serbia’s NATO neighbors and its breakaway former province of Kosovo.“The Americans, Turks and Germans are taking care of their beloved child,” Vucic said, referring to Kosovo. He said the U.S. has recently delivered a number of armored vehicles to Kosovo’s security forces.During a tour of a Serbian army tank brigade, Vucic said his country cannot compete with “NATO donations” to its neighbors when it comes to weapons, “therefore we must do it alone.”Vucic did not specify what type of warplanes Serbia plans to buy, but the pro-government media said his government has officially asked the U.S. for the delivery of 20 fighter-bombers. The reports said Washington has not yet responded to Belgrade’s request and that in case of a refusal, it is likely to purchase Russian-made Sukhoi-25 attack aircraft.Serbia, which claims military neutrality, has recently received a sophisticated anti-aircraft system from Russia, which has also provided fighter jets, attack helicopters and armored vehicles. Another Serbian ally, China, has delivered military drones.U.S. officials have in the past spoken openly about introducing sanctions against Serbia if Moscow sends more arms to the country, especially those that could jeopardize the security of neighboring NATO-member states.The Russian and Chinese arming of Serbia is being watched with unease in the West and among Serbia’s neighbors. Tensions are growing in the Balkans, which went through a devastating civil war in the 1990s. NATO intervened in Serbia to stop a bloody Serb crackdown against Kosovo Albanian separatists in 1999.Despite formally seeking to join the European Union, Serbia’s populist leadership has further strengthened close political and military ties with the Kremlin, as well as Beijing.Serbia, as well as Russia and China, don’t accept Kosovo’s independence, which is recognized by the U.S. and most of the West.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/serbia-seeks-more-warplanes-amid-balkan-tensions/story-RIgJyyUVW8kyv6xJxEApfP.html
26-07-2020||World||Prince Harry took offence at brother’s advice, says book||Britain’s Prince Harry took offence at what he thought was Prince William’s “snobbishness” when he advised his brother to “take as much time as you need to get to know this girl” when he was dating Meghan Markle, a new book says.Harry and his wife, Meghan, have distanced themselves from the book called “Finding Freedom”, saying they were not interviewed for the biography being serialised by The Times and The Sunday Times newspapers and made no contributions to it.The book documents, citing sources, a time when Harry and Meghan were dating and William wanted to make sure the American actress had the right intentions, The Sunday Times said.“Don’t feel you need to rush this,” William told Harry, according to sources cited by the book. “Take as much time as you need to get to know this girl.”The Sunday Times said Harry heard a tone of snobbishness in the last two words, “this girl”, and that Harry no longer felt he needed looking after.The couple and their son, Archie, now live in Los Angeles after they stepped down from their royal roles in March to forge new careers. In January they announced plans to lead a more independent life and to finance it themselves.Harry and Meghan married in May 2018 in a wedding heralded at the time as infusing a blast of Hollywood glamour and modernity into the British monarchy and which made them one of the world’s biggest celebrity couples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-took-offence-at-brother-s-advice-says-book/story-3T371h8FcK65gjr8jdgSTM.html
26-07-2020||World||Australia’s migration intake to fall by over 2 lakh due to Covid-19; Indians affected||Australia’s migration intake will drop significantly to 31,000 in 2020-21 from 232,000 in 2018-19 due to the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, impacting thousands of Indians planning to emigrate to this country. While the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the Australian economy are still evolving, migration, which is a key driver of the economy, has been hit following the travel bans, border closures imposed earlier this year since the contagion began. The Australian Economic and Fiscal Update report, released on Thursday by the treasury department, said that the Net Overseas Migration (NOM) is significantly affected by the international travel restrictions and constraints on the ability of applications to meet visa application requirements. “The NOM is assumed to fall from 232,000 in 2018-19 to be 154,000 in 2019-20 and 31,000 in 2020-21,” it said. The Indian community in Australia is comprised of nearly seven lakh people. India is one of the top sources of skilled immigrants to Australia. Approximately 90,000 students are studying in Australian universities. The report further said that the international borders were expected to reopen in Januray next year, but a two-week quarantine period would remain in place for arrivals to Australia. “Future migration levels remain highly uncertain, due to the path of the pandemic and the nature and duration of measures taken to contain its spread at home and abroad. “The government implemented international travel bans in March 2020. This prevented all arrivals on visitor and temporary migration visas and prevented Australian citizens and permanent residents from departing Australia,” the document read. According to the treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, no decision was taken yet on when Australia’s travel ban will be lifted. “In terms of the borders, the assumptions are… to very gradually start to come back that the quarantine is applied, that you start bringing in some international students…,” he was quoted as saying by AAP news agency. “Of course, the environment with respect to coronavirus is very fluid. So decisions haven’t been taken about the start dates for that. These are treasury’s forecasts and as you can understand, it’s a very dynamic environment,” he said. According to Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center, the contagion has infected over 16 million people and killed more than 644,000 across the world. In Australia, the Covid-19 has infected over 13,900 people and killed 155 others. The Covid-19, which originated in China’s Wuhan city in December last year, has also battered the world economy with the International Monetary Fund saying that the global economy is bound to suffer a “severe recession”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-s-migration-intake-to-fall-by-over-2-lakh-due-to-covid-19-indians-affected/story-lsk7abTGhHQPtsFgKh3iEK.html
26-07-2020||World||Why Democrats don’t hold Donald Trump accountable||When President Donald Trump recently commuted the prison sentence of Roger Stone, his longtime ally and now a convicted felon, reaction on Capitol Hill was swift. Representatives Carolyn Maloney and Jerrold Nadler, the respective chairs of the House of Representatives’ Oversight and Reform and Judiciary committees, promptly issued a joint statement. “By this action, President Trump abused the powers of his office in an apparent effort to reward Roger Stone for his refusal to cooperate with investigators examining the President’s own conduct,” said the chairs of two of the most august committees in the House. “This transparently corrupt commutation damages public confidence in the justice system and the rule of law.”Then Maloney and Nadler brought down the hammer. “Among other things,” they stated, “we intend to seek an immediate briefing from the White House Counsel on the circumstances surrounding Roger Stone’s commutation.”Intend to seek? A . . . briefing? Among . . . other things?There are countless examples of the broken state of our national government — the mounting deaths from Covid-19 chief among them. But few are more distressing than the chairs of two powerful congressional committees intending to seek a briefing about impeachable conduct.True, Democrats have tried. They held public hearings with the president’s former personal attorney, Michael Cohen, as the lawyer, under oath, described Trump’s alleged involvement in insurance fraud and an illegal payoff scheme to silence women who claimed to have had sexual affairs with Trump. More recently, they took testimony from Geoffrey Berman, the federal prosecutor whom Attorney General William Barr falsely claimed had resigned but who in fact Barr had fired under highly suspicious circumstances. They demanded an end to Trump’s corrupt purge of inspectors general. They issued subpoenas to executive branch employees. They impeached the President of the United States, presenting voluminous evidence of guilt from a range of credible witnesses and documents.It wasn’t enough.In a telephone interview, Representative Adam Schiff, the chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence who led the House’s impeachment case, recounted a familiar litany:The wholesale disregard for our institutions of Congress; the blanket defiance of congressional oversight; the personal intervention by the president in cases before the Justice Department; the willingness of the attorney general to establish a second standard for friends and criminal allies of the president; the attacks on the inspectors general (the list goes on and on); the demonization of the institution of a free press as the ‘enemy of the people’; things that are the usual respite of dictators — all of these have become hallmarks of the Trump administration.It’s a sign of Trump’s spectacular volume that Schiff left out other stunning abuses like the abductions of migrant children from their parents, a likely human rights crime, and the funneling of millions in public tax dollars and private campaign contributions into Trump businesses.While Trump has excelled at breaking government, Democrats have been impressive, too, at failing to restrain his violence toward democracy. “Is it possible that Democrats are just bad at oversight?” poses Sarah Binder, a political scientist at George Washington University and an expert on Congress. “Perhaps. But I think the real challenge is leveraging and keeping the press’s attention given this ceaseless 24/7 news cycle and the near-constant fireballs sent out by the president.”Democrats, Binder said, confront a “flood of potential inquiries. One day the president’s daughter is advertising canned beans on her public Twitter page, the next day the president is claiming credit for shutting down Covid-19 testing sites. There’s only so much alleged malfeasance that Congress — and the media — can shine a light on.”The inability of Democrats to deliver consequences for outlandish behavior elicits howls from Democratic partisans and advocates of rule of law, who repeatedly demand more aggressive tactics. “A sternly worded letter won’t stop fascism,” former Bernie Sanders aide David Sirota chided. Congressional scholar Molly Reynolds of the Brookings Institution points out that Democrats have failed to use what is arguably their most potent weapon. “To me, the biggest unused tool in Congress’s toolbox is to use the power of the purse to threaten to defund some of the executive branch’s most egregious overreaches,” Reynolds emailed. “The biggest challenge here is not necessarily getting Republicans on board; it’s that the reliance on large omnibus spending bills passed on the brink of a government shutdown makes it harder to pick fights with the White House over individual spending provisions because the cost of doing so is so high (see: the 2018-19 government shutdown).”Still, Congress pulled its biggest sledgehammer, impeachment, out of the shed, and thanks to every Republican senator but Mitt Romney, it had little discernible effect on Trump’s conduct. If anything, his acquittal emboldened him. In just the past week, Trump refused to commit to abide by November’s election results and unleashed a secret army to escalate tension — that is, violence — in an American city, against the express demands of its mayor and governor. He committed to altering the decennial census, in defiance of the plain language of the Constitution, to benefit Republicans. Meantime, it was revealed that he had sought another foreign emolument — this time, the transfer of the prestigious British Open golf tournament to his Scottish golf club. Every day brings the promise of new assaults on law and democracy.Part of the problem is institutional. Congress, after ceding ground to the executive over many decades, now has far less institutional power. In 2015, before Trump’s election, Kevin Kosar, a veteran of the Congressional Research Service, wrote: “Today, the United States has an executive branch that can do just about anything it pleases, over the objections of the people’s representatives, and sometimes to spectacularly bad effect.” While the executive branch has ballooned, Kosar wrote, “Congress has downsized its research and analytical support staff by about one-third over the past 40 years,” thereby shrinking its capacity to joust with the executive.Congressional scholar Norman Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute, co-author of an influential (and prophetic) 2012 book on the anti-democratic devolution of the GOP, cites “a wider abdication of responsibility by Congress, which includes leaving details of policy to executive agencies, giving and not subsequently rescinding sweeping emergency authority to the president through a slew of laws, putting a lower priority on oversight, and not using the power of the purse effectively to check and balance a president.”Congress has been too meek, Ornstein insisted in an email. But the obstacles to oversight are also formidable. “Where the House has tried to move aggressively, it has been stymied by two factors — the blanket refusal of anyone in Trump World to comply with requests for information, to testify when called, or to respond to subpoenas, and the frequent willingness of courts, mostly via Republican judges, to enable them. It is a witches’ brew of bad stuff.”No one inside or outside government has been able to constrain the president’s abuses, fully explore the nature of his apparent subservience to one of the nation’s most hostile adversaries or exercise effective oversight over a subversive administration.“I think what we have seen during this painfully illustrative three and a half years is that norms are not sufficient, but even statutory provisions are not alone enough, the Constitution is not alone enough,” said Schiff. “As we pointed out during the trial, if right doesn’t matter here anymore then it doesn’t matter how well our Constitution or laws are written because they can be ignored.”Given a White House that is impervious to shame, bolstered by an attorney general who behaves more like the president’s  “consigliere” and backed by the complicity, silent or vocal, of the Republican Party (excepting Romney and a few others), what can Democrats, or anyone, do?“This is a hard one,” said Brendan Nyhan, a political scientist at Dartmouth College, in an email. “I don’t know what a plausible model of effective oversight looks like right now given how little attention toothless House hearings will get, how likely they are to be seen as partisan by non-Democrats who do hear about them, etc. I can also imagine that, strategically, Democrats don’t want to turn the focus onto themselves when Trump is doing so poorly.”Indeed, Speaker Nancy Pelosi has sought to keep her troops focused on the coming election, believing that only votes can bring true deliverance. She is not alone. “I’m inclined to believe little can be accomplished on corruption and the rule of law (beyond what is currently underway) until after the election, with Democrats in charge of both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue,” emailed congressional scholar (and Ornstein co-author) Thomas Mann.Trump’s acquittal by the Senate exposed a governing structure that is largely defenseless against an authoritarian breach — provided the authoritarian has sufficient accomplices inside the walls. The Founders installed safeguards, including the Electoral College, to keep out demagogues. In case of a breach, they provided impeachment. But to succeed, impeachment requires democratic parties acting in the interests of democracy. “It’s obviously an imperfect remedy when the party of the president acknowledges the president’s guilt but expresses its unwillingness to use the remedy,” said Schiff.If the question is how to expel a dangerous threat from the heart of democracy, “have another election” seems a shaky answer. It was an election, after all, that installed the threat in the first place. In their 2018 book “How Democracies Die,” authors Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt detail democracies destroyed not by coup or invasion but from within — by the winner of an election who turns democracy’s inherent vulnerabilities against itself.From Venezuela to the Philippines, democratically elected leaders have curtailed democratic practices and oversight to advance their interests. Hungarian leader Viktor Orban used elections to gain power, and then used his power to reshape elections, politics and the media, the better to win more elections and exercise more power. It’s an unvirtuous circle familiar to Vladimir Putin, among others.Levitsky and Ziblatt show that the greatest safeguard of democracy is not elections, which can be won by demagogues, or government oversight, which can be thwarted once a demagogue gains power. It’s the vigilance of political parties. “Put simply, political parties are democracy’s gatekeepers,” they write. The parties must take responsibility both to foreclose access to demagogues and to reject alliances with illiberal parties. “How Democracies Die” has successful examples of both.The Republican Party, however, has already let the demagogue inside. Party leaders failed to coordinate to stop Trump in 2016. Instead of aligning with an illiberal party pushing from the outside, the GOP is fast becoming an illiberal party itself. As a result, the means of democratic revival are narrower, the time more fleeting.The election of 2018, which transferred power in the House from Republicans to Democrats, was a milestone in rebuffing Trumpism. The haphazard spread of the coronavirus, and the Twilight Zone mismanagement that facilitated it, may be the preface to another one. Polls show Trump and Republicans battered by the White House failure. Public confidence in Trump’s presidency continues to decline. It’s impossible to dismiss the potential for electoral sabotage over the next four months, sourced from Russia, the Oval Office or elsewhere. Trump’s public refusal to concede in the event of defeat is itself a visceral attack on democracy. But without a change in the context or direction of the race, or an extra-democratic intervention, Trump appears on course to lose. Schiff said he and Democratic colleagues are working on reforms to make it easier to check the corruption of a wayward president — in effect, post-Trump reforms in the spirit of the post-Watergate reforms of the 1970s. “I think there will be bipartisan support,” Schiff said. “Not necessarily in this Congress where Republicans all live in fear of an angry tweet, but I do think when this president is gone, these reforms will have bipartisan support. Republicans will not want a Democratic president to behave as Donald Trump did and abuse the power of his office. They will suddenly have an interest in their own institution again.”But Schiff acknowledged the limited utility of even strengthened laws against empowered anti-democratic forces. Hyper-partisanship, along with the erosion of democratic values in one of the major parties, and the fraying of the forbearance that long enabled power to pass smoothly from one party to another, have savaged democratic norms. Yet laws, in the end, are also acutely vulnerable. Trump has proved that with party support, the law can be overrun.That leaves only elections. “Ultimately the people have the power either to embrace or repudiate this anti-democratic lurch of the country under Donald Trump,” Schiff said. “And if they embrace it then God help us. The Founders did count on the good sense of the American people and I’m counting on it, I believe in it, I have reason for optimism about it. But, ultimately, Americans will get the kind of democracy that they want. And they express that desire at the polls.”(This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners. Francis Wilkinson writes editorials on politics and U.S. domestic policy for Bloomberg Opinion. He was executive editor of the Week. He was previously a writer for Rolling Stone, a communications consultant and a political media strategist.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-democrats-don-t-hold-donald-trump-accountable/story-XVTeHb2JVMyQdffkC0kmjM.html
26-07-2020||World||Hit hardest by virus, Europe’s economy on way to recovery; to outpace US||The euro area economy is for once set for a sprightlier recovery from crisis than the U.S., thanks to starkly different responses to the coronavirus.America’s failure to get a grip on the pandemic is putting the brakes on its rebound compared with Europe, where many former virus hot spots managed to resume economic activity without causing a similar surge in infections.Crucial for a sustainable recovery is confidence that the virus is no longer out of control, and Europe’s relative success may help encourage shoppers to spend and businesses to invest, further propelling demand and growth. The region has also done a better job of protecting jobs and incomes, at least for now, with furlough programs keeping millions of workers on payrolls.According to JPMorgan Chase & Co., Europe will do better because it has “broken the chain” that links mobility and the virus. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has cited effective virus control as one reason it expects a “steeper and smoother rebound in the euro area than elsewhere.”“It’s very clear that the euro area turned down more sharply but we also expect it to bounce back more sharply,” said Jari Stehn, chief European economist at Goldman Sachs. “It’s pretty rare that the euro area would outgrow the U.S. over a horizon of one to two years.”Since 1992, the U.S. has outperformed the euro area in all but eight years, according to IMF data. Although the euro area managed to grow when the financial crisis hit in 2008 and the U.S. shrank, in 2009 the U.S. contraction of 2.5% was far shallower than the euro area’s 4.5%.Aggressive lockdowns mean the euro area is set for a sharper second-quarter contraction than the U.S., something that will be seen in GDP figures due this week.The euro-area economy probably shrank 12% in the three months through June, according to a Bloomberg survey. The U.S. contraction, on an annualized basis, is forecast to be 35%, or a roughly 10% decline quarter-over-quarter.But high-frequency data suggest Europe is on the mend faster, and Bloomberg Economics estimates that the lead has widened recently.“Having been hit hardest it’s pretty impressive that we think that Europe will recover more fully,” said Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan. “They’ve broken that link -- the mobility numbers are going up” without a resurgence of the virus, thanks to better contract tracing, mask-wearing and social distancing measures, he said.JPMorgan expects the euro area’s economy to shrink 6.4% this year, slightly worse than the 5.1% contraction seen for the U.S. But for 2021, the bank forecasts a 6.2% rebound for the euro area, more than double America’s 2.8% growth.In the U.S., a jump in cases across the South and West has led several states to halt or even reverse reopening plans. Measures of mobility and restaurant bookings have plateaued, and more than 1 million applications for unemployment benefits continue to be filed each week.Meanwhile, euro-area purchasing managers indexes jumped more than forecast in July, while numbers for the U.S. came in lower than expected, especially for services, which make up a much larger part of the economy than manufacturing.The U.S. economic situation could worsen if lawmakers don’t extend -- in some form -- the extra $600 per week in unemployment benefits that have supported incomes and spending in recent months.Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell is set to release the GOP’s proposal on Monday after the party and President Donald Trump squabbled last week over the details of the plan, giving Congress almost no time to avoid a lapse in the unemployment aid.The divergence is reflected in markets. European stocks and bonds have benefited from renewed investor popularity, thanks to the bloc’s agreement on a historic 750 billion-euro ($860 billion) accord. The euro has risen more than 6% against the dollar in the past two months, and could have further to run.In Europe, generous loan and furlough programs prevented an immediate surge in unemployment, which is also helping the near term. Many were modeled on Germany’s renowned Kurzarbeit and largely proved efficient at getting aid to workers.But it’s early in the recovery phase, and countries can’t keep funding support indefinitely. If demand doesn’t come back strong enough, companies may eventually have to cut costs, meaning Europe may only have delayed a damaging increase in joblessness.Just because Europe is in a relatively better position to come out of this in the second half of the year, “doesn’t mean the U.S. can’t catch up,” said Michael Gapen, chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc.In the U.S., the $2 trillion rescue package that Congress passed in March ranks among the most aggressive in history, but the distribution has been patchy and uneven. Unemployment offices were overwhelmed with claims, and many jobless Americans have still yet to receive the unemployment benefits they’re owed.At the same time, the allocation of loans to small and medium-sized businesses had its own challenges, resulting in a chaotic scramble among business owners to get government assistance. Even so, the Paycheck Protection Program helped save as many as 3.2 million jobs, according to a study by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Federal Reserve researchers.High-frequency data suggests “things have stalled out, either because there’s exhaustion of initial pent-up demand or because of the virus creating a change in consumer behavior,” said Michelle Meyer, head of U.S. economics at Bank of America Corp. While the third quarter will get a boost from initial state reopenings, “now the question is, how sustainable is that bounce?”(Adds GOP proposal in 15th paragraph)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hit-hardest-by-virus-europe-s-economy-on-way-to-recovery-to-outpace-us/story-zj5BpEg49odMXOdpZpqnRK.html
26-07-2020||World||Vietnam confirms first local Covid-19 cases since April||Vietnam reported two locally-transmitted coronavirus cases after more than three months of no new infections of such, prompting authorities in the city of Danang to restrict activities to prevent a wider spread of the disease.One patient, a 57-year-old man, had been in Danang city for about a month and hadn’t traveled to other provinces, the government said in a statement on Saturday. He had no communication with strangers, and was mostly in contact with family members and neighbors. He sought treatment at a hospital on July 20 for fever and cough.On Sunday, officials said a 61-year-old man also tested positive, without saying how he got the virus or if he had been in contact with the first case. The man had also been in Danang for about a month and hadn’t traveled to other provinces, according to the health ministry. He went for treatment at a hospital on July 18.Danang’s authorities locked down the hospitals where the two victims visited and ordered their patients, medical staff, caregivers and family members -- about 7,000 people in total -- to be quarantined for 14 days, local media reported.Authorities in Danang also requested people to adhere to social-distancing measures and not gather in public spaces where there are more than 30 people, apart from workplaces, schools and hospitals. There will also be a temporary suspension of festivals, religious ceremonies and operations of beauty spas, bars, massage parlors and dancing halls.Danang will also stop tourists from entering the city for 14 days starting Sunday, according to the city’s authorities.Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc ordered authorities to tighten border and immigration controls to prevent foreigners from illegally entering the country, according to a separate statement Saturday.Vietnam had 418 Covid-19 infections and no deaths as of early Sunday. The case confirmed on Saturday was the first local transmission since April 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-confirms-first-local-covid-19-cases-since-april/story-H3ibN0fl9z0g7BHudhFWCI.html
26-07-2020||World||Spain second coronavirus wave swells, fuels concern across Europe||Spain is scrambling to stay ahead of new outbreaks of the coronavirus that prompted the U.K. to impose a quarantine on travelers returning from the country, dealing a new blow to its tourism-dependent economy.Only weeks after the U.K. included Spain on a list of countries safe for summer holidays, the government reversed course and announced late Saturday it would impose a 14-day quarantine on anyone arriving from Spain. The move came after cases in the country jumped, particularly in the Catalonia region, where authorities are racing to stamp out new outbreaks.Norway on Friday announced a 10-day quarantine for people returning from Spain, and France issued new travel warnings for the Catalonia region, which is home to Barcelona and popular beaches. The moves will further weigh on bookings in the peak travel period for a country that depends on tourism for more than 10% of gross domestic product.Spain’s health ministry reported more than 920 new cases on both Thursday and Friday, the highest numbers since early May, when the government began easing one of Europe’s strictest lockdowns.“We must be able to take swift, decisive action,” said Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab on Sky News on Sunday. “Otherwise we risk reinfection into the U.K., potentially a second wave and another lockdown.’Catalonia in northeastern Spain is at the epicenter of a new jump in cases and has been expanding restrictions to try to flatten the curve. In Barcelona, nightclubs have been ordered shut for two weeks and imposed there is a midnight curfew on bars. A partial lockdown affecting 200,000 people has been already imposed in the western district of Segria.“We are quite frustrated. We actually feel safer here, because everyone is wearing masks,” Carolyne Lansell, a British tourist, said in interview with Spanish state-television broadcaster TVE.Tui, the U.K.’s biggest tour operator, suspended all its flights from Spain and the Canary Islands that were due to leave today, Sky News reported. The World Travel & Tourism Council called the U.K. decision a “bitter blow” for travelers and said local lockdowns, not broader travel restrictions would be a better solution.“The majority of the country and its islands, which are incredibly popular holiday destinations, have less cases than the U.K.,” the tourism group said in an emailed statement.Spain was one of the hardest hit countries in Europe by the coronavirus and has already suffered more than 28,000 fatalities, the fourth-highest tally in Europe after the U.K., Italy and France. A national lockdown started in March had largely tamed the spread of Covid-19, but the easing of those restrictions and the start of the summer tourism season has contributed to an uptick, particularly among young people frequenting crowded bars and clubs.Countries around the Mediterranean Sea were praying that a glimpse of tourism would get them through the summer before the cold snap drives people indoors and ushers in a second chapter to the pandemic. Now, it appears the spread of the virus may not wait for the winter months.Governments across the globe have been bracing for a second wave, though there is little appetite for reimposing large scale lockdowns on already crippled economies. The hope is that localizing quarantines to towns, cities and regions will be enough to snuff out bouts of infections as they come.Italy was the first Western democracy to quarantine the entire population as it became apparent its death toll was going to overtake that of China, where the virus originated. A person close to Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte described that decision as “shock therapy” that can’t be repeated. The euro’s weakest economy this week became the biggest beneficiary of the European Union’s $860 billion rescue package.U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson was initially reluctant to order a lockdown and then ended up in intensive care fighting for his life after contracting Covid-19. Yet he finds the idea of isolating the nation again so off-putting that he compared it to a nuclear deterrent: “I certainly don’t want to use it.”French Prime Minister Jean Castex, was equally blunt: “We won’t survive, economically and socially.”With the world facing its worst recession since the Great Depression and U.S. President Donald Trump fighting for re-election in November, voters are on edge. Politicians of all stripes are looking for ways to ease the pain—not add to it—as fear morphs into anger and discontent.“Populations can be summoned to heroic acts of collective self-sacrifice for a while, but not forever,” political scientist Francis Fukuyama, author of “The End of History and the Last Man,” wrote in Foreign Affairs magazine. “A lingering epidemic combined with deep job losses, a prolonged recession, and an unprecedented debt burden will inevitably create tensions that turn into a political backlash—but against whom is as yet unclear.”Restaurants and BarsThe political calculus is to try and it ride it out. Yet while efforts to get people back to stores, restaurants, bars and hairdressers demonstrate the urgency among governments of reviving economies, they also show the risks.Europe’s hardest-hit country, Britain, reopened pubs and is now finding spikes in virus cases. Johnson, who aims to return to “significant normality” by Christmas, on Friday said his government is preparing the health service for a second wave of infections over the winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-second-coronavirus-wave-swells-fuels-concern-across-europe/story-pkET0WVbpc13pg47XRVdEK.html
26-07-2020||World||Rishi Sunak considers ethnic minority figures on UK coins||UK Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak is reportedly considering a proposal for influential ethnic minority figures to be featured on a set of UK coins to celebrate Britain’s diversity.According to ‘The Sunday Telegraph’, plans have been submitted to the Royal Mint to work out some proposals as the Indian-origin finance minister reflects upon a campaign to put influential black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) figures from history on a set of coins titled “Service to the Nation”. The candidates in the running include Noor Inayat Khan, who was the first Indian-origin World War II spy for Britain, and Khudadad Khan, the first soldier of the British Indian Army to become the recipient of the prestigious Victoria Cross, the highest military award for gallantry in the face of the enemy given to British and Commonwealth forces.“We propose a specific next theme of service to the nation by black, Asian, and other ethnic minority people, both in military conflict and on the home front,” says Zehra Zaida, an Indian-origin Conservative Party candidate behind the campaign, in a letter to Sunak.“This theme will unite people, especially now as the nation has come together through the pandemic, and is collectively recognising the heroic work by ethnic minority staff in our health and care services,” according to the letter.“It is surely essential that this country does not lose another opportunity to demonstrate that the contributions of black, Asian, and other ethnic minority groups are truly valued. Symbols matter and we urge you to support our campaign,” the letter notes.UK Treasury minister John Glen told ‘The Sunday Telegraph’ that Sunak was “keen to support” the “timely proposal”.“The Chancellor [Sunak] is reflecting on the letter from Zehra and will reply in due course,” he said.“We are obviously supportive and keen to be positive about it, we need to see some firm proposals from the Royal Mint but we are keen for this to happen,” he said.Zaidi’s campaign is supported by several historians including Shrabani Basu, the author of ‘Spy Princess: The Life of Noor Inayat Khan’, and politicians such as Conservative Party MP Tom Tugendhat and Green Party MP Caroline Lucas.“I am absolutely delighted that the story of Noor Inayat Khan has inspired so many people and that she has become an icon. Noor was an extraordinary war heroine,” said Basu, the Founder-Chair of the Noor Inayat Khan Memorial Trust.Zaidi was previously behind a campaign to get the Bank of England to select an ethnic minority heroine for a newly-printed GBP 50 note, proposing Noor Inayat Khan among the options. However, Britain’s computer pioneer Alan Turing was the choice for the new banknote which goes into circulation from next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rishi-sunak-considers-ethnic-minority-figures-on-uk-coins/story-bzWhKDIJVb7qTxr1de28wO.html
26-07-2020||World||Italy sees no critical budget issue, cash in line with forecast||Italy doesn’t see any “critical issue” for the country’s budget as its cash availability is developing in line with forecasts.The Italian Treasury said in a statement late Friday that it expects to have more than 80 billion euros ($93 billion) in cash at the end of July, near 2019 levels, amid the coronavirus emergency which forced the country to delay some fiscal payments.As the first European economy crippled by the pandemic, Italy is under pressure to increase spending to ignite a recovery. While activity has started to rebound since the government relaxed a lockdown, there are concerns the coming months will bring more pain when aid measures expire, including a ban on firing workers and the suspension of tax and loan payments.The finance ministry sees “encouraging signs” that economic activity is revamping in July. The first data on value-added tax collection for July show a decline of 4.7% versus 2019, which is a much smaller drop than in the previous three months, it said.The statement is a response to speculation in local media that Finance Minister Roberto Gualtieri was pushing the government to use the European Stability Mechanism credit lines to avoid any risks to the country’s budget. Health Minister Roberto Speranza said Italy should consider using the ESM to get 20 billion euros in funds that are urgently needed for its health system, according to an interview with daily La Stampa on Saturday.The government approved a proposal for 25 billion euros in extra spending earlier this week, with the extra money allocated to help businesses with temporary layoffs and liquidity as well as to provide subsidies to local and regional authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-sees-no-critical-budget-issue-cash-in-line-with-forecast/story-PPqux1lIiel2TylTRHEq2I.html
26-07-2020||World||Russian Navy to get hypersonic nuclear strike weapons, says Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Sunday the Russian Navy would be armed with hypersonic nuclear strike weapons and underwater nuclear drones, which the defence ministry said were in their final phase of testing.Putin, who says he does not want an arms race, has often spoken of a new generation of Russian nuclear weapons that he says are unequalled and can hit almost anywhere in the world. Some Western experts have questioned how advanced they are.The weapons, some of which have yet to be deployed, include the Poseidon underwater nuclear drone, designed to be carried by submarines, and the Tsirkon (Zircon) hypersonic cruise missile, which can be deployed on surface ships.The combination of speed, manoeuvrability and altitude of hypersonic missiles, capable of travelling at more than five times the speed of sound, makes them difficult to track and intercept. Speaking in St Petersburg at an annual naval parade that showcases Russia’s best ships, nuclear submarines and naval aviation, Putin said the navy’s capabilities were growing and it would get 40 new vessels this year. He did not specify when it would receive new hypersonic weapons, but suggested that day was drawing closer.“The widespread deployment of advanced digital technologies that have no equals in the world, including hypersonic strike systems and underwater drones, will give the fleet unique advantages and increased combat capabilities,” Putin said.In a separate statement released via Russian news agencies, the defence ministry said testing of the Belgorod, the first submarine capable of carrying the Poseidon drones, was underway and testing of the weapons systems was nearing completion.“Work is being successfully completed to create modern weapons systems for the Navy,” it was cited as saying.Putin last year threatened to deploy hypersonic missiles on ships and submarines that could lurk outside U.S. territorial waters if the United States moved to deploy intermediate-range nuclear weapons in Europe.Washington has not deployed such missiles in Europe, but Moscow is worried it might.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-navy-to-get-hypersonic-nuclear-strike-weapons-says-putin/story-rVDpUSAXC4NCveXlFldRXI.html
26-07-2020||World||Staff leaving US Chengdu consulate under high security as deadline looms||Staff of the US consulate in Chengdu made final efforts to clear the premises on Sunday as security remained tight outside, ahead of a Monday closure ordered by Beijing as China-US relations continue to worsen.A mini tourist atmosphere prevailed outside the facility on a tree-lined street on a hot Sunday, as onlookers shared sidewalk space with dozens of uniformed and plainclothes police opposite the entrance.Consulate closures in Houston and Chengdu have escalated a sharp deterioration in ties between the world’s two biggest economies, which were already their worst in decades amid disputes over trade and technology, the Covid-19 pandemic, China’s territorial claims in the South China Sea and its clampdown on Hong Kong.Police asked people to move on when crowds formed outside the consulate, as onlookers took photos and videos of what they expected would be the last time to see the compound in US hands. The street was closed to traffic, except for consular or police vehicles let through by police.China on Friday ordered the closure of the Chengdu consulate in the southwestern provide of Sichuan. That means an evacuation deadline of 10 a.m. (0200 GMT) on Monday, according to the editor of a state-run tabloid.In Houston on Friday a group of men accompanied by a US State Department official were seen forcing open a door at the Chinese consulate, shortly after the US closure order took effect for a facility that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called “a hub of spying and intellectual property theft”.A coach that had been on the Chengdu consulate premises on Saturday left on Sunday morning. It was unclear who or what was inside. Since Friday, staff have been seen coming and going, including at least one with a suitcase. Removal vans entered and left on Saturday and Sunday.“China’s response was reciprocal,” said a 63-year-old local resident who gave only his surname, Yang. The situation “is quite regrettable.”On the Chengdu police account on Weibo, similar to Twitter, some netizens were asking the authorities to be lenient toward to a man who lit a firework outside the consulate Friday.“I believe our country is so powerful, so it has the ability to handle it properly, and provide me with enough safety,” said a 25-year-old finance worker surnamed Zhao when she passed by the consulate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/staff-leaving-us-chengdu-consulate-under-high-security-as-deadline-looms/story-rxlrWx61fYROmzuwbo2WeL.html
26-07-2020||World||DNA change, microchips: False claims made about Covid-19 vaccines on social media||The world is working on a vaccine which can check the spread of Covid-19 that has killed lakhs across the globe. From Americas to Australia, there is hardly any major country left which is not affected by the coronavirus disease.But since its outbreak, fake information on social media too has been flowing incessantly. The ‘infodemic’ has led to numerous false claims being made on WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms.In March, when India had just entered the first phase of the lockdown, fake bank account details were circulated for contributions to the government relief funds.There are also a number of other such misinformation being circulated including about the Covid-19 treatment and on ways to avoid getting infected from the deadly coronavirus.In fact, the Press Information Bureau (PIB) launched a fact-checking Twitter handle which keeps on debunking such news.And since the time the Oxford University announced the results of its vaccine candidate, the focus of the rumour mill has been the human trials and vaccine safety.One of the videos being widely viewed on Facebook falsely claims that people who will be administered Covid-19 vaccine will see their DNA change. The video has been made by US-based osteopath Carrie Madej.Without giving any evidence, she also claims that these vaccines will link people up to an artificial intelligence interface.According to the results presented by the Oxford University, their vaccine Astrazeneca will trigger immunity response against the Sars-CoV-2 virus by invoking the T-cells. Moreover, the researchers have said that the vaccine will undergo rigorous trials and a series of checks before it is recommended for widespread public use.Then there was a claim that Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates said in an interview that he expects 7,00,000 people to develop negative side effects from a coronavirus vaccine. In fact, some of the posts falsely quoted Gates to say that 7,00,000 people will die after taking Covid-19 vaccines.The interview happened in April, but the clips started circulating in July.The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation confirmed in a statement that Gates’ reference was hypothetical. “Strong scientific evidence shows that vaccines are safe and they have a proven track record of preventing diseases,” the statement said. “Experts believe that a vaccine against Covid-19 will be critical to ending this pandemic ​once clinical trials show that they are safe and effective in a broad group of people.”There was more controversy and false claims regarding the vaccine work being done by Gates. Some of the posts on the social media said that the tech billionaire is planning to implant microchips in people through Covid-19 vaccine. This theory was propounded by Russian Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov in May. In a column, Zyuganov attacked “capital globalism” and claimed that the mandatory vaccination plan is a “ploy by so-called globalists to implant chip in every human being so that their movements could be monitored”.Gates said in an interview last week that he wants the truth to reach people and hoped the fake news “dies down”.Gates and a foundation led by him and his wife Melinda are working to find a vaccine for Covid-19. In February, the foundation had announced that it is donating US $100 million to vaccine research and treatment efforts.Another false claim made through memes is that the 50 million fatalities reported during the Spanish flu pandemic in 1918 were caused by vaccines.The US Centres Centers for Disease Control has called it “the most severe pandemic in recent history”, but stated that there was no vaccine at that time which caused such a large number of fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dna-change-microchips-false-claims-made-about-covid-19-vaccines-on-social-media/story-d0b1SmhDUAzG3Ryq3zUJCN.html
26-07-2020||World||Covid-19: Sri Lanka to conduct advance polling for people under quarantine||Sri Lanka’s has set July 31 as the date for advance voting for persons under quarantine, National Elections Commission Chairman Mahinda Deshapriya said on Sunday ahead of the August 5 vote.Over 16 million voters are registered to vote on August 5 to elect a 225-member parliament for a 5-year term.The election commission has been struggling to make arrangements for a free and fair poll due to the health risks caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.“The pandemic has forced the election authorities to set an advance polling day for those under quarantine,” Deshapriya said.“Now those under quarantine would be allowed to vote on July 31,” he said.Deshapriya said the identities of the voters under home quarantine would not be revealed to the media.This will be the first-ever election in Sri Lanka to have an advance polling date other than the postal voting for persons on election duties. Sri Lanka has already extended the polling time for the twice-postponed August 5 parliamentary elections by one hour after conducting several mock polls in adherence to the safety guidelines due to the coronavirus pandemic.President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on March 2 dissolved the Parliament, six months ahead of schedule, and called for snap polls on April 25. However, the election commission in mid-April postponed the elections by nearly two months to June 20 due to the coronavirus outbreak in the island nation.The commission last month informed the apex court that the polls cannot be held on June 20 because of the coronavirus pandemic and the new date was decided following a unanimous decision reached between the members of the commission. Sri Lanka’s coronavirus tally currently stands at 2,764 with 11 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-sri-lanka-to-conduct-advance-polling-for-people-under-quarantine/story-jjwHG2PcepJZ28hG4BuLZM.html
26-07-2020||World||Africa’s development bank approves loans, grants to fight coronavirus||The African Development Bank approved loans and grants for several nations to ward off the Covid-19 pandemic as infections multiplied across the continent.The lender will provide $97.7 million for Rwanda’s budget to help the nation strengthen its health-care system, buttress economic resilience and mitigate the pandemic’s impact on the most vulnerable people. Under the worst-case scenario, Rwanda’s gross domestic product could contract 2% this year, the AfDB said in an emailed statement.The bank will also extend $41.2 million to Djibouti, which includes a $4.1 million loan under its Covid-19 response facility. Djibouti, with one of the highest infection rates in the Horn of Africa, could see its economy shrink 3.8% this year.AfDB directors also agreed on $53.3 million in grants for Gambia, Liberia and Sierra Leone from the $10 billion Covid-19 Response Facility, its main channel for cushioning African nations from the economic and health impact of the crisis.Ghana, which ranks fourth in the number of infections on the continent, will receive $69 million in grants to upgrade isolation facilities, purchase more test kits, drugs, equipment and beds, the AfDB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/africa-s-development-bank-approves-loans-grants-to-fight-coronavirus/story-LVoRMt5KWIdvUNfWxny6QL.html
26-07-2020||World||Tokyo confirms 239 new coronavirus cases||Tokyo officials confirmed 239 new coronavirus infections on Sunday, Japanese media reported, as the capital struggles with a resurgence in cases after the government lifted a state of emergency.The total marks the sixth straight day new cases in the city have exceeded 200.While Japan was spared the kind of surge in infections that have killed tens of thousands in other countries, Tokyo has raised its coronavirus alert to the highest level after a series of new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tokyo-confirms-239-new-coronavirus-cases/story-d655omySZc9Ygq8XcSYKLP.html
26-07-2020||World||China reports 46 new Covid-19 cases||China reported 46 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the highest daily tally in more than a month, as it took steps to stem recent outbreaks that have infected more than 160 people at opposite ends of the country.Authorities confirmed 22 cases in Urumqi, a city in the Xinjiang region in the country’s far west, the official Xinhua News Agency said. That raised the total in the local outbreak to 137 since the first case was detected 10 days ago.Another 13 cases were confirmed in Liaoning province in the northeast, bringing the total there to 25, almost all in the city of Dalian.The National Health Commission also reported 11 imported cases in the latest 24-hour period, in people who had arrived from overseas.China has recorded 83,830 cases and 4,634 deaths since the pandemic began. The Health Commission said that 288 patients remain in treatment, including 18 in critical condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reports-46-new-covid-19-cases/story-Fyzn37bw7dmPUqXs5D633M.html
26-07-2020||World||At least 24 Rohingya migrants feared drowned off Malaysia: Report||A Rohingya migrant is feared to be the only survivor from a boat carrying at least two dozen asylum seekers that is believed to have run into difficulty off the Malaysian coast near Thailand, a coastguard official said Sunday.Mohamad Zawawi Abdullah, coastguard chief for the northern states of Kedah and Perlis, said the 27-year-old named Nor Hossain was detained by police after he swam to shore on the resort island of Langkawi.“Based on the information from the police, the illegal Rohingya migrant had jumped off the boat that had 24 other people and that he was the only one who managed to swim to the shore safely,” Zawawi said.A search and rescue operation had been launched, but another official told AFP that no bodies or survivors have been found.It is not clear what happened to the boat.Muslm-majority Malaysia is a favoured destination for Rohingya, who face persecution in their mostly Buddhist homeland of Myanmar, but authorities have in recent months been trying to stop them entering over coronavirus fears.Many of the 700,000-plus Rohingya Muslims who fled a military crackdown in Myanmar three years ago have attempted to leave overcrowded refugee camps in Bangladesh’s Cox’s Bazar district on boats headed for Malaysia and neighbouring Indonesia.Zawawi said two coastguard aircraft and two boats have been deployed to search the suspected area. Malaysia has stepped up maritime patrols since the outbreak of the coronavirus epidemic in a bid to stop Rohingya boats from landing.Although some have made it ashore many boats have been turned back, sparking anger from rights groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-24-rohingya-migrants-feared-drowned-off-malaysia-report/story-3VE7mfcBYgdeQVpA67DvyL.html
26-07-2020||World||South Korea’s coronavirus cases fall back to below 60 after spike||The number of South Korea’s new coronavirus cases has fallen back to below 60, a day after it reported 100-plus for the first time in nearly four months. The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed 58 additional cases over the past 24-hour period, bringing the total to 14,150 with 298 deaths.Twelve of the newly confirmed cases were locally infected while the rest came from overseas. Health authorities said the 113 cases on Saturday were mostly imported infections found among cargo ship crews and hundreds of South Korean construction workers airlifted out of virus-ravaged Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-s-coronavirus-cases-fall-back-to-below-60-after-spike/story-RYBKdhDPQufl6oQTJv2QpN.html
26-07-2020||World||Vietnam’s Danang city reimposes social distancing after first local Covid cases in months||Vietnam reintroduced social distancing measures in the central city of Danang on Sunday after a second locally transmitted novel coronavirus case was detected there, more than three months after any cases were reported in the country.The Southeast Asian country was back on high alert after the government on Saturday confirmed its first community infection since April, and another case early on Sunday, both in Danang, a tourist hot spot.Authorities gave no more details about how the two infections were contracted and did not say if they were believed to be linked.The city’s social distancing measures would come into force until further notice, the government said in a statement on its website.Danang would stop receiving inbound tourists for 14 days, while all religious, sports and cultural events would be suspended.Wearing masks in public places in the city is now compulsory and gatherings of more than 30 people at public places were banned, the government said.The detection of the two new cases, which come as Vietnam is seeking to revive its economy and resume international commercial flights, has prompted authorities to step up a crackdown on illegal immigrants.State media said dozens of migrants from China had been detected in Danang over recent days.Thanks to strict quarantine measures and an aggressive and widespread testing programme, Vietnam has kept its virus total to an impressively low 418 cases, with no deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-s-danang-city-reimposes-social-distancing-after-first-local-covid-cases-in-months/story-1enKYGe9FWx4G74fnT1E3M.html
26-07-2020||World||Amid rising tension with US, China holds live-fire drills near South China Sea||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has begun a well-publicised live-fire drill in the southern Guangdong province’s Leizhou Peninsula, considered to be the doorstep of the South China Sea (SCS), official media reported on Sunday.The week-long drills, which will include anti-ship and anti-aircraft exercises by the PLA air force with the PLA’s navy and rocket forces joining in, are being held in the backdrop of rising tension with the US over, among other issues, the SCS disputes and Washington’s sale of arms to Taiwan.Last week, for the first time, Washington rejected China’s maritime claims in the SCS, large parts of which are also claimed by Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei, and Taiwan. Also read: China tried to jab India with a new claim on Bhutan. Why it has boomerangedThe messaging behind the PLA’s latest drill is directed at the US, which had also, earlier this month, deployed two of its frontline aircraft carriers and their strike groups comprising more battleships, in the SCS besides flying reconnaissance aircraft in the region.The PLA, however, did not share the specifics of the exercise.Song Zhongping, a Chinese military expert, told the nationalistic Global Times tabloid that maritime live-fire drills by the air force usually include shooting aircraft and surface vessels.“Such drills could train to secure air superiority and target hostile warships in the SCS,” Song said.In a potential anti-ship exercise featuring the PLA’s Rocket Force, ballistic missiles can target large surface vessels and heavy anti-ship cruise missiles could also conduct long-range strike from 300 to 400 kilometres away, Song told the tabloid.Earlier in the month, China’s air force held live-fire drills and sent more fighter jets to one of its bases in the SCS, official media reported.A brigade under the PLA Southern Theater Command Navy aviation forces based in south China’s Hainan Province held live-fire maritime target attack drills with JH-7 fighter bombers, China National Radio (CNR) reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-begins-live-fire-drills-with-powerful-ammo-near-south-china-sea/story-rtUlQhCKpIAkU5Okj1HL5O.html
26-07-2020||World||Singapore to begin coronavirus vaccine human trials this week: Report||Singapore will start human trials as early as this week for a Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Duke-NUS Medical School and American pharmaceutical company Arcturus Therapeutics, the Straits Times reports.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage‘Lunar-Cov19’ is among 25 vaccine candidates globally to reach human-trials stage and will be tested on 108 healthy volunteers of various ages in Singapore, the newspaper said.The trial will determine the vaccine’s safety and its ability to produce the “soldiers” needed to help the body fight an infection, Professor Ooi Eng Eong, deputy director of Duke-NUS Medical School’s emerging infectious diseases programme, was cited as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-to-begin-coronavirus-vaccine-human-trials-this-week-report/story-RMVLR0GTUmRnwevbB2QChL.html
26-07-2020||World||Fires set, windows shattered in Virginia in solidarity with protestors of Portland||A city dump truck was set on fire as protesters faced off with police in Virginia’s capital during a demonstration in support of protesters on the other side of the country in Portland, Oregon.Virginia State Police and Richmond police worked to clear the crowd of a several hundred demonstrators late Saturday. City police declared an “unlawful assembly” around 11pm, and what appeared to be tear gas was deployed to disperse the group.Protesters had been planning for days the demonstration that was called “Richmond Stands with Portland,” news outlets reported, in an apparent reaction to ongoing tensions between protesters and US agents at the federal courthouse in Oregon’s largest city.Weeks of nationwide unrest have struck several US cities since the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis on May 25.Saturday’s protest in Richmond started at a park and then demonstrators marched to police headquarters, according to news outlets.Police tweeted a photo of rocks, batteries and other items the department said were thrown at its officers during the protest. A video also showed an officer extinguishing a mattress on fire in the middle of a road.Glass windows were also shattered at a Chipotle restaurant and a Virginia Commonwealth University dorm, the Richmond Times-Dispatch reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fires-set-windows-shattered-in-virginia-in-solidarity-with-protestors-of-portland/story-xAbBzsrFzo1AxuA7P39SWP.html
26-07-2020||World||Israelis continue protests against PM Netanyahu’s handling of Covid-19 pandemic||Thousands of Israelis held several demonstrations across the country against their Prime Minister Saturday, with the main protest taking place in Jerusalem outside the official residence of Benjamin Netanyahu.The protests have been going on for the past few weeks, sparked by what critics see as a government failure to handle the coronavirus crisis after initially keeping the threat of the virus at bay. Corruption charges against Netanyahu have further fuelled the demonstrations.“Bibi, go home,” read one sign held by a protester. Another placard read “Everyone can see that the emperor has lost his clothes.” Hundreds of protesters Saturday also gathered outside Netanyahu’s beach house in the upscale town of Caesarea.Last week, police used water cannons to disperse crowds in Jerusalem.After what has been called a hasty and erratic reopening of the economy in May, infections shot up with the average number of new cases daily at 2,000. The country’s economy has been battered by virus restrictions and the unemployment rate has skyrocketed to nearly 20%.Protesters say the government’s offers of financial assistance have been nowhere near enough.The protests came in the shadow of Netanyahu’s corruption trial which resumed this month. Hearings will start in January. He is charged with fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes in a series of scandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israelis-continue-protests-against-pm-netanyahu-s-handling-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-dMO3c0jEZ5LWoVZTcChtRP.html
26-07-2020||World||Over 600 people fall sick in US after contracting infection linked to bagged salads||Multistate outbreak of Cyclospora, an infection linked to consumption of bagged salads, has infected over 600 people in the United States. According to federal officials, the infection is linked to recalled batches of salad mixes by Fresh Express production facility located in Illinois.The salads mixes contained red cabbage, iceberg lettuce and carrots and other products by Fresh Express. The first few cases of infections were reported between May and this month across 11 US states including Georgia, Iowa, Illinois, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South Dakota and Wisconsin.“The FDA, along with CDC and state and local partners continue to investigate a multistate outbreak of Cyclospora infections potentially linked to salad products that were made by Fresh Express containing iceberg lettuce, red cabbage, and carrots and that were sold in several regions of the United States. The investigation includes Fresh Express branded products as well as products made by Fresh Express for retail store brands sold at ALDI, Giant Eagle, Hy-Vee, Jewel-Osco, ShopRite, and Walmart. Investigators continue to look into whether other retail brands may be impacted,” the FDA said in a release.Also read: North Korea’s Kim Jong Un locks down city after suspected Covid-19 caseThe US Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) has urged people to steer clear of salads. “Consumers should not eat, and restaurants and retailers should not sell or serve any of the recalled products. These products may either be branded with the Fresh Express label, or they may be branded with a number of retail store brand labels. The recalled retail store brands are ALDI Little Salad Bar, Giant Eagle, Hy-Vee, Jewel-Osco Signature Farms, ShopRite Wholesome Pantry, and Walmart Marketside,” the FDA stated.Cyclospora, a microscopic parasite, affects the intestinal tract and causes diarrhoea that can last for over a month. A person may start showing the symptoms nearly a week after consuming contaminated food or water.This comes at a time when the United States is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. With over 4 million coronavirus infections till date, the US tops the global coronavirus tally followed by Brazil and India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-600-people-fall-sick-in-us-after-contracting-infection-from-bagged-salads/story-9mWy4jBO0pfMKAgf3kh5gP.html
26-07-2020||World||Australia’s Victoria state reports 10 new coronavirus deaths, 459 cases||Australia’s Victoria state has recorded 10 deaths overnight from Covid-19, its highest daily toll amid a continuing surge in coronavirus cases. State Premier Daniel Andrews said the deaths included seven men and three women. A man in his 40s became one of the youngest Covid-19 fatalities in Australia. There are 459 new infections, the 21st straight day of triple-figure increases. The fatalities bring Victoria’s toll to 71 and Australia’s national tally to 155. A total of 228 people are hospitalized in Victoria, 42 in intensive care. Victoria processed 42,973 tests on Saturday, Andrews said, “far and away the biggest testing result that we’ve seen on a single day.” He said he is not currently planning to extend the lockdown in Melbourne, Australia’s second-largest city. In other developments in the Asia-Pacific region: — North Korea says leader Kim Jong Un has placed the city of Kaesong near the border with South Korea under lockdown after a person was found with suspected Covid-19 symptoms. Kim said he believes “the vicious virus” may have entered the country, state media reported Sunday. If the person is officially declared a virus patient, he or she would be the North’s first confirmed coronavirus case. North Korea has steadfastly said it has no single virus case on its territory, a claim questioned by outside experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-s-victoria-state-reports-10-new-coronavirus-deaths-459-cases/story-1azpuJrULjH7CAfvxNr8IN.html
26-07-2020||World||Protesters clash with cops amid anger over surge of federal agents in major cities of US||Police in Seattle used flashbang grenades and pepper spray Saturday against protesters who set fire to construction trailers outside a youth jail, amid a wave of public anger over President Donald Trump’s planned “surge” of federal agents into major cities.The sounds of repeated small detonations rang out in the streets of the city in Washington state, and smoke rose from an area where demonstrators had set fire to trailers by a construction site for the youth detention facility, an AFP reporter observed.Demonstrators slashed car tires and smashed trailer windows.Police in riot gear faced off against the demonstrators, some of whom held up umbrellas against falling pellets of pepper spray.The Seattle Times newspaper quoted police as saying 16 people were arrested on suspicion of assault against officers, obstruction and failure to disperse.The latest spasm of violence came after police and federal agents fired tear gas and forcefully dispersed protesters further south in Portland early Saturday, also in anger over Trump’s heavily-criticized “surge” of security forces.The city, the biggest in the state of Oregon, has seen nightly protests against racism and police brutality for nearly two months, initially sparked by the death of unarmed African American George Floyd at the hands of police in Minnesota. Portland is also a stage for the highly controversial crackdown by federal agents ordered by Trump -- one that is not supported by local officials there, and which many say smacks of authoritarianism.Civil unrest was not only confined to Portland. On Saturday, three members of a black militia were shot in Louisville, Kentucky at a Black Lives Matter protest, local media reported, citing police. Their injuries were not life-threatening.The protest, to demand justice for a black woman who was killed by police as she slept in her home, drew members of the black militia and a rival far-right militia, with the heavily armed groups facing off while separated by riot police. The groups dispersed peacefully later Saturday afternoon.In Portland, Friday’s demonstration was mainly peaceful, with crowds playing music and dancing, blowing soap bubbles and setting off fireworks.But it ended -- like many before it -- in a showdown between protesters and police, which escalated in a haze of tear gas and flashbang devices.One group of protesters formed a line with umbrellas and makeshift shields to try to protect themselves, as at least two fires burned outside fences around a federal courthouse.Tear gas was first fired around 11:00 pm. By 2:30 am police and federal agents were clearing the scene outside the courthouse with tear gas, pushing protesters back. Earlier, protesters who spoke to AFP complained of the federal agents’ presence in the city and voiced their support for the Black Lives Matter movement, which helped drive demonstrations across the country for weeks after Floyd’s killing.“I don’t like what’s happening down here, what Trump is doing,” Mike Shikany, a 55-year-old aerospace engineer, said, adding he did not “want to get anywhere near the little green men,” meaning the federal troops.Portland retiree Jean Mullen, 74, said that without pressure nothing would change. “It’s time to become the country we always brag about being. And we can’t brag anymore, about anything. We aren’t first in anything and it’s a terrible, terrible thing to see at the end of my life,” she said.The inspector general of the US Justice Department on Thursday opened an official investigation into the federal crackdown, but a federal judge in Oregon on Friday rejected a legal bid by the state to stop agents from detaining protesters.Trump, who is campaigning for re-election in November on a platform of “law and order,” announced on Wednesday a “surge” of federal agents to crime hotspots including Chicago, following an increase in violence in the nation’s third-largest city.Agents deployed there will partner with local law enforcement, not riot control forces as seen in Portland.Local officials have warned they would draw the line at any Portland-style deployment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protesters-clash-with-cops-amid-anger-over-surge-of-federal-agents-in-major-cities/story-d40VbKfBn1uha14WGikVzH.html
26-07-2020||World||Xi Jinping plans to control Pakistan’s politics, economy via CPEC authority: Report||Over the years China has made several attempts to take ultimate control of the political and economic affairs of Pakistan.Since 2016, President Xi Jinping has pushed for China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and a CPEC authority that would bring the country’s infrastructure and power-generation projects under his direct control.Though the proposal was rejected by the Nawaz Sharif government, it was finally accepted by Prime Minister Imran Khan.According to an article by Ali Salman Andani published in the Asia Times, Khan, a puppet of the military establishment, was able to manipulate the law to fulfil Xi’s desires to control the planning ministry of Pakistan.“I consider Pakistan’s Ministry of Planning, Development and Special Initiatives as one of the most crucial state institutions, whose senior bureaucrats could implicitly scrutinise and resist Xi’s draconian CPEC scheme, as they had access to all of the secret documents on the agreement and were involved, directly and indirectly, in the decision-making process,” Andani opined.“So long as the reins were under the control of civilian institutions led by representatives of the people and civil servants, thorough accountability of Xi’s master plan at least at some level and at some point in time - if not at once - was possible. Sidelining the civil institutions altogether would allow Xi to play on both sides of the board,” he said.Questioning the nature of the deal, the author said that the secretary of maritime affairs refused to show the highly confidential agreement to even the Senate Standing Committee on Finance.The article stated that by 2050 Xi plans to have ultimate control of the majority of the emerging-market economies.Andani said, “Xi doesn’t want the Belt and Road Initiative or any of its components to be held accountable or face resistance. He knows that his Chinese Dream of indoctrination of a majority of free people of the world by 2050 will not be fulfilled if the people of the countries victimised by the BRI come to know about his strategy to destroy their futures and those of their future generations.”He said that the CPEC authority will be the Communist Party of China’s (CPC’s) authorised representative in Pakistan responsible for conceiving, implementing, expanding, enforcing, controlling, regulating, coordinating, monitoring, evaluating and carrying out all activities related to the CPEC.The CPEC authority will also the constitutional power to initiate any investigation or even impose penalties against any public office holder, including the Prime Minister and President of Pakistan, or those directly or indirectly involved in CPEC-related activities wilfully resisting directions, instructions or specified orders, Andani said while adding, “Even the Prime Minister’s powers will be limited to what is specified in the CPEC Authority Bill 2020. So he too will have to obey Xi’s commands.”“The truth is that Xi is burdening those countries in debt traps while they are already suffering from intense balance-of-payments crises. Xi will slowly poison Pakistan and other poor economies by creating extreme shortages of foreign-exchange reserves. In the end, these countries will have to accept the invasion of their political and economic systems by the Communist Party of China,” he said.The author opined that the “selected” government of Pakistan is fulfilling Xi’s dreams at the cost of the country’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and freedom of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-plans-to-control-pakistan-s-politics-economy-via-cpec-authority-report/story-HrIv80Vg8PtPZDgNQHomOO.html
26-07-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson set to overhaul Britain’s treason laws||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set to overhaul the United Kingdom’s treason laws, the Mail on Sunday newspaper reported. Johnson’s overhaul will see a new Treason Act, a new Espionage Act for tracking foreign agents and a rewriting of the Official Secrets Act to make it suitable for the digital era, the newspaper reported, citing Downing Street sources.The newspaper described the overhaul as the biggest shakeup of the treason laws since 1695, saying it was being done to counter the threat posed by Russia and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-set-to-overhaul-britain-s-treason-laws/story-rvWGn1EAFUQ64rSlXhttfP.html
26-07-2020||World||Will boost ability to handle space threat from Russia, China: UK Defence Secretary||Britain will boost its ability to handle threats posed by Russia and China in space as part of a foreign, security and defence policy review being conducted by the UK government, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said late on Saturday.On Thursday, Britain said it was concerned about a Russian satellite test which involved the launch of a projectile with the “characteristics of a weapon”.“This week we have been reminded of the threat Russia poses to our national security with the provocative test of a weapon-like projectile from a satellite threatening the peaceful use of space”, Wallace wrote in The Sunday Telegraph newspaper, adding that China also posed a threat.“China, too, is developing offensive space weapons and both nations are upgrading their capabilities. Such behaviour only underlines the importance of the review the (UK) government is currently conducting”, he added.Tensions between Britain and Russia have been high in recent weeks, as Britain has targeted Russians with new sanctions, accused Russian actors of trying to meddle in last year’s election and said Moscow has tried to hack into vaccine research.Separately, Britain announced on Monday it would suspend its extradition treaty with Hong Kong in an escalation of a dispute with China over its introduction of a national security law for the former British colony.Earlier this month, Prime Minister Boris Johnson ordered equipment from China’s Huawei Technologies to be purged completely from Britain’s 5G network by the end of 2027.China - once courted as the prime source of investment in British infrastructure projects - has accused Britain of pandering to the United States.The Mail on Sunday newspaper reported that Johnson was also set to overhaul the United Kingdom’s treason laws to counter threats posed by China and Russia, with the step likely to see a new Treason Act, a new Espionage Act and a rewriting of the Official Secrets Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-boost-ability-to-handle-space-threat-from-russia-china-uk-defence-secretary/story-3IFVYBb4AyzpbEkFK4HOFP.html
26-07-2020||World||Brazil records over 51,000 Covid-19 cases, 1,211 deaths in last 24 hours||More than 51,000 new coronavirus cases were confirmed in Brazil in the past 24 hours, while the death toll increased by over 1,200 in that period, according to the latest data from the country’s health ministry.The Latin American country now has a total of 2,394,513 confirmed Covid-19 cases, with 51,147 new cases having been registered in the past 24 hours, the ministry said on Saturday. Over the same period, 1,211 new deaths were confirmed, bringing the country’s total toll up to 86,449.On Friday, Brazil reported 55,891 new Covid-19 cases and over 1,150 new virus-related deaths. A week ago, Brazil’s toll stood at around 78,700, thus the country has seen a weekly rise of about 8,000 coronavirus-related fatalities, one thousand more than the previous weekly rise.Over 1.6 million people have recovered from Covid-19 in Brazil since the start of the epidemic in the country, according to the health ministry.WHO Executive Director Michael Ryan said earlier this month that the coronavirus curve had plateaued in Brazil and that the country, which is only surpassed by the US in terms of total cases and deaths, could now push the disease down.On Saturday, Brazilian media reported that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Rio de Janeiro had cancelled the New Year’s Eve celebrations that bring three million people every year to Copacabana beach.President Jair Bolsonaro, who has tested positive for the new coronavirus twice since falling ill earlier in July, said on Saturday that his third test had come back negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-records-over-51-000-covid-19-cases-1-211-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-FCZqbY3r4NjgcjLET5qubK.html
26-07-2020||World||UK puts Spain back on unsafe country list for Covid-19||Britain is advising people not to travel to Spain and has removed the country from the list of safe places to visit following a surge of Covid-19 cases. The Department for Transport issued a statement late Saturday warning that as of midnight, anyone returning from vacation in Spain would have to self-isolate.“Following a significant change over the last week in both the level and pace of change in confirmed cases, Spain has been removed from the list of countries where people do not have to self-isolate when arriving into to the UK,’‘ the Department for Transport said in a statement. People already on holiday in Spain were being urged to return home as normal and check the Foreign Office’‘s advice pages for further information. Spain has reported over 900 new daily infections for the last two days as authorities warn that the country that lost over 28,000 lives before getting its outbreak under control could be facing the start of a second major outbreak. “Protecting public health is our absolute priority and we have taken this decision to limit any potential spread to the U.K.,’‘ the government said. Britain has Europe’s worst outbreak, with over 45,800 confirmed virus-related deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-puts-spain-back-on-unsafe-country-list-for-covid-19/story-rQ0d8SbLsxc65r2VQTSOkO.html
26-07-2020||World||US reports over 68,000 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, tally tops 4.17 million||The United States on Saturday recorded 68,212 new coronavirus cases in the previous 24 hours, Johns Hopkins University reported in its real-time tally.That brought the total number of cases in the world’s hardest-hit country to 4,174,437, the Baltimore-based university said at 8:30 pm (0030 Sunday).Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Another 1,067 deaths were reported, bringing the country’s total fatalities to 146,391.After a drop in the rate of infections in late spring, the US has seen a coronavirus surge, particularly in southern and western states like California, Texas, Alabama and Florida. For the past 12 days, the number of new cases being reported each day has topped 60,000.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Scientists agree that an increase in death rates follows the spike in infections by three to four weeks.The daily death toll for the past four days has exceeded 1,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-reports-over-68-000-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-tally-tops-4-17-million/story-R8IQIFiCLJI8V05vw6QIzH.html
26-07-2020||World||Turkey and Greece in war of words of over prayers at Hagia Sophia||Turkey and Greece exchanged harsh words on Saturday over the conversion of Istanbul’s Hagia Sophia into a mosque, a day after Islamic prayers were held at the ancient site for the first time in nine decades.President Tayyip Erdogan, who attended Friday’s ceremony that sealed his ambition to restore Muslim worship at Hagia Sophia, did not name Greece but said critics of the move were simply against Muslims and Turkey.Greek criticism of the move has been especially scathing, underlining tense ties between Greece and Turkey. Hagia Sophia was previously a museum and most Greeks view it as central to their Orthodox Christian religion: church bells tolled in mourning across Greece on Friday.“We see that the targets of those countries who have made so much noise in recent days are not Hagia Sophia or the eastern Mediterranean,” Erdogan said in a televised speech.“(Their targets) are the presence itself of the Turkish nation and Muslims in this region,” he said. In a statement earlier on Saturday, the Turkish foreign ministry spokesman said “Greece showed once again its enmity towards Islam and Turkey with the excuse of reacting to Hagia Sophia Mosque being opened to prayers”.He strongly condemned hostile statements by the Greek government and parliament members and Turkish flag-burning in the Greek city of Thessaloniki.The Greek foreign ministry responded with its own statement, saying “the international community of the 21st century is stunned to observe the religious and nationalist fanatic ramblings of today’s Turkey.”On Friday, Greek prime minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis called Turkey a “troublemaker”, and the conversion of the site an “affront to civilisation of the 21st century”.Greece and Turkey disagree on a range of issues from airspace to maritime zones in the eastern Mediterranean and ethnically split Cyprus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-and-greence-in-war-of-words-of-over-prayers-at-hagia-sophia/story-x0utu1pkVGfrWc7ykJz5NI.html
26-07-2020||World||Queen Elizabeth sees new portrait unveiled at Britain’s Foreign Office||Britain’s Foreign Office has unveiled a new portrait of Queen Elizabeth by the artist Miriam Escofet, which the queen viewed online on Friday during a meeting to thank staff for their work helping travellers affected by coronavirus restrictions.The portrait depicts Elizabeth wearing a blue knee-length dress, pearls and low-heeled black shoes, seated on a chair covered in gold leaf in an ornately furnished room, with a tea cup and a vase of mauve roses on the table beside her.On the wall behind the queen is the bottom of a much older portrait, of which only a Cavalier King Charles Spaniel and the lower part of a lady’s white frilly dress is visible.“I’m glad I’ve had the chance to see it. I hope I’ll see it in real life one day,” Queen Elizabeth said after watching the portrait be unveiled via video conference.The 94-year-old monarch also thanked foreign ministry staff for their efforts to repatriate British nationals who struggled to return home due to coronavirus restrictions, and also heard about international efforts to develop a vaccine.“Her Majesty the Queen is our best diplomat,” Simon McDonald, head of Britain’s diplomatic service, said.The queen sat twice for the portrait by Escofet, who was born in Barcelona but has spent most of her life in the United Kingdom, and won Britain’s most prestigious prize for portraiture in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-elizabeth-sees-new-portrait-unveiled-at-britain-s-foreign-office/story-x99380LLVh8NepBBcDKHZJ.html
26-07-2020||World||Children need green pandemic recovery, celebrity parents tell UK PM Boris Johnson||More than 100 high-profile parents from tech entrepreneur Martha Lane-Fox to fashion designer Vivienne Westwood urged Britain’s government on Sunday to ensure economic recovery from the pandemic tackles climate change and puts children at its centre.The 115 business leaders, musicians, scientists, actors and campaigners used an open letter to urge Britain’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson not to “build our way out of one disaster by super-charging the next”.Actress Julie Walters, who was among the signatories, said governments should ramp up their efforts to tackle climate change, in the same way they have responded to protect people from Covid-19.“For the sake of our children, we need governments to put the same energy and investment into preventing an even greater climate catastrophe from unfolding across the globe,” she said.If planet-warming emissions rebound to pre-pandemic levels, it would have “catastrophic consequences for children’s lives and livelihoods”, the letter warned, with those from the poorest and most disadvantaged communities being hit hardest.Spending on green measures - like boosting renewable energy, insulating homes, installing electric vehicle charging points and re-establishing woodlands - would create more and better jobs than rebuilding a fossil-fuel economy, it said.Young people have been most likely to lose their jobs or see their income drop during the virus lockdown, it noted.“Investing in a low-carbon recovery makes sense whether you are worried about the economy or the environment. The two are inextricably linked,” said the former chief executive of Unilever Paul Polman, who signed the letter.Rosamund Kissi-Debrah, who has campaigned to have the 2013 death of her nine-year-old daughter from asthma officially linked to illegal levels of air pollution, said she hoped that as a father with a baby, Johnson would understand the impact.“This is not an elitist conversation, air pollution affects the poorest and vulnerable the most, and we need to continue the fight,” she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.“Every time the prime minister goes ‘build, build, build’, I worry there’s nothing green about the initiatives,” said Kissi-Debrah, who is the World Health Organization’s advocate for health and air quality.Parents plan to gather outside the prime minister’s residence in Downing Street on Sunday to coincide with the letter, coordinated by climate activist groups Mothers Rise Up and Parents for Future UK.The parents, standing a metre apart, will carry hand-held wind turbines to symbolise the need for low-carbon investment.The British government has a binding target to cut its greenhouse gas emissions to net-zero by 2050.In June, Britain’s independent Committee on Climate Change said the country would have to move faster to achieve that goal.Its chairman John Gummer emphasised the need to take advantage of a “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity” presented by the pandemic to shift the economy onto a greener path.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/children-need-green-pandemic-recovery-celebrity-parents-tell-uk-pm-boris-johnson/story-dPxgfYjvNYLZXJAPUUl26H.html
26-07-2020||World||Covid-19-weary Texas braces as Hurricane Hanna makes landfall||Hurricane Hanna made a second landfall in Texas on Saturday afternoon.The first hurricane of the 2020 Atlantic hurricane season made its second landfall at around 6.15 pm in eastern Kenedy County, about 15 miles north-northwest of Port Mansfield. It had maximum sustained winds of 90 mph (145 kph).Earlier in the afternoon, the storm had made landfall on Padre Island, about 15 miles (24 kilometers) north of Port Mansfield, which is about 130 miles (209 km) south of Corpus Christi and about 70 miles (113 km) north of Brownsville. Hurricane Hanna roared ashore onto the Texas Gulf Coast, bringing winds that lashed the shoreline with rain and storm surge, and even threatening to bring possible tornadoes to a part of the country trying to cope with a spike in coronavirus cases. The hurricane made landfall around 5 pm CDT about 15 miles (24 kilometers) north of Port Mansfield, which is about 130 miles (209 km) south of Corpus Christi and about 70 miles (113 km) north of Brownsville. As of Saturday evening, it had maximum sustained winds of 90 mph (145 kph). Many parts of Texas, including the area where Hanna came ashore, have been dealing with a surge in coronavirus cases in recent weeks, but local officials said they were prepared for whatever the storm might bring. Corpus Christi Mayor Joe McComb said Saturday that he had seen some residents doing last-minute shopping for supplies, but he warned that if that hadn’t been done already, people should stay at home and ride out the storm. “We’ve been staying at home for five months because of the corona(virus). ... So staying home doesn’t sound real popular, but right now this is a real important matter,” McComb said, adding that residents should remember to wear masks if they have to evacuate their homes. Steady rain fell Saturday in Corpus Christi and the winds got stronger.Sherry Boehme, who lives in a condo along the beach there, said the storm’s approach had increased the anxiety she has felt during the pandemic. The 67-year-old has mostly stayed at home because of health issues related to chronic lung disease. “It’s almost like a double whammy to us,” Boehme said Saturday by phone. “I think it’s made a lot of people nervous. ... We’ll get through it. Everybody is good and strong and sticks together.” Boehme said she’d already felt 60 mph wind gusts at her condo and had seen a surge of water coming from the bay. Most people seemed to be staying home, as traffic was light, she said. Judge Barbara Canales, Nueces County’s top elected official, said officials were highly concerned about storm surge that was already moving inland. Live webcam footage showed waves sweeping over popular Whitecap Beach near Corpus Christi hours before the hurricane was expected to make landfall. First responders in Corpus Christi proactively placed barricades near intersections to have them ready to go if streets began to flood, McComb said. More than 35,000 people throughout South Texas, including Corpus Christi, Harlingen and Brownsville, were without power early Saturday evening, according to AEP Texas. Corpus Christi is in Nueces County, where health officials made headlines when they revealed that 60 infants tested positive for Covid-19 from July 1 to 16. Farther south in Cameron County, which borders Mexico and where Brownsville is located, more than 300 confirmed new cases have been reported almost daily for the past two weeks, according to state health figures. The past week has also been the county’s deadliest of the pandemic. The main hazard from Hanna was expected to be flash flooding. Forecasters said Hanna could bring 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 centimeters) of rain through Sunday night — with isolated totals of 18 inches (46 centimeters) — in addition to coastal swells that could cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions. Coastal states scrambled this spring to adjust emergency hurricane plans to account for the virus, and Hanna loomed as the first big test. South Texas officials’ plans for any possible rescues, shelters and monitoring of the storm will have the pandemic in mind and incorporate social distancing guidelines and mask wearing. Gov Greg Abbott said Saturday that some sheltering would take place in hotel rooms so people could be separated. “We cannot allow this hurricane to lead to a more catastrophically deadly event by stoking additional spread of COVID-19 that could lead to fatalities,” Abbott said. Various resources and personnel to respond to the storm were on standby across the state, including search-and-rescue teams and aircraft. Mobile teams that can continue testing for Covid-19 were also being deployed. Abbott said he has issued a disaster declaration for 32 counties in Texas and had asked the federal government to approve a similar declaration. Tornadoes were also possible Saturday for parts of the lower to middle Texas coastal plain, forecasters said. A hurricane warning remained in effect for Port Mansfield to Mesquite Bay, which is north of Corpus Christi, and a tropical storm warning was in effect from Port Mansfield south to Barra el Mezquital, Mexico, and from Mesquite Bay north to High Island, Texas. Mexico’s northeasternmost states, coastal Tamaulipas and Nuevo Leon just to its west, also took precautions ahead of the storm’s arrival. Tamaulipas was preparing shelters and disinfecting them to try to avoid spreading Covid-19, the state’s governor, Francisco Cabeza de Vaca, tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-weary-texas-braces-as-hurricane-hanna-makes-landfall/story-rDzjeTq8mHpCqm0ggcXcuN.html
26-07-2020||World||Hurricane Hanna makes landfall, rakes Texas coast with high wind||Hanna, 2020’s first Atlantic hurricane, made landfall on Padre Island Saturday evening, bringing “life-threatening” storm surges, flooding rains and tree-toppling winds to south Texas.The storm came ashore with 90-mile-per-hour (145 kmph) winds, the National Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 6 pm EDT. Hanna is moving west-south-west at about 8 miles per hour.A Category 1 storm, the lowest on the five-step Saffir Simpson scale, much of Hanna’s damage is likely to come from dangerous storm surge and flooding inland rains. Video of flooded and streets blocked with debris have been posted on Twitter. Texas Governor Greg Abbott issued a disaster declaration for 32 counties in Hanna’s path.Three other named Atlantic storms have hit the US in 2020 so far but at below hurricane strength.“Life-threatening storm surge will continue along portions of the Texas coast,” Stacy Stewart, a senior hurricane specialist at the center, wrote in his forecast. “Hanna is expected to produce heavy rains across portions of southern Texas and northeastern Mexico.”Water in many Texas bays could reach 6 feet above high tide levels and residents in its path have been told to flee, a situation made more complicated by the presence of Covid-19. Seas are already starting to rise along the coast. Storm surges kill about half of all those who die in hurricanes.The storm could have an impact on cotton crops in the region, but Hanna’s most powerful winds are rather compact, stretching just 25 miles from its center, said Ryan Truchelut, president of WeatherTiger LLC in Tallahassee, Florida.While Hanna has prompted some offshore rigs to evacuate, the impact on oil and natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico has been muted.Hanna isn’t the only threat. Hurricane Douglas is still bearing down on Hawaii also 90-mph winds, the center said, although it’s weakened after peaking as Category 4 storm on Friday. Douglas was about 440 miles east of Hilo and on its current track it could clip Maui and Oahu overnight Sunday into Monday.Heavy rain is likely regardless of whether Douglas makes a direct strike on one of the Hawaiian islands or just passes by, and could touch off mudslides and floods. While it will weaken as it nears the chain, Douglas will probably be at least a Category 1 hurricane at that point. President Donald Trump approved an emergency declaration for the state.Meanwhile, compact Gonzalo fell apart near the Caribbean Windward Islands. Forecasters are also watching a tropical wave of thunderstorms moving off Africa that has a 70% chance of becoming Isaias, 2020’s ninth named storm.“The tropical wave is a major concern for the week ahead,” Truchelut said. “This system is likely to develop, and may target the Southeastern US in around 10 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-hanna-makes-landfall-rakes-texas-coast-with-high-wind/story-NBuUnVSSuoq4t8XWgDaWFP.html
26-07-2020||World||North Korea’s Kim Jong Un locks down city after suspected Covid-19 case: Report||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un placed the city of Kaesong near the border with South Korea under total lockdown after a person was found with suspected Covid-19 symptoms, saying he believes “the vicious virus” may have entered the country, state media reported Sunday.If the person is officially declared a virus patient, he or she would be the North’s first confirmed coronavirus case.North Korea has steadfastly said it has no single virus case on its territory, a claim questioned by outside experts.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The lockdown was declared Friday afternoon. The Korean Central News Agency said the suspected case is a runaway who had fled to South Korea years ago before illegally crossing the border into the North early last week.KCNA said respiratory secretion and blood tests showed the person “is suspected to have been infected” with the virus.It said the suspected case and others who were in contact as well as those who have been to Kaesong in the last five days were placed under quarantine.Describing its anti-virus efforts as a “matter of national existence,” North Korea earlier this year shut down nearly all cross-border traffic, banned foreign tourists and mobilized health workers to quarantine anyone with symptoms.But the Kaesong lockdown is the first such known measure taken in a North Korean city to stem the pandemic.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Foreign experts say a coronavirus outbreak in North Korea could cause dire consequences because of its poor public health care infrastructure and chronic lack of medical supplies.Kaesong, a city with an estimated 200,000 people, is located just north of the heavily fortified land border with South Korea. It once hosted the Koreas’ jointly run industrial complex, which remains stalled since 2016 amid nuclear tensions. Last month, North Korea blew up an inter-Korean liaison office in Kaesong to protest a campaign by South Korean activists who have been sending anti-Pyongyang leaflets across the border.During an emergency Politburo meeting Saturday, Kim also declared a state of emergency in the Kaesong area and “clarified the determination of the Party Central Committee to shift from the state emergency anti-epidemic system to the maximum emergency system and issue a top-class alert,” KCNA said.It quoted Kim as saying that there was “a critical situation in which the vicious virus could be said to have entered the country.”Kim said he took “the preemptive measure of totally blocking Kaesong City and isolating each district and region from the other within July 24 afternoon just after receiving the report on it,” according to KCNA.The Politburo meeting also discussed the “loose guard performance” at the border area where the suspected case crossed over to North Korea.KCNA said that Kim and other leaders were briefed on the results of an intensive investigation of a military unit responsible for the border crossing case and discussed administering “a severe punishment.”More than 33,000 North Koreans have fled to South Korea over the past 20 years to avoid poverty and political suppression, mostly via the long, porous border with China.Buy it’s rare for North Korean refugees to return to their homeland by crossing the mine-strewn inter-Korean border.The South Korean government has no immediate comments on the North Korean announcement.“Blaming an alleged return defector for bringing COVID-19 into the country is likely intended to shift blame for spread of the virus away from China and Pyongyang and on to Seoul,” Leif-Eric Easley, a professor at Ewha University in Seoul, said.“This may also be a tactic for ratcheting up diplomatic pressure on (South Korea) and trying to further dissuade North Koreans from defecting to the South,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-locks-down-city-after-suspected-covid-19-case-report/story-Fgx6aspHmHLAnPal2vSEgL.html
26-07-2020||World||6,500 Pakistan terrorists present in Afghanistan, most belong to TTP: UN report||The total number of Pakistani terrorists in Afghanistan is estimated at between 6,000 and 6,500, most of them belonging to the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP), posing a threat to both countries, according to a report by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).The 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning ISIS, al-Qaeda and associated individuals and entities was submitted by the 1267 monitoring committee of the UNSC.The report stated that TTP, which is a large terrorist group present in Afghanistan, is led by Amir Noor Wali Mehsud, supported by his deputy Qari Amjad and spokesperson Mohammad Khorasani.“TTP has claimed responsibility for various high-profile attacks in Pakistan and has facilitated others by Jamaat-ul-Ahrar (JuA) and Lahskhar-e-Islam. Many former TTP members have already joined ISIL-K (Islamic State of Iraq and Levant-Khorasan) and member states expect that the group and its various splinter groups will align themselves with ISIL-K,” it said.“The total number of Pakistani foreign terrorist fighters in Afghanistan, posing a threat to bothcountries, is estimated at between 6,000 and 6,500, most of them with TTP,” the report noted.This report has yet again proved that Pakistan continues to be sheltering and supporting terrorists on its soil.On July 21, Islamabad’s claim of not aiding terror was busted after Pakistani ID cards were recovered from the bodies of terrorists killed in Afghanistan’s Kandahar province, Khaama news agency reported. In another recent attack, 25 Taliban terrorists, including 12 Pakistanis, were killed in an airstrike by NATO Rescue Support in Takht-e-Pol town of the province.Last month, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan raked up a controversy by calling slain terrorist and 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden a “shaheed” (martyr) while addressing the National Assembly.Amid frequent reports of Pakistan’s misdemeanour, the country received another extension on the ‘Grey List’ during the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) plenary session on June 25. Islamabad is yet to complete 13 out of 27 items of its FATF Action Plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/6-500-pakistan-terrorists-present-in-afghanistan-most-belong-to-ttp-un-report/story-PrwAo3ZXzvUptauzMsDQfM.html
26-07-2020||World||UK quarantines travellers from Spain, recommends ‘only essential travel’||Britain abruptly imposed a two-week quarantine on all travellers arriving from Spain after a surge of coronavirus cases, a dramatic and sudden reversal on Saturday to the opening of the European continent to tourism after months of lockdown.The quarantine requirement was due to take effect from midnight (2300 GMT on Saturday), making it impossible for travellers to avoid it by rushing home.The British foreign ministry also announced it was recommending against all but essential travel to mainland Spain, a move likely to prompt tour operators to cancel package holidays and trigger claims against insurers.Spain’s Canary and Balearic Islands were not covered by the advice to avoid travel to the mainland, but holidaymakers returning to Britain from the islands will still be subject to quarantine on return.Britain’s government urged employers to be “understanding” towards staff who are unable to return to their place of work for two weeks after they return from holiday.The sudden British move followed steps this week by other European countries. On Friday Norway said it would re-impose a 10-day quarantine requirement for people arriving from Spain from Saturday, while France advised people not to travel to Spain’s northeastern region of Catalonia.But the total collapse of tourism from Britain would have far more impact. Britain accounted for more than 20% of the foreign visitors to Spain last year, the largest group by nationality. Tourism normally accounts for some 12% of Spain’s economy.Spain had been on a list of countries that the British government had said were safe for travellers to visit - meaning tourists returning home would not have to go into quarantine.The announcement of such lists just weeks ago had allowed Europe’s tourism sector to begin its revival after the near total shut-down prompted by the Covid-19 pandemic.Responding to the British measures, Spain said on Saturday it was a safe country with localised, isolated and controlled outbreaks of the coronavirus.A Spanish Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said Spain “respects decisions of the United Kingdom” and was in touch with the authorities there.The British move will affect not just Spain’s tourism sector but airlines and travel companies struggling to get back to business.Britain’s opposition Labour Party said the news was “deeply concerning” and called for support for British people affected.A ‘SAFE’ COUNTRYAntonio Perez, the mayor of Benidorm, a resort on Spain’s Costa Blanca that is hugely dependent on British tourists, called the move “another tough blow”.“We have suffered lot this year and then this happened. We thought that the British were going to come back but this makes things harder for now,” he said.Spain was one of the worst hit countries in Europe by the pandemic, with more than 290,000 cases, and more than 28,000 deaths. It imposed very strict lockdown measures to contain the spread, gradually easing them earlier this summer.But the last few weeks saw a surge of cases, forcing local lockdowns to be reimposed in some areas.On Friday Spanish Foreign Minister Arancha Gonzalez Laya told CNN television that like many countries around the world that have managed to control the disease, Spain “has outbreaks but the governments -- both national and regional -- are working to isolate cases as soon as they appear”.The Catalonia region reported 1,493 new coronavirus cases and three deaths on Saturday. The regional government has urged residents of Barcelona to stay at home, and ordered all discos to shut from Saturday for the next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-quarantines-travellers-from-spain-recommends-only-essential-travel/story-hif0U5tAhwF1aAx6JQvg4H.html
26-07-2020||World||One soldier killed, three injured in terror attack in Balochistan||A Pakistani army soldier was killed and three others were injured when their convoy was ambushed by terrorists in the restive Balochistan’s Turbat area on Saturday, official said. The incident happened after terrorists opened fire on the security forces during their routine patrolling near Pidarak in Kech district, approximately 35 kilometres southeast of Turbat, the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) said in a statement.“During the exchange of fire, Lance Naik Javed Karim was killed while three other soldiers got injured,” the ISPR said.Security forces have come under increasing terror attacks by terrorists in Baluchistan and also the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in recent weeks.On July 14, three soldiers were killed and eight others injured when they were ambushed by terrorists in the Panjgur district of Baluchistan.In May, six security personnel of the Frontier Corps, including a Major, were killed in an explosion in the Buleda area of the province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-soldier-killed-three-injured-in-terror-attack-in-pak/story-xud8DKHw35pVjMYICC3TlL.html
