28-07-2020||World||Inflation threat looms for Dollar as reserve currency, Goldman warns||Goldman Sachs Group Inc. put a spotlight on the suddenly growing concern over inflation in the U.S. by issuing a bold warning Tuesday that the dollar is in danger of losing its status as the world’s reserve currency.With Congress closing in on another round of fiscal stimulus to shore up the pandemic-ravaged economy, and the Federal Reserve having already swelled its balance sheet by about $2.8 trillion this year, Goldman strategists cautioned that U.S. policy is triggering currency “debasement fears” that could end the dollar’s reign as the dominant force in global foreign-exchange markets.While that view is clearly still a minority one in most financial circles -- and the Goldman analysts don’t say they believe it will necessarily happen -- it captures a nervous vibe that has infiltrated the market this month: Investors worried that this money-printing will trigger inflation in years ahead have been bailing out of the dollar and piling furiously into gold.“Gold is the currency of last resort, particularly in an environment like the current one where governments are debasing their fiat currencies and pushing real interest rates to all-time lows,” wrote Goldman strategists including Jeffrey Currie. There are now, they said, “real concerns around the longevity of the U.S. dollar as a reserve currency.”The Goldman report makes clear that Wall Street’s initial reluctance to sound the alarm on inflation back when the pandemic began is fading. Having been burned badly by ominous forecasts of runaway price gains following the fiscal and monetary stimulus that followed the 2008 financial crisis, many analysts have been hesitant to repeat such calls now, especially as the economy sinks into a deep recession.But with gold surging to record highs and bond investors’ inflation expectations climbing almost daily, albeit from very low levels, the debate on the long-term effects of stimulus has gotten louder.The 10-year breakeven rate, the gap between nominal and inflation-linked debt yields, has risen to about 1.51%, up from as low as 0.47% in March. That’s seen real yields, which strip out the impact of inflation, plunge further below zero -- to about -0.92% on similar-maturity bonds.Adding to the upward pressure on inflation expectations are forecasts that the Fed will soon link guidance on the policy rate to prices. That would provide at least some temporary space for inflation to run above the central bank’s 2% target.“The resulting expanded balance sheets and vast money creation spurs debasement fears,” the analysts at Goldman wrote. This creates “a greater likelihood that at some time in the future, after economic activity has normalized, there will be incentives for central banks and governments to allow inflation to drift higher to reduce the accumulated debt burden,” they said.Gold’s record-breaking rally highlights growing concern over the world economy. Goldman raised its 12-month forecast for gold to $2300 an ounce from $2000 an ounce previously. That compares with a value of around $1930 currently. The bank sees U.S. real interest rates continuing to drift lower, boosting gold further.Meanwhile, the Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index is on course for its worst July in a decade. The drop comes amid renewed calls for the dollar’s demise following a game-changing rescue package from the European Union deal, which spurred the euro and will lead to jointly issued debt.Of course, people have been wrong-footed in calling for the dollar’s demise for years -- including when the Fed was aggressively easing in the wake of the 2008 crisis.The ICE U.S. Dollar Index hasn’t had more than three constitutive years of annual declines since the early 1970s. That’s in part because there are few viable alternatives to dollar assets such as Treasuries, the world’s biggest bond market with nearly $20 trillion outstanding.The dollar is used in 88% of all currency trades, according to the latest triennial Bank for International Settlements survey. And it still accounts for about 62% of the world’s foreign-exchange reserves, although that’s down from a peak of more than 85% in the 1970s, IMF data showRichard Franulovich, head of FX strategy at Westpac Banking Corp., says that while Europe’s plans to finance stimulus via bond issuance is a plus for the euro, it won’t materially dampen the dollar’s dominance.“The USD’s position won’t be fundamentally challenged,” he wrote in a report this week.Ballooning Debt PileFor Goldman, the growing level of debt in the U.S. -- which now exceeds 80% of the nation’s gross domestic product -- and elsewhere, boosts the risk that central banks and governments may allow inflation to accelerate.Investors are poised to hear more about the Fed’s view on inflation with its latest policy decision Wednesday.“Until we get through the Fed, the dollar could strengthen as investors lock in profits,” Edward Moya, a senior market analyst at Oanda Corp. said in a note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/inflation-threat-looms-for-dollar-as-reserve-currency-goldman-warns/story-VlSo7aKz1PGBH4Mme5jIIL.html
28-07-2020||World||High time for world to question China’s genocide of Uyghurs, says activist||As China blatantly continues to commit crimes against the Uyghurs in the name of homogenisation, the global community has only now realised the way Beijing used the global war on terror post 9/11 attacks as a pretext to carry out the elimination of the ethnic clan.The irony is not lost on the Uyghur community that the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) and all Muslim-majority countries, in particular, are displaying absolutely no interest in the welfare of the Uyghur Muslims, as they are also victims of China’s massive campaign of lies. It is essential that Islamic countries, and our Muslim brothers and sisters, wake up and stand with us before they also become enslaved as our people are. Uyghurs today are a picture of what could be the future for them as China is waging war on Islam and announcing to the world that they are re-writing the Holy Qur’an. The Campaign For Uyghurs compiled a report last week named “China’s Genocide in East Turkistan - referred to as the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region by the Chinese government. This report lays out how each condition of genocide as defined by the United Nations is being met by the Chinese regime’s actions towards the Uyghurs. There must be greater recognition of the need to label these atrocities as what they are: Genocide. The report includes numerous case studies of Uyghurs being forced out of their homes and thrown into concentration camps. Women and children are special targets of the Chinese officials as they attempt to bring down the Uyghur population. Women are subjected to forced sterilisations. According to the news reports, Communist Party cadres are appointed to live inside of the Uyghur homes under a “pair up family” program to supervise the family. For most women, whose husbands are in the concentration camps or prisons, making them subject to sexual abuse, as many of these Chinese men have been photographed and filmed sharing their beds. There are also reports that more than 500,000 Uyghur children are sent to state-run orphanages. There they are made to forget their habits and religion, their identities, and their language. The homes vacated by the Uyghurs are given to Han Chinese from other parts of China who migrate to our homeland. They are given jobs, money and other preferential treatment in order to change the demographics while the Uyghurs are transferring out to be used as slave labour across China in the excuse of “unemployment”.The United Nations should set up an independent commission, preferably in consultation with the International Court of Justice, to physically probe the atrocities against Uyghurs. There are many necessary actions to be taken, and we must remember that this is not just the calamity of the Uyghurs, it is a test for humanity. As China continues to push the limits of what atrocities it can get away with, the civilized nations of the world must defeat a common enemy, which is in this case, the worldview of the Chinese regime that justifies the use of concentration camps and slavery, making this acceptable, and even rewarded behaviour in the modern age, by hosting the 2022 Olympic Winter games.We must no longer perpetuate the belief that decoupling from China is costly. What is the cost of human life? What is the cost of an entire ethnicity, my people? On the contrary, it is too costly to continue to have any cordial relationship with China! 13 tons of hair, perhaps but a portion of what is being taken from prisoners, seized recently, a product of this genocide. How can this image not pierce our conscience? Is this the hair of my sister? Who is benefiting from my sister’s forced labour? We know what this hair represents, a very physical representation of never again happening again. We must act now before the only voice left to speak is one of regret.My sister Dr Gulshan Abbas was taken as a victim for my activism in the US, and her daughters, American citizens, haven’t had any information on her whereabouts since September 2018. Yet, I am the one repeatedly smeared by China’s state media.China may buy the corrupt hearts of men. They may threaten, they may punish, they may smear our names and remove earthly possessions, but they will never succeed in silencing us. Will you hear us? (The author of this Opinion article is Rushan Abbas, an Uyghur activist.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/high-time-for-world-to-question-china-s-genocide-of-uyghurs-says-activist/story-XucrzujeqpmVJOSJ1KmRnI.html
28-07-2020||World||‘Second wave’ coronavirus fears strike blow to tourism industry||Concerns over a “second wave” of coronavirus infections brought on by returning holidaymakers is wreaking havoc across Europe’s tourism industry, particularly in Spain, following Britain’s effective ban on travel to the country.In a move that reflects the continent’s piecemeal approach to keeping the virus at bay, the British government has recommended against all but essential travel to the whole of Spain following an upswing in new infections.As part of the new stricter approach to travel to the country, all travelers arriving in Britain from that country will have to undergo a 14-day quarantine.“I’m afraid you are starting to see in some places the signs of a second wave of the pandemic,” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Tuesday in defending his government’s new travel advice.“I’m afraid if we do see signs of a second wave in other countries, it is really our job, our duty, to act swiftly and decisively,” he added.The move has not only dashed the hopes of many British holidaymakers for a getaway this summer, but also fanned renewed uncertainty within Europe’s tourism industry over how to plan ahead amid authorities’ responses to new COVID-19 outbreaks.Johnson indicated that there could be further changes to the government’s travel advice for other holiday destinations in Europe.Germany also tightened its travel advice for Spain, but did not go as far as the U.K. Instead, it is advising against travel to the northeastern regions of Catalonia, Aragón, and Navarra.The head of Germany’s national disease control center also warned of “really, really worrying” developments over the last two weeks amid a resurgence of virus outbreaks.Robert Koch Institute chief Lothar Wieler pointed to “a lot of small outbreaks in various places at the same time” that are becoming more frequent.Wieler urged his country’s citizens not to let their guard down and to stick to social distancing, hygiene and mask-wearing rules that “must never be questioned,” after new studies showed that people have become more complacent about Covid-19.“We don’t know if this is the beginning of a second wave, but of course it could be. It would begin with rising figures,” Wieler said. “If we all keep to these rules, I am still optimistic that we can prevent this.”Britain’s new travel advice prompted holiday companies TUI UK and Jet2 to suspend flights to Spain, which is traditionally the most popular summer destination for British vacationers.“The U.K. government must work closely with the travel industry as this level of uncertainty and confusion is damaging for business and disappointing for those looking forward to a well-deserved break,” TUI UK said in a statement.The U.K. has the highest official coronavirus death toll in Europe, with nearly 46,000 deaths. One of the reasons cited for that is that many travelers brought the virus back during the February school break after skiing trips in France, Italy and Spain.Professor Keith Neal, an epidemiologist at the University of Nottingham said it makes sense to advise against travel to Spain during the summer holiday season.“Some people have criticized the lack of notice, but with cases rising any delay would only increase cases in the U.K,” he added.Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez called the new recommendation “a mistake,” saying that the upsurge in new COVID-19 cases is only focused in the regions of Catalonia and Aragón, and is much less severe than the number of cases reported in the U.K.Sanchez spoke as figures were released showing that his country lost more than a million jobs in the second quarter of this year. Spain’s official statistics agency INE said that most of the 1.07 million lost jobs were in the service sector, with the worst-hit areas being Catalonia, Andalusia and Madrid.Spanish Foreign Minister Arancha Gonzalez Ayala tried to strike a conciliatory tone, saying that Madrid is trying to get the British government to concentrate on the scientific data, since the outbreaks are contained in specific areas within Spain, while coronavirus infection rates on the country’s vacation islands are much lower than in the U.K.Spain is still in talks with the British government, “trying to find a solution which meets epidemiological criteria,” Ayala told a press conference in Athens during an official visit to Greece Tuesday.Meanwhile, Madrid’s regional government made the use of face masks mandatory in all public areas and limited the number of people that can gather in one place, part of a drive to curb new coronavirus outbreaks.Regional government head Isabel Díaz Ayuso said that no more than 10 people can be present at private gatherings, while nightlife venues must close their doors at 1 a.m. — early by Spanish standards.Díaz Ayuso said an information campaign will focus on young people, who are largely blamed for spreading the coronavirus through their social life. She said young people “have it in their hands to reverse the trend.”Anyone caught drinking a beer in the street in Barcelona or elsewhere in the Catalonia region could be fined a maximum of 15,000 euros ($17,600).The new measure coming into effect Tuesday aimed to crack down on street parties mostly frequented by young people.Britain’s travel advice comes on the heels of similar decisions by other European governments, including Norway, which ordered a 10-day quarantine for people returning from the entire Iberian peninsula, and France, which urged its citizens not to visit Catalonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-wave-coronavirus-fears-strike-blow-to-tourism-industry/story-7Yi41vlSUPJfTCU6BB2HQJ.html
28-07-2020||World||Taliban to halt military operations over 3-day Eid holiday||The Taliban announced Tuesday they won’t carry out military operations in Afghanistan for three days during the Muslim holiday of Eid ul Adha that starts this weekend.In a statement promising a brief respite to the fighting, Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahed said commanders have been ordered not to carry out operations for three days and nights, but are allowed to defend themselves if attacked.The statement also said Taliban fighters are not to fraternize with Afghan security forces personnel and neither side is to cross into the other’s territory.The Afghan government welcomed the Taliban announcement and presidential spokesman Sediq Sediqqi said Afghan security forces were ordered not to attack but only defend themselves.The Taliban announcement follows a conciliatory message by leader Maulvi Hibatullah Akhunzada earlier Tuesday to mark the Muslim holiday. Both communiques come as Washington’s peace envoy returns to the region to try and jump-start negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban.In his Eid message, Akhundzada said the Taliban doesn’t seek to monopolize power in a future political makeup of Afghanistan. He also said they support education for all and are abiding by the peace deal signed with the U.S. in February. The lengthy message repeatedly references an Islamic government the Taliban seek to establish, without elaborating how it would be different.U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad was expected in the Afghan capital of Kabul, as well as in Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office. He was also expected in Islamabad, but there was some question about whether Pakistan was still part of his itinerary.The U.S.-Taliban deal signed Feb. 29 was touted as the best hope for peace in Afghanistan after decades of war. While the U.S. and NATO have already begun reducing their troop strength, the second phase of the deal — which calls for talks between the Taliban and the Kabul political leadership — has been delayed. Much of the delays have been as a result of Kabul’s reluctance to free several hundred of the Taliban prisoners identified for release as part of the agreement.Kabul had claimed those Taliban prisoners were hardened criminals, guilty of major crimes.But on Tuesday, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said he was ready to free the remainder of the prisoners, without specifying why the change of heart or if an agreement had been reached with the Taliban to substitute some of them, a proposal the Taliban earlier rejected.Under the deal, Kabul is to release 5,000 Taliban and the insurgents had promised to free 1,000 government and military personnel. So far, Kabul has freed bout 4,000 and the Taliban nearly 800.“With this action, we look forward to the start of direct negotiations with the Taliban in a week’s time,” said Ghani in the Afghan capital Kabul.Ghani also called for a permanent cease-fire but the Taliban have consistently said they were ready to negotiate a cease-fire in the talks with Kabul — whenever they begin — and accused the Afghan government of attacking the Taliban in their homes.Last week, the Taliban announced they were ready for talks with Afghanistan’s political leadership after the Eid al-Adha holiday, providing the last of the Taliban prisoners had been freed by then. The announcement followed one of the most significant shakeups in the Taliban in years.The Taliban have stuck to their promise not to attack U.S. and NATO troops, but have carried out scores of attacks on Afghan military targets. The United States would like to see those attacks reduced or stopped.“The Islamic Emirate has fulfilled its obligations regarding signing an agreement with the United States ... and efforts toward launching intra-Afghan negotiations,” said Akhunzada. “It is now up to the other parties to determine how they utilize this opportunity.”The Taliban, whose regime was ousted in 2001 by the U.S.-led invasion, said they would allow girls to go to school and women to work, should they return to power. Under a Taliban-ruled Afghanistan, girls were not allowed to go to school and women were barred from working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-to-halt-military-operations-over-3-day-eid-holiday/story-hdDIXnksZfN2iPidDAfpVL.html
28-07-2020||World||Global air travel expected to not recover before 2024, says trade association for airline industry||Global air travel is recovering more slowly than expected and will take until 2024 to return to pre-pandemic levels, the trade association for the airline industry said Tuesday.The International Air Transport Association pushed back its prediction by one year due to the slow containment of the outbreak in the U.S. and developing countries.The industry is seeing a rebound from the depths of the shutdowns in April, but the bad new is that any increase “is barely visible,” IATA chief economist Brian Pearce said Tuesday during an online briefing for journalists.Pearce said that air travel is not rebounding along with rising levels of business confidence in Europe, the U.S. and China. Traffic was down 86.5% in June from the same month a year ago, compared with a drop of 94.1% in April, measured as revenue passenger kilometers, or the distance travelled by all revenue-generating passengers.That improvement is “nowhere near the increase in business confidence,” Pearce said. China is bouncing back more than some other places, while an upturn in the U.S. has been knocked back by the recent upsurge in COVID-19 cases in a number of states.Besides renewed outbreaks, travel is also being held back by weak consumer confidence and constrained travel budgets at companies that are struggling.Despite parking many of their planes, airlines are struggling to fill seats with enough people to make money. Planes were only 62.9% full on domestic flights around the world, well below levels at which airlines make money, and an abysmal 38.9% for international travel.The U.S. is seeing more coronavirus cases after some states moved to lift restrictions on public life and business. The summer vacation season in Europe has seen more people move around and a rise in cases in Germany, which had earlier done better than many other countries in mitigating the outbreak.The head of the Robert Koch Institute there expressed concern over the rise in cases. Germany issued a travel warning for three regions in Spain and the U.K. has imposed a 14-day quarantine for travellers returning from Spain, a popular holiday destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-air-travel-expected-to-not-recover-before-2024-says-trade-association-for-airline-industry/story-ZpnEyXXETwfiYaiJiTAZeO.html
28-07-2020||World||Experimental Covid-19 vaccine is put to its biggest test||The biggest test yet of an experimental Covid-19 vaccine has got underway with the first of some 30,000 Americans rolling up their sleeves to receive shots created by the US government as part of the all-out global race to stop the outbreak.The glimmer of hope came even as Google, in one of the gloomiest assessments of the coronavirus’s staying power from a major employer, decreed that most of its 200,000 employees and contractors should work from home through next June - a decision that could influence other big companies.Final-stage testing of the vaccine, developed by the National Institutes of Health and Moderna Inc., began on Monday with volunteers at numerous sites around the US given either a real dose or a dummy without being told which.“I’m excited to be part of something like this. This is huge,” said Melissa Harting, a 36-year-old nurse who received an injection in Binghamton, New York. Especially with family members in front-line jobs that could expose them to the virus, she added, “doing our part to eradicate it is very important to me.” It will be months before results trickle in, and there is no guarantee the vaccine will ultimately work against the scourge that has killed about 650,000 people around the world, including almost 150,000 in the US. “We’ve been sitting on the sidelines passively attempting to wear our masks and social distance and not go out when it’s not necessary. This is the first step of becoming active against this,” researcher Dr. Frank Eder said at the trial site in Binghamton. “There’s really no other way to get past this.” As if to underline how high the stakes are, there were more setbacks in efforts to contain the coronavirus.In Washington, the Trump administration disclosed that national security adviser Robert O’Brien has the virus — the highest-ranking US official to test positive so far. The White House said he has mild symptoms and “has been self-isolating and working from a secure location off site.” The move to restart the national pastime ran into trouble just five days into the long-delayed season: Two major league baseball games scheduled for Monday night were called off as the Miami Marlins coped with an outbreak — the Marlins’ home opener against the Baltimore Orioles, and the New York Yankees’ game in Philadelphia, where the Marlins used the clubhouse over the weekend. As for relief from the economic damage done by the virus, Republicans on Capitol Hill planned to roll out a USD 1 trillion package that could include a new round of USD 1,200 stimulus checks but reduce the extra USD 600 a week in federal unemployment benefits that are expiring for millions of Americans this week.In Europe, rising infections in Spain and other countries caused alarm only weeks after nations reopened their borders in hopes of reviving tourism. Over the weekend, Britain imposed a 14-day quarantine on travellers arriving from Spain, Norway ordered a 10-day quarantine for people returning from the entire Iberian peninsula, and France urged its citizens not to visit Spain’s Catalonia region.Scientists set speed records getting a made-from-scratch vaccine into massive testing just months after the coronavirus emerged. But they stressed that the public shouldn’t fear that anyone is cutting corners. “This is a significant milestone,” NIH Director Francis Collins said after the very first test injection was given, at 6:45 a.m. in Savannah, Georgia. “Yes, we’re going fast, but no, we are not going to compromise” on proving whether the vaccine is safe and effective.“We are focusing on speed because every day matters,” added Stephane Bancel, CEO of Massachusetts-based Moderna.After volunteers get two doses a month apart, scientists will closely track which group experiences more infections as they go about their daily routines, especially in areas where the virus is spreading unchecked. The answer probably won’t come until November or December, cautioned Dr. Anthony Fauci, NIH’s infectious-diseases chief.Among many questions the study may answer: How much protection does just one dose offer compared with the two scientists think are needed? If it works, will it protect against severe disease or block infection entirely? Don’t expect a vaccine as strong as the measles vaccine, which prevents about 97 per cent of measles infections, Fauci said, adding he would be happy with a Covid-19 vaccine that’s 60 per cent effective.Several other vaccines made by China and by Britain’s Oxford University began smaller final-stage tests in Brazil and other hard-hit countries earlier this month. But the US requires its own tests of any vaccine that might be used in the country. Every month through the fall, the government-funded Covid-19 Prevention Network will roll out a new study of a leading candidate, each with 30,000 volunteers.The final US study of the Oxford shot is set to begin in August, followed by a candidate from Johnson & Johnson in September and one from Novavax in October. Pfizer Inc. plans its own 30,000-person study this summer.That’s a stunning number of people needed to roll up their sleeves for science. In recent weeks, more than 150,000 Americans filled out an online registry signaling interest, Collins said. But many more are needed. NIH is working to make sure that the study isn’t just filled with healthy, younger volunteers but includes populations hit hardest by Covid-19, including older adults, those in poor health and African-Americans and Latinos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/experimental-covid-19-vaccine-is-put-to-its-biggest-test/story-dPrpIbnPqbl9bFZ3vR1bvJ.html
28-07-2020||World||Indian-origin politician Pritam Singh appointed Singapore’s first Leader of Opposition in Parliament||Indian-origin politician Pritam Singh was on Tuesday designated as the Leader of the Opposition in Singapore, the first such appointment in the history of the city-state.The 43-year old Singh’s Workers’ Party won 10 parliamentary seats out of the 93 contested in the July 10 general elections held, making it the biggest opposition presence in Singapore’s Parliament.Singh is the Secretary-General of Workers’ Party. Singapore’s legislatures have never had formally designated Leaders of the Opposition, and such a position is not provided for in the Constitution or the Standing Orders of Parliament,” the parliamentary offices said in its statement on Tuesday.“Singapore’s legislatures have never had formal Leaders of the Opposition, not even in the 1950s and early 1960s when there were substantial numbers of opposition legislative assemblymen,” the Channel News Asia quoted the statement as saying. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s ruling People’s Action Party won 83 seats in the general elections and his government was sworn in on Monday. Singh will take on more duties and be accorded additional privileges in his role as the Leader of the Opposition, authorities said on Tuesday in a statement, laying out the details of the new post. “Similar to other Westminster parliamentary systems, Singh will lead the Opposition in presenting alternative views in parliamentary debates on policies, bills and motions,” said the Office of the Speaker of Parliament and Office of the Leader of the House in a joint statement.He will also lead and organise the scrutiny of the government’s positions and actions in Parliament, and be consulted on the appointment of opposition members to Select Committees, such as the Public Accounts Committee.Singh, who is also a lawyer, will receive an annual package of 385,000 Singapore dollars (USD 2,79,025.98) as allowances for his new role. Prime Minister Lee said on July 11 that Singh will be designated the Leader of the Opposition.After his swearing-in on Monday, Lee said that the election results have shown a strong desire among Singaporeans for a greater diversity of views in politics and that the trend is here to stay.“We have to give expression to it and evolve our political system to accommodate it while maintaining our cohesion and sense of national purpose,” said Lee.“As with any new political appointment, the role of the LO (Leader of the Opposition) will evolve as our political system develops,” the statement from Parliament said.“We look forward to working with the LO to create a robust but stable political system serving the interests of Singapore and Singaporeans,” it said.The statement added that these duties and privileges have been conveyed to Singh, and the Leader of the House will make a statement in Parliament to formally set out these terms.Singapore’s 14th Parliament will have its first sitting on August 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-politician-pritam-singh-appointed-singapore-s-first-leader-of-opposition-in-parliament/story-5tr5ahOvLCAAjQreSnNaoI.html
28-07-2020||World||Twitter suspends Donald Trump Junior’s account over purported coronavirus cure||Donald Trump Jr.’s Twitter account has been temporarily suspended after the president’s eldest son shared a video of a group of people touting hydroxychloroquine as an effective treatment for Covid-19.The Food and Drug Administration last month revoked emergency use authorization for the drug after determining it may have deadly side effects, and the World Health Organization also said it would discontinue its own tests of hydroxychloroquine.After an adviser to Trump Jr. reported the suspension, Twitter issued a statement saying the move was not permanent, but that the tweet “requires deletion because it violates our rules (sharing misinformation on Covid-19), and the account will have limited functionality for 12 hours.”Republicans, including the president, have railed against social media and technology companies, saying that they’re biased against conservatives. Yesterday, Trump criticized Twitter for automated trends that portray him negatively, saying that its “ridiculous, illegal, and of course, very unfair!” -- Mario Parker||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-suspends-donald-trump-junior-s-account-over-purported-coronavirus-cure/story-DqHBQWM4To8zkpVcmJkbTJ.html
28-07-2020||World||Donald Trump again pushes unproven drug as Covid-19 treatment||A week after appearing to project a more serious tone about the coronavirus, President Donald Trump is back to pushing unproven claims that an anti-malaria drug is an effective treatment and challenging the credibility of the nation’s leading infectious disease expert.Dr. Anthony Fauci pushed back Tuesday, saying he will keep doing his job.Numerous studies, meanwhile, have shown that the drug, hydroxychloroquine, is not an effective treatment for Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. And the U.S. Food and Drug Administration recently withdrew an order that allowed the drug’s use as a emergency treatment for Covid-19.Yet overnight, after returning from a trip to North Carolina where he promoted efforts to develop a Covid-19 vaccine, Trump retweeted a series of tweets advocating for hydroxychloroquine.The president also shared a post from the Twitter account for a podcast hosted by Steve Bannon, a former top White House adviser to Trump, accusing Fauci of misleading the public over hydroxychloroquine.Fauci, a leading member of the White House coronavirus task force, pushed back Tuesday during an appearance on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”“I go along with the FDA,” said Fauci, the longtime director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “The overwhelming prevailing clinical trials that have looked at the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine have indicated that it is not effective in coronavirus disease.”It’s not the first time Fauci has come under attack from Trump and those close to him.The president’s top trade adviser, Peter Navarro, who has clashed with Fauci over hydroxychloroquine, recently penned a scathing attack on the doctor that was published by USA Today. The newspaper later said the opinion piece did not meet its standards.In recent nationally televised interviews, Trump himself has described Fauci as “a bit of an alarmist” and accused him of making “mistakes” in his coronavirus guidance to the American people.Asked if he can continue to do his job when Trump continues to publicly question his credibility, Fauci said Tuesday he’ll press ahead “no matter what” because of the stakes involved.“I don’t tweet. I don’t even read them, so I don’t really want to go there,” Fauci said. “I just will continue to do my job no matter what comes out because I think it’s very important. We’re in the middle of a crisis with regard to an epidemic, a pandemic. This is what I do. This is what I’ve been trained for my entire professional life and I’ll continue to do it.”Asked about claims he’s been misleading the public, Fauci said: “I have not been misleading the American public under any circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-again-pushes-unproven-drug-as-covid-19-treatment/story-HI5NBaB41GNssvNmC6RDTJ.html
28-07-2020||World||Signs of second wave of Covid-19 in Europe, says UK PM Boris Johnson||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday said there are signs of a second wave of coronavirus in Europe after the UK removed Spain from the list of countries deemed safe to travel to and return from, making a 14-day quarantine mandatory for arrivals from there.Spain has seen a spike in the number of cases in recent days, prompting UK officials to impose the 14-day quarantine on Britons and travellers arriving from that country. The decision has thrown holidays of millions of Britons into disarray.Johnson said: “Let’s be absolutely clear about what’s happening in Europe, amongst some of our European friends, I’m afraid you are starting to see in some places the signs of a second wave of the pandemic”.“What we have to do is take swift and decisive action where we think that the risks are starting to bubble up again”, he added.Figures in the UK continued to plummet. As of Monday night, seven new deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the overall figure to 45,759 and the number of cases to 300,111. Scotland did not report any death for several days.UK’s decision to impose quarantine has riled Spanish ministers, who insist the rise in cases is limited to two or three regions, and claim that the country is in a better position than the UK. The quarantine has severely hit Spanish tourism industry.Johnson defended the quarantine decision, adding: “These are decisions (about going on holiday to Spain and elsewhere) for families, for individuals, about where they want to go”.The latest Foreign and Commonwealth Office travel advice on Spain says: “From 27 July, the FCO advise against all non-essential travel to Spain, including the Balearic and Canary Islands, based on the current assessment of Covid-19 risks in the country”.“This advice is based on evidence of increases in cases of Covid-19 in several regions, but particularly in Aragon, Navarra and Catalonia (which include the cities of Zaragoza, Pamplona and Barcelona)”.On Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez calling the UK’s quarantine decision “unjust”, minister of state for housing Simon Clarke said: “We respectfully disagree with the Spanish government’s position on this”, adding that there had been a “sharp increase” in cases in Spain.“We obviously continue to work closely with them (Spain) and we wish them every success in managing this outbreak, but we’ve seen a very sharp increase in cases in Spain. A 75% increase in cases reported between the middle of last week and the end of last week. That’s why we took the action that we have,” he told BBC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/signs-of-second-wave-of-covid-19-in-europe-says-uk-pm-boris-johnson/story-51NCPNeFk4zFWIot0Oa3fO.html
28-07-2020||World||Netanyahu’s son offends Indians with Hindu goddess Durga tweet, issues apology||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s eldest son Yair has apologised to Hindus after he faced flak from some Indians who found one of his tweets to be “quite offensive”. On Sunday, the 29-year-old Yair, who is very active on social media and often defends his father’s policies, posted a picture of the Hindu goddess Durga, with the face of Liat Ben Ari, the prosecutor in his father’s corruption cases, superimposed over the goddess’ face. Her many arms were also raised giving the middle finger. “I’ve tweeted a meme from a satirical page, criticising political figures in Israel. I didn’t realise the meme also portrayed an image connected to the majestic Hindu faith. As soon as I realised it from comments of our Indian friends, I have removed the tweet. I apologise,” Yair said in a tweet. Attorney General Avichai Mandelbit’s face was superimposed over that of a tiger accompanying the goddess under a caption that said, “know your place you despicable people”. The Twitter users were split in their reaction over the post with some Indians harshly criticising him for the offensive tweet while others giving him the benefit of doubt and attributing it to general ignorance about the Hindu faith in the West. Yair, who has been at the centre of several controversies, was appreciated by some Israelis for “showing courage in apologising for his mistake”, but was also condemned in equal measure by others for “being irresponsible”. Earlier this month, Yair issued an apology to journalist Dana Weiss for appearing to suggest the top news anchor had attained her position through sexual favours, according to a local media report. Prime Minister Netanyahu’s trial on charges of fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes opened in May in a Jerusalem court. He has said that the allegations are baseless and that he is a victim of a wide-ranging conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netanyahu-s-son-offends-indians-with-hindu-goddess-durga-tweet-issues-apology/story-BpFazTsRhuuZiPkYX4OdhO.html
28-07-2020||World||WHO says Covid-19 pandemic is ‘one big wave’, not seasonal||The World Health Organization on Tuesday warned against complacency about new coronavirus transmission in the northern hemisphere summer, saying that this virus did not behave like influenza that tended to follow seasonal trends. “People are still thinking about seasons. What we all need to get our heads around is this is a new virus and...this one is behaving differently,” Margaret Harris told a virtual briefing in Geneva, urging vigilance in applying measures to slow transmission that is spreading via mass gatherings.She also warned against thinking in terms of virus waves, saying: “It’s going to be one big wave. It’s going to go up and down a bit. The best thing is to flatten it and turn it into just something lapping at your feet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-covid-19-pandemic-is-one-big-wave-not-seasonal/story-pPs1BpP0sW6YB3Tt0pScKN.html
28-07-2020||World||Vietnam locks down its third-largest city as coronavirus cases grow||Vietnam on Tuesday locked down its third-largest city for two weeks after 15 cases of Covid-19 were found in a hospital, the government said.The new cases in the central city of Da Nang are the first confirmed to be locally transmitted in the country in over three months.Public transport into and out of Da Nang was canceled. Over the weekend, thousands of mostly Vietnamese tourists cut short their summer holidays in the popular beach destination. The lockdown has dealt a hard blow to the city’ tourism industry, which was just being revived after earlier coronavirus cases mostly subsided at the end of April.Hotel guests quickly ended their stays and canceled upcoming trips upon the news of the first case, one hotelier said on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media.“Our hotel is now empty,” the hotelier said. “But we had to help our guests leave the city when they still had the opportunity yesterday.”Da Nang beaches, which host some 50,000 people a day, are now closed. Only security personnel were seen on the beaches Tuesday as they patrolled to ensure no one was gathering.Authorities estimated several thousand people would be stranded by the transportation shutdown and asked hotels to shelter them.“We did not want to rush to the airport to leave the city because of the risk of being in a crowded place. So we are now stuck here,” said Lien Nguyen, who is traveling with her family of four for their summer vacation.“But it is not a bad place to get stranded for two weeks,” she said.On Sunday, the government ordered unessential business to close and required people to practice social distancing in the city of 1.1 million people.All 15 cases in the new outbreak are patients and health workers at Da Nang hospital.With the new infections, Vietnam has reported 431 cases of Covid-19 without a death.It had recorded no local transmissions of the virus since April, with all new cases coming from overseas. Vietnam on Tuesday dispatched an aircraft to Equatorial Guinea to repatriate 129 workers who have Covid-19, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-locks-down-its-third-largest-city-as-coronavirus-cases-grow/story-jKB6OTzTBXGlYtJ7Sg8eKO.html
28-07-2020||World||Here’s how Trump’s opposition to mail voting hurts the GOP||Republicans once dominated voting by mail in Florida. But that was before President Donald Trump got involved.After months of hearing Trump denigrate mail-in balloting, Republicans in the critical battleground state now find themselves far behind Democrats in the perennial push to urge their voters to cast ballots remotely. While Democrats have doubled the number of their voters who have requested mail ballots compared to 2016, Republicans have increased their numbers by about 20% since then.The recent tally is the hard evidence confirming many Republicans’ fears about Trump’s tweeting about mail-in voting: GOP voters are listening and appear less likely to take advantage of what many election and health officials agree is the easiest and safest way to vote in a pandemic.The numbers are so clear that Florida Republicans are shifting their emphasis from years past and are now trying to persuade voters to use another alternative to Election Day voting: in-person early voting.“Did the president’s tweet cause it? Maybe a little bit, but it’s been shifting for years now,” said Susie Wiles, who has been tapped by the Trump campaign to help buoy the president’s newly troubled Florida campaign. “If COVID is still the level of concern that it is now, early vote is, after absentee, probably the next best option.”Political campaigns in both parties typically push their voters to cast ballots by mail because they can bank votes for their side in advance, freeing up scarce resources to chase down less-frequent voters and turn them out by Election Day. Amid the coronavirus, that push has become all the more urgent.But while Democrats have tried to expand access to voting by mail, Republicans have struggled with what to tell their voters. Some have pushed for it, while Trump and his allies at the Republican National Committee have tried to limit expansion of remote voting.Increasingly, GOP operatives and officials are voicing their concerns with that strategy. “Why give Democrats 10 or 11 days to vote and expect Republicans to vote on one day?” asked Rohn Bishop, Republican Party chair in Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin. “It puts us at a disadvantage.”Trump has called mail ballots “corrupt” and “substantially fraudulent,” even though the five states that now send ballots to all voters have had no signs of substantial fraud. Despite the president’s objections, numerous states have loosened restrictions on mail voting amid the pandemic.Trump’s own campaign isn’t heeding his warning. It continues to encourage its voters to sign up for mail ballots when possible — even as the RNC is fighting in court against Democratic efforts to further expand mail voting and issuing statements like one last week saying the expansion has led “to delays, disaster and dysfunction.”That’s led the GOP to make some political contortions. In Florida, state Republicans recently sent a mailer urging their party members to request mail ballots. It included part of a tweet from Trump saying, “Absentee ballots are fine because you have to go through a precise process to get your ballot.”But the mailer did not include the rest of the president’s tweet: “Mail-In Voting, on the other hand, will lead to the most corrupt Election in USA history.”In most states, there is no difference between absentee and mail-in voting.Democrats are chortling. “It’s something to watch the President just torch 30 years of @FloridaGOP superiority in Florida on vote by mail with each and every tweet,” Steve Schale, a veteran Florida Democratic operative who runs a super PAC for Trump’s Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, tweeted Sunday after another Trump tweet denigrating mail ballots.It’s not just Florida where Republicans are facing a gap. In North Carolina, another swing state where the GOP once dominated absentee voting, Republicans also cherry-picked a Trump tweet in a mailer pleading with their voters to request mail ballots.North Carolina Republicans have requested about 50% more ballots than in 2016, but Democrats have asked for a whopping seven times more absentee ballots.In Pennsylvania, another presidential battleground, more than 1 million Democrats voted by mail in that state’s June primary compared to just fewer than 400,000 Republicans, according to data from the Pennsylvania secretary of state’s office.In the Georgia primary the following week, the gap continued — Democrats outvoted Republicans by 182,000 ballots out of 2.1 million cast.While some Republicans argue that Democrats were more motivated to vote because they had a contested presidential primary, Iowa held a primary the same month well after its February presidential caucuses. In that primary, 24% more Democrats than Republicans voted by mail, and more Democrats voted overall even though the two parties have an almost equal number of registered voters there.In Michigan, where the Democratic secretary of state sent absentee ballot applications to all voters, Trump supporters last month set their own applications on fire.Glen Bolger, a veteran Republican pollster, warned that his swing state polling finds a huge partisan gap in desire to vote by mail.“Waiting for Election Day for most of your voters to cast their votes — what if there’s really bad weather or long lines?” Bolger said. “It just makes it harder for state and local parties to do their jobs.”Still, the lack of GOP interest in voting by mail has made Bishop worried about numerous down-ballot races in Wisconsin that depend on the presidential election driving mail ballot turnout. It’s hard for Republicans to find early in-person options in his remote corner of the state, and no one knows how easy it will be to access the polls there in November.Bishop said that after he started tweeting about the problem in May, he was told the administration wasn’t happy with him, but some Wisconsin Republicans have stood by him.“The president, how he’s talked about this hasn’t been very helpful,” said Wisconsin Assembly Majority Leader Jim Steineke. “The absentee ballot system here in Wisconsin is safe and responsible and should be used as much as possible during a pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/here-s-how-trump-s-opposition-to-mail-voting-hurts-the-gop/story-vcHOkjsIgo9AtHkWyx0eKK.html
28-07-2020||World||UK’s Covid-19 strategy hit by lack of advice translation||Over 8.6 lakh people in England and Wales speak little to no English, but lack of translation in various languages – including some Indian – is adversely affecting official measures to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, campaigners said on Tuesday.Gujarati, Punjabi, Urdu and Hindi are among major languages the UK government translates official communication, but translation services have not been able to keep up with frequent virus-related updates. Some key advice is only available in English.Campaign group Doctors of the World UK and other organisations joined several local authorities, including the Greater London Authority, to write to health secretary Matt Hancock and housing secretary Robert Jenrick, highlighting the issue.The letter says: “We write to raise our concern about the lack of availability of Covid-19 public health guidance in languages other than English, which is preventing people in England who do not speak or read English well from accessing essential public health information and limiting their ability to keep themselves, their families, and their communities safe”.“At present the ‘Stay alert: what you can and cannot do’ guidance and information on NHS test and trace is not available in any languages other than English”.The group said that so far it had translated UK-wide guidance into over 60 languages, which have been accessed by people nearly 60,000 times. It cited a recent report by Public Health England that called for “culturally competent Covid-19 education and prevention campaigns.”The letter states that during the pandemic local authorities and civil society organisations have made efforts to translate guidance, but as lockdown measures are eased and guidance changes regularly, it is not sustainable or practical for them to meet this need.One of the reasons for the recent spike in cases in the east Midlands city of Leicester was official guidance not reaching thousands of Indian and other non-white people unfamiliar with English, particularly those working in the large number of garment manufacturing factories.The letter says: “The production of accessible and translated public health information for the public during a public health emergency is a central part of the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care’s statutory duty to protect the nation’s health and wellbeing, and to address health inequalities in England”.“To tackle the huge challenge of Covid-19 together, it is critical that everyone is supported to stay healthy and included in overall public health measures. We urgently seek reassurance that the government will consider and include non-English speakers in its response to Covid-19 and commit to produce and maintain accessible Covid-19 guidance in languages that reflect England’s multilingual communities”, it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-covid-19-strategy-hit-by-lack-of-advice-translation/story-fuO57F9dCTnIkOyx0Z15yH.html
28-07-2020||World||North Korean officials abused repatriated women: UN Report||The UN human rights office reported Tuesday that scores of North Korean women who had traveled abroad in a desperate search for work were abused by security officials and police through beatings, detention in unsanitary conditions, undernourishment and invasive body searches after being sent back home.The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights presented the findings in a new report that alleges “multiple and serious human rights violations by state security and police officials” in North Korea, based on 100 accounts from women who were detained in the secretive country from 2009 to 2019 after being forcibly returned home.The women spoke to U.N. human rights officials after eventually fleeing North Korea following their detention.Testimonies suggest the women, who often fell into the custody of human traffickers, faced bonded labor or sexual exploitation in other countries — then were deemed traitors or punished for contacting Christian groups abroad after their return.“It is heartbreaking to read these stories of women who fled their country looking to make ends meet, but who ended up being punished,” High Commissioner Michelle Bachelet said in a statement accompanying the report. She said the women ”should be taken care of, not detained and subjected to further human rights violations.”“These women have a right to justice, truth and reparation,” she added.North Korea’s diplomatic mission in Geneva did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The U.N. rights office also called on foreign countries where the women fled — at times including neighboring China — to respect the principle of “non-refoulement,” or not returning people to countries where they could face a real risk of human rights violations.“These accounts show once again the systemic nature of human rights violations in the DPRK, and the need to keep seeking pathways to proper accountability for such crimes,” Bachelet said, using the acronym for North Korea’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.The report only focused on women who had fled abroad, not the many people held in political prisons in North Korea which are believed to also be a site of human rights violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korean-officials-abused-repatriated-women-un-report/story-NbpHSrHE82VQlJeoEUbb6O.html
28-07-2020||World||US-China spats rattle world, prompting calls for unity||Antagonisms between the United States and China are rattling governments around the world, prompting a German official to warn of “Cold War 2.0” and Kenya’s president to appeal for unity to fight the coronavirus pandemic.Global trade already was depressed by the 2-year-old tariff war between the world’s two biggest economies. That rancor has spread to include Hong Kong, Chinese Muslims, spying accusations and control of the South China Sea.Caught in the middle, other governments are trying to defend their own interests.GERMANY:Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government wants to preserve trade and cooperation on global warming but says a security law tightening Beijing’s control over Hong Kong is a “difficult issue.”The Hong Kong security law’s potential disruption of the autonomy Beijing promised to the former British colony is no reason to stop talking but is “a worrying development,” Merkel said.Europe’s biggest economy has yet to take a final position on Chinese tech giant Huawei despite U.S. pressure to exclude its equipment from next-generation telecom networks as a possible security risk.“China is an important partner for us but also a competitor,” Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said in a statement after a videoconference Friday with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi.Peter Beyer, the government’s coordinator for trans-Atlantic cooperation, expressed alarm in an interview with the RedaktionsNetzwerk Deutschland newspaper group.“We are experiencing the beginning of a Cold War 2.0,” Beyer said. He criticized both sides but said, “the U.S. is our most important partner outside the EU, and that is how it will stay.”FRANCE:President Emmanuel Macron calls President Donald Trump “my friend” but is trying to avoid riling Beijing.France has not echoed Trump’s criticism of Beijing’s handling of the coronavirus, but legislators applauded Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian last week when he condemned abuses of minority Uighurs in China’s northwest.Le Drian mentioned “mass arrests, disappearances, forced labor, forced sterilizations, the destruction of Uighur cultural heritage.” He said France has asked that the camps be closed.“All these practices are unacceptable,” the minister said. “We condemn them.”Trump’s ambivalence toward U.S. allies and flouting of diplomatic norms has alarmed France.“Sino-American tensions don’t benefit France,” said Valerie Niquet of the Foundation for Strategic Research, a think tank. “We share the same interests as the United States towards China, we adopt more or less the same positions, so it doesn’t bring us any positive element.”EUROPE:Europe’s “strategic relations” with China will be an issue for the European Union while Germany holds the rotating presidency of the 27-nation bloc, Merkel said this month.EU foreign ministers have not managed to agree on a common position on China.Regarding Hong Kong, options include closer scrutiny of exports of sensitive technology to the territory and changing visa policies for its residents. But there is no talk of economic sanctions or targeting Chinese officials with penalties.“The message is that the recent actions change the rules,” said the top EU foreign policy official, Josep Borrell. “This will require a revision of our approach and will clearly have an impact on our relations.”SOUTH KOREA:South Korea is squeezed between its main military ally and its biggest trading partner.In 2016, Beijing destroyed supermarket operator Lotte’s business in China after the conglomerate sold a plot of land in South Korea to the government for an anti-missile system over Chinese objections.Washington is unhappy with South Korea’s desire to ease sanctions on North Korea to encourage disarmament and uneasy about its use of Huawei technology.Trump complains about the cost of stationing 28,500 U.S. troops in South Korea to protect against North Korean threats. A cost-sharing agreement expired in 2019 without a replacement.The U.S.-Chinese row “has thrown a question to South Korea” about which side to choose, the newspaper Dong-A Ilbo said in an editorial Monday.“Sooner or later we will be forced to provide an answer, no matter how hard we tried to avoid it,” the newspaper said.INDIA:Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tried to embrace both Chinese President Xi Jinping and President Donald Trump, but the pandemic and a border clash that killed at least 20 Indian soldiers have fueled anti-Chinese sentiment.Protesters have called for boycotts of Chinese goods and burned Chinese flags. They applauded the government’s ban on the popular Chinese video-sharing app TikTok and some other Chinese apps.Washington wants stronger ties with India and supported its controversial move a year ago to split its only Muslim-majority state, restive Jammu and Kashmir, into two federally controlled territories. This month, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said the United States would stand up to China on the Indian border dispute.“For India it is opportune that the U.S. is applying more pressure on China, and if it can get it to behave, that would be welcomed by the entire neighborhood,” said Jayadev Ranade, president of the Center for China Analysis think tank in New Delhi.AFRICA:China-U.S. tensions are taking a toll: The African Development Bank said last year trade disruption due to the tariff war could lead to a 2.5% drop in economic output for some African countries.Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said political disputes should be set aside to better fight the coronavirus.“Let’s not be sucked back into isolationism or unilateralism. We need each other today more than ever,” Kenyatta said an Atlantic Council event last month. “We’re not going to fight coronavirus if one country fails and another succeeds.”SOUTHEAST ASIA:The 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations has avoided taking steps that would alienate Washington or Beijing, both important trading partners.“The great powers, as they escalate their rivalry, will woo us into their side,” said Harry Roque, a spokesman for Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte. “We will advance our national interest.”The region’s most sensitive conflict — over control of the South China Sea — escalated when the Trump administration publicly rejected most of Beijing’s claims to one of the world’s busiest waterways.“We are making clear: Beijing’s claims to offshore resources across most of the South China Sea are completely unlawful,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a July 13 statement.The Philippines and Vietnam, among the most vocal critics of Chinese assertiveness, could benefit from that stance but will move cautiously, said Greg Poling of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.“They aren’t going to stick their necks in a noose until they see real follow-through from Washington,” Poling said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-china-spats-rattle-world-prompting-calls-for-unity/story-dLdPE0kQbhMVgFY503IOcN.html
28-07-2020||World||Disengagement of troops at most locations complete, says China||Indian and Chinese frontline troops have completed disengagement at most locations at the border, China said on Tuesday, adding that preparation is on to hold the next round of military-level talks to settle the remaining issues.The Chinese foreign ministry was seemingly giving an update on the disengagement of border troops following last Friday’s three-hour-long meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, which had met to review the situation in the border areas and the disengagement process in the western sector of the Line of Actual Control or LAC.Also Read: In China’s troop movements in Ladakh’s depth areas, a hint about its real planDifferences between India and China on the disengagement process emerged after New Delhi asked Beijing to “sincerely implement” the understanding on troop withdrawals reached by senior military commanders of the two sides. Also Watch | Amid China tension, India & US Navy conduct joint exercise in Indian OceanOn Tuesday, responding to a specific query on whether Indian and Chinese soldiers had completed disengagement at Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Gogra areas, spokesperson, Wang Wenbin said disengagement was completed in most areas.“Recently, China and India have conducted intensive communication through military and diplomatic channels. We have held four rounds of commander-level talks and three meetings of WMCC,” Wang added.Also Read: Disengagement is complex, our aim is status quo ante, says Army“Now the frontline border troops have completed disengagement in most locations and the situation on the ground is easing,” he said.“Now we are preparing for the fifth round of commander-level talks to study the settlement of the remaining issue. We hope India will work with China to implement our consensus and uphold peace and stability along our border areas,” Wang added.Following last Friday’s WMCC meeting, a statement from the external affairs ministry had said that the two sides agreed “it was necessary for both sides to sincerely implement the understandings reached between senior (military) commanders in their meetings till date”.At the WMCC meeting, India focused on the need for China to completely withdraw its forces from key friction points in East Ladakh in keeping with commitments made at the meetings of the corps commanders and the July 5 phone conversation between the two Special Representatives on the border issue, people aware of the developments had told Hindustan Times in New Delhi.It is still not clear whether Beijing is looking at the disengagement of troops in the same way.The Chinese statement on the same WMCC meeting, issued in Beijing in Mandarin, referred to “positive progress made by the frontline border defence forces of the two countries to disengage and ease the situation on the ground”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/disengagement-of-troops-at-most-locations-complete-says-china/story-tjZRoK5Z5QU1rpo5NhpcsI.html
28-07-2020||World||Malaysian ex-PM Najib Razak convicted of 7 graft charges over 1MDB investment fund||A Malaysian court pronounced former Prime Minister Najib Razak guilty Tuesday in his first corruption trial over the multibillion-dollar looting of the 1MDB investment fund.The ruling came five months after a new government took power with Najib’s Malay party the biggest bloc in the alliance. His party’s shocking election ouster in 2018 was driven by public anger over the 1MDB scandal.“I find the accused guilty and convict the accused of all seven charges,” Judge Mohamad Nazlan Ghazali said after spending two hours to read out his ruling.Analysts said the ruling would bolster the prosecution’s case in Najib’s other trials and would signal to the business community Malaysia’s legal system has strength in tackling international financial crimes.Najib, 67, has promised to appeal. He has said he was misled by rogue bankers and the case against him is political.“From day one, I have said this is the chance for me to clear my name,”″ he wrote on Facebook late Monday. “After this, we will go to the Court of Appeal. I am ready.” A scion of one of Malaysia’s most prominent political families, he faces 42 charges in five separate trials and could face years in prison.The current trial involved a charge of abuse of power, three charges of criminal breach of trust and three money laundering charges.The judge said Najib failed to raise reasonable doubt and that prosecutors had established beyond reasonable doubt that Najib misappropriated money for his own use.“The conviction would serve as a solid foundation for the prosecution in ensuing IMDB-related trials,” said Oh Ei Sun, a senior fellow with Singapore’s Institute of International Affairs.He said the ruling also would strengthen the credibility of current Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin, who was fired as Najib’s deputy in 2016 for speaking out on the 1MDB scandal although he now relies on Najib’s party for support.Najib’s party is the biggest bloc in the current Malay nationalist alliance, which was formed in March after a political coup by Muhyiddin’s party toppled the former reformist government.Najib shortly after taking office in 2009 set up 1MDB to ostensibly accelerate Malaysia’s economic development.But the fund accumulated billions in debt, and US investigators allege that at least $4.5 billion was stolen from it and laundered by Najib’s associates to finance Hollywood films and buy hotels, a luxury yacht, artwork, jewelry and other extravagances. More than $700 million from the fund allegedly landed in Najib’s bank accounts.Najib’s wife and several officials from his party and previous government have also been charged with graft. Najib, whose father and uncles were Malaysia’s second and third prime ministers, denies any wrongdoing. He calls the prosecutions a political attack on him.Najib’s first trial began in April 2019 over seven charges related to the transfer of 42 million ringgit ($9.8 million) from SRC International, a former 1MDB unit, into his bank accounts through intermediary companies. Najib was accused of using his position to receive a bribe for approving a government guarantee for billions in loans to SRC, committing criminal breach of trust and accepting proceeds from unlawful activities.Evidence showed a complex trail of money through the accounts that paid for renovating Najib’s home, credit card purchases including a Chanel watch bought in Hawaii as a birthday gift for his wife and disbursements to political parties.In defence, Najib has said he was misled by rogue bankers led by Malaysian fugitive financier Low Taek Jho, identified by investigators as a mastermind in the 1MDB saga.Najib testified he assumed the money was part of an Arab donation arranged by Low. The judge debunked that argument in the guilty verdict, finding it an “elaborate but weak fabrication.” Najib’s lawyers said Low had used the donation as a guise to keep Najib from being suspicious of his plundering of the 1MDB fund. Prosecutors argued that Najib was the real power behind 1MDB and SRC, and called the Arab donation “manufactured evidence” to cover up his tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysian-ex-pm-najib-razak-convicted-of-7-graft-charges-over-1mdb-investment-fund/story-v0OhCPIG22SifaPQIVRrRO.html
28-07-2020||World||Australian police warn Chinese students, officials of ‘virtual kidnapping’ scam||Australian police have warned universities and Chinese officials about a spurt in “virtual kidnapping” scams that coerce foreign students to fake their own abductions and trick families overseas into paying ransoms.As tension has grown between Australia and China over trade, human rights and accusations of state-linked hacking, police said eight incidents of virtual kidnapping, involving a total payout of A$3.2 million ($2.3 million), were reported this year.“We have had a spate in the last few months where pretty much every weekend we have had a victim fall for one of these scams,” said Darren Benett, director of the crime command in the state of New South Wales, whose capital is Sydney.“If you get one of these phone calls, hang up, ring the police, ring your university, but just don’t pay any money,” he added in a televised news conference.Scam perpetrators call intended victims in the guise of a local Chinese official to warn they have been implicated in a crime in China and must pay a fee to avoid legal action, arrest or deportation, police said.Some scammers tell victims to sever contact with family and friends, rent a hotel room and take pictures or video recordings of themselves bound and blindfolded, and then send the images to their relatives overseas to exert pressure, the police added.“We need to take into account the cultural factors and the fact that the scams are very polished,” said state police official Peter Thurtell, explaining why victims are taken in.New South Wales has 212,000 foreign students enrolled, say police. Australian universities have warned they risk losing billions of dollars in annual fees because of border closures prompted by the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-police-warn-chinese-students-officials-of-virtual-kidnapping-scam/story-7CuVLALwDqQlldKHuDotxH.html
28-07-2020||World||Biden campaign bans staffers from using TikTok||Staffers of the presidential campaign of Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, have been instructed reportedly to delete TikTok, the Chinese app in the crosshairs of governments around the world after it was banned by India, from their personal and work phones.Citing security and privacy concerns, Biden campaign general counsel Dana Remus, wrote to staffers to “refrain from downloading and using TikTok on work and personal devices”, according to a report by Bloomberg News.The Biden campaign stricture came as US congress was on the verge passing a bill forbidding federal employees from using TikTok on their phones. The Trump administration is also weighing an outright ban on the app and other Chinese applications.Also read: Donald Trump bets on Covid-19 vaccine for political shot in arm“It’s something we’re looking at,” President Donald Trump has said of his administration’s plans for TikTok.In the days after India banned TikTok and 58 other Chinese apps amidst tensions with China over Galwan clashes late June, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo not only welcomed it but indicated the US may have played an “assist” role in it, and signalled Trump administration’s intentions to follow suit.The Biden campaign’s ban on TikTok for its staffers was being seen by India watchers as an important signal of shared concern about China, in view of the absence thus far of explicit expression of support from the Biden campaign for India in the ongoing India-China dispute, in sharp contrast to the outpouring of backing from the Trump administrationDemocrats individually and as a body had expressed their support for India in this conflict, and most notably by passing a bill last week, as a part of the defence spending bill for 2021, expressing concern with China’s underlying motivation to “redraw long-standing settled boundaries”.But the Biden campaign hadn’t “uttered a word” yet on the India-China border conflict, an Indian American Democratic operative said requesting anonymity. The TikTok ban, the person added, coming ahead of Trump administration and congress’s actions showed an “uncoordinated similarity” of purpose.Democrats are looking at Indian American voters as a key component of their strategy to flip the three swing states — Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania — that gave Trump the White House in an upset victory over Hillary Clinton in 2016.“The Indian American vote — the AAPI more broadly — can be an absolute difference maker,” Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said at a power-packed pitch to them at a virtual town-hall recently, of the swing states.“We know that there are important sectors of the Indian American community throughout our country, throughout our battleground states,” Julie Chavez Rodriguez, a senior adviser to the Biden campaign, had added in her pitch to the community. “And we want to make sure we were engaging and connecting directly with them, their key leaders in these battleground states. And the key radio stations, newspapers, whatever else outlet it is that are speaking to them.”There are an estimated 4 million people of Indian origin in the United States, but only about a third are eligible to vote — 1.3 million, according to a report by an organization of Democrats focussed on mobilization of Asian American voters to ensure the victory of Asian American candidates running for city-level public offices to those at the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-campaign-bans-staffers-from-using-tiktok/story-N9CVvLZDxEcgCJ3zNGrtXJ.html
28-07-2020||World||Iran moves mock-up US carrier to mouth of Gulf: Satellite images||Iran has moved a mock-up US aircraft carrier to the strategic Strait of Hormuz, satellite images show, suggesting it will use the look-alike vessel for target practice in war games in a Gulf shipping channel vital to world oil exports.The use of dummy American warships has become an occasional feature of training by Iran’s Revolutionary Guards and its naval forces, including in 2015 when Iranian missiles hit a mock-up resembling a Nimitz-class aircraft carrier. Tehran, which opposes the presence of US and Western navies in the Gulf, frequently holds naval war games in the strategic Strait, the conduit for some 30% of all crude and other oil liquids traded by sea.One of the images taken on July 26 by US-based space technology firm Maxar Technologies showed an Iranian fast attack boat moving toward the model US carrier in the strategic waterway. Another image showed model planes lined up on the deck of the fake carrier.“We cannot speak to what Iran hopes to gain by building this mock-up, or what tactical value they would hope to gain by using such a mock-up in a training or offensive exercise scenario,” said Commander Rebecca Rebarich, the spokeswoman for the US Navy’s Bahrain-based Fifth Fleet.“We remain confident in our naval forces’ ability to defend themselves against any maritime threat.”Tensions have spiked between Iran and the United States since 2018, when US President Donald Trump withdrew from Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal with six powers and reimposed sanctions that has sharply dropped Tehran’s oil exports.Iran’s Guards in April said Tehran would destroy US warships if its security is threatened in the Gulf. Iranian officials have repeatedly threatened to block Hormuz if Iran is not able to export oil or if its nuclear sites are attacked.There have been periodic confrontations between the Iranian Guards and the US military in the Gulf in recent years. US officials have said closing the Strait would be crossing a “red line” and America would take action to reopen it.Iran cannot legally close the waterway unilaterally because part of it is in Omani territorial waters. However, ships that sail it pass through Iranian waters, which are under the responsibility of the Iran’s Guards naval force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-moves-mock-up-us-carrier-to-mouth-of-gulf-satellite-images/story-BXYC60AJecDajaivWSoo6N.html
28-07-2020||World||Case registered against Pak provincial minister for social media activist’s murder||A case has been registered against a provincial minister in Pakistan and his two guards for the alleged murder of a social media activist, according to media reports.The Levies Force on Sunday registered the case against Balochistan Minister for Food and Population Welfare Sardar Abdul Rehman Khan Khetiran and his two guards Adam Khan and Nadir Khan on the complaint of the deceased’s brother, the Dawn reported.Anwar was murdered on July 23 by some armed men in Naharkot, in Balochistan’s Barkhan district, when he was on his way home on a motorbike.Anwar’s brother Ghulam Sarwar alleged that the guards killed him at the behest of the minister.According to the complaint, Anwar had been writing on social media about problems in his area, atrocities and alleged corruption by the minister.According to a report in Pakistan Today, Sarwar alleged that the minister’s men had threatened his brother over the telephone for writing against the minister on social media.The minister has, however, denied his involvement in the murder and also said that the two other people mentioned in the FIR were not his gunmen, the report said.“I have nothing to do with the murder of Anwar Jan,” he was quoted as saying by the Dawn.“I have no enmity with Anwar Jan Khetiran’s family,” he added.However, some journalists in Barkhan said Anwar was not a member of the local press club but he posted comments on social media platforms.He was affiliated to the National Party, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/case-registered-against-pak-provincial-minister-for-social-media-activist-s-murder/story-TqPT8nxlAFixNMtgLtG8QO.html
28-07-2020||World||Donald Trump bets on Covid-19 vaccine for political shot in arm||US President Donald Trump vowed to defeat the coronavirus by “unleashing American scientific genius” as he toured a Covid-19 vaccine facility in the swing state of North Carolina on Monday.Trump appears to have pinned his hopes on the swift emergence of a successful vaccine to both contain the country’s still raging epidemic and revive his faltering re-election hopes.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We will achieve a victory over the virus by unleashing American scientific genius,” he told reporters at Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies in Morrisville, hours after it was revealed national security advisor Robert O’Brien had tested positive.The facility has been awarded a contract to mass produce an experimental vaccine developed by Novavax, as part of a multi-billion dollar government initiative dubbed Operation Warp Speed.The plan involves investing heavily in leading pharmaceuticals to aid their development and manufacturing efforts, with the goal of delivering 300 million doses of vaccine by January 2021.It’s “never been done before, but we suspect it’s going to work, and work very well,” added Trump, who later donned a black mask and toured the lab.The United States is by far the worst-hit country in the world, with more than 4.2 million confirmed Covid-19 cases and nearly 150,000 deaths.Though the number of new cases has leveled off over the past few days, the US has failed to push its curve down as other nations have done through lockdowns and physical distancing.Trump’s latest comments confirmed that the administration believes that, in America’s case, only a vaccine can help.“It’s not masks. It’s not shutting down the economy. Hopefully, it is American ingenuity that will allow for therapies and vaccines to ultimately conquer this,” White House chief of staff Mark Meadows told ABC News on Sunday.The virus has also repeatedly penetrated Trump’s inner circle, with O’Brien the latest and most senior White House aide to test positive.He “has been self-isolating and working from a secure location off site,” the White House said in a statement Monday, adding that there was “no risk of exposure to the president or the vice president.”Others who have been previously infected include Vice President Mike Pence’s spokeswoman Katie Miller, and Kimberly Guilfoyle, a top fundraiser for the Trump campaign and his elder son’s girlfriend.Results by November? The US has spent more than $6.3 billion since March to fund vaccine development efforts under Operation Warp Speed.The program is unabashed in its aims to procure vaccines for the American people first -- unlike European leaders who have called for Covid-19 drugs to be a “global public good.”Pharmaceutical newcomer Moderna, which, alongside AstraZeneca and two Chinese firms is among those furthest in its development timeline, began the final stage of its clinical trial Monday.The trial is being co-conducted by the National Institutes for Health (NIH) across the United States and is expected to enroll approximately 30,000 adult volunteers.Participants will get two doses of the vaccine given 28 days apart.The first volunteer, a Black woman identified as Robyn, participated in a video chat hosted by the NIH on Monday, telling viewers her friends and relatives had initially told her “it was a bad idea.”“And the reason for that was because in the African American community, we are all familiar with the Tuskegee experiments,” she added, referring to a 40-year-study the US conducted on Black men to see the effects of untreated syphilis.The men involved were kept in the dark about cures on purpose.But, added Robyn, she was encouraged by laws that are now in place to prevent a repetition, and motivated by the desire to help others against a disease that disproportionately impacts communities of color.An irony of the process is that, given the rampant nature of the US epidemic, results could come far sooner than the two years the trial is set to run.Daily new cases have plateaued around the 66,000 mark for the past few days, making it more likely that trial participants will be exposed to the virus sooner rather than later.“It’s a really optimistic scenario. It could be November,” Moderna CEO Stephane Bancel told CNBC on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-bets-on-covid-19-vaccine-for-political-shot-in-arm/story-hJfluc2EK0AsgNwnpZhxFI.html
28-07-2020||World||Google extends work from home to 2021||Alphabet Inc’s Google said on Monday it would allow employees, who do not need to be in the office, to work from home until the end of June 2021.Google had said in May it would begin reopening more offices globally as early as June this year, but most Google employees would likely work from home until the end of this year.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Wall Street Journal, which first reported the news, said Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai made the decision himself last week after debate among an internal group of top executives that he chairs.Several other companies have also allowed most of their employees to work from home until the end of 2020 in a bid to safeguard them against the Covid-19 pandemic, with Twitter Inc proposing remote work for some of its employees indefinitely.Australia watchdog: Google misled usersAustralia’s consumer watchdog launched court action against Google on Monday alleging the technology giant misled account holders about its use of their personal data.The commission alleges the California-based company misled millions of Australians to obtain their consent and expand the scope of personal information that Google collects about users’ internet activity to target advertising. Google countered the allegration saying its account holders had been asked to “consent via prominent and easy-to-understand notifications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-extends-work-from-home-to-2021/story-hthVM5WnSAbhXkZossxM6M.html
28-07-2020||World||It’s official: US closes its consulate in Chengdu||The US consulate in the southwestern city of Chengdu officially shut down on Monday morning, within 72 hours of Beijing ordering its closure as a tit-for-tat move against shutting of its Houston consulate.The US flag at the consulate was lowered at dawn. A large number of police personnel were deployed around the mission with the roads leading to it cordoned off. The Chinese foreign ministry said the Chengdu consulate closed at 10am local time. “China’s competent authorities then entered through the front entrance and took over the premises,” it said.The shutting of the US Chengdu consulate was in retaliation against Washington’s unexpected closure of China’s consulate in Houston, Texas, claiming the mission had been involved in espionage efforts.China had given the Americans the same time frame of 72 hours to shut down Chengdu mission, the same deadline US had given it on Houston.The US’s Chengdu consulate was the nearest to the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR). The shutting of it will now make it more difficult for the US to monitor the situation in TAR where the entry of diplomats and foreign journalists is banned.Opened in 1985, the US Chengdu consular district’s jurisdiction included provinces of Sichuan, Yunnan, and Guizhou, as well as the Tibet Autonomous Region and Chongqing City Municipality.”At midday on Monday, police removed a roadblock that had restricted access to the Chengdu facility, and dozens of passersby stopped to take photos and videos. One man stood across the street and played the Chinese national anthem from his phone.“We feel very sad about the breaking down of the relationship between China and U.,” said a bystander outside the facility who said his surname was Li. He said he was worried about the impact of deteriorating relations on Chinese citizens who want to travel or study in the US.The US embassy said in a video in Chinese on Twitter: “The US consulate in Chengdu has been proudly promoting the mutual understanding between Americans and the people in Sichuan, Chongqing, Guizhou, Yunnan and Tibet since 1985. We will forever miss you.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-s-official-us-closes-its-consulate-in-chengdu/story-lVoRp38fzKC9bOTVaYoQuL.html
28-07-2020||World||Portland, Seattle declare riots as US cities see violent weekend||Protests, in places violent, roiled US cities overnight, as demonstrations reignited at the presence of federal troops. Riots were declared in Portland, the centre of a new wave of protests, and in Seattle amid teargas, fires, hurled stones and bottles. In Austin, Texas, a man had been shot dead on Saturday when he approached a vehicle and a person inside opened fire.Thousands of demonstrators marched in groups around Portland, Oregon, some yelling “Feds go home!” in response to the Trump administration’s decision to send federal agents there in late June.The police said protesters used power tools to try to cut through the fence of the federal courthouse and pulled a section down. At one point, protesters lobbed fireworks and other projectiles toward federal agents there, who fired back with tear gas. A riot was declared, and the police reported an unspecified number of arrests.In Seattle, Washington, a riot was declared after thousands of protesters battled with police: throwing rocks, bottles, fireworks and other explosives. Police used pepper spray and flash bangs to disperse the crowds. In Austin, Texas, an unidentified man was killed by a person in a car he approached around 10pm during protests downtown. The police said the suspected shooter was arrested. Other protests flared in New York, Los Angeles, Oakland, Omaha, Nebraska, among other cities.In Aurora, Colorado, protesters set fire to a municipal court building. Aurora police said on Twitter that a vehicle drove through a crowd of protesters, one of whom fired a gun and hit another protester.protests flared up in cities of New York, Los Angeles, Oakland, Omaha, Nebraska and several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/portland-seattle-declare-riots-as-us-cities-see-violent-weekend/story-BJx4nr9WrrZJI1S9G5PmIP.html
28-07-2020||World||‘Evidence destroyed’: Chinese doctor alleges Covid-19 cover-up||A Chinese doctor, who diagnosed early coronavirus cases in China, has accused the local authorities of a cover-up of the initial scale of the outbreak at the epicentre Wuhan, saying the evidence was already destroyed when they went for investigation, according to a media report.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSpeaking to the BBC, Professor Kwok-Yung Yuen, a microbiologist, physician and surgeon in Hong Kong, who helped to investigate the Covid-19 outbreak in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, said the physical evidence at the Huanan wildlife market was destroyed and the response to clinical findings was slow.“When we went to the Huanan supermarket, of course, there was nothing to see because the market was clean already. So, you may say that the crime scene is already disturbed because the supermarket was cleared. We cannot identify any host which is giving the virus to humans,” Yuen was quoted as saying.“I do suspect that they have been doing some cover-up locally at Wuhan. The local officials who are supposed to immediately relay the information have not allowed this to be done as readily as it should,” he said in the report.The coronavirus originated from the Huanan wildlife market in Wuhan in December last year and has globally infected over 16 million people and claimed the lives of more than 648,000 people and bringing the world economy to a standstill.According to the Johns Hopkins data, China has recorded 86,570 Covid-19 cases and 4,652 deaths.Several countries, including the US, have criticised China for not divulging information about the severity of the disease. However, China has denied the accusations of withholding information.It is also accused of reprimanding Dr Li Wenliang and other whistleblowers in Wuhan who tried to warn medics about the deadly virus.Li, who was the first to report about the virus in December last year, contracted the disease and died in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/evidence-destroyed-chinese-doctor-alleges-covid-19-cover-up/story-BBbftoQ8tacpmm6hvoVefJ.html
28-07-2020||World||US NSA test +ve for Covid-19; biggest vaccine trial begins||US National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien has tested positive for Covid-19, making him the most senior Trump administration member to be hit by the virus.The White House said on Monday O’Brien had displayed “mild symptoms and has been self-isolating and working from a secure location off site.”It added: “There is no risk of exposure to the President or the Vice President. The work of the National Security Council continues uninterrupted.” O’Brien typically works from a West Wing office just a short distance from President Donald Trump’s.He had travelled to Paris in mid-July for a meeting with counterparts from the UK, France, Germany and Italy.Two White House staffers had tested positive earlier: Trump’s personal valet and the head of Vice-President Mike Pence’s communications team.Moderna vaccine study gets underwayThe world’s biggest Covid-19 vaccine study got underway on Monday with the first of 30,000 planned volunteers helping to test shots created by the U.S. government -- one of several candidates in the final stretch of the global vaccine race.There’s still no guarantee that the experimental vaccine, developed by the National Institutes of Health and Moderna Inc, will really protect. The needed proof: Volunteers won’t know if they’re getting the real shot or a dummy version. After two doses, scientists will closely track which group experiences more infections as they go about their daily routines, especially in areas where the virus still is spreading unchecked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-nsa-test-ve-for-covid-19-biggest-vaccine-trial-begins/story-5zMKXJPmfMbih3c4NRVD4M.html
28-07-2020||World||Covid worst global health emergency: WHO||Covid-19 “continues to accelerate” with a doubling of cases over the last six weeks, World Health Organization director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday, describing the pandemic as the worst health emergency faced by the UN agency.More than 16 million cases have now been reported , with more than 640,000 deaths. WHO’s emergency committee will convene on Thursday, a procedural requirement six months after the agency’s declaration of a public health emergency of international concern, made on January 30 for the coronavirus outbreak. The panel will advise Tedros on the way forward.Only with strict adherence to health measures, from wearing masks to avoiding crowds, would the world manage to beat the pandemic, Tedros said at a virtual news briefing in Geneva. “Where these measures are followed, cases go down. Where they are not, cases go up,” he said, praising Canada, China, Germany and South Korea for controlling outbreaks. Vietnam is evacuating 80,000 people, mostly local tourists, from the central tourism hot spot of Danang after three residents tested positive for the coronavirus over the weekend, the government said on Monday.The Southeast Asian country is back on high alert after authorities on Saturday confirmed the first community infections since April, and another three cases on Sunday, all in or around Danang.The UK has said it will pause reporting on coronavirus deaths while it reviews how they are counted. Last week, the government said deaths in England were attributed to coronavirus if the deceased had had the disease at any time. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland would only record deaths as virus-related if the patient had a positive test within the preceding 28 days.Citing his own obesity, Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday launched a campaign to encourage Britons to exercise as new evidence showed that overweight people being infected by coronavirus are more likely to die or develop severe illness.The drive includes doctors prescribing cycling or running to patients, dedicated cycle lanes and pedestrianisation of more areas in cities across the UK, ban on junk food advertisements on television and online before 9pm, and cigarette pack-like calorie warnings on food items. “Since I recovered from coronavirus, I’ve been steadily building up my fitness. I am at least a stone down. But when I went into ICU, when I was really ill, I was way overweight,” Johnson said.In Singapore, scientists have developed a method to improve the speed of obtaining Covid-19 laboratory test results in 36 minutes or by up to four times.The new method, developed by scientists at the Nanyang Technological University’s (NTC) Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, has demonstrated a way to improve “the speed, handling time and cost of Covid-19 laboratory tests”, the university said. The test, which can be done with portable equipment, could also be deployed in the community as a screening tool, it said. Muslim pilgrims have started arriving in Mecca for a drastically scaled-down hajj, which begins on Wednesday. It normally draws around 2.5 million people. This year, Saudi Arabia’s hajj ministry has said between 1,000 and 10,000 people already residing in the kingdom will be allowed to perform the pilgrimage. Two-thirds of those pilgrims will be from among foreign residents in Saudi Arabia and one-third will be Saudi citizens. China reported the largest number of domestic infections in more than four months. Of the 61 infections reported on Monday, 57 were local cases.The coronavirus pandemic “continues to accelerate”, with a doubling of cases over the last six weeks, says WHO chief Tedros Ghebreyesus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-worst-global-health-emergency-who/story-HqsIOcOC8o5JZjkRCTufTN.html
28-07-2020||World||Hunger to kill 128k more children over Covid-19 pandemic’s first year||Coronavirus and its restrictions are pushing already hungry communities over the edge, killing an estimated 10,000 more young children a month as meager farms are cut off from markets and villages are isolated from food and medical aid, the United Nations warned Monday.In the call to action shared with The Associated Press ahead of publication, four UN agencies warned that growing malnutrition would have long-term consequences, transforming individual tragedies into a generational catastrophe.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Hunger is already stalking Haboue Solange Boue, an infant from Burkina Faso who lost half her former body weight of 5.5 pounds (2.5 kilograms) in just a month. Coronavirus restrictions closed the markets, and her family sold fewer vegetables. Her mother was too malnourished to nurse.“My child,” Danssanin Lanizou whispered, choking back tears as she unwrapped a blanket to reveal her baby’s protruding ribs.More than 550,000 additional children each month are being struck by what is called wasting, according to the U.N. — malnutrition that manifests in spindly limbs and distended bellies. Over a year, that’s up 6.7 million from last year’s total of 47 million. Wasting and stunting can permanently damage children physically and mentally.“The food security effects of the COVID crisis are going to reflect many years from now,” said Dr. Francesco Branca, the WHO head of nutrition. “There is going to be a societal effect.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage From Latin America to South Asia to sub-Saharan Africa, more poor families than ever are staring down a future without enough food. In April, World Food Program head David Beasley warned that the coronavirus economy would cause global famines “of biblical proportions” this year. There are different stages of what is known as food insecurity; famine is officially declared when, along with other measures, 30% of the population suffers from wasting.The World Food Program estimated in February that one Venezuelan in three was already going hungry, as inflation rendered salaries nearly worthless and forced millions to flee abroad. Then the virus arrived.“Every day we receive a malnourished child,” said Dr. Francisco Nieto, who works in a hospital in the border state of Tachira.In May, Nieto recalled, after two months of quarantine, 18-month-old twins arrived with bodies bloated from malnutrition. The children’s mother was jobless and living with her own mother. She told the doctor she fed them only a simple drink made with boiled bananas.“Not even a cracker? Some chicken?” he asked.“Nothing,” the children’s grandmother responded. By the time the doctor saw them, it was too late: One boy died eight days later.The leaders of four international agencies — the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the World Food Program and the Food and Agriculture Organization — have called for at least $2.4 billion immediately to address global hunger. But even more than lack of money, restrictions on movement have prevented families from seeking treatment, said Victor Aguayo, the head of UNICEF’s nutrition program.“By having schools closed, by having primary health care services disrupted, by having nutritional programs dysfunctional, we are also creating harm,” Aguayo said. He cited as an example the near-global suspension of Vitamin A supplements, which are a crucial way to bolster developing immune systems.In Afghanistan, movement restrictions prevent families from bringing their malnourished children to hospitals for food and aid just when they need it most. The Indira Gandhi hospital in the capital, Kabul, has seen only three or four malnourished children, said specialist Nematullah Amiri. Last year, there were 10 times as many.Because the children don’t come in, there’s no way to know for certain the scale of the problem, but a recent study by Johns Hopkins University indicated an additional 13,000 Afghans younger than 5 could die.Afghanistan is now in a red zone of hunger, with severe childhood malnutrition spiking from 690,000 in January to 780,000 — a 13% increase, according to UNICEF.In Yemen, restrictions on movement have blocked aid distribution, along with the stalling of salaries and price hikes. The Arab world’s poorest country is suffering further from a fall in remittances and a drop in funding from humanitarian agencies.Yemen is now on the brink of famine, according to the Famine Early Warning Systems Network, which uses surveys, satellite data and weather mapping to pinpoint places most in need.Some of the worst hunger still occurs in sub-Saharan Africa. In Sudan, 9.6 million people live from one meal to the next — a 65% increase from the same time last year.Lockdowns across Sudanese provinces, as around the world, have dried up work and incomes for millions. With inflation hitting 136%, prices for basic goods have more than tripled.“It has never been easy but now we are starving, eating grass, weeds, just plants from the earth,” said Ibrahim Youssef, director of the Kalma camp for internally displaced people in war-ravaged south Darfur.Adam Haroun, an official in the Krinding camp in west Darfur, recorded nine deaths linked with malnutrition, otherwise a rare occurrence, over the past two months — five newborns and four older adults, he said.Before the pandemic and lockdown, the Abdullah family ate three meals a day, sometimes with bread, or they’d add butter to porridge. Now they are down to just one meal of “millet porridge” — water mixed with grain. Zakaria Yehia Abdullah, a farmer now at Krinding, said the hunger is showing “in my children’s faces.”“I don’t have the basics I need to survive,” said the 67-year-old, who who hasn’t worked the fields since April. “That means the 10 people counting on me can’t survive either.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hunger-to-kill-128k-more-children-over-covid-19-pandemic-s-first-year/story-8rXyGjNOCdKHX8mSUA01uL.html
28-07-2020||World||Kim Jong Un defies Donald Trump’s call to give up nuclear weapons||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said being a nuclear state ensured his country’s survival, showing no intention of bowing to President Donald Trump’s demand that he disarm completely.Kim told a meeting of veterans marking the anniversary of the end of the Korean War fighting that his country’s “trustworthy and effective” nuclear deterrence would ensure its permanent national safety and future, the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported Tuesday.“We have walked down the path of self-development as a nuclear state, and have become a state that can defend ourselves against any form of external pressure or military threat,” Kim said. North Korea has long said that it sees its nuclear arsenal as the best way of protecting itself from a US invasion.“We will not stop for a moment in the process of forming the best national security power that no one can challenge,” Kim said.While Trump has left the door open for another summit with Kim, North Korea has said it sees no point in engaging with Washington, accusing it of breaking promises made at the first historic summit two years ago and turning dreams for peace into “a dark nightmare.”Kim and Trump have met three times since 2018 but have little to show for their unprecedented discussions. Trump has called for the “complete, verifiable and irreversible” of North Korea’s atomic arsenal before it can receive relief from sanctions choking its paltry economy. Pyongyang’s leaders see giving up the weapons as political suicide, and Kim has been busy adding to his stockpile of nuclear warheads and missiles as the talks with Trump have sputtered.The Kim regime also has an incentive to keep tensions from getting out of control and prompting more international sanctions. Kim’s decision to shut borders in January due to the coronavirus slammed the brakes on the little legal trade the state has, and could send the economy into its biggest contraction in more than two decades, according to Fitch Solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-defies-donald-trump-s-call-to-give-up-nuclear-weapons/story-FtV7pW4klVk4arLaOOETKM.html
28-07-2020||World||26 Rohingya Muslims feared drowned found hiding on Malaysian islet||Malaysian authorities said Monday they found 26 Rohingya Muslims, including women and children, hiding on a northern islet after they were initially feared drowned after jumping off a fishing boat. The Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency launched a search for the group after one Rohingya migrant found Saturday on the islet off the northern resort island of Langkawi told investigators that at least 24 other Rohingya were missing.Following further interrogation, the agency found 26 Rohingya refugees hiding on the islet on Sunday, said senior agency official Zawawi Abdullah. The group included 12 men, 10 women and four children, officials said. Zawawi said the Rohingya were believed to have been transported by local fishermen from a main vessel further out at sea and let off near Langkawi so they could sneak in undetected. The Rohingya have been detained for further investigation and will be handed to the immigration department, he said in a statement. Two other Rohingya migrants were also arrested for suspected trafficking. Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslims have fled Buddhist-majority Myanmar due to a military crackdown, and many live in densely crowded refugee camps in Bangladesh. Muslim-dominated Malaysia has been a common destination of boats arranged by traffickers who promise the refugees a better life abroad.Last month, Malaysian authorities detained 269 Rohingya and found a body on board a suspected smuggling boat off Langkawi that they said had been intentionally damaged so it couldn’t be turned back to sea. The Malaysian Maritime Enforcement Agency later said that the 269 were transferred from a larger vessel on which dozens of people were believed to have died and their bodies thrown into the sea. Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said Malaysia cannot accept any more Rohingya refugees as it struggles with an economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. But he said those already in the country will not be sent back to sea. Malaysia is home to over 2 million illegal immigrants as well as some 180,000 refugees and asylum seekers — including 101,000 Rohingya — who are registered with the UN refugee agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/26-rohingya-feared-drowned-found-hiding-on-malaysian-islet/story-bi3esm9mjRsSHyDRFVJpkN.html
28-07-2020||World||WE charity deal: Justin Trudeau to appear before parliamentary panel for questioning||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau will appear before a parliamentary panel on Thursday to face questions in a probe relating to the grant of a nearly billion dollar contract to a charity with links to him and his family. Trudeau has suffered a double-digit dive in his popularity in the country since the controversy erupted.Trudeau will face questioning from the finance committee of the House of Commons on Thursday for an hour. His Chief of Staff Katie Telford will be grilled after that. There is still no word from the Prime Minister’s Office whether he will also appear before the House of Commons ethics committee which is also investigating the matter of the CA $912 million contract to WE Charity to administer a summer youth volunteer programme. The contract was cancelled after the uproar over Trudeau’s personal connection to the organisation, with his mother, brother and wife being paid fees at various times. Canada’s Conflict of Interest and Ethics Commissioner is also looking into the issue.Trudeau is already paying a political price for the contract even after he apologised for not recusing himself when the cabinet decided on the contract. According to a new survey from the non-profit Angus Reid Institute or ARI, Trudeau’s approval ratings have dropped from 55 per cent in May to 44 per cent now, with more citizens holding a negative view of him.“More troublingly, half of Canadians (53%) say that their opinion of the Prime Minister has worsened in the past month or so,” ARI noted in a release. Trudeau’s approval numbers had rebounded due to the perception of effective handling of the health crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, those gains have vanished courtesy the WE charity controversy.ARI pointed out that a plurality of 43 per cent said the Trudeau government “knowingly committed an unethical act”, while another 37 per cent felt its decisions “constitute a possibly criminal act that warrants investigation by police.” Just 12 per cent were willing to accept it as a error in judgement. The country’s finance minister Bill Morneau is also the subject of probes related to his own links to the charity. He has already appeared before the finance committee.However, this also does not mean that Canadians believe that the Liberal Party government will collapse as more revelations come. In fact, 56 per cent think the government will survive the scandal, though with Trudeau’s image badly battered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-charity-deal-justin-trudeau-to-appear-before-parliamentary-panel-for-questioning/story-jijjDMqbXnj5Q0SWjo2mGK.html
28-07-2020||World||New Zealand suspends extradition treaty with Hong Kong||New Zealand announced Tuesday it will follow the lead of its intelligence allies by suspending its extradition treaty with Hong Kong.The move comes in response to China passing a sweeping new security law for the semi-autonomous territory.New Zealand is the final member of the “Five Eyes” intelligence-sharing alliance to take such action after the US, Australia, Canada and the UK previously announced similar measures.New Zealand relies on China as its largest trading partner and in the past has often tried to avoid direct political confrontation. China each year buys billions of dollars worth of New Zealand’s agricultural goods, including its lucrative milk powder which is used in infant formula.But Foreign Minister Winston Peters said the new law went against commitments China had made to the international community.“New Zealand can no longer trust that Hong Kong’s criminal justice system is sufficiently independent from China,” Peters said in a statement.He said there would be other changes to the relationship. New Zealand would now treat military and technology exports to Hong Kong in the same way as it treats such exports to China, he said, and had updated its travel advice to warn New Zealanders about the risks they faced under the new law.“New Zealand remains deeply concerned at the imposition of this legislation, and we will continue to monitor the situation in Hong Kong as the law is applied,” Peters said. “As a result, the review of our cooperation settings with Hong Kong will be ongoing.”China says the new security law is needed to combat terrorism and separatism and prevent Hong Kong from becoming a base for undermining Chinese state power. In general, cases would be tried in Hong Kong, but the law allows for mainland jurisdiction in some circumstances.China’s embassy in Wellington, led by ambassador Wu Xi, said Tuesday it was preparing a response to the announcement. Earlier this month, as New Zealand considered such a move, the embassy put out a statement urging the nation to “stop interfering in Hong Kong affairs and China’s internal affairs, and refrain from going any further down the wrong path.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-suspends-extradition-treaty-with-hong-kong/story-fwyIhLHXNhFuIWYNi8Of0K.html
28-07-2020||World||Vietnam’s Covid-19 calm shattered by sudden surge in community infections||After almost 100 days without a new local patient, Vietnamese had all but claimed victory over the novel coronavirus. They were packing beaches in Danang, hitting Ho Chi Minh City’s nightclubs and shedding masks. Now the masks are back on as the government scrambles to contain a sudden and unexpected flare-up in community infections after officials reported 15 new cases in three days from the central coast region.The startling news, which began on Friday with a suspected case and carried over into the weekend with four new virus patients, underscored the unrelenting nature of the virus. Vietnam is joining a number of other regions, from South Korea to Germany, combating new clusters of unknown origins to head off raging outbreaks.The Southeast Asian country is throwing every weapon in its arsenal at its effort to contain the new spread in Danang. Authorities announced 11 more cases Monday night, all of them tied to a Danang hospital where other cases have been treated. Four of the 11 are medical staff, while the rest are patients who have been treated at the hospital.Vietnam’s first case since April 16 was perhaps the most unnerving: a 57-year-old grandfather who had been in Danang city for about a month and hadn’t travelled to other provinces. The latest wave triggered concerns among government officials that Vietnam, which has now reported 431 infections, may be vulnerable to imported virus cases from people crossing the border illegally into the country. Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc ordered tighter border and immigration controls and police have made a number of arrests of Vietnamese and Chinese charged with shepherding people into the country illegally.Still, Vietnamese health officials, like their counterparts in other countries, are puzzling over where the new infections came from. Hong Kong, for instance, had enjoyed three months of normal life before a surprise July resurgence that could be its worst wave ever. Infections of unknown origins have surged to half of all new local cases.So Vietnamese leaders are doing what has succeeded in the past: deploying swift and blunt lockdown-like actions to try to contain the virus.Danang’s authorities shut down two hospitals where two victims visited and ordered their patients, medical staff, caregivers and family members -- about 7,000 people in total -- to be quarantined for 14 days, local media reported. A third city hospital was also locked down, VnExpress reported.Phuc issued a stay-at-home order for parts of Danang, a city of 1.1 million people who are being urged to suspend “non-urgent activities” while public transportation is halted except for the transporting of materials for production, workers, experts, and people ordered into quarantine, the government said in a statement Monday.Furthermore, operations of private vehicles are being restricted and festivals, religious ceremonies and operations of beauty spas, bars, massage parlours and dancing halls are temporarily suspended. Meanwhile, some 80,000 travellers clamoured to get out of the city as domestic airlines increased flights to ferry them home.And in Hanoi, some 790 kilometers to the north of Danang, officials were re-issuing anti-virus mandates -- including the wearing of masks in public areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnam-s-covid-19-calm-shattered-by-sudden-surge-in-community-infections/story-bywehNnwivvx6JDiQt4pcK.html
28-07-2020||World||80,000 people fleeing Vietnam’s Da Nang as over a dozen Covid-19 cases emerge||About 80,000 people, mostly local tourists, are being evacuated from the popular Vietnamese beach city of Da Nang after more than a dozen people there were confirmed to have Covid-19, the government said Monday. Vietnam, widely seen as a success in dealing with the coronavirus, reimposed a social distancing order in Da Nang following the confirmation of the cases, the first known to be locally transmitted in the country in over three months.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here  A 57-year-old man was confirmed to be infected by the coronavirus on Saturday, the country’s first local case since April. Three more cases were confirmed over the weekend, followed by 11 more on Monday, the Ministry of Health said. On Sunday, the government reimposed a social distancing order on the city.The new outbreak sparked fear among tourists in the city, with many cutting their trips short. The Civil Aviation Administration said the country’s four airlines have added extra flights and larger planes to transport the people, mostly domestic tourists, out of the city.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today “It will probably take four days to evacuate the 80,000 passengers,” CAA director Dinh Viet Thang said in a statement. Those leaving Da Nang have been told to self-quarantine and report their health condition to local health agencies, the Ministry of Health said. It said the 11 cases confirmed Monday were all patients and health workers at Da Nang Hospital, where the initial case is being treated.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  The hospital has been isolated and authorities are tracing the contacts of those infected for testing and compulsory quarantines. The ministry also said the virus is a new strain that has not previously been found in Vietnam. The mutated strain has a faster speed of infection, but its harmfulness compared to the previous strain is not yet known, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/80-000-people-fleeing-vietnam-s-da-nang-as-over-a-dozen-covid-19-cases-emerge/story-aK5fCX8ORwL04Byyrz0QBJ.html
28-07-2020||World||Moderna, Pfizer start decisive Covid-19 vaccine trials, eye year-end launches||Moderna Inc and Pfizer Inc launched two 30,000-subject trials of Covid-19 vaccines that could clear the way for regulatory approval and widespread use by the end of this year, the companies said on Monday.The trials, both announced on Monday, are the first late-stage studies supported by the Trump administration’s effort to speed development of measures against the novel coronavirus, adding to hope that an effective vaccine will help end the pandemic.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Moderna stock rose 9%. Pfizer shares rose 1.6% in afterhours trade and its partner BioNTech, which developed the vaccine, rose 4.2%.Both vaccine candidates rely on a new technology that allows for faster development and manufacturing than traditional vaccine production methods but does not have an extensive track record.So-called mRNA, or synthetic messenger RNA (mRNA), teaches the immune system to recognize and neutralize the coronavirus by mimicking its surface. Also read: Donald Trump to announce ‘good things’ on Covid-19 therapeutics in 2 weeksModerna, which has never brought a vaccine to market, has received nearly $1 billion from the US government, which is helping bankroll several vaccine candidates under its Operation Warp Speed program.Pfizer has an agreement to sell vaccines for 50 million people to the US government for around $2 billion, if the vaccine is effective.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage More than 150 coronavirus vaccine candidates are in various stages of development, with some two dozen prospects already conducting human testing.Johnson and Johnson is launching clinical trials in the US this week and could start a larger, late-stage trial as early as September. British drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc said it will begin large-scale US trials this summer of its vaccine under development with Oxford University researchers. “Having a safe and effective vaccine distributed by the end of 2020 is a stretch goal, but it’s the right goal for the American people,” National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director Francis Collins said in a release announcing the start of Moderna’s large Phase III trial.Manufacturers are ramping up production while testing is underway in order to respond as soon as possible to virus, which is still spreading rapidly around the world. Covid-19 has killed nearly 650,000 people worldwide and battered economies.Moderna could have tens of millions of doses ready when and if the vaccine is deemed safe and effective, Collins told reporters on a call.Pfizer said that if the trial was successful, it could seek regulatory approval as soon as October and supply vaccines for 50 million patients, at two doses each, by the end of the year. Pfizer aims for about 1.3 billion doses by the end of 2021, and Moderna aims for 500 million-1 billion doses a year, beginning 2021, Moderna chief executive Stephane Bancel said on the call. The late-stage trials are designed to evaluate the safety of vaccines and determine if they can prevent symptomatic Covid-19. Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease official, said a readout from the Moderna trial could come by November or even earlier. Fauci said he was “not particularly concerned” about the vaccine’s safety after seeing data from earlier, smaller trials. He also said he had briefed President Donald Trump about the trial the Oval Office on Monday.As other companies ready inoculations, the Covid-19 Prevention Network, a US government-funded program formed by the NIH, said it plans to roll out a large-scale clinical trial of a Covid-19 vaccine candidate with at least 30,000 participants each month through fall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-pfizer-start-decisive-covid-19-vaccine-trials-eye-year-end-launches/story-kbPj8xxwxLZQjoSvUWeTQI.html
28-07-2020||World||Iraq PM Mustafa Al-Kadhimi orders probe after 2 protesters killed in clashes||Iraq’s prime minister Mustafa Al-Kadhimi said Monday he had ordered an investigation into the killing of two anti-government protesters, saying security forces were not authorised to fire “a single bullet” toward the demonstrators. Twenty-one protesters were also wounded in the overnight clashes. Separately, four katyusha rockets landed in Camp Taji, north of Baghdad, which houses US-led coalition troops, according to three Iraqi security officials. One official said the rockets targeted a runway used by Iraqi helicopters, close to where American forces are present. One helicopter was damaged. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.The violence comes after months of quiet in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, and were an embarrassment to prime minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi, who has vowed to meet protester demands by holding early elections and investigating the death of hundreds of protesters at the hands of security forces in recent months. Tensions between the security forces and the demonstrators soared late Sunday when dozens of protesters cut the road connecting two main intersections — Tayaran Square and Tahrir Square — in the capital Baghdad. Some burned tires while others chanted slogans about power cuts in the scorching summer months. Iraq is facing electricity shortages amid searing summer temperatures that can top 50 degrees Celsius, or about 122 degrees Fahrenheit. A senior Electricity Ministry official said the power supply fell short by 10,000 megawatts this summer, down 1,000 megawatts compared to last year, due to lack of maintenance in several power plants because of lack of of funds in state coffers. This has also slowed investment projects to add more power to Iraq’s grid, he said, speaking on condition of anonymity in line with regulations. “Every bullet directed our youth and our people while demanding their rights is a bullet directed at our dignity and principles,” al-Kadhimi said in a televised speech Monday evening. He said he had ordered a probe and requested to have the facts before him within 72 hours. Al-Kadhimi said there is no “magic solution” for Iraq’s electricity problem, which is a result of decades of corruption and mismanagement and “cannot be resolved overnight.” He said his government was working on a solution, and reiterated his intention to pave the way for early elections in line with protesters’ demands. In October, mass anti-government protests erupted in Baghdad and across Iraq’s predominately Shiite south as tens of thousands of angry Iraqi youth took to the streets to decry rampant government corruption, unemployment and poor services, including electricity. Pressure from protests lead to the resignation of Prime Minister Adel Abdul-Mahdi. Since October, over 600 demonstrators have been killed during protests due to live fire and tear gas used by security forces. But al-Kadhimi, who was sworn in as prime minister in May, also has to cope with an unprecedented economic crisis spurred by falling oil prices and the coronavirus pandemic. Iraq’s health ministry has reported 110,032 cases, including 4,362 deaths.The spread of the coronavirus had halted mass rallies and prompted most protesters to leave, with only a few remaining at the tent sit-in at Tahrir Square, once the epicentre of the protest movement. Ali al-Bayati, a spokesman for the semi-official Independent High Commission for Human Rights, also said two protesters had been killed. The commission said their reports indicate live fire and pellet rifles were used to disperse protesters. Earlier, Iraqi security officials said demonstrators had hurled firebombs and stones at the riot police, while rights monitors said security forces set fire to demonstrator tents at Tahrir Square. A statement from the military spokesman Yahya Rasool said security forces had been given strict instructions not to use violence against peaceful protesters “except in the event of extreme necessity.” He said the events in Baghdad squares were “unfortunate” and that a probe was underway into what happened. “We are aware of the difficulties that our people are going through,” Rasool said. “This government, with its short life, is trying to address (them) under exceptional economic and health conditions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraq-pm-mustafa-al-kadhimi-orders-probe-after-2-protesters-killed-in-clashes/story-SQoSPQzYvEPRPyZ2GStTzJ.html
28-07-2020||World||‘Americans need help’: GOP rolls out $1 tn stimulus to start talks with Democrats||Senate Republicans presented their $1 trillion plan to bolster the pandemic-ravaged US economy in a series of bills that would trim extra unemployment benefits, send $1,200 payments to most Americans and shield businesses, schools and other organizations from lawsuits stemming from coronavirus infections.The package was pulled together after days of negotiations between Senate Republicans and President Donald Trump’s emissaries that didn’t completely settle differences within the GOP over the size and scope of additional federal spending in response to the pandemic.“We have one foot in the pandemic and one foot in the recovery,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Monday on the Senate floor, noting the rising death toll and a fragile economic recovery. “The American people need more help, they need it to be comprehensive, and they need it to be carefully tailored to this crossroads.”The bill introductions were just the first step toward negotiating a compromise plan with Democrats, who’ve offered their own $3.5 trillion stimulus plan.Kicking off talks, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer met in her office for almost two hours with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows Monday evening.“We will be back tomorrow,” Meadows said as he left. “We had a good meeting. A very productive meeting.”Pelosi delivered a harsh assessment of the GOP plan, calling it a “pathetic” piecemeal approach and saying it wasn’t adequate to the country’s needs.“Having said that, we are going to see if we can find some common ground,” she said. “But we are not there yet.”Congress has little time to act: supplemental unemployment insurance is expiring and other elements of the last stimulus legislation are beginning to dry up. Lawmakers are set to leave for an August break in two weeks and will be facing a timetable compressed by the looming November election when they return in September.Diane Swonk, chief economist at Grant Thornton, said Congress is “chasing a moving target” with stimulus bills.“I fear Covid will cast a long shadow on the economy and the aid Congress is offering up is too little too late,” Swonk said. “The bankruptcies and failures that will mount could leave us a much smaller and fractured base from which to rebuild.”Continuing dissent among Republicans makes McConnell’s negotiating position more difficult.“There is significant resistance to yet another trillion dollars,” Republican Senator Ted Cruz of Texas told reporters. “As it stands now I think it’s likely that you’ll see a number of Republicans in opposition to this bill and expressing serious concerns.”There also was a split between the White House and Senate Republicans. Meadows had suggested that Congress pass a much smaller package of school and unemployment benefits and continue negotiating a larger plan through August. McConnell’s statement that the bill had to be comprehensive was a rejection of that position.Schumer called the GOP effort to put together a package a “slow-motion train wreck” that has delayed getting legislation through Congress.“They can’t even put one bill together, they are so divided,” he said.There are some areas of common ground between Democrats and Republicans. Both agree on sending another round of stimulus payments to individuals, though Democrats want to increase the amount paid to dependents and expand eligibility. The Paycheck Protection Program for small businesses is another measure that both parties support and is all but assured will be in the final bill.Republicans have agreed to extend supplemental unemployment benefits, but they propose cutting supplemental unemployment benefits to $200 weekly from $600 until states are able to create a system that would provide 70% of a laid-off worker’s previous pay up to a state-set cap, according to two people familiar with the plan.Schumer said tying the payments to actual wages will be “unworkable” for most state unemployment systems, which had trouble distributing the flat $600 payment that was part of the March stimulus bill.The GOP plan also includes money for virus testing and to help with distribution of an eventual vaccine, as well as aid for schools.Two of the biggest fights ahead are likely to be over two issues that are key for both sides: Democratic demands for aid to states and a GOP measure that provides protection against lawsuits stemming from coronavirus infections when businesses and schools reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/american-people-need-help-gop-rolls-out-1-trillion-stimulus-to-start-talks-with-democrats/story-51vLlUzjS5H4QAFidz7MNJ.html
28-07-2020||World||Donald Trump to announce ‘good things’ on Covid-19 therapeutics in 2 weeks||US President Donald Trump on Monday said that his administration will announce good news regarding therapeutics developed for Covid-19 infection within the next two weeks.“With respect to therapeutics, I can tell you that I think over the next couple of weeks, we will have some really, very good things to say... We will have some announcements on that over the next two weeks,” Trump told reporters.Earlier on Monday, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) said in a press release that US scientists have begun a phase three trial of a potential Covid-19 vaccine developed by biotechnology company Moderna.Also read: Global recoveries hit 10 million even as Covid-19 rages onThe NIH plans to conduct the trial at multiple US clinical research sites with the participation of approximately 30,000 adult volunteers who do not have Covid-19.Earlier, during an event in Florida, Vice President Mike Pence said that vaccines are showing such great promise something and one should be available later this year or early next year.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The US has reported more than 4.2 million cases of Covid-19 and more than 146,000 deaths caused by the disease, according to the latest data from the Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-to-announce-good-things-on-covid-19-therapeutics-in-2-weeks/story-yORf33fpOqkfMTLyTi1PaO.html
28-07-2020||World||FDA warns Americans of toxic hand sanitisers amid Covid-19 pandemic||US health officials are warning Americans again to avoid a growing list of imported hand sanitisers that may be contaminated with the toxic chemical methanol. The Food and Drug Administration said Monday there have been increasing reports of injury due to people using-- sometimes ingesting—the unauthorised sanitisers, which can lead to blindness, heart problems and death. The active ingredient that kills germs in legitimate sanitisers is ethyl alcohol, which is consumable. But some Mexican companies have been replacing it with poisonous methanol, or wood alcohol, which is used in antifreeze. The FDA first issued a consumer warning about the products last month.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  Last week the agency issued a warning letter to Mexican manufacturer Eskbiochem SA de CV for marketing sanitiser containing more than 80% methanol and falsely claiming that it was “FDA approved”. The FDA has posted a “do-not-use” list of more than 80 sanitisers on its website and blocked their importation. The agency said it is working with retailers to recall products remaining on US store shelves. The illegitimate gels generally don’t list methanol as an ingredient on their packaging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fda-warns-americans-of-toxic-hand-sanitisers-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-moN51nyf3wikn6tC9KohRP.html
28-07-2020||World||Trump lawyers renew legal assault on tax records subpoena||President Donald Trump’s lawyers filed fresh arguments Monday to try to block a criminal subpoena for his tax records, saying it was issued in bad faith, might have been politically motivated and calling it a harassment of the president.Lawyers filed a rewritten lawsuit in Manhattan federal court to challenge the subpoena by a state prosecutor on grounds they believe conform with how the U.S. Supreme Court said the subpoena can be contested.They asked a judge to declare it “invalid and unenforceable.”The high court ruled earlier this month that Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. could subpoena tax records from Trump’s accountant over his objections.But the court said Trump could challenge the subpoena as improper just as anyone else can.Trump’s lawyers had argued that the president could not be criminally investigated while he was in office.In their new court papers, Trump’s lawyers said the subpoena of his tax records was “wildly overbroad” and “amounts to harassment of the President.”They said it was issued in bad faith, copying a Congressional subpoena.“Whether the District Attorney photocopied a congressional subpoena for political reasons, for efficiency reasons, or for both, he knowingly and intentionally issued a wildly overbroad subpoena for the President’s records,” the lawyers said.They said the subpoena seeks detailed information about all of Trump’s assets in the U.S. and abroad for a 10-year period.“Simply put, it asks for everything,” the lawyers wrote.Vance sought the tax records in part for a probe of how Trump’s then-personal lawyer arranged during the 2016 presidential race to keep the porn actress Stormy Daniels and model Karen McDougal from airing claims of extramarital affairs with Trump. Trump has denied the affairs.Vance, a Democrat, has requested eight years of the Republican president’s personal and corporate tax records.Danny Frost, a spokesperson for Vance, declined comment Monday.The Supreme Court had returned the case to a federal judge in Manhattan who has arranged for both sides to finish filing their legal arguments over challenges to the subpoena by mid-August.Last year, the same judge ruled against Trump in a written opinion that was upheld by the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court.In their new court filing, Trump’s lawyers said the tax subpoena “demands voluminous documents related to every facet of the business and financial affairs of the President and numerous associated entities — from the banal to the complex, from drafts and memoranda to formal records, from source documents to summaries.”They said it was wrong for Vance to seek records dating to 2011 when he was primarily investigating events that took place in 2016.The lawsuit said the subpoena concerns entities in California, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, New Jersey, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. It said other affected entities are located outside the U.S., including in Canada, the Dominican Republic, Dubai, India, Indonesia, Ireland, the Philippines, Scotland, and Turkey.“Taken together, the subpoena demands an accounting and analysis of every single asset and liability of the President, including each one of the listed entities,” the lawyers wrote, calling the request “an overreaching demand designed to pick apart the President.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-lawyers-renew-legal-assault-on-tax-records-subpoena/story-EbvHG6YXkazoSpldCuQVUI.html
28-07-2020||World||Global recoveries hit 10 million even as Covid-19 rages on||More than 10 million people out of the over 16 million infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have recovered worldwide -- a key milestone for the pandemic that has otherwise shown little sign of slowing down as it continues to find new strongholds across countries. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageResurgences in various regions, including where nations thought they had controlled the outbreak, are alarming the world, even as the pandemic is steered by mounting infections in some of the world’s most populous countries: US, Brazil and India. Scientists believe that the disease’s recovery rate – which is around 94% for known infections – could be much higher as a large chunk of Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic and never officially recorded. Till Monday, 10,127,507 patients had recovered from the viral illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-recoveries-hit-10million-even-as-covid-19-rages-on/story-EP3mWO9jDRStKi176a7LoI.html
28-07-2020||World||‘Shameful period of British history’: Plaque likely beside Clive statue||After rejecting the demand to pull down the statue of Robert Clive in Shropshire, the local council is considering placing a plaque beside it to explain the controversial legacy of the man credited with ruthlessly laying the foundation of British rule in India in the 18th century.Clive’s statue has stood in Shrewsbury’s square since 1860. The first governor of the presidency of Fort William, Bengal, Clive died in London 1774. His statue was one of many recently identified across the UK for removal by Black Lives Matter campaigners.Steve Charmley, deputy leader of the council, said on Monday: “Today, as a society, we are finally facing up to painful and shameful periods in our history and having to address subjects that cause real distress to some members of our community, especially when they aren’t managed sensitively. The way we interpret the past is hugely important”.On July 16, in a meeting of the full council, 28 councillors voted in favour of the recommendation that no further action be taken on the demand to remove of the statue, while 17 voted against the proposal and one councillor abstained.Charmley added: “We believe we should not erase controversial history but, rather than celebrate and glorify such people and events, find appropriate ways to mark and learn from them…(We) are currently exploring the possibility of placing a plaque next to the statue to factually bring more of his story and background to life.”During the July 16 meeting, one of the reasons mentioned to support the recommendation that the statue should not be replaced was the existence of Clive’s statue in Kolkata (colonial Calcutta was the initial capital under the East India Company).Clive’s statue in Shropshire has been the subject of a petition and counter-petition. After thousands signed the petition calling for its removal, thousands more backed the counter-petition, insisting that “removing statues does not change history nor help us learn from it. Shropshire has been influenced by the actions of Robert Clive, whether we condone all of his actions or not”.The Black Lives Matter campaign witnessed protests across the UK after George Floyd’s death in the US, gathering momentum after the statue of slave trader Edward Colston was pulled down in Bristol in early June. The campaign has prompted a review of public spaces in London and elsewhere on symbols of racism, colonialism and slave trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shameful-period-of-british-history-plaque-likely-beside-clive-statue/story-u6sZRQaiJTqcJHsGwGy5RN.html
28-07-2020||World||Vaccine alliance eyes range of prices for Covid shots, says $40 would be maximum||Coordinators of a global coronavirus vaccines funding scheme are looking at a wide range of potential prices for Covid-19 shots, with a reported $40 per dose price tag the “highest number” in that range, one of the co-leads of the project said on Monday.Seth Berkley, chief executive of the GAVI vaccine alliance, which is co-leading the COVAX facility designed to ensure fair global access to Covid-19 shots, said the facility had no specific target price and would also seek to negotiate tiered pricing for richer and poorer countries.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageBerkley rejected comments from European Union sources last week who said the COVAX facility was targeting a $40 price for Covid vaccines for wealthy countries. The EU sources had said the EU would be seeking to secure cheaper deals outside of the COVAX scheme.“There was a large range of numbers, and they (the EU sources) put the highest number out,” Berkley said in an interview. He said that in a presentation to EU officials, COVAX officials had given “a range of different prices”.“And that ($40) was the maximum price in the range for high income countries, rather than a set price,” he told Reuters.COVAX is co-led by GAVI, the World Health Organization and the CEPI Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and is designed to guarantee fast and equitable access globally to Covid-19 vaccines once they are developed. Its aim is to secure supplies of and deliver 2 billion doses across countries who sign up by the end of 2021. GAVI said earlier this month that more than 75 countries have expressed interest in joining COVAX.Berkley said most vaccines are so early in the testing process that it’s too soon to know what the final price will be. “The truth is nobody has an idea what the price is going to be, because we have no idea which (potential Covid) vaccine is going to work,” he said. He said questions about which technology might be most effective, whether vaccines would be single or a double dose, or what yields from manufacturing facilities might be were still unanswered and would all influence eventual vaccine pricing.Berkley said COVAX has started putting together estimates based on what is known, but there are no firm prices. “The challenge is trying to come up with a cost. Anybody who tells you they know isn’t being honest.” Berkley, who through the GAVI alliance negotiates with manufacturers to bulk-buy vaccines for use in poor countries, said drugmakers frequently use a tiered pricing approach, in which poorer countries pay one price, middle-income countries a higher price, and rich countries pay the highest price. He said it’s not clear what manufacturers of potential Covid-19 vaccines will propose, but they are trying to put forward cost estimates based on what they know so far. “You’re going to have a range of different prices, depending upon which ones (vaccine candidates) are going to succeed.“Frankly, it’s likely that we’ll have lower prices given the large volumes that we’re trying to access here.”Berkley said COVAX and several others are also including a “speed premium” into the cost of Covid-19 vaccines that encourages companies to make millions of doses at risk, even before they know if their vaccine candidate works. “We see that as being 15% or 20% of what the cost will be,” he said. (Reporting by Julie Steenhuysen in Chicago and Kate Kelland in London, editing by Jane Merriman)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-alliance-eyes-range-of-prices-for-covid-shots-says-40-would-be-maximum/story-SAEOAcCezpinCGYaf6mKhL.html
28-07-2020||World||IMF grants $4.3 billion to South Africa in biggest coronavirus loan||The International Monetary Fund approved $4.3 billion in emergency funding for South Africa, the largest emergency disbursement for any country yet to assist with fighting the coronavirus pandemic.The funds “support the authorities’ efforts in addressing the challenging health situation and severe economic impact of the Covid-19 shock,” the Washington-based lender said in a statement Monday. “Once the pandemic is behind, there is a pressing need to ensure debt sustainability and implement structural reforms to support the recovery and achieve sustainable and inclusive growth.”With more than 445,000 confirmed Covid-19 cases and almost 7,000 fatalities, South Africa is the worst-hit country on the continent. A lockdown aimed at curbing the spread is devastating the economy, with the government expecting it to contract 7.2% this year.Even before the pandemic hit, South Africa was stuck in its longest downward cycle since World War II and the gross domestic product probably contracted more than 30% in the second quarter, according to central bank forecasts. Government debt is now projected to peak at close to 90% of GDP in 2023-2024 and the budget deficit will swell to a record this year.“Going forward, our fiscal measures will build on our policy strengths and limit the existing economic vulnerabilities which have been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic,” Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said in a statement Monday.The lockdown that started on March 27 and has been eased gradually is weighing on output and will further reduce tax revenue that’s been falling short of targets for most of the past five years. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a 500 billion-rand ($29.9 billion) stimulus package in April and the National Treasury has said the government is seeking $7 billion of this from multilateral lenders.Other LoansThe New Development Bank has already granted a $1 billion loan, while the nation is borrowing about 5 billion rand ($300 million) from the African Development Bank. The country will seek up to $2 billion from the World Bank, according to Treasury Director-General Dondo Mogajane.The IMF money comes after some senior officials in the ruling African National Congress and its alliance partners initially rejected suggestions that the government seek help from multilateral lenders, saying the structural adjustments associated with such loans would undermine the nation’s sovereignty. However, the IMF emergency loans that are aimed at the virus and health interventions come without the normal conditions that have concerned past borrowers.The IMF in April doubled its emergency lending capacity to $100 billion, and Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said that the fund will mobilize more than $18 billion to respond to requests from more than 40 African countries. The lender has now approved more than $14 billion in emergency financing to help nations on the continent, including $3.4 billion for Nigeria and $2.8 billion for Egypt. On top of that. the IMF last month approved a 12-month $5.2 billion standby arrangement for Egypt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imf-grants-4-3-billion-to-south-africa-in-biggest-coronavirus-loan/story-sJmGVro6ZurkKLZtw4cSUK.html
28-07-2020||World||Be more like Pakistan, China tells Afghanistan and Nepal at four-country meet||China on Monday urged Afghanistan, Nepal and Pakistan to forge “four-party cooperation” to overcome the Covid-19 crisis and continue work on projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), including the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Presiding over a virtual meeting with his counterparts from the three countries, China’s foreign minister Wang Yi said the four states should work together to extend CPEC to Afghanistan. The video conference, organised by Beijing ostensibly to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic, was held against the backdrop of the months-long India-China border standoff. Given India’s currently strained ties with Nepal, the meeting is unlikely to go down well with the foreign policy establishment in New Delhi. ALSO WATCH | AK-47 magazines, Chinese grenades seized from LeT hideout in ShopianWang, one of China’s senior-most diplomats with the rank of state councillor, said the four states should give “full play to geographic advantages, strengthen exchanges and connections between the four countries and Central Asian countries, and maintain regional peace and stability”, according to a statement in Mandarin issued on Monday night. Also read: India will resist China’s economic imperialism |OpinionThe four countries should also “actively promote the construction of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor and the trans-Himalayan three-dimensional interconnectivity network, support the extension of [CPEC] to Afghanistan, and further release the regional interconnection dividend”, he said. Even for China, it is rare to call for four-party cooperation in South Asia without involving India. But the move fits Beijing’s current narrative. The statement from China’s foreign ministry indicated Beijing is looking at a more permanent cooperation mechanism with the three South Asian countries than just working together to counter the pandemic. The meeting added to Beijing’s own narrative that it is ready to play a bigger role in war-torn Afghanistan’s peace process. For Nepal, it was an opportunity to send out a message about its increasingly snug ties with China amid the strained relations with India. Also read: In China’s troop movements in Ladakh’s depth areas, a hint about its real planAs for Pakistan, Wang himself cited the example of “iron brother” ties between Islamabad and Beijing. Emphasising that having good neighbours is “good fortune”, Wang called on Nepal and Afghanistan to follow the example of Sino-Pakistan cooperation to fight the pandemic. Wang said learning from the Sino-Pakistan cooperation, Afghanistan and Nepal should expand four-nation joint prevention and control of Covid-19 and make arrangements for epidemic prevention, resumption of economic activity and personnel exchanges. He said under the principle of anti-epidemic cooperation, the four countries should open up “fast channels” and “green channels” for personnel and logistics as soon as possible. They should also strengthen joint prevention and control in border areas, and frame jointly recognised standard operating procedures for epidemic notification, prevention, management and control, he said. Also read: US warplane flew less than 100 km from Shanghai, says China think tankAs part of post-pandemic recovery and economic development, Wang said, the other countries should firmly promote the joint construction of BRI, promote the resumption of key cooperation projects, maintain the stability of industrial and supply chains, and create new economic growth points in the digital field. The online meeting was joined by Pakistan’s foreign and economic ministers, Shah Mahmood Qureshi and Khushro Bakhtiar, Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali and Afghanistan’s acting foreign minister Hanif Atmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-turns-to-pak-nepal-and-afghanistan-for-four-party-cooperation-in-south-asia-excludes-new-delhi/story-WC8Gc59RSXBEsbIGx0rGGK.html
28-07-2020||World||Trump’s national security adviser Robert O’Brien tests positive for Covid-19: White House||President Donald Trump’s National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien has tested positive for the coronavirus — making him the highest-ranking official to test positive so far.That’s according to two people familiar with the situation who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to discuss it by name.WATCH | Donald Trump’s close aide infected with Covid; officials deny risk to PresidentThe White House confirmed that O’Brien has mild symptoms and “has been self-isolating and working from a secure location off site,” adding that: “There is no risk of exposure to the President or the Vice President” and that the “work of the National Security Council continues uninterrupted.”The news was first reported by Bloomberg News, which said O’Brien came down with the virus after a family event.A personal valet to the president and the vice president’s press secretary previously tested positive for the virus, which has now infected more than 4 million people nationwide.Senior White House staff and anyone who comes into close contact with the president and vice president are tested for the virus every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-national-security-adviser-robert-o-brien-tests-positive-for-covid-19-white-house/story-mMDBI3OxblGFU4UuSO3ctK.html
