29-07-2020||World||Senior UK diplomat appointed chief of intelligence agency MI6||Richard Moore, who was previously posted in Pakistan and engaged with senior Indian interlocutors in his current role as political director in the Foreign Office, was on Wednesday appointed the next chief of the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6).Moore, 57, will succeed Alex Younger, who will leave the service in the autumn, a Foreign Office statement said. Moore previously held director roles in the intelligence service and has been deputy national security adviser in the Cabinet Office.He was one of the speakers during the India Global Week (July 9-11), when he joined a discussion on how the UK and India can work together to ensure that multilateral institutions continue to be relevant.Foreign secretary Dominic Raab said: “I am delighted to appoint Richard as the next chief of the Secret Intelligence Service. He returns to SIS with tremendous experience and will oversee the work of a group of men and women whose tireless efforts are rarely seen in public, but which are critical for the security and prosperity of the UK”.Moore said: “I am pleased and honoured to be asked to return to lead my service. SIS plays a vital role - with MI5 and GCHQ - in keeping the British people safe and promoting UK interests overseas. I look forward to continuing that work alongside the brave and dedicated team at SIS.”Oxford-educated and Libya-born Moore also served as British ambassador to Turkey, besides several roles in the diplomatic service. Before joining the Foreign office, he joined SIS in 1987 where he undertook a range of roles across the service both in the UK and overseas, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/senior-uk-diplomat-appointed-chief-of-intelligence-agency-mi6/story-voxCLY75N9FoeTXSgZhveI.html
29-07-2020||World||UK again extends visa of stranded Indians until August 31||The Boris Johnson government on Wednesday granted another visa extension until August 31 to Indian and other non-EU citizens currently in the UK who are unable to travel to their destinations in India and elsewhere due to travel bans in various countries.The extension comes as some relief to Indians whose visas were about to expire on July 31. Regular commercial flights between India and the UK have not yet resumed. Many have returned on special repatriation flights but several others remain stranded.Addressing those affected, the Home Office said: “To allow time to make the necessary arrangements to leave the UK, if you have a visa or leave that was due to expire between the 24 January 2020 and 31 July 2020, you will be given an extra month’s grace period within the UK to 31 August 2020”.“During the grace period the conditions of your stay in the UK will be the same as the conditions of your leave…You do not need to contact the Home Office to tell us you are able to leave the UK during the grace period up until the 31 August”.“If you intend to leave the UK but are not able to do so by 31 August 2020, you may request additional time to stay, also known as ‘exceptional indemnity’, by contacting the coronavirus immigration team (CIT)”, it added.Officials said a dedicated Covid-19 immigration team has been set up in the Home Office for the purpose, and asked anyone with expired or expiring visas to contact it, via email CIH@homeoffice.gov.uk. They will then be issued with the extension, it added.Home secretary Priti Patel said: “The UK continues to put the health and well-being of people first and nobody will be punished for circumstances outside of their control. By extending people’s visas, we are giving people peace of mind and also ensuring that those in vital services can continue their work”.Those who contact the Home Office for the visa extensions will be expected to return to their home countries as soon as possible once flight and border restrictions are lifted. No action will be taken during this time for those who email the Home Office for the extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-again-extends-visa-of-stranded-indians-until-august-31/story-nuOEA7k5uZCam6FmjJ0jCK.html
29-07-2020||World||Moderna’s vaccine protects monkeys against Covid-19, study finds||US biotechnology company Moderna’s experimental vaccine to prevent Covid-19 induced robust immune response and rapidly controlled the novel coronavirus in the upper and lower airways of monkeys exposed to SARS-CoV-2, according to a study published on Tuesday. The candidate vaccine, mRNA-1273, was co-developed by scientists at Moderna and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) in the US. The study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, complements recently reported interim results from an NIAID-sponsored Phase 1 clinical trial of mRNA-1273. On Monday clinics around the US began a Phase 3 trial of the vaccine candidate, with the aim of enrolling 30,000 people to test for safety and effectiveness. In the latest study, three groups of eight rhesus macaques received two injections of 10 or 100 microgrammes (μg) of mRNA-1273 or a placebo. Injections were spaced 28 days apart. Vaccinated macaques produced high levels of neutralising antibodies directed at the surface spike protein used by SARS-CoV-2 to attach to and enter cells, the researchers said. Animals receiving the 10-μg or 100-μg dose vaccine candidate produced neutralising antibodies in the blood at levels well above those found in people who recovered from Covid-19, they said. The researchers said the experimental vaccine also induced Th1 T-cell responses but not Th2 responses. Induction of Th2 responses has been associated with a phenomenon called vaccine-associated enhancement of respiratory disease (VAERD), they said. According to the researchers, vaccine-induced Th1 responses have not been associated with VAERD or other respiratory diseases. The experimental vaccine also induced T follicular helper T-cell responses that may have contributed to the robust antibody response, they said. Four weeks after the second injection, all the macaques were exposed to SARS-CoV-2 via both the nose and the lungs, according to the study. It found that after two days, no replicating virus was detectable in the lungs of seven out of eight of the macaques in both vaccinated groups, while all eight placebo-injected animals continued to have replicating virus in the lung. None of the eight macaques vaccinated with 100 μg of mRNA-1273 had detectable virus in their noses two days after virus exposure, the researchers said. This is the first time an experimental Covid-19 vaccine tested in nonhuman primates has been shown to produce such rapid viral control in the upper airway, the researchers noted. A COVID-19 vaccine that reduces viral replication in the lungs would limit disease in the individual, while reducing shedding in the upper airway would potentially lessen transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and consequently reduce the spread of disease, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-s-vaccine-protects-monkeys-against-covid-19-study-finds/story-9Lnet3y19nghQUnOYRenMK.html
29-07-2020||World||Wanted: a TV-friendly spokesperson for PM Boris Johnson in White House-style briefings||Before White House-style daily televised briefings begin in Downing Street from October, officials on Wednesday released an advert seeking to appoint a spokesperson with a “strong grasp of foreign and domestic” issues to appear on behalf of Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Johnson and other ministers held daily televised briefings from Downing Street on coronavirus until June 23, which were widely watched as people hunkered down in homes during the lockdown. Its connect prompted Johnson to consider White House-style daily briefings.According to former journalist Johnson, the popularity of the coronavirus briefings showed that the public wanted more “direct engagement” with decision-makers. He would not appear every day, but would be “popping up from time to time”.The advert says the new spokesperson expected to draw a six-figure salary will have the “unique opportunity to work at the centre of government, and communicate with the nation on behalf of the Prime Minister…(and) become a trusted political adviser to the Prime Minister”.“You will represent the government and the Prime Minister to an audience of millions on a daily basis, across the main broadcast channels and social media, and have the chance to influence and shape public opinion. You will speak directly to the public on the issues they care most about”, it informs prospective candidates.The role involves regularly giving on-the-record televised briefings and providing trusted media advice to Johnson and his political team. The candidates are told that working in the Prime Minister’s communications team involves working under pressure and to immovable deadlines.“The demands of the post are high and it will appeal to an experienced and confident media operator who would enjoy working on camera and with senior ministers, political advisers, officials and journalists; who would relish the challenge and pace of televised briefing; and who has a strong grasp of foreign and domestic policy issues”, the advert says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wanted-a-tv-friendly-spokesperson-for-pm-boris-johnson-in-white-house-style-briefings/story-lXTU8dUCq73DTBzJSC9QcM.html
29-07-2020||World||Pakistani Muslim accused of insulting Islam killed in court||A young Pakistani Muslim walked into a courtroom in the northwestern city of Peshawar on Wednesday and shot and killed a fellow Muslim who was on trial for blasphemy, a police officer said.It was not immediately clear how the assailant, identified as Khalid Khan, managed to get into the court amid tight security. The attacker was subsequently arrested.The man on trial, Tahir Shamim Ahmad, had claimed he was Islam’s prophet and was arrested two years ago on blasphemy charges, according to Azmat Khan, the police officer. Ahmad died before he could be transported to hospital.Blasphemy is an extremely controversial issue in Pakistan, where people convicted of the crime can be sentenced to life in prison or the death penalty. But crowds and individuals in Pakistan often take the law into their own hands.While authorities have yet to carry out a death sentence for blasphemy, even the mere accusation can cause riots. Domestic and international human rights groups say blasphemy allegations have often been used to intimidate religious minorities and settle personal scores.A Punjab governor was killed by his own guard in 2011 after he defended a Christian woman, Asia Bibi, who was accused of blasphemy. She was acquitted after spending eight years on death row in a case that drew international media attention. Faced with death threats from Islamic extremists upon her release, she flew to Canada to join her daughters last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-muslim-accused-of-insulting-islam-killed-in-court/story-Hi4wIzHMTN5wvdWurMUX5L.html
29-07-2020||World||Heathrow tells UK: do passenger testing or lose ‘quarantine roulette’||Heathrow Airport, Europe’s busiest airport, called on Britain to urgently introduce a passenger testing regime, warning that without one it would lose a game of global “quarantine roulette” coronavirus stalled aviation.The worst public health crisis since the 1918 influenza outbreak has wrought economic turmoil across the world and just as the travel industry restarted there are now fears of a second wave of shutdowns after Britain imposed a quarantine on Spain.“The UK needs a passenger testing regime and fast,” Heathrow CEO John Holland-Kaye said. “Without it, Britain is just playing a game of quarantine roulette.”“Our European competitors are racing ahead with passenger testing, if the UK doesn’t act soon global Britain will be nothing more than a campaign slogan,” Holland-Kaye said.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has faced criticism for being too slow to craft a nationwide testing programme, and the government has bet heavily on a home testing approach that has been dogged by delays.Asked about such sharp criticism from the head of the country’s biggest airport, said there was no silver bullet.“There’s not a silver bullet of just testing immediately at the border,” Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden told the BBC. “It can incubate over a period of time so there’s not a silver bullet of just testing immediately at the border.”Heathrow, along with airlines and the entire tourism industry, is hurting.Passenger numbers fell 96% in the second quarter while cargo volumes fell over 30%. Revenue fell 85%. Heathrow, though, said its finances remained robust.It said it had enough cash to last until at least June 2021 with no revenue.“We have agreed a waiver on financial covenants until the end of 2021 and maintained our Investment Grade credit rating status,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heathrow-tells-uk-do-passenger-testing-or-lose-quarantine-roulette/story-rGtMbnJncHstbb9E12NWHK.html
29-07-2020||World||Britain signs supply deal for 60 million doses of Sanofi/GSK Covid-19 vaccine||Britain has signed a supply deal for up to 60 million doses of a possible Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline, it said on Wednesday, its fourth such arrangement.No vaccine has yet been approved to treat or prevent Covid-19, the respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus that has killed more than 659,000 people and unleashed economic havoc worldwide.Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed. Sanofi and GSK, which had first teamed up in April, confirmed in a statement that regulatory approval for their vaccine could be won by the first half of 2021 if clinical data was positive.Britain has moved early in striking vaccine supply deals, and ministers have stressed the importance of securing supplies of a range of candidates. “The fact remains that there are no guarantees,” said business minister Alok Sharma.“In the meantime, it is important that we secure early access to a diverse range of promising vaccine candidates, like GSK and Sanofi, to increase our chances of finding one that works.” Last week Britain struck deals for 30 million doses of the experimental BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine, and a deal in principle for 60 million doses of the Valneva vaccine.That followed a previously announced pact with AstraZeneca for production of 100 million doses of its potential vaccine, being developed in partnership with Oxford university.With no working vaccine against Covid-19 yet developed, Britain now has 250 million doses potentially available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-signs-supply-deal-for-60-million-doses-of-sanofi-gsk-covid-19-vaccine/story-pFnzkNAjtKKjEdv47YvbsK.html
29-07-2020||World||Hajj pilgrimage in the age of coronavirus is unlike any before||Holy water will be consumed from single-use bottles. Pilgrims will get sterilized pebbles to throw at pillars symbolizing the devil. And instead of jostling shoulder to shoulder, worshipers will circle Mecca’s grand mosque with 1.5 meters of space between them.This year, Islam’s annual hajj pilgrimage — which starts on Wednesday — will be unlike any other.Saudi Arabia has dramatically downsized the ritual because of the coronavirus pandemic, with authorities testing pilgrims and cutting their numbers from the usual 2 million to around 1,000. As a result, this year’s pilgrims will be among a lucky few, selected through an online vetting system open only to residents of the kingdom.“It’s such beautiful moment for me,” said Faridah Binti Bakti Yahra, a 39-year-old Indonesian mother of three, who was so surprised by the call telling her she’d been chosen that she thought it was a scam. “I couldn’t believe it was true.”Hajj is one of the five pillars of Islam, obligatory once in a lifetime for all who are able. Pilgrims often save money for years and apply repeatedly for a spot.Normally, religious tourism -- of which hajj is only a part -- brings in revenue equivalent to about 2.7% of Saudi Arabia’s gross domestic product. But the crowds of people from all over the world are also potential incubators of disease, so the government halted them at the start of the pandemic. Saudi Arabia’s coronavirus cases topped 270,000 this week, with daily new cases falling below 2,000 for the first time since early June.“The main goal is that the pilgrims not be infected,” hajj minister Mohammad Benten said in an interview with Saudi television channel Al-Arabiya.The hajj will be the first large-scale gathering in Mecca’s grand mosque in months. Only pilgrims between the age of 20 and 50 without chronic diseases were considered. Before traveling to Mecca, they observed a week-long home quarantine, followed by a four-day quarantine in a Mecca hotel -- receiving meals through room service and communicating with their neighbors over Whatsapp.When they leave their rooms on Wednesday, they’ll be transported on half-empty buses, their possessions packed in identical navy blue suitcases. Usually, as part of the ritual, they would gather rocks to throw at three stone pillars -- a symbolic repelling of evil -- but this year, each pilgrim will be given a packet of sterilized pebbles.They’re also wearing movement-tracking bracelets that connect to their phones via Bluetooth. Yahra laughed as she showed the white band on her wrist during a video call arranged by Saudi authorities; this year, pilgrims are only allowed to communicate with international media through government intermediaries.Online Mass and Suspended Pilgrimages—How the Faithful ManageMore than 160 nationalities will be represented this year, with 30% Saudi and 70% foreign. Their costs are covered by the government.Other pilgrims interviewed by Bloomberg asked not to be identified by their full names because of the rules about speaking to media.Alfayik, a 26-year-old student from the Central African Republic, was so shocked he’d been chosen that he started “jumping and screaming.” He’d been applying for five years.Saudi Arabia’s Post-Oil Plan Faces Cuts as Crude Plummets (1)For Yahra, it’s particularly bittersweet. After spending a year and a half in Saudi Arabia, her family will return to Indonesia as soon as she finishes the hajj. Like many others during the economic downturn that’s accompanied the pandemic, her husband lost his job at an oilfield services company. The movers have already come to gather their belongings.In addition to supplications she’ll make on behalf of friends and family, she has prayers of her own: for the pandemic to end, for her daughters to have a good future, for her husband to find work again.“I feel like it’s a blessing for me before I leave Saudi for good,” she said of the pilgrimage. “It’s difficult for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hajj-pilgrimage-in-the-age-of-coronavirus-is-unlike-any-before/story-PO21qqmIep9x3WYbDwDmtI.html
29-07-2020||World||Bezos, Zuckerberg and Musk have made $115 billion this year||The message from Jeff Bezos: Big Tech’s not so powerful.The message from is his personal fortune: Oh yes it is.As Bezos and three other technology magnates prepare to defend their businesses at a Congressional hearing on antitrust worries Wednesday, their fast-growing wealth provides a breathtaking measure of their companies’ economic might. The Amazon.com Inc. founder has seen his net worth soar by $63.6 billion this year. On one day this month, it leaped an unprecedented $13 billion. The world’s richest man is now on the cusp of another record: a fortune exceeding $200 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.Another chief executive officer set to testify, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook Inc., has grown $9.1 billion richer this year, placing his fortune within reach of the centibillionaire status already held by Bezos and Bill Gates.The mind-boggling accumulation of money underway in technology is unrivaled in speed and scale. No other group of executives has prospered to such a degree. Indeed, the world’s richest people are growing even richer, even faster, as the coronavirus pandemic upends the global economy and drives ever more activity online.Online Economy“We moved the brick-and-mortar economy to an online economy dramatically,” said Luigi Zingales, a finance professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. “Probably the same thing would have happened in a longer period of time. Now it’s happening in weeks instead of years.”The hearing will be held by video conference and also features Tim Cook and Sundar Pichai, the CEOs of Apple Inc. and Google parent Alphabet Inc. It’s poised to be a combative affair as lawmakers express heightened frustration with how the industry wields its clout.Bezos’s stance will be that his company is an American success story that achieved its position through risk-taking and a relentless focus on customers, according to his prepared testimony. He will tell his personal story and that of his parents, who invested in what would become the world’s largest online retailer.The collective wealth of tech billionaires in Bloomberg’s index, a ranking of the world’s 500 richest people, has nearly doubled since 2016, from $751 billion to $1.4 trillion today. That’s faster than in every other sector.Seven of the world’s 10 richest people derive the bulk of their fortune from technology holdings, with a combined net worth of $666 billion, up $147 billion this year.Big winners so far in 2020 include Elon Musk, whose net worth has more than doubled to $69.7 billion on the back of surging Tesla Inc shares.Microsoft Corp. co-founder Gates and former CEO Steve Ballmer have also soared, long after they left the company. Indian billionaire Mukesh Ambani, whose fortune is tied up in the world’s largest oil refinery -- has also profited from the shift online. Shares of Reliance Industries Ltd., the conglomerate he controls, have risen 45% this year as the company has expanded into digital and retail businesses, making him the fifth richest person in the world.Among the top 10, only two have seen their wealth decline in 2020: luxury mogul Bernard Arnault and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Warren Buffett. While tech has surged, more than 200 of the 500 billionaires tracked by Bloomberg have lost money this year.Giant tech companies control the infrastructure of the digital economy in a similar vein to how Gilded Age trusts monopolized America’s industrial economy at the turn of the 20th century. Yet in 1900, the five largest U.S. companies had combined market values that equaled less than 6% of the nation’s economy, according to estimates by Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist Daron Acemoglu.Currently, five of the largest American tech companies -- Apple, Amazon, Alphabet, Facebook, and Microsoft -- have market valuations equivalent to about 30% of U.S. gross domestic product. That’s almost double what they were at the end of 2018.The economic power of the Robber Barons created a fiery counter-reaction, in violent labor unrest and the adoption of reforms that once seemed radical, like the Sherman Antitrust Act and a federal income tax. Compared to the political difficulties faced by John D. Rockefeller and other early 20th-century industrial magnates, government moves against Big Tech have been relatively mild. At least so far.On the left, politicians including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Bernie Sanders have delivered blistering attacks on widening inequality and the growing wealth of billionaires. Protesters have gathered outside Bezos’s Manhattan penthouse, demanding a wealth tax. Facebook employees have spoken out about their employer’s role in spreading disinformation and hate speech.New Gilded AgeMonopolists like Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie helped repair their public images with large-scale philanthropy, a move echoed in this new Gilded Age.The Giving Pledge, a commitment to give away the majority of your wealth in your lifetime, was founded by Gates and Buffett. Zuckerberg also has stepped into the realm of philanthropy, establishing the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, or CZI, in 2015 with a goal to “advance human potential and promote equality.”But even these acts have sparked criticism.“The modern ultra-billionaire is someone who feels a right, in many cases, to privately govern the people of the United States,” said Anand Giridharadas, author of “Winners Take All: The Elite Charade of Changing the World,” an influential critique of billionaire philanthropy.Gates’s generosity and activism during the pandemic has earned him widespread praise, but it’s also attracted conspiracy theorists suspicious of his motives. A YouGov and Yahoo News poll found that 44% of Republicans and 19% of Democrats believed Gates wanted to use vaccinations to give people tracking implants.The criticism of Bezos also hasn’t let up, even as his giving increased recently with a $10 billion commitment in February to fight climate change and a $100 million donation in April to the nonprofit Feeding America. When he made the announcements, his wealth had already grown by significantly more than those amounts this year. He hasn’t signed the Giving Pledge.Signed PledgeMacKenzie Scott, Bezos’s ex-wife, signed the pledge not long after the two announced their split. Scott said Tuesday that she has since donated $1.7 billion to several causes including racial equity, climate change and public health.“There’s no question in my mind that anyone’s personal wealth is the product of a collective effort, and of social structures which present opportunities to some people, and obstacles to countless others,” she said.Big Tech companies have earned some grudging respect, even from critics, during the pandemic.“We have been fortunate to have these digital technologies,” said MIT’s Acemoglu. “Without them, the fallout from the lockdowns and social distancing would have been worse.”That may come with a cost: “This is going to make the domination of tech companies over the economy and our social lives much worse, and it’s going to significantly accelerate the trend toward greater automation,” Acemoglu said. He warns that tech’s rapid ascent may deepen inequality, shrink the number of good jobs, and weaken democracy.Such concerns could help shift Big Tech and its billionaires into the crosshairs of governments whose finances have been devastated by the pandemic. Heading into this year’s U.S. presidential race, Elizabeth Warren and Sanders proposed wealth taxes on billionaires, an idea that polled well with voters.Former Vice President Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, hasn’t embraced the wealth tax, but he’s campaigning on higher rates on the rich and corporations, as well as the closing of estate-tax loopholes.Absent a wealth tax or some other innovative new kind of levies, it will be difficult to tax the fortunes of Zuckerberg, Bezos and other tech billionaires. Much of their fortune is in the form of rising stock, which isn’t taxed until it’s sold.“Billionaires are accumulating a huge amount of unrealized capital gains, on which they’re not paying much –- if any -- tax,” said University of California at Berkeley economics professor Gabriel Zucman, who helped Sanders and Warren develop their wealth-tax proposals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bezos-zuckerberg-and-musk-have-made-115-billion-this-year/story-XEHRErICQ9NMZ9eaJGjQpN.html
29-07-2020||World||China records over 100 Covid-19 cases for the first time since April||China reported 101 new Covid-19 cases on July 28, the highest since April, the national health commission (NHC) said on Wednesday as Beijing expands nucleic acid testing and contact tracing for new clusters mushrooming in different cities.Of the 101 new cases, in a record single-day spike, 89 were reported from Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR), bringing the total number of cases in the province to over 320. Three of the 101 cases were imported, the NHC said.One case was recorded in Beijing on Tuesday following two cases, including one imported case reported on Monday, breaking the 20-day run of zero infections in the city, which had seen a new cluster breakout in June.A new outbreak in the northeastern city of Dalian, capital of the Liaoning province, has spilt over to at least nine cities across China including Beijing.Also read: Moderna vaccine protects 16 monkeys from coronavirus; 30,000 humans awaitAt least eight other cities in four provinces - including Tieling, Liaoning; Changchun, Jilin; Hegang, Heilongjiang; and Fuzhou, Fujian - had reported confirmed or asymptomatic cases transmitted from Dalian as of Tuesday, officials said.Until Tuesday, Dalian had reported more than 50 cases, all linked to a seafood processing centre.China has intensified Covid-19 testing and contact tracing at all the new outbreak points, health officials have said. Communities have been locked down for testing in some areas.More than 2.96 million samples for nucleic acid tests of Covid-19 had been collected by Monday in Dalian city in northeast China after new cases began emerging last week, local authorities said on Tuesday.Beijing, for example, locked down the community where a new Dalian-related Covid-19 patient was reported on Tuesday.According to official media, the community lifted its epidemic response from Level-III to Level-II and rolled out full testing for all 7,000 households, starting 5 am on Tuesday.The Tiantongyuan West No.3 community, located in Beijing’s Changping district, where the patient had stayed, has been put under strict restriction with no visitors, food or package delivery allowed.As of Tuesday, the overall confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland had reached 84,060, including 482 patients who were still being treated, with 25 in severe condition.Altogether, 78,944 people had been discharged after recovery and 4,634 had died of the disease in the mainland, the commission said.Two new imported cases were reported in Guangdong Province on Tuesday, while Shanghai saw one new imported case.By the end of Tuesday, a total of 2,056 imported cases had been reported in the mainland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-records-over-100-covid-19-cases-for-the-first-time-since-april/story-N9JOrSTbBoDl7C7gHm7NzK.html
29-07-2020||World||Trump administration won’t accept new DACA applications||The Trump administration said Tuesday that it will reject new applications and shorten renewal periods for an Obama-era program that shields young people from deportation, taking a defiant stance after the US Supreme Court refused to let it be scrapped completely. The move, detailed in a memo from Acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf, ended a month of uncertainty about how the administration would respond to its Supreme Court defeat in an election year that has President Donald Trump looking for ways to energize his base. Wolf said the administration may try to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program again, casting it as a law enforcement issue that could contribute to illegal immigration. He said the federal government needs more time to consider next steps, presenting the measures as a temporary change. “DACA makes clear that, for certain large classes of individuals, DHS will at least tolerate, if not affirmatively sanction, their ongoing violation of the immigration laws,” Wolf wrote in the memo. About 650,000 people are part of DACA, which allows young immigrants who were brought to the country illegally as children to work and shields them from deportation. Roughly 66,000 people meet age requirements to apply, according to the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute. The government will deny all new applications, limit renewals to one year instead of two, and deny requests by DACA recipients to visit their home countries unless there are “exceptional circumstances.” Recipients may seek permission to return home for family events, such as funerals or weddings, and other reasons, though the Trump administration has generally denied them. The Supreme Court ruled last month that Trump failed to follow rule-making procedures when he tried to end the program, but the justices kept a window open for him to try again. The White House has been devising plans to make another push to end DACA, though it was not immediately clear whether he would make the politically sensitive move before November’s election. Democratic rival Joe Biden wants to keep DACA unconditionally. A federal judge in Maryland ruled earlier this month that the program should be restored to its original form, but the administration was mum until Tuesday on whether it would start accepting new applications. The White House anticipates legal challenges. The administration’s monthlong silence had unnerved many DACA recipients and those who wanted to join. U.S. District Judge Paul Grimm of Maryland, an appointee of President Barack Obama, has given the administration until the end of Friday to update the US Citizenship and Immigration Services’ website and start adequately explaining why applications are rejected. Legal experts were sceptical of the Trump administration’s authority to roll back parts of the program. “This is a move that is in defiance of the US Supreme Court ruling and a federal court ruling,” said Shoba Sivaprasad Wadhia, an immigration law professor at Penn State Law in University Park, Pennsylvania. “It’s a lawless landscape that we are in.” Immigrant rights advocates blasted the move as cruel. The Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition accused the administration of further marginalizing immigrants. The American Business Immigration Coalition called it economically harmful. And the American Civil Liberties Union vowed to continue its yearslong fight to prevent the program’s demise. Laura Mendoza, a program manager at The Resurrection Project in Chicago, joined DACA in 2013 and will have to renew next year. She said the USD 495 annual renewal fee would be difficult for many to pay. “It’s infuriating that we continue to be the punching bag for the administration,” she said of fellow DACA recipients. “The administration is slowly dismantling the program.” Wolf, the Homeland Security chief, acknowledged that the USD 495 renewal fee will be a burden on DACA recipients who will have to apply annually instead of every other year, effectively doubling the cost. He said the department would consider lowering the fee. Trump has tried unsuccessfully to work with Congress on a broader immigration package that would couple DACA with tougher enforcement measures. He has said lately that he would announce sweeping new steps on immigration, a promise he reiterated Tuesday. “We’re going to work with a lot of people on DACA,” Trump told reporters. “And we’re also working on an immigration bill, a merit-based system, which is what I’ve wanted for a long time.” Trump said he would make DACA recipients “happy” without saying how. Top Democrats urged for a legislative solution that would allow for a pathway to US citizenship. “With the presidential election just three months away, it’s clear the president will do everything possible to rally his supporters at the expense of Dreamers,” according to a statement from US Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, referring to the name often used for DACA recipients. “They shouldn’t have to live under the constant fear that DACA protections will be ripped away at any moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-won-t-accept-new-daca-applications/story-Hu0johbXZuDh4STcdeylVM.html
29-07-2020||World||12-year-old charged in fatal shooting of Texas woman||A 12-year-old boy was arrested and charged in the fatal shooting of a 51-year-old woman in suburban Houston.Sharon Hawkins was found Saturday with multiple gunshot wounds in a bedroom at an apartment complex in the Greater Greenspoint area of Harris County, the Houston Chronicle reported.The boy, whose name has not been released because he is a minor, was charged with murder and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon through the Harris County Juvenile Probation Office. Police spokesman Kese Smith said authorities arrested the boy Sunday.Police initially believed he was a witness. They say he lied when he told investigators that he spotted a suspect leaving the apartment dressed in all-black clothing.Smith said he could not say whether the boy knew the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/12-year-old-charged-in-fatal-shooting-of-texas-woman/story-zMKCxE11AF5pCbCplC6l0L.html
29-07-2020||World||Canadian parliament plans to launch virtual voting for MPs||Virtual voting to pass legislation may become a reality in Canada this September, if recommendations from a Parliamentary panel are accepted.The House of Commons Procedure and House Affairs Committee has asked the chamber’s administration to develop a secure platform that can be used by MPs to vote remotely, even as Canada’s Parliament is expected to return to regular sittings in the third week of September.Canada has been holding sessions after the coronavirus outbreak but these have bene restricted to emergency measures related to the Covid-19 pandemic. It saw hybrid sittings, which allowed for a handful of members to be present in person while others joined in virtually.The panel, chaired by Indo-Canadian MP Ruby Sahota, now wants this to be applied when the House returns to regular business. The panels report stated that “a remote voting solution be built by the House of Commons administration for before September for legislative voting during the Covid-19 pandemic” and that “during virtual or hybrid sittings, members of the House of Commons can automatically avail themselves of remote voting by electronic means.”The panel said this ”dedicated secure” mechanism could be in the form of an app on the mobile devices used by MPs, and that it be integrated into the vote management system currently in use, feature end-to-end encryption and various methods of authentication and validation.The panel recommended that this “secure virtual voting system include when members of the House of Commons should vote, what they are voting on, how much time they have to vote, how they can check their vote, and how they could correct a vote cast in error.”While some Members of Parliament have been able to attend the limited sittings of Parliament during the crisis as they lived within the vicinity of the Canadian capital of Ottawa, the report noted that there may be “an increased health risk” to some MPs or their immediate family members who may be vulnerable to the disease, especially if members had to attend sittings in person and had to travel between the capital and their ridings, the term for constituencies in Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-parliament-plans-to-launch-virtual-voting-for-mps/story-V5eVF0uvglD3nrgorQ7c3L.html
29-07-2020||World||Moderna vaccine protects 16 monkeys from coronavirus; 30,000 humans await||Moderna Inc.’s vaccine candidate against Covid-19 protected against the virus in a trial that inoculated 16 monkeys, an encouraging step on the path to a defense for humans against the pandemic.Two injections of the vaccine protected against heavy exposure to the virus at two different levels of dosage, Moderna said in findings published Tuesday in the New England Journal of Medicine. The primates didn’t show any sign of creating enhanced disease, a problem that has occasionally been associated with vaccines.The results, if they hold up in humans, suggest that the vaccine may be able to protect against Covid-19 in both the upper and lower airways. In all the monkeys who got the high doses of the vaccine, no viral replication was detectable in their noses two days after being challenged with the virus, according to the study results. And no viral replication was seen in the lung fluid of 7 of 8 animals in both dose groups after being challenged with the virus. All 16 monkeys showed at least some sign of protection, with limited lung inflammation seen in the lungs of both groups.While the data is encouraging, a far bigger test is under way for Moderna, involving 30,000 humans. The phase 3 trial to determine the safety and efficacy of the vaccine will begin producing data in November or December. The vaccine uses messenger RNA, a synthetic form of genetic material from the virus designed to nudge the body’s immune system into attack mode. The U.S. government is providing $955 million to help fund the vaccine’s development.Moderna shares rose 2% to $81.49 at the close in New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-vaccine-protects-16-monkeys-from-coronavirus-30-000-humans-await/story-fYxykbod4znyRbJjUZ77OK.html
29-07-2020||World||Intel ousts its chief engineer Murthy Renduchintala||Intel Corp’s Chief Engineering Officer Murthy Renduchintala is departing, part of a move in which a key technology unit will be separated into five teams, the chipmaker said on Monday.Intel said it is reorganizing its technology, systems architecture and client group. Its new leaders will report directly to Chief Executive Officer Bob Swan.Ann Kelleher, a 24-year Intel veteran, will lead development of 7-nanometer and 5-nanometer chip technology processes. Last week, the company had said the smaller, faster 7-nanometer chipmaking technology was six months behind schedule and it would have to rely more on outside chipmakers to keep its products competitive.Renduchintala, who was president of the wide-ranging group before its reorganization and widely seen as a No. 2 to Swan, joined Intel in 2015. He was executive vice president of Qualcomm Inc , and has been on Accenture’s board since April 2018.Renduchintala was one of several key hires from outside Intel, which had been famous in Silicon Valley for developing and promoting talent from within. He was hired as part of a strategy to go after broader markets than the central processing units, or CPUs, the company became known for in the PC era. One major effort, creating modem chips to connect smart phones to mobile data networks, ended last year. Intel sold the business to Apple for $1 billion, a fraction of what it had invested in the effort.Renduchintala eventually took responsibly for turning around Intel’s process technology, which struggled with years of delay for its current 10-nanometer process. CEO Swan told investors in November that Intel was set start catching up to rivals with its 7-nanometer process in early 2021, but was forced to reverse himself last week because of the delays.Intel said Renduchintala will depart Aug. 3. (Reporting by Munsif Vengattil in Bengaluru and Stephen Nellis in San Francisco; Editing by Shailesh Kuber and David Gregorio)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/intel-ousts-its-chief-engineer-murthy-renduchintala/story-qqxXBwxoS74gZQedflLrZI.html
29-07-2020||World||Masked mourners brave heat, Covid-19 fears to honour John Lewis||Mourners braved both coronavirus fears and brutal heat on Tuesday to pay their respects to the late Representative John Lewis, the first Black lawmaker to lie in state at the Capitol Rotunda. The crowds were thin and lines nonexistent, partially because of high temperatures. But those who came said it was important to personally honour a civil rights icon who died just as America was confronting another national reckoning over entrenched racial iniquities. “He was worth the virus risk and worth every drop of sweat,” said Alicia Patterson, 66, who came from Maryland with three generations of her family to observe Lewis’ flag-draped casket. “He worked hard for all of us, and he deserved this and more.” Lewis died July 17 of cancer at the age of 80. The long-serving Georgia congressman took part in Martin Luther King’s 1963 March on Washington. He was awarded the Medal of Freedom in 2011 by Barack Obama and is the first Black lawmaker to lie in state in the Capitol Rotunda. With almost no lines Tuesday afternoon, dozens of visitors were able to linger and take pictures outside the Capitol. Many brought umbrellas to block the summer sun. The spectre of the Covid-19 pandemic hung over all aspects of the mourning. In addition to face coverings, which were declared mandatory outdoors by Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser, yellow dots on the grounds reminded mourners to stand 6 feet (1.8 metres) apart. Instead of a guest book to write in, mourners could scan a code on their phones and write messages in a virtual condolence book. The casket itself was at the top of the steps on the east side of the Capitol building, while mourners were restricted to the bottom of the steps. “I just felt I had to come and pay my respects,” said Phillip Estes, a 53-year old urban planner and DC resident. “It’s a generational passing, and it feels really important now with the country’s renewed interest in advancing racial equality and social justice.” Born near Troy, Alabama, Lewis was among the original Freedom Riders, a group of young activists who boarded commercial passenger buses and travelled through the segregated Jim Crow South. They were assaulted and battered at many stops along the way, by citizens and authorities alike. Lewis was the youngest and last-living of those who spoke on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial at the March on Washington. “He was there for the beginning of it all,” said Jay Stegall, a 33-year old American University graduate student and Atlanta native who came with his two sisters and his 4-year-old daughter. “I thought it was important for them to see this.” One of Lewis’ final public appearances was a June 7 visit to the corner of 16th and H streets in front of the White House. The intersection, which was the epicentre of several days of clashes and protests over police brutality and systemic racism, had just been renamed Black Lives Matter Plaza by Bowser. “That was a really amazing and poetic moment,” Stegall said. “I think it was important that he lived to see a resurgence of what he started. Now it’s time to finish it.” When Lewis’ casket arrived Monday at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland, the motorcade stopped at Black Lives Matter Plaza as it wound through Washington before arriving at the Capitol. Notably absent was President Donald Trump, who also skipped Monday’s emotional ceremony honouring Lewis. Vice President Mike Pence and his wife, Karen, paid their respects on Monday, but Trump said he would not attend. The pair had an openly adversarial relationship: Trump called Lewis’ Atlanta congressional district “crime-infested” while Lewis frequently criticized Trump’s racially divisive tactics, and once questioned his legitimacy as president. Several mourners said Trump was not missed. “It wouldn’t have been authentic. It would just have been another photo op for him,” Stegall said. “He definitely wouldn’t have understood the meaning of the moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/masked-mourners-brave-heat-virus-fears-to-honour-john-lewis/story-BTeQ5jnoZXvFUL37DustxL.html
29-07-2020||World||Ghislaine Maxwell wants Epstein’s accusers names to be made in public||Ghislaine Maxwell’s lawyers and prosecutors are at loggerheads over whether some of the alleged victims in her sex-trafficking case can be publicly named prior to trial.Maxwell’s lawyers argue they should be permitted to openly identify anyone who has granted media interviews about Maxwell or Jeffrey Epstein, accused them in a public forum or an internet posting or sued them.Prosecutor Alex Rossmiller called the request “extraordinarily broad, unnecessary and inappropriate.” In a memo to the court, he also criticized Maxwell’s claim that any woman who went public with her allegations of abuse by Maxwell and Epstein had obtained a “benefit,” by identifying themselves.While not objecting to Maxwell identifying accusers who’ve already come forward, Rossmiller said those who haven’t gone public should have their privacy protected under the Crime Victims’ Rights Act. He said that’s “reasonable” because Maxwell and her legal team will know the names of all the women to prepare for her trial even if the public doesn’t.In an indictment unsealed July 2, Maxwell is accused of engaging in a sex-trafficking scheme with Epstein by luring three underage girls so the financier could sexually abuse them. The three victims are identified in the indictment only as “Jane Does.”At least 16 women came forward last year at a hearing held before the federal judge presiding over Epstein’s sex-trafficking case dismissed the indictment after he committed suicide while awaiting trial.Maxwell, 58, who has pleaded not guilty, is being held at a federal jail in Brooklyn, New York, and is scheduled to go to trial next July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ghislaine-maxwell-wants-epstein-s-accusers-names-to-be-made-in-public/story-HUN8NK1fjWizbP7H4IY35N.html
29-07-2020||World||Trump tweets in defense of disproved Covid-19 treatment||President Donald Trump issued a stout defense Tuesday of a disproved use of a malaria drug as a treatment for the coronavirus, hours after social media companies moved to take down videos promoting its use as potentially harmful misinformation.The president, in a marked shift from the more measured approach he’s taken toward the virus in recent days, took to Twitter to promote hydroxychloroquine as a treatment for Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus, and to amplify criticism of Dr Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert. In a White House briefing, Trump defended his decision to promote a viral video of a group of doctors promoting the use of the drug Monday, even though his own administration withdrew emergency authorization for its use against the coronavirus. “I think they’re very respected doctors,” Trump said, adding they believed in the drug. “There was a woman who was spectacular in her statements about it.” The doctors, members of a group called America’s Frontline Doctors, took part in an event organized by Tea Party Patriots Action, a dark money group that has helped fund a pro-Trump political action committee.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Scientific studies have shown hydroxychloroquine can do more harm than good when used to treat symptoms of Covid-19. Trump, his son Donald Trump Jr, and others shared video of the event on Facebook and Twitter, prompting both companies to step in and remove the content as part of an aggressive push to keep the sites free of potentially harmful information about the virus — though not before more than 17 million people had seen one version of the video circulating on the web. The decision to remove the videos sparked conservative claims of “censorship,” with Simone Gold, one of the doctors, tweeting that “there are always opposing views in medicine.” “Treatment options for Covid-19 should be debated, and spoken about among our colleagues in the medical field,” she wrote. “They should never, however, be censored and silenced.” Others stressed the differences between medical opinion and peer-reviewed scientific studies. Many high-quality studies have found no evidence that hydroxychloroquine, when used with or without the antibiotic azithromycin, as touted many times by Trump, helps treat coronavirus infection or prevent serious disease from it. They include studies commissioned by the US National Institutes of Health, the World Health Organization and universities in the US and around the world. Because of the lack of benefit and the risks of serious side effects such as heart rhythm problems, the US Food and Drug Administration recently revoked its brief authorization of emergency use of the drug for Covid-19. NIH treatment guidelines also specifically recommend against hydroxychloroquine’s use, except in formal studies. In addition to sharing the video, Trump retweeted several tweets that attacked the credibility of Fauci, a leading member of the White House coronavirus task force. Later, Trump appeared to back away from his criticism of Fauci, saying, “I get along with him very well” and even appearing envious of his widespread approval rating. “He’s got a very good approval rating, and I like that,” Trump said, adding that Fauci and White House coronavirus task force coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx work for him, “And yet they’re highly thought of but nobody likes me.” Fauci has become an off-and-on target of Trump and some of his White House aides and outside allies, who disagreed with the doctor’s early recommendation to shut down the economy as a way to slow the virus, which is surging again in parts of the country, mostly in the South and West. Trump, in recent interviews, has described Fauci as “a bit of an alarmist” and accused him of making “mistakes” in his coronavirus guidance. But Trump also says he gets along with the longtime head of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Fauci said Tuesday that he’ll deal with the attacks by keeping his head down and doing his job. He also backed the conclusions of the FDA and others about hydroxychloroquine and Covid-19. Asked if he can do his job while Trump publicly questions his credibility, Fauci said the stakes are too high not to stay involved. “We’re in the middle of a crisis with regard to an epidemic, a pandemic. This is what I do,” Fauci said on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” “This is what I’ve been trained for my entire professional life and I’ll continue to do it.” Facebook, Twitter and YouTube began scrubbing their sites of the video of the doctors on Monday. Conservative news outlets, groups and internet personalities shared it. Facebook said the video is “sharing false information about cures and treatments for Covid-19,” according to spokesman Andy Stone. Twitter also said it was working to remove the video. The company also took down a tweet from Donald Trump Jr. describing one version of the video as a “must watch!!!” and temporarily halted him from tweeting. In the video, Dr. Stella Immanuel, a physician from Houston whom Trump described as spectacular, promotes hydroxychloroquine as a sure-fire cure for the coronavirus. She claims to have successfully treated 350 people “and counting,” including older patients and some with underlying medical conditions. “You don’t need masks, there is a cure,” Immanuel says in the video. But in videos posted to her Facebook page, Immanuel regularly wears masks while preaching during religious events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-tweets-in-defense-of-disproved-covid-19-treatment/story-d9ubuD5EsP7tweuCGoBY7O.html
29-07-2020||World||Moderna aims to price coronavirus vaccine at $50-$60 per course: Report||Moderna Inc is planning to price its coronavirus vaccine at $50 to $60 per course, at least $11 more than another vaccine from Pfizer Inc and BioNTech, the Financial Times reported on Tuesday, citing unnamed sources.Moderna’s proposed price for a two-dose course sold to governments compares with $39 for two doses under a deal that Pfizer Inc and German partner BioNTech struck with the US government.Industry analysts said Pfizer and BioNTech’s $2 billion deal to cover 50 million patients, which is contingent on an approvable product, would likely pressure other manufacturers to set similar prices.Moderna’s proposed price would apply to the United States and other high-income countries, according to the report.A Moderna spokesperson said the company was in discussions with governments about potential supply of the vaccine, called mRNA-1273, but did not provide any details on pricing “given the confidential nature of the discussions and contracts.”The final price for Moderna’s Covid vaccine has yet to be determined, a person familiar with the discussions told Reuters.Pfizer, Moderna and Merck & Co have said they plan to sell their vaccines at a profit, while some drugmakers, including Johnson & Johnson have announced plans to price their vaccines on a not-for-profit basis.AstraZeneca Plc agreed to provide the United States 300 million doses of its potential vaccine in exchange for $1.2 billion in upfront funding, which works out to $4 per dose.The U.S. government has provided Moderna with nearly $1 billion in funding to support its research and development efforts for its potential Covid-19 vaccine.The funding is part of “Operation Warp Speed,” an initiative by the Trump administration to hasten the production of an inoculation for Covid-19, which has so far killed around 650,000 people worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-aims-to-price-coronavirus-vaccine-at-50-60-per-course-report/story-bOZGvHNHAKSFUVDNjRajUK.html
29-07-2020||World||‘Nobody likes me’: Trump on Fauci’s high approval ratings||President Donald Trump groused on Tuesday about medical expert Anthony Fauci’s high approval ratings and joked that “nobody likes me” as he struggles to improve his standing with voters for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic.“It can only be my personality,” said Trump.Fauci, an infectious disease expert who is on Trump’s coronavirus task force, is one of the most trusted people in government and many Americans listen to his advice diligently on how to protect themselves from infection.Trump, on the other hand, has drawn criticism over his handling of the pandemic, putting him in jeopardy of losing the Nov. 3 presidential election to Democrat Joe Biden.The subject of Fauci came up at a news conference where Trump defended his support for malaria drug hydroxychloroquine as a hedge against the virus. Trump said he felt the drug worked “in the early stages.”Most public health experts say hydroxychloroquine should not be used to treat the coronavirus because it could lead to heart and other problems.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration last month revoked its emergency-use authorization for hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19 after several studies cast doubt on its effectiveness.Trump said he and others in his administration deserved plaudits for their handling of the virus, not just Fauci and another prominent member of the task force, Deborah Birx.“He’s working with our administration and for the most part we have done pretty much what he and others, Dr. Birx and others, who are terrific, recommended. And he’s got this high approval rating. So why don’t I have a high approval rating and the administration with respect to the virus? We should have a very high (approval rating),” Trump said.“So it sort of is curious, a man works for us, and yet they’re highly thought of and nobody likes me. It can only be my personality,” he said.The recent rise in U.S. deaths and infections has dampened early hopes that the country was past the worst of a crisis that has decimated businesses and put millions of Americans out of work. Four U.S. states in the South and West reported one-day records of coronavirus deaths on Tuesday. The national death toll is almost 150,000.Fauci has been a subject of debate within the White House for months because he is quite frank in saying where he agrees and disagrees with the president.Trump has said repeatedly that Fauci advised him he did not have to close down travel with China, where the outbreak originated, early this year when the scope of the pandemic was not yet clear, and that he did not accept the advice.White House chief of staff Mark Meadows publicly chided Trump trade adviser Peter Navarro for writing an opinion article attacking Fauci.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Writing by Alexandra Alper; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Peter Cooney)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nobody-likes-me-trump-on-fauci-s-high-approval-ratings/story-Xmm6HcKeeiLakl1vueGpFI.html
29-07-2020||World||Scientists get closer to blood test for Alzheimer’s disease||An experimental blood test was highly accurate at distinguishing people with Alzheimer’s disease from those without it in several studies, boosting hopes that there soon may be a simple way to help diagnose this most common form of dementia. Developing such a test has been a long-sought goal, and scientists warn that the new approach still needs more validation and is not yet ready for wide use. But Tuesday’s results suggest they’re on the right track. The testing identified people with Alzheimer’s vs. no dementia or other types of it with accuracy ranging from 89 per cent to 98 per cent. “That’s pretty good. We’ve never seen that” much precision in previous efforts, said Maria Carrillo, the Alzheimer’s Association’s chief science officer. Dr Eliezer Masliah, neuroscience chief at the US National Institute on Aging, agreed. “The data looks very encouraging,” he said. The new testing “appears to be even more sensitive and more reliable” than earlier methods, but it needs to be tried in larger, more diverse populations, he said. The institute had no role in these studies but financed earlier, basic research toward blood test development. Results were discussed at the Alzheimer’s Association International Conference taking place online because of the coronavirus pandemic. Some results also were published in the Journal of the American Medical Association. More than 5 million people in the United States and many more worldwide have Alzheimer’s. Current drugs only temporarily ease symptoms and do not slow mental decline. The disease is usually diagnosed through tests of memory and thinking skills, but that’s very imprecise and usually involves a referral to a neurologist. More reliable methods such as spinal fluid tests and brain scans are invasive or expensive, so a simple blood test that could be done in a family doctor’s office would be a big advance. Last year, scientists reported encouraging results from experimental blood tests that measure abnormal versions of amyloid, one of two proteins that build up and damage Alzheimer’s patients’ brains. The new work focuses on the other protein — tau — and finds that one form of it called p-tau217 is a more reliable indicator. Several companies and universities have developed experimental p-tau217 tests. Dr Oskar Hansson of Lund University in Sweden led a study of Eli Lilly’s test on more than 1,400 people already enrolled in dementia studies in Sweden, Arizona and Colombia. They included people with no impairment, mild impairment, Alzheimer’s and other neurological diseases. The p-tau217 test outperformed a host of other measures for indicating which patients had Alzheimer’s as verified by brain scans. It also was comparable to the brain scans and some spinal tests in accuracy. The Arizona portion of the study included 81 people who had donated their brains upon death, so researchers were able to show that blood testing while they were alive closely matched evidence of disease later. The Colombia part of the study included people with a rare gene that virtually destines them to develop Alzheimer’s at a young age, typically in their 40s. In those with the gene, p-tau217 blood levels started to rise “around 20 years before symptoms,” Hansson said. The study’s sponsors include the US National Institutes of Health, Swedish government health groups, the Alzheimer’s Association, many foundations and several companies. Some study leaders work for Lilly or consult for the company. Two other research groups independently reported evidence for p-tau217 testing at the conference. Scientists at the University of California, San Francisco, found it helped distinguish people with Alzheimer’s from those with another neurological disease — frontotemporal lobar degeneration — with 96 per cent accuracy in a study of 617 people. Dr Suzanne Schindler of Washington University in St Louis, Missouri, also found p-tau217 better than some other indicators for revealing which patients had plaques in the brain — the hallmark of Alzheimer’s. “When patients come to me with changes in their memory and thinking, one of the major questions is, what’s the cause? Is it Alzheimer’s disease or is it something else?” she said. If tau testing bears out, “it would help us diagnose people earlier and more accurately.” Schindler has already launched a larger study in a diverse population in St. Louis. Researchers have done the same in Sweden. If benefits are confirmed, Masliah, Carrillo and others say they hope a commercial test would be ready for wide use in about two years. (AP) CK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-get-closer-to-blood-test-for-alzheimer-s-disease/story-XIfyVobZyT1njDj5csVIyK.html
29-07-2020||World||US officials say Russia is spreading virus disinformation||Russian intelligence operatives are using a trio of English-language websites to spread disinformation about the coronavirus pandemic, seeking to exploit a crisis that America is struggling to contain ahead of the presidential election in November, US officials said Tuesday. Two Russians who have held senior roles in Moscow’s military intelligence service known as the GRU have been identified as responsible for a disinformation effort directed at American and Western audiences, US government officials said. They spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. The information had previously been classified, but officials said it had been downgraded so they could more freely discuss it. Officials said they were doing so now to sound the alarm about the particular websites and to expose a connection between the sites and Russian intelligence. Between late May and early July, one of the officials said, a trio of websites published about 150 articles about the pandemic response, including coverage aimed at propping up Russia and denigrating the US. Among the headlines that caught the attention of US officials are “Russia’s Counter COVID-19 Aid to America Advances Case for Détente,” which suggested that Russia had given urgent and substantial aid to the US to fight the pandemic, and “Beijing Believes COVID-19 is a Biological Weapon.” The disclosure comes as the spread of disinformation, including by Russia, is an urgent concern heading into November’s presidential election as US officials look to avoid a repeat of the 2016 contest, when Russia launched a covert social media campaign to divide American public opinion to favor then-candidate Donald Trump. The country’s chief counterintelligence official warned in a public statement Friday about Russia’s continued use of internet trolls to advance their goals. Even apart from politics, the twin crises buffeting the country and much of the world — the pandemic and race relations and protests — have offered fertile territory for misinformation or outfight falsehoods. Officials described the disinformation as part of an ongoing and persistent Russian effort to cause confusion. They did not say whether the effort was directly related to the November election, though some of the coverage on the websites appeared to denigrate Trump’s Democratic challenger, Joe Biden. The stories call to mind Russian efforts from 2016 to exacerbate race relations in America and drive corruption allegations against US political figures. (AP) CK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-officials-say-russia-is-spreading-virus-disinformation/story-5HumdQfdcsR2ggeXeyzvlN.html
29-07-2020||World||China freezes Hong Kong’s extradition treaties with UK, Australia, Canada||China on Tuesday announced the suspension of Hong Kong’s extradition treaties with Canada, Australia and Britain in a tit-for-tat move following similar decisions by them over a controversial national security law.“China has decided to suspend extradition treaties between Hong Kong and Canada, Australia and UK, as well as criminal justice cooperation agreements,” said foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin. “The wrong action of Canada, Australia and the UK in politicising judicial cooperation with Hong Kong has seriously hurt the basis of judicial cooperation.” Later, China’s foreign minister Wang Yi slammed the US for “reckless provocation of confrontation” after both sides ordered tit-for-tat closures of each other’s consulates, but called for “rational communication” between the two powers.Earlier, New Zealand said it will suspend its extradition treaty with Hong Kong. Foreign minister Winston Peters said the new law went against commitments China had made to the international community.The US and Australia on Monday opened top-level talks in which they are expected to seek a common front against China.US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper welcomed to Washington their Australian counterparts, Marise Payne and Linda Reynolds, for discussions.A Hong Kong pro-democracy activist said he has been fired by his university after he served jail time for taking part in protests.Law professor Benny Tai, 56, decried his sacking by the University of Hong Kong and accused education chiefs of bowing to political pressure from Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-freezes-hong-kong-s-extradition-treaties-with-uk-australia-canada/story-yMOiLYpH8TWUIXz8RPDW0N.html
29-07-2020||World||Joe Biden vows to fight racial inequalities with economic agenda||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden promised Tuesday that his economic agenda would combat long-standing racial inequalities in US society as he sought to draw another sharp contrast with President Donald Trump.Biden said the Republican president is exacerbating social discord across the country, including by sending federal authorities into major cities under the pretense of addressing crime, and has little interest in addressing the racism that Biden said has been laid bare by the Covid-19 pandemic and an election-year reckoning with police violence against Black men.“He’s shown that he can’t beat the pandemic and keep you safe,” Biden said, speaking in a community center gymnasium in his hometown of Wilmington, Delaware. “He can’t turn the economy around. He’s determined to stoke division and chaos. It’s not good for the country, but Donald Trump doesn’t care. His campaign is failing and he’s looking for a lifeline.”Biden countered with a litany of proposals to steer more federal money and tax credits to various small business and economic development programs for minority-owned firms and disadvantaged neighborhoods. Biden also said he’d encourage home ownership to help close wealth gaps among minority communities.Many of his proposals — and the billions in federal spending needed to pay for it — had already been promised as part of previous, larger Biden plans to jump-start the economy when the coronavirus outbreak begins to recede. But as protests against institutional racism and police brutality have swept the country in recent months, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee is attempting to show voters that he’s committed to implementing specific remedies that can promote racial and economic equality should he win the White House in November.It’s also another way for Biden to lambaste Trump, who has spent weeks vowing to restore “law and order” and ordering federal authorities to intervene against ongoing protests in places like Portland, Oregon, and Chicago, while small businesses around the country continue to struggle or shut down under economic struggles from the coronavirus.Biden accused Trump of distracting the country and trying to scare voters by dispatching federal authorities to cities. The former vice president said most demonstrators are “peaceful protesters” who aren’t a threat to be met by federal power. “Arsonists and anarchists should be prosecuted,” Biden said, but added that “local law enforcement can do that.”Still, Biden said “this election is not just about voting against Donald Trump. It’s about rising to this moment of crisis, understanding people’s struggle and building a future worthy of their courage and ambition to overcome.”And he said that means thinking about every policy debate in terms of structural inequalities.The former vice president wants to take $30 billion, or 10% of federal investment he’s already promised as part of larger economic plans, and funnel it into a “Small Business Opportunity Fund” designed to leverage $5 of private investment for minority owned enterprises for each $1 in public funds allocated. He also plans to spend $50 billion to provide startup capital that can help entrepreneurs of color start businesses in disadvantaged areas.To encourage home ownership, the plan would create a $15,000 federal tax credit to help low-and middle-income families cover down payments on their first homes. It also pledges to build 1.5 million new homes and public housing units in hopes of addressing the affordable housing crisis that has hit many of the nation’s marquee cities and disproportionately hurt people of color.Biden also said the Federal Reserve’s mission should be revised to specifically charge the central bank with addressing “persistent racial gaps” in economic opportunities and wealth, rather than a more general focus on maximum employment and stable pricing.Biden similarly vowed to undo Trump administration regulatory changes that the Democratic presidential nominee says “gutted” Obama administration rules preventing housing discrimination and unfair lending practices.Asked about the possibility of a congressional study on the feasibility of federal reparations to descendants of enslaved Black people in the United States, senior Biden officials said their candidate wouldn’t oppose such a study. But they defended Tuesday’s proposal as doing more to benefit Black Americans in the short term, saying, “He is not going to wait on a study to create change.”Biden’s plan also doesn’t endorse legalizing marijuana, though it seeks to clear logistical court hurdles so that states can better identify nonviolent offenders whose records they might opt to expunge. Black and Hispanic Americans often face far harsher penalties for crimes involving marijuana possession than their white counterparts.The Democratic National Committee’s convention platform committee voted by a wide margin on Monday to keep language calling for legalization of marijuana nationwide out of the party’s platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-vows-to-fight-racial-inequalities-with-economic-agenda/story-zqwlyTOsR2NYtkdUQuzyxK.html
29-07-2020||World||US protests: Attorney General William Barr defends aggressive federal response||Attorney General William Barr defended the aggressive federal law enforcement response to civil unrest in America as he testified for the first time before the House Judiciary Committee, pushing back against angry, skeptical Democrats who said President Donald Trump’s administration is unconstitutionally suppressing dissent.The hearing, held Tuesday as the late civil rights icon John Lewis laid in state steps away outside the Capitol, highlighted the wide election-year gulf between the two parties on police brutality and systemic racism in law enforcement. Massive protests have sparked unrest across the nation following the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police, and calls for police reform are growing louder.But Barr said “violent rioters and anarchists have hijacked legitimate protests” and argued the violence taking place in Portland, Oregon, and other cities is disconnected from Floyd’s killing, which he called a “horrible” event that prompted a necessary national reckoning on the relationship between the Black community and law enforcement. But he also said there was no systemic racism in law enforcement.“Largely absent from these scenes of destruction are even superficial attempts by the rioters to connect their actions to George Floyd’s death or any legitimate call for reform,” Barr said of the Portland protests.The hearing marks Barr’s first appearance before the committee after 18 months in office, bringing him face-to-face with the panel that voted last year to hold him in contempt and is holding hearings on what Democrats say is politicization of the Justice Department under his watch. But little new ground was uncovered; fuming Democrats often used their five minutes to lay out their frustrations and cut Barr off as he attempted to answer questions.The hearing comes during a tumultuous stretch in which Barr has taken actions cheered by President Donald Trump but condemned by Democrats and other critics. Among them: the Justice Department’s decision to drop the prosecution of former Trump administration national security adviser Michael Flynn and Barr’s urging for a more lenient sentence for Trump ally Roger Stone, a move that prompted the entire trial team’s departure. Trump later commuted the sentence entirely.Republicans were ready to back Barr up, with the top Republican on the panel, Ohio Rep. Jim Jordan, using his opening statement to show an eight-minute video that spliced together images of violence by protesters around the country.Democrats retorted with a video of their own of more peaceful protesters, shown by Rhode Island Rep. David Cicilline.“We fought for democracy, for the right to speak freely and you are attempting to take that away,” Cicilline told Barr. “What’s worse, you’re doing it for the sole purpose of furthering the president’s political agenda and generating footage for Trump campaign commercials.”Opening the hearing, committee Chairman Jerry Nadler said the Trump administration had “twisted the Department of Justice into a shadow of its former self,” serving the powerful before average Americans. He said the committee has a responsibility to protect Americans “from that kind of corruption.”Nadler said Barr had “aided and abetted” Trump’s worst impulses and excoriated him and the Justice Department for turning a blind eye to necessary reforms to police departments, for dismissing Black Lives Matter protests and for flooding streets with federal agents to stop protesters.Under combative questioning, Barr acerbically defended himself but revealed little new information about his motivations or the Justice Department’s recent actions on policing or otherwise.“Many of the Democrats on this Committee have attempted to discredit me by conjuring up a narrative that I am simply the President’s factotum who disposes of criminal cases according to his instructions,” Barr said in his opening statement. “Judging from the letter inviting me to this hearing, that appears to be your agenda today.”On policing, Barr’s testimony underscored his department’s ongoing effort to differentiate between increasing violence in some cities and Floyd’s death, which has led to state charges against four officers and is under investigation by federal authorities. Massive but peaceful demonstrations followed Floyd’s death in May.The attorney general acknowledged to lawmakers Floyd’s death struck a chord in the Black community because it reinforced concerns Black people are treated differently by police. But he condemned Americans who he says have responded inappropriately to Floyd’s death through what he said was rioting and anarchy.“As elected officials of the federal government, every member of this committee — regardless of your political views or your feelings about the Trump administration — should condemn violence against federal officers and destruction of federal property,” Barr said. “So should state and local leaders who have a responsibility to keep their communities safe.”Civil unrest escalated in Portland after federal agents were accused of whisking people away in unmarked cars without probable cause; the people were detained and later released. And in Washington, D.C., peaceful protesters were violently cleared from the streets by federal officers using smoke bombs and pepper balls last month before a photo op by Trump in front of St. John’s church, where Barr had accompanied him.He defended the broad use of law enforcement power to deal with the situation, noting that protesters had earlier set fire to the church and “it was total consensus that you couldn’t allow that to happen so close to the White House.” The department’s internal watchdog has opened investigations into use of force and other tactics by agents in Washington and Portland.He also said the force was used because the protesters would not disperse from the area when law enforcement officials were trying to move back the security perimeter, a decision made the night before. When pressed on details, he pointed to the investigations.The use of pepper spray was warranted, even if peaceful protesters were also harmed, he said.Beyond the federal response to the demonstrations, Barr was pressed in detail about his intervention in the Flynn and Stone cases, both of which arose from special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. Democrats criticized him for partly taking into account Stone’s health and age, 67, and said those standards haven’t been used in other similar cases.Barr said he told the acting U.S. attorney that “we are going to leave it up to the judge” and that he ordered the revised recommendation to be filed when the line prosecutors submitted an initial recommendation calling for a sentence of seven to nine years.“And even though I knew I would get a lot of criticism for doing that, I think at the end of the day my obligation is to be fair to the individual,” Barr said.Republicans and Democrats also repeatedly revisited Mueller’s probe, with Democrats arguing he downplayed the report to the public before it was released and Republicans pressing him on the origins of the probe. Justice officials are now investigating the previous Justice Department’s decisions as it started investigating Trump’s ties to Russia during the Obama administration and Barr has been sharply critical of his predecessors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/attorney-general-william-barr-defends-aggressive-federal-response-to-protests/story-rUvB2ZN8xaBR5XUW7OGU1J.html
