06-01-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||Centre to form panel to look into issues concerning Ladakh||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 6The Centre on Wednesday decided to form a committee, headed by the Minister of States (MoS) Home G Kishan Reddy to resolve the issues related to the conservation of Ladakhi language, culture, ethnicity, land, jobs and participation of locals in development projects.A decision in this regard was taken by Union Home Minister Amit Shah during a meeting he had with senior officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), said an official.Before this the Home Minister met a 10-member delegation from Ladakh here at his North Block office, where representatives from the Union Territory (UT) expressed their concern with regard to conservation of language, culture, land and participation of the people in development process.The committee will have elected members from Ladakh, members of the Ladakh Area Hill Development (LAHD) Council and ex-officio members representing the Government of India and the Ladakh administration.“The members of this committee will consider the concerns expressed by the delegation and will make efforts to find an early solution to the same.  The views of the committee would be given due consideration while taking a final decision,” said a senior MHA official.During his meeting with the delegation Shah assured them that under the leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Centre has been committed towards the development of Ladakh and conservation of the land and culture of Ladakh.By conferring the UT status to Ladakh, the Modi government has shown its commitment towards fulfilling the long pending demands of the people of Ladakh, the Home Minister added.On their part the delegation members impressed upon the Home Minister that given the difficult geographical conditions and strategic importance of Ladakh, people in the UT need protection in terms of employment and changes in the demography. A protest was held in this regard before the LAHDC elections last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/centre-to-form-panel-to-look-into-issues-concerning-ladakh-194631
06-01-2021||Jammu||Punjab truck driver held with 55 kg poppy in J&K’s Udhampur||Police on Wednesday arrested a truck driver from Punjab and seized 55 kg of poppy from his possession in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district, officials said.During routine checking, a police team stopped a truck at Jakhani in Udhampur on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway. The search led to a seizure of 55 kg of poppy, the officials said, adding driver of the vehicle Jasbir Singh alias Kala of Punjab was arrested for transporting the contraband.    A case was registered at Udhampur police station in this regard and further investigation is underway, they said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/punjab-truck-driver-held-with-55-kg-poppy-in-jks-udhampur-194629
06-01-2021||Mukesh Ranjan||BSF asked to step up vigil after terrorists spotted near borders in Jammu region||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 6The Border Security Force (BSF) has been asked to step up vigil in the frontier areas of Jammu after the Multi Centre Agency (MAC) alerted the Ministry of Home Affairs on ISI’s effort to push terrorists from across the borders in the region  In a report to the Ministry of Home Affairs, the MAC suggested that as many as 118 terrorists had gathered on the other side of the borders opposite the Jammu region.It went on to add that Pakistani intelligence agency was providing GPS and other navigation systems to the terrorists apart from winter clothing.“According to inputs received from intelligence agencies, in recent times, the presence of 180 terrorists was indicated at various launch pads near Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB). Of these 65 terrorists were spotted opposite the Valley region and 118 have been reported opposite the Jammu region,” said a source in the security establishment. BSF has been alerted all along the borders in Jammu region after the MAC report indicated the presence of such a big number of terrorists, said another source.As per the report, the presence of terrorists has been witnessed at launch pads of Lunia Dhok, Degwar Trewan, Chirikot Naban, Thandi Kassi, PP Nala, LP Samani, Dewa, Dadal opposite Poonch, Krishna Ghati, Bhimber Gali, Naushera, Sunderbani and Hirangar areas, said the sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/bsf-asked-to-step-up-vigil-after-terrorists-spotted-near-borders-in-jammu-region-194611
06-01-2021||Mumbai||Amitabh Bachchan's Ladakh trip in 'minus 33 degrees' has fans concerned||Amitabh Bachchan left netizens curious and concerned after the veteran actor, early on Wednesday, spoke about visiting Ladakh in minus 33 degrees."Went to Ladakh and back .. minus 33 degrees .. even this could not save me from the cold .. !!!" Bachchan posted on Facebook.FB 2804 - .... went to Ladakh and back .. minus 33 degrees .. even this could not save me from the cold .. !!!Commenting on his post, fans expressed concern for the 79-year-old actor's health, worrying about him especially because he is a Covid-19 survivor."Dear Amitji! You are working more than any other younger actor. I am very happy you are in such demand. We love you a lot. Please take care of your health. We need you. With lots of love," commented a fan."I think you should not risk your life, However, important the assignment is! Chronologically, you are a Septagenerian. If life is lost, nothing is left. You have earned a lot of money now try not any adventure," suggested another fan."Sir, absolutely brilliant work done by you in extreme cold and different and also difficult conditions in Ladakh. It is very risky work in this age for you. It's shows your brilliant fitness and dedication of work. You are true professional in this age. Stay safe and healthy," shared another fan."Hats off to your energy levels. But venturing in such weather conditions can take a toll on your health. Be careful," suggested another fan.Big B, who enjoys a huge fan following across the world, offered a glimpse of his popularity on his Instagram account. The actor shared a photograph clicked in Moscow, Soviet Union in 1990-91, where he can be seen being mobbed by fans for autograph. — IANSA post shared by Amitabh Bachchan (@amitabhbachchan)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/amitabh-bachchans-ladakh-trip-in-minus-33-degrees-has-fans-concerned-194555
06-01-2021||Jammu||Jammu records 50.1 mm rainfall in a day, second-highest for January in two decades||Incessant downpour threw life out of gear during the last three days in Jammu with the city on Wednesday recording 50.1 mm rainfall in a 24-hour period, its second-highest for the month of January in 20 years, Meteorological department officials said here.The showers, however, stopped on Wednesday morning, bringing some relief to residents."Jammu recorded 50.1 mm of rainfall during the past 24 hours. This was the second-highest in the past two decades as the city had recorded the all-time high of 81.4 mm rainfall on January 13, 2000," a spokesperson of the department said.He said the city had recorded 47.7 mm rainfall on January 26, 2017.The spokesperson said the minimum temperature in the city settled at 12.1 degrees Celsius, which is 4.7 notches above normal for this part of the season.Triggered by heavy rainfall, the river Tawi went into spate, but it was flowing below the danger level.Banihal town along the Jammu-Srinagar national highway was recorded as the coldest place in the Jammu region at a low of 0.2 degree Celsius. The highway town witnessed 80.4 mm of rain and snow during a 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am, the spokesperson said.Katra, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting the Vaishno Devi Shrine in Reasi district, recorded 47.9 mm rainfall and a minimum temperature of 9.2 degrees Celsius, he said."Weather improving gradually, significant improvement expected from today (Wednesday) afternoon onwards but light rain or snow will occur at scattered places in the next 24 hours," the official said, adding that there is no forecast of any major snowfall, and the weather is likely to remain mainly dry in Jammu and Kashmir till January 14. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/jammu-records-50-1-mm-rainfall-in-a-day-second-highest-for-january-in-two-decades-194528
06-01-2021||Srinagar||Flights remain grounded in Kashmir Valley; over dozen flights cancelled||Air traffic to and fro Srinagar remained suspended for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday as poor visibility due to heavy snowfall hampered operations, leading to the cancellation of over dozen flights to the valley, officials said.     They said while the snow clearance operations were in full swing, the runway was not available for flight operations due to continuous heavy snow and low visibility.Over a dozen flights have already been cancelled for the day.Flight operations will resume only after the weather improves and the runway is cleared of the snow, they added.Flights operations have been cancelled from the past three days due to heavy snowfall across the valley.The MET Office here has said the weather is likely to improve later in the day. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/flights-remain-grounded-in-kashmir-valley-over-dozen-flights-cancelled-194514
06-01-2021||Srinagar||Heavy snowfall disrupts life in Kashmir||Intermittent heavy snowfall during the last 48 hours threw life out of gear in Kashmir on Wednesday as the meteorological (MeT) department forecast improvement in weather from afternoon.Over two ft snow accumulated on the ground in the plains of the valley while the higher reaches in Jammu and Kashmir received nearly four ft of snow during the last 48 hours.Srinagar-Jammu highway remained closed on Wednesday for the fourth consecutive day while no flight operation took place from Srinagar airport for the second day.Authorities are battling to restore traffic on the main roads in the valley while most of the rural areas remained cut off.Hardships for the locals are compounded by the failure of the electric supply in the rural areas while the same remained erratic in semi-urban and urban areas."There would be improvement in weather conditions from today afternoon and during the next few days, weather is likely to remain mainly dry."This will help increase the day temperatures, but night temperatures would drop significantly during this period", an official of the MeT department said.The ongoing 40-day long period of harsh winter cold known locally as the 'Chillai Kalan' will end on January 31.Srinagar recorded minus 0.9, Pahalgam minus 1.2 and Gulmarg minus 3.5 as the minimum temperatures on Wednesday.The minimum temperature recorded in Kargil was minus 11.6, and Drass had minus 8.6 as the night's lowest temperature.Jammu city had 12.1, Katra 9.2, Batote 3.2, Banihal 0.2 and Bhadarwah 2.2 as the day's lowest temperatures. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/heavy-snowfall-disrupts-life-in-kashmir-194510
06-01-2021||Srinagar||Amid snowfall, J&K Administration orders rationing of essentials in Valley||Heavy snowfall on Tuesday snapped air and surface link with the Kashmir Valley from the rest of country forcing authorities to order rationing of essentials commodities to evade any crisis in supply.Cap on petroleum products3-wheelers: 5 litres4-wheelers (pvt): 10 litres4-wheelers (commercial): 20 litresHeavy motor vehicles, buses and trucks to get 20 litres per dayThe Srinagar-Jammu Highway remained closed for the third consecutive day. The nearly 300-km long highway is the lifeline of supplies for the landlocked Valley. Each time, the highway gets blocked, hoarders and profiteers resort to selling essentials on the black market. The authorities on Tuesday announced rationing of petroleum products and cooking gas.An order issued by PK Pole, Kashmir Divisional Commissioner said two-wheelers would get 3 litres of fuel, three-wheelers 5 litres, four-wheelers (private) 10 litres, four-wheelers (commercial) 20 litres and heavy motor vehicles/buses/trucks would get 20 litres per day. It has been ordered that one cooking gas cylinder will be issued to the consumer after 21 days. Heavy snowfall has also disrupted electric supply in the Valley in addition to inter- and intra- district road links. — IANSFlights groundedSrinagar: Flight operations to and from Srinagar remained suspended for the third consecutive day on Tuesday due to poor visibility as the Valley received heavy snowfall, officials said. Operations will resume only after the weather improves, they said. PTIOver 250 stranded vehicles clearedBanihal/Jammu: Over 250 stranded vehicles on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway, mostly carrying passengers, were cleared after the arterial road was briefly opened for one-way traffic between Banihal and Qazigund, officials said. PTIAvalanche warningSrinagar: The Jammu and Kashmir Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday issued fresh medium-level avalanche warning for higher reaches of Poonch, Rajouri, Ramban, Doda, Kishtwar, Anantnag, Kulgam, Kupwara and Bandipora districts besides Waltengu Nad, South and North portals of Jawahar Tunnel, Verinag, Kapran, Chowkibal-NC Pass, Gurez, Dawar and Neeru areas. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/amid-snowfall-jk-administration-orders-rationing-of-essentials-in-valley-194314
06-01-2021|| Jammu||Alert sounded in J&K over bird flu||As neighbouring Himachal Pradesh reported cases of bird flu, Jammu and Kashmir has sounded an alert and started collecting samples to check the health of the winged guests flocking the Union territory during winters, officials said. The joint teams of Animal Husbandry and Wildlife Departments on Tuesday visited Gharana wetland in the outskirts of Jammu and collected 25 bird droppings for testing to ascertain whether any of the birds was infected with the dreaded avian influenza, the officials said. “The J&K Government has sounded an alert following reports of bird flu cases in Himachal Pradesh and issued certain guidelines as a precautionary measure,” Wildlife Warden, Jammu, Anil Atri said. Atri, who along with Dr Ranjit Katoch of the Wildlife Department joined the Animal Husbandry team at Gharana wetland, said all the birds present in the wetland looked healthy. The Gharana Wetland Conservation Reserve in the RS Pura sector near the International Border was notified in 1981. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/alert-sounded-in-jk-over-bird-flu-194315
06-01-2021||---||7 cops awarded for gathering intel inputs||New Delhi, January 5The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has announced special medals for gathering intelligence inputs (Asadharan Aasuchana Kushalata Padak-2020) to seven officials of the Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Police.Announcing this, Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla has written to the awardee officers and extended his heartiest compliments and best wishes to them.Recently the MHA had instituted the medal to recognise police officials for their extraordinary contribution in gathering intelligence inputs.The officers, who have been awarded the medals, include Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajouri Chandan Kohli, SP (operations) Srinagar Tahir Ashraf, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Budgam Amit Verma, Subdivisional Police Officer (SDPO) Akhnoor Ajay Sharma, Inspector Dilraj Singh, Inspector Syed Parveez Sajad and Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Farooq Ahmad Mantoo.“DGP Dilbag Singh has expressed gratitude to the MHA. He said such recognitions boost the morale of the UT’s police officers, officials and play a significant role in encouraging the force to work with more dedication and devotion,” the J&K Police said in a Twitter post.Meanwhile, it is reported that Singh had recently announced DGP medals and certificates for 551 police personnel/SPOs, 52Army/BSF/CRPF/ITBP/SSB officers, personnel, 4 civilian and 22 civil officers/officials for meritorious and exemplary performance in public service during 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/7-cops-awarded-for-gathering-intel-inputs-194316
06-01-2021||Jammu||NC panel meets L-G, alleges horse-trading of DDC members||An eight-member National Conference delegation on Tuesday met Lt-Governor Manoj Sinha here and drew his attention to alleged attempts being made to mutilate the mandate of the people by encouraging horse-trading of the recently elected DDC members, the party said.The NC stressed the crucial need of ensuring neutrality and impartiality of the administration in establishment of the District Development Councils and said this was imperative for respecting the mandate and upholding people’s faith in the grass-roots level democratic institutions which held the promise for transforming rural landscape in Jammu and Kashmir. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/nc-panel-meets-l-g-alleges-horse-trading-of-ddc-members-194323
