14-01-2021||Srinagar||Naeem Akhtar admitted to hospital after falling unconscious in Srinagar sub-jail||Senior PDP leader Naeem Akhtar, who was arrested in December, was admitted to a private hospital on Thursday after he fell unconscious in a sub-jail here, his family said on Thursday.       Akhtar, the 68-year-old PDP ideologue, was admitted to Khyber hospital on Thursday morning, his daughter Sheheryar Khanum tweeted.         "At least a senior police officer had the courtesy to inform me around midnight that my father @shangpal (Nayeem Akhtar) in detention was in hospital after he was unconscious for 40 mins. Saved by a whisker - some days back all alone in the whole building. Grateful to his fellow detenues. Prayers!" Khanum tweeted.         Akhtar was among three PDP leaders arrested on December 21, a day ahead of counting of votes for District Development Council elections, and lodged in a government building declared as a sub-jail.A PDP leader said Akhtar's condition was better now. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/naeem-akhtar-admitted-to-hospital-after-falling-unconscious-in-srinagar-sub-jail-198442
14-01-2021||Jammu||Over 270 terrorists currently active in Jammu and Kashmir: Official sources||More than 270 terrorists are currently active in Jammu and Kashmir, which is less than the 2019 and 2020 figures, official sources have said.The Union Territory has seen a decrease in terrorist incidents, infiltration and civilian killings in 2020, while security forces carried out more than 100 "successful" counter-terrorism operations killing 225 terrorists, they said.There are over 270 terrorists active in Jammu and Kashmir currently, of whom 205 are in Kashmir Valley, they said.There were 421 active terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 and over 300 in 2020.A total of 225 terrorists were killed in 2020. As many as 160 terrorists were killed in 2019 and 257 in 2018, they said.In 2020, terrorists' activities were also witnessed in so-far peaceful areas south of the Pir Panjal range in Jammu region, including Kistwar-Doda and Poonch, they said.Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh had earlier said that "As many as 635 OGWs were arrested (in 2020) and 56 out of them were booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA)." Singh had said that all the terror organisations are leaderless now and those militants who are recruited as leaders of any group by Pakistan-based handlers are caught or killed. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/over-270-terrorists-currently-active-in-jammu-and-kashmir-official-sources-198409
14-01-2021||Srinagar||Dal Lake partially freezes as Srinagar records coldest night in 30 years||A major portion of Kashmir's famous Dal Lake and several other water bodies froze on Thursday as the cold wave in the Valley continued with Srinagar recording the coldest night in 30 years, officials said here.Srinagar recorded a low of minus 8.4 degrees Celsius, which was the coldest temperature recorded in the city in 30 years, an official of the MET department said.He said while Srinagar had recorded minus 8.3 degrees Celsius in 1995, the temperature had fallen to minus 11.3 degrees Celsius in 1991. The lowest temperature ever recorded in Srinagar was minus 14.4 degrees Celsius in 1893.The rest of the valley is also reeling under intense cold.Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 11.1 degrees Celsius – up from the previous night's minus 11.7 degrees Celsius.The resort was the coldest recorded place in Jammu and Kashmir.The minimum temperature in Gulmarg tourist resort settled at minus 7 degrees Celsius – up from minus 10 degrees Celsius the night earlier.Qazigund – the gateway town to the Valley – recorded a minimum of 10 degrees Celsius compared to minus 1.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier.Kupwara in north Kashmir recorded a low of minus 6.7 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag, in south, minus 10.3 degrees Celsius.Vast areas of many water bodies, including Dal Lake, have frozen due to the bone-chilling cold. The plunge in the minimum temperature has resulted in freezing of water supply pipes. A thick layer of ice has settled over several roads in the city and elsewhere in the Valley, making it difficult for motorists to drive.Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' - the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the Valley.The chances of snow are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snow.While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/dal-lake-partially-freezes-as-srinagar-records-coldest-night-in-30-years-198321
14-01-2021||Srinagar||121 new cases in J&K, 13 in Ladakh||Jammu and Kashmir did not record any death due to Covid in the past 24 hours but 121 new positive cases took the number of infected people to 1,22,885, officials said on Wednesday. Out of the fresh cases, 55 were from the Jammu division and 66 from the Kashmir division of the Union territory, they said. The officials said Jammu district recorded the highest of 47 cases, followed by 35 in Srinagar district. Anantnag, Kulgam, Poonch, Ramban, Reasi and Kishtwar did not report any fresh case, while 12 districts recorded fresh cases in single digits, the officials said. The number of active cases dropped to 1,629 in the Union territory, while 1,19,344 patients had recovered so far, they said. As no fresh death due to Covid was reported in the past 24 hours, the death toll in the Union territory stayed at 1,912. Leh: Thirteen persons tested positive for Covid in Ladakh, where one person died of the infection, taking the fatalities in the Union territory to 128 and the virus caseload to 9,634, officials said on Wednesday. The latest Covid-related death was reported from Kargil district on Tuesday, they said. Of the 128 deaths so far, Leh district has accounted for the highest 84 deaths and Kargil 44. According to officials, 12 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Leh and one more in Kargil, while 15 patients were discharged after successful treatment, bringing down the active cases to 180 — 175 in Leh and five in Kargil. A total of 9,326 patients had recovered from the infection in the Union territory since the outbreak of the disease, which is 97 per cent of the total cases, they added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/121-new-cases-in-jk-13-in-ladakh-198267
14-01-2021||---||Bank official, 5 others booked for depositing Rs 12.84 cr banned notes||New Delhi, January 13Anti-corruption federal probe agency CBI today said it had booked the executive manager of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Bank, three firm proprietors and two persons for depositing Rs 12.84 crore in banned currency after over four years of demonetisation exercise, which was later transferred to different accounts through net banking as legitimate money.Officials in the CBI said, on the basis of “source information”, which was received on December 10 last year, the agency had filed an FIR saying Rahul Chaudhary and Dushyant Chaudhary were operating accounts of Shiva Trading Company, Divyanshi Sales Corporation and Shyama Trading company in the J&K Bank’s Ghaziabad branch.Taking advantage of their proximity with executive manager Netar Sabharwar, the Chaudhary duo were allegedly operating the accounts in place of their proprietors, who are also named accused in the FIR, the officials said.The CBI has alleged that the accused duo in connivance with proprietors — Pankaj Kumar of Shiva Trading, Vikas Rathi of Divyanshi Sales and Ghanshyam Patel of Shyama Trading — and Sabharwar changed registered phone numbers in the companies’ accounts for SMS alert service to be able to use them for fund transfers, the CBI said in the FIR.After the government declared Rs 1,000 and old Rs 500 notes as illegal tender on November 8, 2016, Sabharwar allegedly allowed Rahul and Dushyant Chaudhary to make Rs 12.84 crore cash deposit in the three companies’ accounts in violation of bank norms and RBI instructions related to cash deposits, it said, adding that using the changed phone numbers, the duo transferred the amount to various bank accounts through Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS).Demonetisation fruad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/bank-official-5-others-booked-for-depositing-rs-12-84-cr-banned-notes-198268
14-01-2021||Srinagar||Srinagar sees coldest night in 8 yrs||The Kashmir valley reeled under severe cold, with Srinagar city — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recording its lowest minimum temperature in eight years, the Meteorological Department said here on Wednesday. Srinagar recorded a low of -7.8°C, which was the lowest temperature recorded in the city in eight years, an official of the Met Department said. He said the exact same minimum temperature was recorded in the city in 2012 on January 14. The rest of the Valley was also reeling under intense cold. Pahalgam, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of -11.7°C — down from the previous night’s -5.6°C. The resort was the coldest recorded place in Jammu and Kashmir. The minimum temperature in Gulmarg tourist spot settled at -10°C — up from -11.2°C the night earlier. Qazigund — the gateway town to the Valley — recorded a minimum of 9.3°C compared to -1.4°C a day earlier. Kupwara in north Kashmir recorded a low of -5.6°C, while Kokernag, in south, -9.9°C. The sudden plunge in the minimum temperature resulted in freezing of water supply pipes. A thick layer of ice had frozen over many stagnant water bodies, including Dal Lake. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/srinagar-sees-coldest-night-in-8-yrs-198269
14-01-2021||Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir receives 1.46 lakh doses of vaccine||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday received the first consignment of 1.46 lakh doses of Covid vaccine from Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), officials said. While 79,000 doses were received here for vaccination of nearly 60,000 healthcare workers in the Kashmir valley, 67,500 vaccines were received in the Jammu division, they said. The officials said the vaccination would begin on Saturday at 30 centres across the Union territory. “To begin with, inauguration ceremonies will be held at SKIMS hospital, Soura, in Srinagar and Government Medical College, Jammu, where Lt-Governor Manoj Sinha will be present,” they said. Besides these two, there are 14 immunisation centres each in the Kashmir valley and the Jammu division. The officials said in the first phase, healthcare workers across the Union territory would be given shots while frontline workers would be covered in the second phase. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/jammu-and-kashmir-receives-1-46-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-198270
14-01-2021||Srinagar||L-G visits kin of goldsmith killed by ultras||Lt-Governor Manoj Sinha Wednesday visited the family of goldsmith Satpal Nischal, who was shot dead by terrorists at his shop here on December 31, just days after he had obtained a domicile certificate. The L-Gexpressed solidarity with the bereaved family, an official spokesman said. Condemning the killing strongly, Sinha said a high-level investigation had already been initiated. He assured the family that those involved in the heinous act would be brought to justice very soon. The Lt-Governor offered condolences to the family members of the deceased, saying such despicable and cowardly act would not go unpunished. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/l-g-visits-kin-of-goldsmith-killed-by-ultras-198272
14-01-2021||Sandeep Dikshit||Allow team to visit Kashmir Valley for first-hand assessment of situation: UK minister||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 13The United Kingdom has called on India to lift all restrictions in Kashmir and also allow a team from its High Commission in Delhi to visit the Valley for a first-hand assessment of the situation, said UK Secretary of State for Justice Robert Buckland while replying to a debate on the “political situation in Kashmir” in the Westminster Hall by UK MPs.The debate took place a day after the UK MPs discussed “Persecution of Muslims, Christians and Minority Groups in India”, which elicited a strong reaction from the Indian High Commission in London. Last week, UK MPs had lobbied for repeal of India’s farm laws.The minister said Prime Minister Boris Johnson had been in touch with his counterparts from India and Pakistan to keep their communications open and manage regional tensions. "We urge India and Pakistan to exercise restraint, maintain ceasefire on the LoC and to improve communications. We welcome India’s commitment to social and economic development of Kashmir and seek further details of their plans,” said Buckland."We continue to talk frankly to India about our human rights concerns and call for all remaining restrictions to be lifted as soon as possible."The minister's disclosure that Johnson had been talking to PMs Modi and Imran Khan came hours after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seemed to disapprove of countries taking up matters in other nations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/allow-team-to-visit-kashmir-valley-for-first-hand-assessment-of-situation-uk-minister-198225
14-01-2021||Jammu||BSF detects 150-metre cross-border tunnel in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua||A 150-metre tunnel constructed along the International Border (IB) to facilitate infiltration of terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir from Pakistan was detected by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district on Wednesday, officials said.                           This is the third tunnel unearthed by alert border guards along the IB in the twin districts of Samba and Kathua in Jammu region over the past six months and ninth in the past decade.“A nearly 150-metre-long tunnel was detected by a BSF patrol party during an anti-tunnelling operation in Bobiyaan village of Hirnagar sector this morning,” Inspector General of BSF, Jammu frontier, N S Jamwal told reporters at the scene.      He along with other senior officers rushed to Bobiyaan soon after the detection of the tunnel.                          “The opposite of this side is Pakistan’s Shakergarh which is notorious for having launch pads and bases of terrorists. We have inputs available with us as a result of that we are sensitive to whatever is happening here,” the BSF officer said, assuring that all necessary measures are in place to counter Pakistani designs.                  He said sand bags with Pakistani markings are evidence of the hand of Pakistani establishment in the construction of this tunnel, which is identical to the previously detected tunnels having a depth of 25 to 30 metre with two to three feet diameter.                           Asked whether this tunnel was recently dug or it’s an old one, the BSF officer said it is a matter of investigation.             However, he said some of the sand bags recovered from the tunnel have 2016-17 year of manufacture which suggest that it is an old tunnel.                           “We were searching for this tunnel for a long time and its detection was the effort of the anti-tunnelling operation which is underway all along the IB. Whether any infiltration had taken place through this tunnel in the past can be said after completion of our investigation,” he said.Jamwal, however, said the BSF is sure that no infiltration had taken place through this tunnel in the recent past.                                 “We are undertaking some development works here and have strengthened the security in view of the anti-tunnelling drive,” he said.                 Referring to the killing of two Pakistani infiltrators in Surankote area of Poonch district and an encounter in Srinagar last month, the IG said Pakistan is always looking for an opportunity to push terrorists into Jammu Kashmir, whether it is through Line of Control (LoC) or IB.“They are continuing with the attempts but we are fully alert to the situation. Our alertness resulted in detection of underground tunnels and shooting down of a Hexa-copter loaded with a huge cache of arms and ammunition,” he said, adding the border protection grid comprising army, BSF and police are working jointly to scuttle Pakistan’s attempts to push terrorists and weapons into this side.    Last year, the BSF detected two such tunnels in Samba district on August 28 and November 22 following successful infiltration by two groups of terrorists who were subsequently neutralised in separate encounters along Jammu-Srinagar national highway while they were enroute to Kashmir in trucks.    While three Pakistani terrorists affiliated with Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) were eliminated in a gunfight in Nagrota area near Jammu after they were intercepted aboard a Kashmir-bound truck in January last year, another group of Pakistani terrorists armed with weapons and a large quantity of grenades were killed at the same spot on November 19.Investigations suggested both the groups infiltrated into this side through underground tunnels.Meanwhile, Pakistani Rangers violated ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing on forward posts and villages in the Border Outpost area of Gurnam in Hiranagar sector, the officials said.The firing from across the border started around 10 pm Tuesday, prompting strong and effective retaliation by the BSF, they said, adding the cross-border firing between the two sides continued till 2.25 am Wednesday but there was no report of any damage on Indian side. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/bsf-detects-150-metre-cross-border-tunnel-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kathua-197858
