01-04-2020||THE Supreme Court has rightly observed that panic and fear are becoming a bigger problem than coronavirus. The paranoia triggered by the pandemic outbreak and the consequent lockdown is manifesting itself in disturbing ways. On Sunday||Bareilly treatment||In UP as well as Bihar, jobless workers, having walked hundreds of miles to reach their native villages, are being treated like pariahs back home. There have been several instances of fellow villagers refusing entry to such persons and handing them over to the police and medical authorities. A resident of Madhaul village in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district was allegedly murdered by workers returning from other states after he informed health officials about their arrival.The workers’ exodus has undermined the Central and state governments’ efforts to strictly enforce the 21-day lockdown. Having already lost their jobs, these labourers are now facing victimisation, which is making it all the more difficult for them to rebuild their lives. The authorities should get their testing done on priority, but without degrading or harassing them. Another challenge for the officials is to ensure that the benefits of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore package announced by the Centre for the poor reach these people. And most importantly, there is a dire need to contain the ‘infodemic’ — the spread of misinformation and fake news on social media — that is fuelling mistrust and suspicion between and within communities. There should be no let-up in punitive action being taken against the rumour-mongers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bareilly-treatment-63746
01-04-2020||IT has taken a pandemic of Covid-19’s proportions to expose the limitations of the country’s public health infrastructure||Spending it right||Needed first and foremost is an honest assessment of the efficacy of announcing mega brick-and-mortar projects and then falling way short when it comes to delivery. Why not, instead, divert much of the energy and resources to optimise the existing facilities? An efficient and responsive neighbourhood healthcare system is bound to not only reduce the load on a research and medical education institute like the PGI, for instance, but also allow quality work on improved and cheaper healthcare solutions. The exemplary commitment shown by the workforce of doctors and health professionals in this hour of crisis across the country is a clear indicator of how a motivated national push can ensure that rural and remote area postings are no longer seen as an anathema. On the frontline and relentless in their pursuit of duty, the public health professionals must be accorded the honour and respect they deserve.A welcome fallout of the coronavirus scare has been the adoption of health and hygiene practices across the spectrum. The gains of this self-disciplinary and circumspect approach to the well-being of not only oneself but also the community should not be allowed to wither away once the crisis is behind us. Healthcare is a daily need, not a seasonal indulgence. It has to be ingrained as an essential part of life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/spending-it-right-63744
