03-04-2020||The spike in the number of coronavirus cases has given rise to concerns over the adequacy of the health infrastructure. The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates the number to reach one million worldwide within days. India||Personal protective equipment||Protective equipment consists primarily of masks, goggles, gloves and gowns to protect medical workers against infections from blood, body fluid, respiratory secretion and excretion from the patients. The N95 respirators are deemed to be more effective in filtering airborne particles; their shortage in the country is attributed to demand in China and the Middle East. In February, the WHO had warned of a global scarcity of PPE, asking countries to ramp up production, the effect evident in the ban on export by India and the US. The inadequate availability of PPE has forced doctors and others to use raincoats and motorcycle helmets as protective gear. While the US sought supplies from South Korea and Russia, India is seeking it from China and countries in South-East Asia.The shortage has pushed up the prices of raw material used to make PPE and manufacturing companies from other sectors have offered to make masks, sanitisers and ventilators. The lockdown and the needs of the healthcare sector make the dilemma pronounced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/personal-protective-equipment-64718
03-04-2020||IT’S a problem of plenty that needs to be tackled promptly||Food security at stake||The FCI seems to be comfortably placed as far as the stocks are concerned. Till March 31, the Central agency’s godowns had over 55 million tonnes of rice and wheat, way above the stipulation of maintaining a reserve of about 21 million tonnes as on April 1. However, it will be a Herculean task for the states to manage the additional arrivals as most of them don’t have sufficient storage facility. In a recent report, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had blamed two government agencies of Punjab for allowing wheat worth more than Rs 600 crore to rot in four years owing to inadequate storage arrangements.The PDS will again be under sharp scrutiny as the authorities scramble to ensure that no genuine beneficiary is left out. If not nipped in the bud, foodgrain wastage and misappropriation could lead to a famine-like situation. The staples can reach the needy without any delay or leakage only if concerted efforts are made at all levels — right from the minister concerned to the village sarpanch. With wheat procurement set to begin later this month, albeit erratically, the grain glut is likely to become an even bigger issue. It will be a cruel irony if millions of people go hungry due to mismanagement of a good harvest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/food-security-at-stake-64712
