06-04-2020||Almost two weeks into the Covid-19 national lockdown||Taking stock||While those dealing in goods deemed as non-essential can only count their burgeoning losses as shops remain shut, the grocery store owners — ensuring a semblance of normalcy in these tough times — are having to confront unmanageable issues of their own. Most are finding it hard to place orders for company-made products as several established brands and distributors are unable to navigate the delivery muddle. In the absence of any checks, low-quality, local-made products suddenly have steady sales, and for consumers, just getting hold of supplies is a victory of sorts, forget about choice or production worries. The prices of most products have seen a marginal rise but vegetables, in particular, are being sold at a premium and solely because of supply-side issues.When that most readily and widely available food item in the country, Maggi noodles, is not easy to get, you know something is not right. While the company manufacturing it is among the biggest buyer of milk in Punjab, that its products should not be available in the area is something that should be looked into. Simple assurances of exemption being given to vehicles ferrying essential items hold little meaning when there is clear non-adherence by the government agencies on the ground. The supply chain has been badly hit, and needs a quick fix. Both the Centre and states need to get their act together fast on it. Every day lost in not addressing the issue is a missed opportunity that is going to hurt businesses a lot in the long run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/taking-stock-66330
06-04-2020||The response to the Covid-19 pandemic has led to a drop in pollution||Nature redeems, rejuvenates||The cost of this change is horrific: thousands of deaths, lakhs of infections worldwide, and the economies of nearly all countries derailed. While the poorest suffer the most, the pandemic is unsparing to all, and has exposed the fault lines in countries and health systems that for long prioritised profit. Amid reports of geographic quarantines for defined areas, the government plans a gradual opening up of movement to restore normalcy. This is bound to lead to pollution levels going up again. Will it mean a return to the ugliness?It need not. Air quality will benefit from the new Bharat VI emission norms. These will undoubtedly cut down the fumes from new automobiles. Concurrently, the Bharat VI fuels that have now been provided at petrol pumps would also help. The government’s major focus would naturally be on the resumption of economic activity and the return of livelihood to the people of India. However, there is anecdotal evidence of people recalibrating their lives and priorities. Would it be too much to hope that even as effort is made to repair the economic fabric of the country, an eye is kept on doing so in a manner that harms the environment the least?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/nature-redeems-rejuvenates-66329
