11-04-2020||THE ongoing lockdown has disrupted activities in the agriculture and allied sectors||Bridge the gap||Farmers are facing problems on every front, be it availability of inputs, harvesting, inter-state movement of farm produce or procurement. Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, Asia’s biggest fruit and vegetable market, has witnessed a drop of over 50 per cent in the arrival of major fruits and vegetables in the past fortnight or so. With demand far outstripping supply, the prices of vegetable and fruits are set to spiral out of control.The arrivals have been hit partially due to the Centre’s focus on decongesting mandis to ward off coronavirus. With the aim of reducing the need for farmers to travel all the way to wholesale markets for selling their produce, the government recently enabled direct trading from warehouses as well as collection centres of farmer-producer organisations under the e-NAM (electronic national agriculture market) platform. However, this e-project, which was launched four years ago to achieve the ambitious goal of ‘one nation, one market’, continues to face hiccups in view of technological constraints and lack of awareness among farmers. A proposal by the Punjab Government regarding doorstep procurement of wheat has been dismissed as unfeasible by farmers as well as arhtiyas, who aver that there is no substitute for well-equipped mandis, provided adequate safety measures are in place on the premises. Centre-state and inter-state coordination is the need of the hour to ensure that the bumper harvest benefits all, right from the farmer to the consumer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bridge-the-gap-69374
11-04-2020||The adverse monetary repercussions of the coronavirus-induced lockdown are percolating up to the salaried class too||Salaried class affected||The pitiable state of affairs needs to be addressed and reviewed regularly, given that the crisis is throwing fresh challenges daily. The prolonged inactivity has put the PSU and MSME sectors in a tight spot. With the spectre of wage cuts and layoffs looming over many employees, some small industries are on the brink of shutting down. Even the state government, facing huge revenue losses, may not be able to pay the salaries and pensions of its employees for too long; it may have to resort to reducing their wages, like Maharashtra and Telangana, if prudent measures are not thought through. PSPCL, having suffered a loss of Rs 450 crore, has deferred full salary to a large section of its employees.The all-round crunch calls for a drastic cut in all expendable expenditure and a rapid injecting of the stimulus package into the stricken sectors so that they absorb the shock and recover from it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/salaried-class-affected-69373
