13-04-2020||THE prolonged lockdown has been an uphill struggle for the citizens||Road map for revival||Aware of the immense hardship triggered by the shutting down of industries and business establishments, PM Modi said the motto of the government earlier was ‘jaan hai to jahaan hai’ but now it is ‘jaan bhi jahaan bhi’ — making it clear that some economic activity has to commence while ensuring there is no let-up in the fight against Covid-19. The Centre has already exempted operations of the fishing or marine aquaculture industry, including harvesting, sale and marketing activities, from the purview of the lockdown. With the harvesting season underway, how the administrative machinery in various states manages agricultural activities is a litmus test now. Crop procurement is a difficult process even in the best of times, and for the Punjab Government, especially, the challenge is huge.Finding a balanced approach in such conditions is a tough task. There have been suggestions for earmarking zones in different categories depending upon the severity of the pandemic crisis. The lockdown may continue, but a graded plan on easing restrictions can check economic distress and social tension. Getting into the lockdown was tough, getting out of it is going to be tougher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/road-map-for-revival-70392
13-04-2020||The 21-day lockdown imposed to fight the highly contagious coronavirus is bringing to the fore many hardships that people are encountering as they lie cooped up in their homes. With the three-week period ending tomorrow||‘Cancer train’ patients hit||Interestingly, the strict lockdown has also exposed some systemic diseases that have played havoc in our society. While many a trader has been caught for hoarding essential supplies or overcharging for them, particularly masks and sanitisers, some petty cops are in the net for seeking bribe from grocery/vegetable vendors during the curfew. But it is a high-ranking bureaucrat of Maharashtra and his business tycoon ‘friends’ who find themselves particularly red-faced for the ‘family emergency’ travel detected during the lockdown. Not surprisingly, a tough probe awaits Yes Bank fraud accused Wadhawan brothers and Amitabh Gupta, the IPS officer who reportedly issued them the travel permit.The abhorrent lot is in stark contrast to the thousands of do-gooders coming to the aid of the millions of unfortunate people rendered poor or helpless by the lockdown. Hopefully, the post-pandemic world, having suffered a life-altering experience, will find itself largely purged of many social maladies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cancer-train-patients-hit-70386
