14-04-2020||THEY couldn’t become part of the desperate exodus that ensued after the 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced. Lakhs of migrant workers were persuaded or coerced into not returning to their homes in other states. Jobless and agonisingly away from their families||Workers’ welfare||For the record, more than 22,000 government-run relief camps and shelters are functional in around 580 districts of India, while about 4,000 camps are operating under the aegis of NGOs. Together, these are apparently catering to over 1 crore people. On March 31, almost a week after the lockdown began, the Supreme Court had told the Centre to ensure food, potable water and medicines to workers who had been given shelter after being intercepted on the way to their native places. Another major challenge for the governments is to sanitise these camps amid the coronavirus outbreak. The purpose of the whole exercise would be defeated if such places turn into Covid hotspots.Along with taking care of these people’s daily needs, it is also important to prevent them from sinking into depression and resorting to violence directed at themselves or others. Psychologically scarred, they should be treated with sensitivity by cops and other officials. The gradual resumption of industrial activity could help them get back into the groove.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/workers-welfare-70736
14-04-2020||The police force has been deployed in large numbers all over the country to enforce the lockdown provisions. It is a tough duty — people tend to try their luck||Criminal and anti-social||Even as major Nihang organisations disavowed the attackers and political leaders across party lines condemned the attack, there is little doubt that the event could have taken an uglier turn had it not been for swift police action and apprehension of the accused from a nearby gurdwara. The spirit of entitlement that is often manifested in the conduct of such persons is as unwarranted as it is misplaced. All are equal under the eyes of the law, and the norms of social behaviour are applicable to all members of society. No matter which hoary past they trace themselves to, the present is one where they are expected to be law-abiding, even as they follow the code of conduct that they have chosen for themselves.The police conducted the operation to arrest the accused from a place of worship with professionalism, and without the loss of lives. The recovery of arms as well as large quantities of narcotic substances and cash points towards the misuse of the spiritual sanctuary, and this will no doubt be investigated. The injured, including an attacker, have been treated and quick action of doctors at the PGI has resulted in the reattachment of the police officer’s hand. This is something to be thankful for. The widespread condemnation of the incident too points towards a rare socio-political consensus that is necessary to tackle such problems. More so when the nation needs to be united in the battle against the invisible enemy as well as appreciative of the efforts of the frontline corona warriors who put their lives at risk for those they ask to stay at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/criminal-and-anti-social-70724
