15-04-2020||The extension of the nationwide lockdown was a foregone conclusion after the Centre and the states broadly reached a consensus on the matter last week. In fact||Treading cautiously||Even as the lockdown has contributed to keeping coronavirus cases in the country to a manageable level so far, the colossal losses suffered on the economic front — estimated at Rs 7-8 lakh crore during the 21-day period — would only be compounded by the extension. A workable bailout plan should be in place at the earliest, especially for the poorest of the poor who are bearing the brunt of the upheaval.With 10,000-plus cases and about 350 deaths, India is not among the worst-hit countries of the world. Opinion is divided on the proportionality of the controls imposed. The reluctance of Central and state governments to partially or fully lift the lockdown stems from the systemic inadequacies of the healthcare setup. Still, it can be reasonably presumed that India is better prepared for Covid-19 than it was three weeks ago. Every country is responding to the unprecedented challenge in its own way, but it’s noteworthy that Spain — which has the third highest death toll of over 18,000 — has started removing the curbs as the pandemic’s spread has slowed down. India would have to bite the bullet sooner or later. From now on, it would require the best of planning and execution to deal decisively with the hydra-headed problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/treading-cautiously-71309
15-04-2020||If a doctor remains at home||Covid heroes||No less courageous in the lockdown times has been the duty of the likes of an ACP in Ludhiana who tested Covid-positive days after overseeing the smooth movement of vegetables in the mandi. Cops have shown their humane face as never before: rushing patients to hospitals, distributing food to poor, guarding localities and ensuring social distancing. Every role in this fight is crucial.The job of these stoic stars is rendered tougher by the heart-wrenching necessity of them to keep a distance from their families, including infants and young children. To keep his family safe from himself, a doctor in Bhopal preferred to sleep in his car. It is reprehensible that some warriors on coronavirus duty have had to suffer attacks or face stigma and even eviction from rented homes in some quarters. They deserve nothing but accolades, just like the sanitary workers who were applauded and garlanded at every doorstep by the grateful residents of a street in Patiala, as they went about collecting garbage in their modest cart. No role is small in this fight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-heroes-71273
