17-04-2020||President Donald Trump’s ability to throw a spanner in the works is well demonstrated. As the world||Unhealthy decision||Since 1948, the WHO has proved its usefulness to the world repeatedly. It has promoted international cooperation, set protocols and procedures, and encouraged more interaction between nation-states on matters of health. Indeed, the fight against smallpox represented a significant success and involved active cooperation between two Cold War adversaries, the US and the USSR.Pandemics know no national barriers. The need for a coordinated effort to battle disease is so apparent that it would not ever bear stating, except for now. The US is the WHO’s largest donor by far, contributing 10 times what China does to the organisation. President Trump is peeved with what he perceives to be a pro-China tilt in the health body. Surely, the way to counter that would be to honour the US’ commitment. Naturally, those who fill the purse have a greater say than those who don’t. The world needs the WHO and international cooperation. It does not behove the US to renege on its international commitment, more so during a crisis. The global nature of the current threat has made it imperative that leaders rise above the demands of strident nationalism and petty domestic politics. Those who fail to do so will be judged harshly by history.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unhealthy-decision-72143
17-04-2020||Industrial production has almost been at a standstill owing to the national lockdown and amidst persistent demands to allow commencement of at least some activity||Blast at Baddi||The incident is also a clear indicator that as industrial units stare at the multifold challenges of labour shortage, the tough new working guidelines and supply chain disruption, they also have to strictly adhere to the basics of ‘safety first’. Any neglect of maintenance and safety aspects will render meaningless the entire exercise to find a graded exit out of the lockdown trigerred by the pandemic. There are a host of pharmaceutical and consumer goods companies in Baddi and the migrant workforce has added to the creation of clusters, and the employers ought to be responsible for them. The onus lies on establishments to ensure not only a sanitised work environment, but also the safety of the workforce.The safety of industrial plants is supposed to be rigorous with periodic audit, review, surveillance, risk assessment and planning. There are also malfunctions and human errors. The Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh belt is an industrial hub and such incidents can send a wrong message for a state that is seeking to boost investments and restart the vast industrial machinery. As Himachal officials and the company management go into the facts and take corrective steps, besides providing aid to those affected, hopefully, industries and governments across the country can draw a lesson from the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/blast-at-baddi-72142
