18-04-2020||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has come out with a stimulus package that is part of a series to counter the ill-effects of the countrywide lockdown. It has two components||RBI’s stimulus package||The RBI’s obvious focus is to ensure that there is enough money with financial institutions of all shapes and sizes to lend to customers. In line with this strategy, the RBI has lowered the interest rate at which banks park their money with it (reverse repo) to prod them into lending this money for productive activity. But the RBI could be shooting in the dark, hoping that its dart hits the target. Is there appetite for funds when even during the pre-Covid period, the investment rate had skid to an 11-year-low? The data paucity led even the chief of the country’s Central Bank to rely on International Monetary Fund (IMF) figures for economic growth while dismissing the available data as too disjointed to permit a comprehensive assessment.Earlier, a government that prominently claims that vigilance is its prime focus had no clue about the great migrant torrent to their villages. Or about the domestic production capacity of HCQ (hydroxychloroquine) tablets and ventilators that forced an embarrassing diplomatic flip-flop. The government also needs to sidestep the proclivity for headline-grabbing news. The RBI’s package was immediately touted by many higher-ups as an immediate panacea. Most of it is actually meant to meet long-term credit needs. Now that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will soon announce sector-specific relief measures, a government overtly fond of PowerPoint presentations could at least educate the people about the basis for each instalment of the largesse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rbis-stimulus-package-72691
18-04-2020||The toy planes offered at Shaheed Baba Nihal Singh Gurdwara at Talhan in Jalandhar — praying for a visa to go overseas — symbolise the yearnings of Punjabis wishing to migrate to foreign shores in search of a better opportunity. It is not that movement abroad has been a recent phenomenon for the people of the state. As part of the British colonial army||Sweating it out||The exodus of migrant workers and the labour crunch as a result have made it difficult to carry on with harvesting. The curbs on the movement of men and machinery have forced families to toil in the fields, making it a long and arduous process. More out of compulsion, young men and even women are sweating it out, helping their fathers and mothers in the back-breaking traditional methods of farming. Many of them, till the pandemic struck, planned to settle abroad, breaking the family cycle of farming as a profession.The lockdown is expected to be temporary and the migration — within the country and outside — will resume once it is over. The world, however, could be a different place in economic and social terms for quite some time to come. The pounding delivered by the pandemic is bound to have global ramifications — severe job losses, significant cut in earnings and likely anti-immigrant sentiment. Amid this gloom, some may see Punjab’s farming-family youths deciding to stay put and shelving foreign plans as a silver lining. For their families, however, it only adds to the uncertainty that defines the profession that was once championed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sweating-it-out-72690
