22-04-2020||Beijing’s rejection of Donald Trump’s demand to allow an American team to investigate the origins of Covid-19 is on expected lines. But China’s contention that it too is a victim of the pandemic offers no solace to the US or the rest of the world. What policymakers around the world are keen to get a grip on is the extent of its culpability||Accounting for Covid-19||Establishing the facts surrounding the virus’ origins and the immediate response is the only way forward to putting in place international public health agreements on reporting a potential outbreak. While holding the countries accountable, the guidelines should make it binding on them to sound the alarm early and allow on-the-ground access. But for such mechanisms to materialise, organisations like the WHO where all member-states are promised an equal stake need to be strengthened, not weakened, as Trump intends doing. A key lesson is that the WHO should no longer be at the mercy of a single country for information that affects the security of all.There is little doubt about Beijing’s lack of transparency on the emergence of the virus, but holding it responsible for the US becoming the current epicentre only results in blame-shifting — a game both the leading economies routinely indulge in. It is not the time to pick fights. It dilutes the kind of international cooperation that a pandemic requires. One that will help understand and contain the coranavirus by sharing scientific expertise to guide policy. One that will see wider and faster cooperation on R&D, on logistical support to healthcare workers, and on lending hope.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/accounting-for-covid-19-74329
22-04-2020||Exactly a month ago||Grave insult||The incident has again underscored the misconception that the contagion may spread if the victim is buried or cremated in the neighbourhood. Earlier this month, the cremation of an Andhra Pradesh doctor, another Covid-19 fatality, had been delayed after local residents raised an objection. Such unsavoury episodes indicate that the authorities have largely failed on two counts: spreading awareness about the WHO guidelines on the ‘safe management’ of bodies; and countering misinformation and fake news that are no less lethal than the virus itself.The intervention of the Madras High Court, which has taken suo motu notice of the Chennai case and issued a notice to the Tamil Nadu Government and the state DGP, can help curb such incidents. Though police personnel, like the medical staff, are working under extremely tough conditions, it’s apparent that their laxity emboldened the miscreants in this instance. The erring cops should be brought to book along with the troublemakers. Unless doctors and their teams get the respect and support they richly deserve, India’s victory over coronavirus, as and when that happens, will be merely pyrrhic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/grave-insult-74301
