23-04-2020||The Rs 43||Digital synergy||Facebook owns WhatsApp, and India is the largest market of the ubiquitous messaging app. Facebook’s statement flags its interest in leveraging this usage for e-commerce, by tying up with Jio’s small business initiative, JioMart. The goal is a ‘super-app’ for e-commerce, communication and advertising, perhaps like the enormously successful WeChat in China. The sale of the stake is a shot in the arm for Reliance. It can use the money to pay off its debts and also weather the storm raised by sinking oil prices. On the other hand, for Facebook, this is another attempt to widen its reach, something that the Free Basics programme failed in earlier, and to boost WhatsApp Pay, which competes with entrenched players like Paytm, Google Pay, and PhonePe.Facebook and Reliance both stand to gain from the investment. It remains to be seen if the Indian consumers too will be winners. How the two companies work will be watched closely. The post-lockdown business environment will be one in which existing small businesses will face a tremendous strain. However, what may seem to be ripe for disruption may not turn out to be so easy. It was the small grocery stores that showed initiative and leveraged the granular knowledge of their neighbourhoods to serve the customers during a period when the well-funded e-commerce giants were bogged down by logistic and other issues. They will not give in so easily. Close collaboration between two top content purveyors also raises the prospect of feeding tunnel visions by presenting a narrow, personalised curation of content and the creation of echo-chambers. The alliance of the powerful will have to be sensitive to the needs and perceptions of the masses, even as it forges a closer relationship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/digital-synergy-74934
23-04-2020||Data collected by a US-based regulatory technology company that shows Pakistan has halved to 3||Pruned terror watch list||Pakistan has faced increased FATF scrutiny since 2018. Its access to the international financial system could be further restricted if it fails to make progress on the commitment to strengthen counter-terrorism safeguards. The evaluation process is scheduled for June, but the Covid-19 crisis could push the date further. De-listing names on the terror watch list requires immediate communication and public explanation. If Islamabad has indeed gone ahead with the pruning, the non-disclosure and secretive action only adds credence to India’s repeated concerns of a lack of intent in fighting terror. The removal of 2008 Mumbai attack mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi’s name, if true, is nothing short of an affront and breach of trust.A Pakistan official’s argument, quoted in a media report, that the action is aimed at fulfilling FATF guidelines by weeding out inaccuracies in the list — people having died and several ‘not associated’ with terror groups — sounds unconvincing. Islamabad’s track record provides no such confidence that its intent is noble.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pruned-terror-watch-list-74932
