24-04-2020||FAR from serving as the great leveller||Skewed quota||The latest judgment has underlined the dire need to periodically review the reservation process to ensure that the affluent don’t keep appropriating what the needy deserve. A system that allows the offspring of bureaucrats and politicians — themselves beneficiaries of reservation — to avail of quotas is undoubtedly flawed. The policy has to be rationalised so that the quota serves the constitutional purpose of social and economic uplift.Over the past decade and a half, the apex court has repeatedly held that the well-off members of SC and ST communities cannot be granted reservation in admissions and government jobs. Successive governments, however, have been reluctant to disturb the creamy layer due to their preoccupation with vote bank politics. Persistent judicial scrutiny can help in checking unreasonable quotas, but it all boils down to political and administrative will to ensure effective checks and balances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/skewed-quota-75214
24-04-2020||The adage goes||Uncivil television||The political class has developed a thin skin. Critical media reports are branded partisan, and their writers face harassment. An amazing level of efficiency is shown in serving notices and summons — even during a lockdown that prevents children from attending their parents’ last rites. A woman photographer is slapped with provisions of an anti-terror law. Reporters, editors, journalists of various hues face the blunt edge of the law enforcement agencies when their stories irk the authorities, whereas a section of the media perceived as pro-government does not.It is necessary to realise that publishing or broadcasting something that differs from the preferred official narrative is by no means anti-national. The Press has a duty to point out what is wrong, even as it also chronicles what is right. Harassment of journalists adds yet another challenge to a medium that is already under siege, more so since the lockdown that has brought all economic activity and movement to a halt. During times of crisis, the government and the Press have to coexist with respect for dissent. Society finds itself in deep crisis, and it needs credible information and guidance to help find ways that may bring back normalcy. Politicians need to keep in mind the role of the media, and the media needs to be able to reflect a variety of opinions of political leaders, including the Opposition. Mutual respect is what is required. Lowering the level of discourse unleashes baser instincts that only serve to exacerbate societal fault lines further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/uncivil-television-75213
