29-04-2020||AMID allegations of a scam||Chinese test kit orders||The test kits from China need more field trials because of the variations in results and the use of the earlier RT-PCR kits that rely on nasal and throat swabs has been advocated amid reports of a shortage delaying testing by labs. That attempts were made to place the order with a Chinese company, Wondfo, through India’s consul general points to the circumstances in which India tried to import them with countries competing to procure the wherewithal to deal with the virus. There is no denying that testing is essential to contain the spread of the disease and to put life back on the rails, but care has to be taken against fallacious results. There can be a wrong diagnosis for lack of accuracy. Also, while it is proper to designate areas as hotspots and containment zones, the tests should be carried out only by trained staff. That the request for a review also came from Rajasthan that had showcased its Bhilwara model points to the potential for correction.The pandemic is basically a health issue and transparency will help in maintaining the cohesiveness of the social fabric. With more symptoms being added to the existing ones for the virus, it is time for a reality check. However, the cancellation of the order should be seen as a corrective measure, an attempt to boost indigenous capability, and not a punitive measure in a world that calls for cooperative rivalry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinese-test-kit-orders-77694
29-04-2020||IN his video conference on Monday||Over to the CMs||On April 17, amidst the raging epidemic in the US, President Trump announced three-phase guidelines for the ‘opening up of America again’. After that, thousands more have died in the US, taking the toll so far to over 56,000, the highest in the world. The Chief Ministers have to bravely find solutions beyond the Red, Orange and Green zones to restart economic activities. A sledgehammer lockdown may not be the right answer to Covid because Green zones have also started reporting new cases. A district is a large administrative entity; hence, the containment zones should be further divided at tehsil and village levels to facilitate activities that would assure livelihood for the unaffected.The Chief Ministers should remember that they know what is best for their states and that is precisely why the people have elected them. In a diverse country like ours, one state’s solution may be another’s problem. So, each state should draw its own map to walk out of the Covid maze safely. Even 35 days after the lockdown began, we still have new cases, proving that the virus is here to stay long. Empty treasuries cannot help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/over-to-the-cms-77693
