30-04-2020||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has taken the right step by allowing home quarantine for pre-symptomatic Covid-19 patients||Home quarantine||Where the ministry needs to quickly get its act together is on avoiding flip-flop directions that lead to confusion. The latest one is on plasma therapy. The nodal Central government department to tackle the pandemic now says it has not approved plasma therapy for treatment of coronavirus and that this should be used only for research and trial purposes till there is evidence to support its efficacy. Effective communication based on science and sticking to facts is what is required during briefings, not offering solace by pointing to unverified solutions and then backtracking.Top experts have sent out repeated warnings that the undue stigma linked to the disease could result in patients with symptoms evading healthcare facilities, and in the process delaying supportive treatment, which could eventually result in higher morbidity in the country. Home quarantine could be a step forward in dealing with that worrying scenario, though experts are also quick to point out that self-isolation of the kind required to fight the virus is possible in not more than 15 per cent of Indian homes. As newer measures are put in place on a daily basis to deal with the crisis, the focus should remain on expansion of testing and timely procurement of Personal Protective Equipment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/home-quarantine-78303
30-04-2020||It’s an unpleasantly familiar sight — ripe||What a waste!||The signs have been ominous during the past few weeks, but the remedial steps have been inadequate. Days after the lockdown was imposed in late March, Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi — Asia’s biggest wholesale market for fruits and vegetables and the main supplier for the northern region — witnessed a 53 per cent drop in the volume of arrivals. The death of a commission agent, who succumbed to Covid-19 last week, and the detection of at least 10 other positive cases in the mandi set the alarm bells ringing. Even as the curbs on procurement and transportation have been gradually eased, the authorities are struggling to strike a balance between enforcing safety norms and streamlining the supply.The Centre claimed earlier this week that around 80 per cent of the major agricultural wholesale markets were operating in the country amid the lockdown. However, the purpose of this humongous exercise is defeated if farmers don’t get remunerative prices for their crops. What’s worse, heavy ‘value cuts’ in the wheat MSP are being imposed while relaxing specifications for shrivelled grain and lustre loss caused by unseasonal rain. This is no way to repay the community that has been feeding the nation against all odds. The farmer must get his due, lest he take any extreme step.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/what-a-waste-78302
