01-10-2020||Business||Global mining giants shun first commercial coal mine bidding in India||Global mining giants have shun the first commercial coal mine bidding in the country. Fifteen out of 38 mines did not receive any bids. Gautam Adani-controlled Adani Enterprises placed seven bids, while group firm Adani Power Resources placed a bid for one mine. Forty-two firms, including Vedanta, JSPL, Hindalco Industries, JSW Steel and Nalco, bid for 23 coal blocks. The government has put up 38 coal blocks for commercial mining. The ministry said two or more bids have been received for 19 coal mines. The highest number of bids (seven) were submitted by Adani Enterprises; followed by Hindalco Industries and JMS Mining (five each); and the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation, Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure, and EMIL Mines and Minerals Resources (four bids each). Vedanta submitted three bids, Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) submitted two, JSW Steel and Nalco one each, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Oberoi Group's strategic alliance with Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group||The Oberoi Group on Wednesday announced that it has entered into a long-term strategic alliance with Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group to collaborate across a range of initiatives while retaining their respective heritage and identities. The Oberoi Group said in a statement that the partnership will provide members of the brands’ recognition programmes privileged access to over 50 luxury hotels. According to the firm, this global alliance between the two hotel groups has been designed to appeal to the loyal guests of both brands. By working together across all facets of the guest experience, the two groups will curate new and exclusive experiences available at the Oberoi and Mandarin Oriental hotels. EIH is the flagship listed entity of The Oberoi Group. “Our brands complement each other extremely well as do our organisations values and culture... This alliance will allow guests to experience new destinations and experiences in the legendary styles for which both companies are renowned,” EIH Ltd MD and CEO Vikram Oberoi said. “We are delighted to launch this innovative partnership with The Oberoi Group, setting the stage for us to push the boundaries of luxury hospitality. By working together, both organisations will create further differentiation in the industry that our guests will value,” Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group chief executive James Riley said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||NTT Ltd looking to invest $2 billion in India||NTT Ltd, London-based technology and service provider, is looking to invest $2 billion over the next 4-5 years in India to scale up its data centre capacity and put in place supporting infrastructure such as solar power units and laying under-sea cables connecting Singapore, Myanmar and India. The company on Wednesday said it planned to double its data centre capacity in the country over the next two to three years. At present, it has 10 data centres across Mumbai, Bangalore, Noida and Chennai covering 1.5 million square feet. “We have data center parks in Mumbai and we have land in Chennai, Noida and our Bangalore campus for further expansion. The company’s new Solapur plant is aimed at meeting 83 per cent of the power needs by the Mumbai data centres,” said Sharad Sanghi, CEO, global data centres and cloud infrastructure of NTT Ltd in India. “India has been a key market for NTT Ltd’s data centre portfolio. Organisations today demand an ever expanding global platform to reach their growing digital business objectives. That’s why we continue to expand our portfolio,” said Masaaki Moribayashi, senior executive vice-president (services) of NTT Ltd. Nelco, Telesat tie up Tata group company Nelco has entered into a pact with global satellite operator Telesat to bring LEO satellite network to India, according to a statement. Nelco and Telesat will collaborate on terrestrial facilities, commercial distribution and regulatory frameworks to offer Telesat LEO satellite connectivity in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Core infrastructure sector contracts for the sixth month||The core infrastructure sector contracted for the sixth month in August to 8.5 per cent, mainly because of a decline in steel, refinery products and cement output. The eight core sectors had contracted 0.2 per cent in August 2019. The figure was revised in July to (-) 8 per cent from (-) 9.6 per cent previously. Barring coal and fertiliser, all sectors — crude, gas, refinery, steel, cement and electricity — contracted in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra Thar fetches Rs 1.1 crore in auction||An online auction of the first all-new M&M Thar fetched Rs 1.11 crore, which will be donated towards Covid-19 relief work. Th company will match the winning bid amount with an equal amount, taking the total proceeds towards the relief work to Rs 2.22 crore. There were 5,500 bidders from 550 locations across the country. The winning bid was placed by Aakash Minda from New Delhi at Rs 1.11 crore, over four times the auction reserve price which was set at Rs 25 lakh. The winner has chosen Swades Foundation to receive the entire proceeds from the auction. The  idea of the auction was to harness the Thar’s iconic status and help the country in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||BPCL bid deadline extended to November 16||The government has extended the deadline to bid for its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL to November 16 and this virtually rules out the chances of the budgeted divestment target of being met this fiscal. The extension — fourth so far— comes amidst reports that Saudi Aramco of Saudi Arabia and Rosneft of Russia may not participate in this bidding round because of falling crude prices and a worsening economic environment for refineries across the world, including India. Brokerage Emkay in a report has said that refineries in India had seen throughput decline in August because of weak demand and planned maintenance shutdowns. “In view of further requests received from the interested bidders and the prevailing situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the last date for submission of EoIs (expression of interest) is further extended to November 16,” the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said in a notice. Initially, the EoI submission deadline was May 2, but it was first extended up to June 13, then to July 31 and later to September 30. After EoIs come in, the government will open a data center for the interested bidders to conduct a due diligence, only after which financial bids will be called, industry sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Current account surplus leaps to $19.8 billion||India’s current account surplus (CAS) rose to a record $19.8 billion, or 3.9 per cent of  GDP, in the April-June quarter as a contracting economy led to a steep decline in imports compared with exports. The country’s current account surplus was $0.6 billion, or 0.1 per cent of GDP, in the preceding March quarter, while it had reported a current account deficit of $15 billion, or 2.1 per cent of GDP, in the year-ago period. According to the RBI, the surplus in the current account was on account of a sharp contraction in the trade deficit to $10 billion as merchandise imports fell more sharply relative to exports on a year-on-year basis. During the January-March period, the trade deficit had come in at $35 billion. While a current account surplus is unusual, it reflects the poor state of the economy which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian economy had contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal and economists warn that the financial year will also end up with a double-digit decline. India’s current account surplus (CAS) rose to a record $19.8 billion, or 3.9 per cent of  GDP, in the April-June quarter as a contracting economy led to a steep decline in imports compared with exports. The country’s current account surplus was $0.6 billion, or 0.1 per cent of GDP, in the preceding March quarter, while it had reported a current account deficit of $15 billion, or 2.1 per cent of GDP, in the year-ago period. According to the RBI, the surplus in the current account was on account of a sharp contraction in the trade deficit to $10 billion as merchandise imports fell more sharply relative to exports on a year-on-year basis. During the January-March period, the trade deficit had come in at $35 billion. While a current account surplus is unusual, it reflects the poor state of the economy which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian economy had contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal and economists warn that the financial year will also end up with a double-digit decline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Honda Motorcycles set for 300cc foray||Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India (HMSI) Pvt Ltd on Wednesday unveiled a 350cc motorcycle, its first in the 300-500cc mid-sized segment, under its new sales channel for premium bikes, BigWing. The new motorcycle developed for the Indian market is another product under Honda’s CB brand and has been named H’ness CB350. The bike will be priced around Rs 1.9 lakh. Noriaki Abe, managing officer at Honda Motor Co, said: “Globally, Honda has a 37 per cent market share. In countries such as Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia and Brazil, we have a 70 per cent market share. To expand our business in India, we have brought a new CB brand.” The company has been “keenly watching the 350cc segment for a couple of years and decided to bring the CB legacy into the segment”, said HMSI president Atsushi Ogata. The bike will be launched closer to the festive season beginning with Navratri. Prototypes will be available now in Gurgaon, Mumbai, Bangalore, Cochin and Bhilai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Gas prices slashed by 25% to $2.39 per mBtu ||The Centre has slashed domestic natural gas prices by 25 per cent to an all-time low of $1.79 per million British thermal unit (mBtu), severely impacting the revenues of state-owned ONGC and Oil India. Prices were at $2.39 per mBtu between April and September. The price of new gas from difficult fields such as deep-sea locations has also been cut to $4.06 per mBtu from $5.61, the oil ministry order said. User industries such as electricity, fertiliser and CNG for automobiles will benefit from the cut. This is the third straight reduction in rate. The price was cut a steep 26 per cent to $2.39 per mBtu in April. Natural gas price is set every six months — on April 1 and October 1 — based on rates prevalent in surplus nations such as the US, Canada and Russia. For every dollar change, ONGC’s revenues are impacted about Rs 4,400-4,500 crore annually, according to some estimates. ONGC accounts for 75 per cent of crude oil and natural gas production by volume and 17 per cent of domestic refining capacity. A unified tariff proposed by the The Petroleum and Natural Gas Board (PNGRB) in respect of the pipelines forming part of the national gas grid system will encourage more pipelines and boost gas demand, brokerage Motilal Oswal said. The PNGRB has sought stakeholders’ views for fixing a uniform tariff for Zone 1 of the pipeline, which comprises the first 300 km. The rest of the grid system comprises Zone 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
01-10-2020||Business||Dhanlaxmi Bank chief now gets the boot||Less than a week after shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) voted out seven directors, another top honcho of a private sector bank faced a similar fate. On Wednesday, shareholders of Thrissur-based Dhanlaxmi Bank ousted managing director and chief executive officer Sunil Gurbaxani, a little more than seven months after he assumed the post. Gurbaxani came to the bank with more than three decades of banking experience with State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur (which was merged with SBI) and Axis Bank. Reasons for the no-confidence shown by shareholders in Gurbaxani could not be ascertained. Some believe his strategy of expanding in the northern parts of the country did not find favour with a section of the investors. There were rumblings ahead of the shareholders meeting with bank unions — the All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) and the All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) — flagging concerns over a few developments at the private sector bank even as they sought immediate corrective measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). In a letter written to RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, the AIBOC had requested the central bank to take appropriate steps so that the 93-year-old institution was allowed to grow by catering to its own niche segments. In a separate letter, the AIBEA had urged the governor to intervene into the affairs of the bank, which it alleged was heading in the wrong direction. “Attempts are again being made to open more branches in northern states, while the bank has inadequate infrastructure to manage the business in those areas. “Efforts are afoot to appoint a large number of sales executives and senior executives on contractual and cost-to-company basis at a much higher remuneration. This will land the bank in a catastrophe and financial burden which, we apprehend, the bank cannot afford at this juncture,” C.H. Venkatachalam, general secretary, AIBEA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
01-10-2020||Business||Reliance raises more money for retail arm||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Wednesday announced a cumulative investment of Rs 5,549 crore in its retail arm. While global private equity firm General Atlantic will bring in Rs 3,675 crore for a 0.84 per cent stake in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), the co-investors of Silver Lake will invest an additional Rs 1,875 crore into RRVL. This comes after Silver Lake brought in Rs 7,500 crore for a 1.75 per cent stake and KKR, Rs 5,550 crore for a 1.28 per cent shareholding. The transaction values Reliance Retail at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.285 lakh crore. In a late evening announcement, RIL said that the co-investors of Silver Lake will invest an additional Rs 1,875 crore into RRVL. This brings the aggregate investment by Silver Lake and its co-investors in RRVL to Rs 9,375 crore, which will translate into a 2.13 per cent equity stake in RRVL on a fully diluted basis. With the latest investments, RIL has raised Rs 18,600 crore in its retail arm. All the 13 investors, who had put in a combined Rs 1.52 lakh crore in Jio Platforms, have been offered a chance to explore investing in the retail unit. Reuters reported that the Abu Dhabi state fund Mubadala Investment Co is in advanced talks to invest up to $1 billion in RRVL. Mubadala had invested around $1.2 billion in Jio Platforms. For General Atlantic, this marks its second investment  in a RIL subsidiary following a Rs 6,598.38 crore investment in Jio Platforms earlier this year. Reliance is expected to plough the proceeds from these transactions into the retail business. It comes at a time rivals such as Amazon and Walmart-controlled Flipkart are also looking to expand their presence in India’s retail market. The Tatas have been in the news with reports saying that Walmart is in talks with the conglomerate to invest in its “super-app”. Reliance Retail, a subsidiary of RRVL, operates about 12,000 stores in nearly 7,000 towns with 640 million footfall across the core categories of grocery, consumer electronics and apparel. The company reported revenues of Rs 1.63 lakh crore in the last financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
01-10-2020||Business||November 30 last date for filing income tax returns: CBDT||The Central Board of Direct Taxes has further extended the last date for submitting late and revised income tax returns for assessment year 2019-20 to November 30, 2020. The last date of the submission of returns was first extended to July 30 from March 31, 2020 on account of the pandemic. It was later extended to September 30. Tax advocate Narayan Jain said that the move would benefit taxpayers . The government has also extended the deadline for filing GST annual return and audit report for 2018-19 financial year by a month till October 31. Some changes in tax collection at source (TCS) will take effect from October. They relate to tax collection at source for foreign remittances and sale of goods in a year in excess of Rs 50 lakh by sellers with a turnover of more than Rs 10 crore. At present, Indian residents can remit up to $250,000 every year under Liberalised Remittance Scheme for capital account transactions such as purchase of property, investments and loan as well as current account transactions such as business trips, donations, medical expenses and maintenance expenses. Remittances above Rs 7 lakh will invite tax of 5 per cent. Sale of overseas tour programme packages would also attract TCS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
01-10-2020||Business||Centre sticks to borrowing limit||The Modi-government has stuck to its plan to borrow Rs 12 lakh crore this fiscal as it gave the details of its Rs 4.38 lakh crore borrowing plan for October to March 2021 even as analysts warned of a revenue shortfall in the pandemic-ravaged economy. The Centre had revised the borrowing target to Rs 12 lakh crore in May against Rs 7.8 lakh crore approved in Budget 2020-21. It raised Rs 7.66 lakh crore in the first half till Sepetmber. As many as 16 weekly auctions will be held in the rest for the fiscal to raise Rs 4.38 lakh crore, which is 36.16 per cent of the proceeds. “The unchanged borrowing calendar may turn out to be a case of postponing the inevitable, given the considerable fiscal stress that is building up amid the unrelenting pandemic,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, said. The Centre’s ways and means advances (WMA) limit has also been trimmed down to Rs 1.25 lakh crore from Rs 2 lakh crore earlier. The fiscal deficit has touched 109.3 per cent of the annual target estimated in the budget during April-August. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit was at Rs 8,70,347 crore. It stood at 78.7 per cent of budget estimates  a year ago. “The high deficit is likely to put further pressure on bond yields as reports suggest the final deficit figure for the full year (FY21) will be a lot higher than the budgeted deficit target,” Nish Bhatt of investment consultant Millwood Kane International said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
