02-10-2020||Business||Changes in rules in the way we use credit cards and a lot more||October 1 isn’t a special day in the government’s calendar, but this year it was a day for changing the rules on everything from driving licences and credit cards to insurance claims, foreign remittances and GST procedures. In other words, these were changes that affected a large swathe of the population. Some changes were a recognition of the fact that our lives have moved online in a huge way. In the world of banking, new rules have been introduced for customer protection and there are also new taxes on certain transactions. Let’s look at the changes that have been introduced: More people are using credit and debit cards in India than ever before. And credit cards frauds are growing at an even faster pace.  So now a host of new rules have been introduced to protect users. Credit and debit cardholders can opt for which services they want on their cards. You can, for instance, specify that your card can only be used for credit card transactions. Similarly, you can specify whether the card can be used for e-commerce payments and other online transactions. Importantly, you can also specify whether your card should be valid for international transactions. You can change those specifications whenever you decide. For drivers, the government has recognised how much of our world has gone online. So now you don’t have to have all your car papers and driver’s licence physically in the car. It will be sufficient if you can display them on your phone and show that they have been validated by government sites like Parivahan or Digi-Locker. These documents include insurance, a driving licence, vehicle fitness and pollution checks. In cases of traffic offences, police can seize your documents electronically but cannot demand that they be produced on the spot. Also, you can use the map-reading facility on your phone when you’re at the wheel. But you’re in for hefty fines if you’re caught talking on your phone or replying to messages. Says the government order: “Use of handheld communications devices while driving shall solely be used for route navigation in such a manner that shall not disturb the concentration of the driver while driving… the use of mobile phone is only permitted for navigation purposes only and no other task while driving”. One grey area is the use of Bluetooth or hands-free. But it’s fairly safe to assume the police believe that anything that distracts a driver is banned. It’s a moot question, though, whether a court could convict drivers on anything that isn’t specifically prohibited. If you’re planning on a holiday abroad (there may not be many travellers to foreign shores in these pandemic times) be prepared to pay up 5 per cent on all foreign tour packages – unless you can show that the money has already been subjected to TDS (tax deducted at source). If you’re sending money abroad for other purposes, the 5 per cent tax will kick in only after a Rs 7-lakh lower limit. If, by any chance, you don’t have PAN or Aadhaar Card, then you’ll have to pay 10 per cent tax. Parents planning to send their children abroad can breathe easy. Foreign remittances funded by loans will only be subject to a 0.5 per cent tax for amounts over Rs 7 lakh. Indian citizens are currently allowed to send $250,000 abroad. Insurance companies are sure to be studying the wide range of new provisions with great care.  For starters, more illnesses will be covered by insurance (ones not covered will drop from 30 to 17). Certain mental and genetic illnesses, oral chemotherapy and stem cell therapy could now be covered. Premiums are expected to climb as a result, possibly by up to 20 per cent. In a nod to the developments of the last six months, telemedicine charges will also be covered if you have OPD coverage. Also, insurers cannot refuse claims made by people who have paid premiums for eight years. The pandemic has sent e-commerce sales soaring. But now, e-commerce operators will have to deduct 1 per cent on the gross amount of all goods and services. Also, a tax of 0.1 per cent will be levied on all transactions of over Rs 50 lakh. Both these provisions are subject to various exceptions and there appears to be considerable room for interpretation of these new levies that were introduced in the Finance Act 2020. Also, the new taxes may have the effect of discouraging smaller players from moving online. Expect plenty of legal battles over these provisions. It’s been said that the GST taxes introduced in 2017 wouldn’t really be effective until it they were backed by e-invoicing that would allow authorities to trace transactions at different levels. E-invoicing is mandatory for players with sales of Rs 500 crore and over. But it has also been the toughest to implement. Even now, the government has been forced to give a one-month grace period to players who haven’t been able to get ready for the new online regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Calcutta HC declines to stay trial court order restraining Harsh Vardhan Lodha||A division bench of Calcutta High Court declined to stay an order of the trial court which had restrained Harsh Vardhan Lodha from holding any office of the MP Birla Group entities. The bench, however, clarified that the restriction on Lodha during the pendency of the suit would be “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB (Priyamvada Devi Birla).” A court appointed committee of administrator pendente lite is in charge of the estate which was bequeathed to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh, by a purported will of late Priyamvada in 2004, leading to a string of legal cases between the Lodhas and the Birla family. Taking a cue from the observation, the Lodha camp was quick to claim that the division bench provided “significant relief” to Harsh Lodha to continue to hold offices of the MP Birla Group entities, which include four listed manufacturing companies. The Birlas were equally prompt to dismiss any suggestion that the division bench offered a leeway to Lodha, arguing that Thursday’s order in fact had enlarged the scope of the trial court judgment by asking Lodha to “abide by” the directions of the single judge.  Harsh Lodha is a director and chairman of three cable companies and the flagship cement maker Birla Corporation. He has not demitted office even after the trial court on September 18 restrained him from holding office. Debanjan Mandal, partner of Fox & Mandal, argued that multiple orders of the high court held that the estate is the owner of the shares of companies as mentioned in the schedule of assets filed by the APL Committee. According to that, the estate is only a minority shareholder in all manufacturing listed companies of the MP Birla group. “Our client wasn’t, in the first place, reappointed as a director in these companies on the strength of the estate of Priyamvada Devi Birla,” Mandal said. “So the order paves the way for his continuing to hold offices in these companies as he was doing uninterruptedly from before the death of Priyamvada Birla”. The Lodha camp also argued that the division bench, comprising chief justice T.B. Radhakrishnan and justice Shampa Sarkar, also paved the way for Lodha to continue to be in the trust and societies of the group. Apart from holding over 14 per cent share in BCL, they control several public institutions such as Belle Vue Clinic, Bombay Hospital and South Point School. “There is no concept of shareholding in trust and societies, and, therefore, there is no question of Lodha being restrained from holding any office in the trusts and societies. He holds office in these entities not on account of any shareholding of the estate of PDB but by appointment by the trustees/managing committees,” Mandal said. N.G. Khaitan, senior partner of Khaitan & Co and counsel for the Birlas, threatened to file a contempt of court against all those who would allow Lodha to continue in office. “If he (Lodha) ever chairs a meeting of BCL or any other companies of MPB, all the board members will be committing a contempt of court,” he said. According to him, the division bench concurred that PDB’s estate has “controlling interest” in all companies and trust and societies of the MP Birla Group. He referred to the following observations of Thursday’s order: “Obviously, therefore, the controlling interest is definitely referable to the shareholdings. In the case in hand, it truly is part of the estate of PDB.” “This clearly shows that controlling interest is truly a  part of the estate of PDB, which is now under the management of the APL Committee. This means that the entire promoter block of the listed companies are part of the estate,” Khaitan said. Since the APL committee had called for Lodha to be ousted from the board of all companies, he could not continue any more “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB”. Khaitan said Lodha had in the past admitted in various courts that the estate is in control but changed tack two years back when APLC started taking decisions against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Mubadala Investment Company to invest Rs 6,247.5 crore into RIL retail arm||Reliance Industries (RIL) on Thursday announced that Mubadala Investment Company (Mubadala), the Abu Dhabi-based sovereign investor, will invest Rs 6,247.5 crore into its retail arm. The investment values Reliance Retail at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.285 lakh crore. Mubadala’s investment will translate into a 1.40 per cent equity stake in Reliance Retail Ventures on a fully diluted basis, RIL said in a statement after market hours. This marks the second significant investment by Mubadala in a RIL subsidiary after the $1.2 billion investment in Jio Platforms announced earlier this year. After the latest investment, RIL has now raised almost Rs 25,000 crore in its retail subsidiary. “I am happy to welcome Mubadala as a valued investor in Reliance Retail Ventures. We value the partnership with a knowledge-rich organisation like Mubadala... Mubadala’s investment and guidance will be an invaluable support in this journey,” Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL, said while commenting on the latest transaction. Ahead of the announcement, shares of RIL settled with a marginal loss at Rs 2,225.05 on the BSE. The RIL scrip now has a market cap of more than Rs 15 lakh crore. “RIL has monetised $26 billion in assets year-to-date in telecom, retail and energy. While asset monetisation may continue, we see capital allocation, recovery in energy margins and execution in retail being key to outperformance,’’ a note by Morgan Stanley said. The brokerage has an overweight rating on the stock. Its analysts added that with industry consolidation picking up pace in telecom, retail, and global refining, RIL will emerge stronger post Covid-19 and margins will surprise as pricing power rises. “We are pleased to deepen our relationship with Reliance Industries through this investment in Reliance Retail Ventures. “Their vision is the inclusive transformation of India’s consumer economy through the power of digitisation, creating opportunities and market access for millions of small businesses across the country, and we are committed to supporting the company’s continuing development,’’ Khaldoon al Mubarak, managing director and group CEO, Mubadala Investment Company, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||RBI sets ways and means advances (WMAs) limit at Rs 1.25 trillion||A day after the Centre decided to cap its borrowings at Rs 1.2 trillion (lakh crore), the RBI has set the ways and means advances (WMAs) limit at Rs 1.25 trillion for the second half of the fiscal. WMAs are temporary advances given by the central bank to the government to tide itself over any mismatch in receipts and payments. The limit for the Centre was raised to Rs 1.2 trillion in the first half. But on April 20, it was jacked up to Rs 2 lakh crore. Last year, the limit was set at Rs 75,000 crore for the first half and Rs 35,000 crore for the latter six months. The interest on a WMA loan is at the repo rate which now stands at four per cent. There is a provision for an overdraft at a rate of two per cent above the repo rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Manufacturing activity expands at its fastest pace this fiscal||The country’s manufacturing activity expanded at its fastest pace this fiscal in September as the economy opened up after the nationwide lockdown. Demand and output both rose even as layoffs continued, a survey showed. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) increased from 52.0 in August to 56.8 in September. The index was at its highest since January 2012. “Manufacturing continued to move in the right direction, with PMI data for September highlighting many positives. After restrictions were lifted, factories went full steam ahead for production, supported by a surge in new work,” Pollyanna de Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said. In April, the index had slipped into contraction mode after remaining positive for 32 consecutive months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “The jump in September’s manufacturing PMI reading to its highest in over eight years is a much-needed sign that the recovery is on. But with India now a virus epicentre, containment measures are likely to remain in place for a long time yet, which will dampen manufacturing prospects,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said. “The figures suggest that activity and sentiment have improved in September 2020 ... a fragmented recovery is underway. We expect the contraction in GDP to narrow to 12.4 per cent in the second quarter of 2021,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Goods and Services Tax collection touches highest level so far this fiscal ||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection touched its highest level so far this fiscal in September at Rs 95,480 crore as the unlocking of businesses lifts  demand and factory activity. The spike in collection comes ahead of the GST Council meeting on Monday where the issue of compensation to states and the borrowing options given by the Centre are likely to be debated. Also, the Comptroller and Auditor General’s criticism of the Narendra Modi government for short crediting Rs 47,272 crore of compensation due to the states is expected to be raked up during the meeting. “The gross GST revenue collected in September 2020 is Rs 95,480 crore of which central GST is Rs 17,741 crore, state GST is Rs 23,131 crore, integrated GST is Rs 47,484 crore (including Rs 22,442 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 7,124 crore (including Rs 788 crore collected on import of goods),” the finance ministry said in a statement. The revenues for the month are 4 per cent higher than the total GST collection in the same month last year. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said, “A modest increase of 4 per cent in the GST collections compared with the previous year indicates that the economic recovery process is underway, with some key large states also reporting increased collections. If the present trend continues, we should be hopeful of significant increases in the coming months.” After contracting for six months in a row, the country's exports grew 5.27 per cent to $27.4 billion in September, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
02-10-2020||Business||Auto majors see double-digit growth with passenger vehicle sales||Auto majors Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai Motor led the recovery march of passenger vehicle (PV) sales in the domestic market in September, posting high double-digit growth ahead of the  festive season. Tata Motors, Honda, Skoda and Kia Motors also reported a rise in September sales. Sales, however, fell at Mahindra & Mahindra and Toyota Kirloskar Motor.  But the duo said demand was picking up and there was a lot more confidence among  the dealers. Market leader Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) said its domestic sales increased 32.2 per cent to 1,52,608 units last month from 1,15,452 units in September 2019. The company’s sales of mini cars, comprising the Alto and the S-Presso, stood at 27,246 units compared with 20,085 units in the same month last year, up 35.7 per cent. Sales of compact cars, such as Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno and Dzire, rose 47.3 per cent to 84,213 units against 57,179 cars in September last year. Shamsher Dewan, auto analyst, vice-president, Icra, said, “It is expected that a low base, upbeat rural sentiments and increased preference for personal mobility would support retail demand in the festive season. Nonetheless, the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic persists and recovery is expected to be gradual at best.” Hyundai Motor India posted a 24 per cent growth in sales at 50,313 units against 40,705 units sold in the same month last year. The new Creta, Venue and Nios generated demand for the Korean brand. “The green shoots of recovery are clearly visible with sales improving month-on-month as well as year-on-year,” Hyundai Motor India’s director (sales, marketing and service) Tarun Garg said in a statement. Tata Motors’ domestic sales were up 13 per cent to 1,06,888 units from 94,454 units last year. Kia Motors registered sales of 18,676 units, up 147 per cent, from 7,754 units sold in the same month last year. This is also Kia’s highest-ever monthly sales since it entered the country a year ago. Kookhyun Shim, MD and CEO of Kia Motors India, said, “The Indian auto market is recovering at a better-than-expected pace and we are progressing according to our defined plan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-274
