03-10-2020||Business||Centre agrees to waive compound interest on loans up to Rs 2 cr for six-months||In a relief to individual borrowers and medium and small industries, the Centre has agreed in the Supreme Court to waive compound interest (interest on interest) charged on loans of up to Rs 2 crores for a six-month moratorium period announced due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It said the government will seek due authorisation from parliament for making appropriate grants in this regard and the endeavour shall be over and above the support of Rs 3.7 lakh crore to MSMEs, Rs 70,000 crore for home loans etc. already extended through the Garib Kalyan and Aatma Nirbhar packages announced by government earlier . In an affidavit filed by Union finance ministry on behalf of the Union of India, it said that the relief to all borrowers in respect of compounding of interest during the period of moratorium would be admissible to the categories specified irrespective of whether the borrowers had availed the moratorium or not. The government, therefore, has decided that the relief on waiver of compound interest during the six-month moratorium period shall be limited to the most vulnerable category of borrowers. This category of borrowers, in whose case, the compounding of interest will be waived, would be MSME loans and personal loans of up to Rs 2 crore, it said. The loans were categorised into eight categories by the government including MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises), education, housing, consumer durable, credit card dues, auto, personal, and consumption. It further said that any individual/entity whose loan amount is more than Rs 2 crore will not be eligible for waiver of the compounding of interest. It said in view of the cumulative circumstances, after careful consideration and weighing all possible options, the government has decided to continue the tradition of hand holding of small borrowers. The affidavit has been filed by the Centre in response to a batch of pleas in the apex court raising issues pertaining to validity of RBI's March 27 circular which allowed lending institutions to grant moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31 this year due to the pandemic. Later, the period of moratorium was extended till August 31. Earlier, in the matter, the Centre had told the top court that waiver of interest on deferred EMIs during moratorium period would be against the basic canons of finance and unfair to those who repaid loans as per schedule. The Centre in the fresh affidavit said that waiving compound interest would result in very substantial and significant financial burden and it is impossible for the banks to bear the burden without passing on the financial impact to the depositors or affecting their net worth adversely, which would not be in the larger national economic interest. It said that the only solution under the circumstances is that the government bears the burden resulting from waiver of compound interest and this court would be satisfied that government bearing this burden would naturally have an impact on several other pressing commitments being faced by the nation . Regarding downgrading of loan accounts from standard to Non-Performing Asset (NPA) and the consequential impact on credit ratings, the Centre said that any account becoming non-performing even due to the bank's or any other delay, will not suffer from being labelled as NPA. The Centre said that it has suspended from March 25, the operation of provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC) to protect corporate borrowers impacted by the COVID-19 crisis. It said that the word moratorium is categorically defined by the RBI while issuing various circulars which show that moratorium was never intended to be waiver of interest but deferment of interest . The government said borrowers have understood the difference between waiver in interest on loan and deferment of payment of instalments for that loan. Therefore, a majority of the borrowers have not taken benefit of moratorium which is nothing but deferment of payments of instalments. Though it may not be possible to give the exact percentage of the borrowers who have not availed of the moratorium and have deposited payment instalments, approximately such class would be more than 50 per cent, it said. The Central government said that if it were to consider waiving interest on all loans and advances to all classes and categories of borrowers for a six-month period for which the moratorium was made available under the RBI circulars, the estimated amount foregone will be more than Rs 6 lakh crore. If the banks were to bear this burden, it would necessarily wipe out a substantial and a major part of their net worth, rendering most of the banks unviable and raising a very serious question mark over their very survival, it said. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan is likely to take up the matter for hearing on October 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||Elon Musk indicates Tesla to make India foray in 2021||Tesla Inc chief executive Elon Musk indicated on Friday that the US electric carmaker will make a foray into India in 2021. “Next year for sure,” Musk said on Twitter in reply to a post with a photograph of a T-shirt with the message:  “India wants Tesla”. “Thanks for waiting,” Musk said. Tesla’s entry could come at a time Prime Minister Narendra Modi is increasingly becoming focussed on promoting the use and manufacture of electric vehicles.
India’s auto sector, already reeling from a slowdown in demand last year, has been hit by the coronavirus pandemic and carmakers are seeking government support to push sales. Musk commented last year about coming to India, in response to someone on Twitter who asked, “What about India sir?” “Would love to be there this year. If not, definitely next!” he said in March 2019. Tesla Inc on Friday said it delivered 1,39,300 vehicles in the third quarter, a quarterly record for the electric carmaker. The company slightly beat consensus estimates by Refinitiv for deliveries of 1,34,720 vehicles, but fell short of some of Wall Street’s most bullish forecasts, with analysts issuing a wide range of estimates. Tesla delivered 1,24,100 Model Y and Model 3 units, slightly below Refinitiv consensus expectations of 1,28,000 Model 3 and Model Y vehicles combined. Some analysts had expected weaker US demand for the mass-market Model 3 because of the release of the Model Y. MG Motor Carmaker MG Motor India has  initiated the expansion for the electric SUV —  MG ZS — in 10 cities, including Coimbatore. The move comes after the company recently completed the rollout of the 1,000th unit of the ZS EV in the country since deliveries began in February last. The company will commence pre-bookings from Friday at a price of Rs 50,000 at dealerships across the cities and on the MG Motor India website (mgmotor.co.in) with a price of Rs 20.89 lakh. The latest expansion will make MG ZS EV available in 21 cities across the country and MG will simultaneously develop the EV eco-system across the cities by deploying superfast charging infrastructure and extending on-road charging facilities, a press release from the company said here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||Warburg Pincus to invest Rs 700 crore in Home First Finance Company||Warburg Pincus is investing Rs 700 crore in Home First Finance Company, which operates in the affordable segment, through a combination of primary funds and secondary sales by existing shareholders. Home First is backed by private equity firms True North and Bessemer Venture Partners. The company said in a statement that it has entered into definitive agreements with Orange Clove Investments BV, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus LLC. The statement was silent on how much equity the global private equity major will pick up for the money being invested or the valuation at which the investment is being made. Home First is an affordable housing-focused finance company providing loans to first-time home builders and buyers. Over the past 10 years, it has sanctioned loans to over 50,000 customers across 11 states but largely in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. It closed 2019-20 with a loan book of Rs 3,618 crore and had a net worth of Rs 933 crore and gross bad loans of 0.87 per cent. Its customers are typically salaried customers working in small firms or self-employed customers who run small businesses. The company said that it deploys proprietary machine learning and customer scoring models for underwriting and delivers quick turnaround time to its customers. “Warburg’s investment is an acknowledgement of our inherent strengths — focus on  salaried customers, investments in technology, all of which have helped us,’’ Home First chief executive officer Manoj Viswanathan said. Warburg managing director Narendra Ostawal said Home First has had a remarkable journey in a relatively short span of 10 years. “We are keen to partner True North and back the Home First management in its next phase of expansion,” Ostawal added. The New York-based Warburg has over $ 53 billion in private equity assets under management invested across 185 companies across sectors and geographies. Founded in 1999, True North is a leading home-grown private equity firm with a focus on investing in and transforming mid-sized profitable businesses into large well-established businesses. True North has launched six separate investment funds with a combined corpus of USD 3 billion, including co-investments through which it has added value to over 50 businesses over the past 20 years. Ambit Capital was the lead advisor on the transaction, while Axis Capital was the co-advisor. Home First is planning to come out with an IPO and it had filed draft papers with the market regulator in November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||RailTel Corporation of India Ltd files draft papers with Sebi for IPO||State-owned RailTel Corporation of India Ltd has filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for an initial public offering that will see the government raise Rs 700 crore from the exercise. The initial public offer (IPO) will be entirely an offer-for-sale through which the Centre will offload 8.66 crore equity shares, the draft papers filed with Sebi showed. Set up in 2000, the miniratna PSU is one of the largest neutral telecom infrastructure providers in the country. It owns an optical fibre network on exclusive right of way along the railway track. The company provides broadband telecom and multimedia network across the country. As on June 30, 2020, its optical fibre network covers over 55,000km and 5,677 railway stations across towns and cities in the country. ICICI Securities, IDBI Capital, SBI Capital Markets Ltd are the merchant bankers to the issue. The information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure provider also operates data centres in Gurgaon, Haryana, Secunderabad and Telangana to host and collocate critical applications for customers, including Indian Railways. It undertakes various ICT projects for Indian Railways, the central government and state governments, including various train control system projects for Indian Railways. The company’s portfolio of services include National Long Distance services wherein it provides digital capacity to carry long-distance telecommunication services and includes various tele-services such as voice, data, video and multimedia. Its revenue from operations grew at a compounded annual growth rate  of 7.47 per cent to Rs 1,128 crore in the year ended March 31, 2020 from Rs 977 crore in 2017-18. As part of our NLD services, the PSU offers its enterprise customers with leased line services and virtual private network (VPN) facilities. Further, it also provides storage, power, cooling, and physical security for servers and networking equipment of its customers and connect them with a variety of telecommunications and network service providers. While Railtel is planning to continue the expansion of its network and deploying latest technologies to enable a high capacity next generation network, it is also looking to partner with the Indian Railways (which is looking to migrate to LTE) where it intends to develop their proposed LTE network ``that will create a private network along a railway tracks’’. This network is expected to provide connectivity for internet of things (IoT) initiatives of the Indian Railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||Exports in September report 5.27 per cent growth||Exports in September reported a 5.27 per cent growth but exporters are complaining of a rise in freight costs on account of a fall in imports from China, down almost 28 per cent till August. Fall in shipment means lesser number of inbound containers from China, which exporters allege is being leveraged by the shipping lines to jack up rates on the grounds the containers are being used only for outward shipments. “Shipping lines have told some exporters that for only outward traffic, freight rates will have to increase as there is less inward traffic. Further, such a large increase in freight charges is also impacting the competitiveness of exporters, apart from the non-availability of containers,” the EEPC (Engineering Export Promotion Council) India has said in its communication to the commerce ministry. The council has approached the commerce ministry, seeking its intervention to resolve the issues and set up a regulator to deal with the “monopolistic” practices being indulged in by the shipping companies. Imports, meanwhile, slipped 19.6 per cent to $30.31 billion in September, according to commerce ministry data. “Exports are showing signs of revival as the gradual lifting of lockdown have further improved the business sentiments. Anti-China sentiments across the globe has also been one of the reasons for the improved performance in exports,” Sharad Kumar Saraf, president, Federation of Indian Export Organisations (Fieo) said. Trade deficit during September narrowed down to $2.91 billion against $11.67 billion in the same period of 2019. Exports in September last year stood at $26.02 billion. Exports during April-September this fiscal dipped  21.43 per cent to $ 125.06 billion. Imports during the period stood at $ 148.69 billion, recording a negative growth of 40.06 per cent. While the growth in merchandise export  is heartening, Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra said “the sharp gap in non-oil-non-gold merchandise imports on a year on year basis remains a cause for concern regarding the strength of domestic demand”. Value of non-petroleum and non-gems and jewellery exports in September 2020 was $ 21.11 billion  compared with  $ 19 billion in September 2019, a positive growth of 11.12 per cent. Commodities that reported a  positive growth in exports in September include iron ore (up 109.52 per cent), rice (92.44 per cent) and , oil meals (43.9 per cent), carpet (42.89 per cent), pharmaceuticals (24.36 per cent), Meat, dairy and poultry products (19.96 per cent), Cotton yarn/fabrics/madeups, handloom products (14.82 per cent), Tobacco (11.09 per cent), Spices (10.07 per cent), petroleum products (4.17 per cent), Engineering goods (3.73 per cent), chemicals (2.87 per cent), and coffee (0.79 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
03-10-2020||Business||Two new investments in Reliance Retail Ventures||Two new investors have poured money into Reliance Retail Ventures: GIC of Singapore and TPG, the US-based global investment firm. GIC of Singapore has agreed to invest a sum of Rs 5,512.5 crore in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), which will translate into a 1.22 per cent equity stake in Reliance Industries retail arm. TPG will invest Rs 1,837.5 crore for a 0.41 per cent stake. The announcements made late on Friday night values RRVL at a pre-money equity value of Rs  4.285 lakh crore — the same valuation at which Mubadala, General Atlantic and Silver Lake picked up stakes in the retailing entity earlier in the week. “It gives me great pleasure to welcome GIC to the Reliance Retail family. I am delighted that GIC, with its track record of close to four decades of successful long-term value investing across the world, is partnering Reliance Retail in its mission to transform the Indian retail landscape,” said Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries. Lim Chow Kiat, chief executive officer, GIC, said: “GIC is pleased to partner Reliance through this new investment... We believe Reliance Retail will continue to use its extensive supply chain and store networks, as well as strong logistics and data infrastructure, to add value to its customers and shareholders.” Jim Coulter, co-CEO, TPG, said, “Regulatory changes, consumer demographics and technological disruption are creating seismic shifts across the entire retail value chain in India. In the midst of this transformation, Reliance Industries has utilised technology and scale to position Reliance Retail as an incredibly strong, well-organised, and innovative leader.” Reliance Retail Ltd, a subsidiary of RRVL, operates India’s fastest growing and most profitable retail business serving close to 640 million footfalls across its 12,000 stores nationwide. Morgan Stanley acted as the financial adviser to Reliance Retail and Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas and Davis Polk & Wardwell acted as legal counsel. With GIC’s latest investment, Reliance Retail has raised over Rs 30,000 crore and signals a flurry of deal-making that is expected in the next few weeks. Early last month, affiliates of GIC, along with Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP and other co-investors, had acquired a 100 per cent stake in a telecom tower company from Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of RIL. The total equity commitment for the transaction was approximately $3.4 billion. The entity owns around 135,000 communication towers that form the backbone of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited’s telecommunication network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
03-10-2020||Business||Monetary policy logjam on at Mint Street||The monetary policy logjam is on at Mint Street with the Narendra-Modi government yet to presumably find the three doves who could vote for a cut in interest rates in the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) — an issue that the previous panel had increasing misgivings about because of surging inflation. In the previous meeting that was held in August, the MPC had hit the pause button though it maintained an accommodative stance. Early this week, the RBI postponed a three-day meeting of the MPC that was set to commence on September 29 as the appointment of three external members was delayed. It was expected that the Centre would announce the new names during the course of this week, but that has not come about. Conflicting reports on the delay have heightened the uncertainty: one section said the government was conducting background and security checks before the announcement. But there was also a buzz that the Centre has been unable to zero in on the three  external members. In 2016, when the MPC was empowered to set rates, the government had appointed Chetan Ghate, a professor at Indian Statistical Institute, Pami Dua, director at Delhi School of Economics (DSE), and Ravindra Dholakia, professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, as independent members for four years. Their term ended in August. Among them, Dholakia had a dovish approach, while Ghate had a hawkish tilt. Dua was seen to take a neutral stance. However, the policy stasis at Mint Street has not only sent a poor signal but is also seen as a cause for worry because it was the major lever that was working to keep the system running even though interest rate cuts amid risk aversion by banks were ineffective in cranking up a floundering economy. Yet there is speculation among economist circles on the various names that could replace Chetan Ghate, Pami Dua and Ravindra Dholakia. These include Ashima Goyal and Anantha Nageswaran, who are members of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, and Abhiman Das, a faculty at IIM Ahmedabad, among a couple of others. The apprehension is also that even if the Centre were to appoint the new members shortly, the actual meeting of the MPC may be at least two weeks away. The new members need adequate time to prepare before heading for the policy meeting. However, Ananth Narayan, professor at SPJIMR, feels that the new members will be able to hit the ground running within a week of their appointment. “It is highly likely that members who are familiar with the monetary policy will be appointed. Following that, we could have a meeting in a week,’’ he told The Telegraph. Ahead of the MPC meet, it was largely felt that the panel will leave the policy repo rate unchanged with retail inflation remaining at 6.69 per cent in August. However, the panel was also expected to give out a GDP growth forecast even as their commentary on the state of the economy was keenly awaited. Dhanlaxmi Bank Dhanlaxmi Bank on Thursday said that the RBI has approved a three-member interim committee of directors, headed by G Subramonia Iyer, to run the private sector bank after the shareholders voted out its MD and CEO Sunil Gurbaxani. The shareholders rejected the resolution for appointment of Gurbaxani as MD and CEO at the 93rd AGM of the bank held on September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
03-10-2020||Business||Andhra and Uttar Pradesh will get to raise more funds||Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh will get to raise more funds because of their reform initiatives that were part of the conditions set by the finance ministry for higher borrowing by the states to meet the fallout of the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh became eligible to raise Rs 4,581 crore extra debt after it rolled out the “one nation one ration card scheme”. Andhra Pradesh got the permission to raise Rs 2,525 crore for its reforms in ease of doing business — the first state in the country to introduce such measures. Andhra Pradesh was also among the  five states granted permission last month for additional borrowings linked to PDS reforms. The Centre has permitted the two states a combined additional borrowing of Rs 7,106 crore. Uttar Pradesh has become the sixth state to complete the reform process in PDS. Last week, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Karnataka and Tripura received the finance ministry’s nod for an additional Rs 9,913 crore borrowing after they complied with the One Nation-One Ration Card system. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the central government in May 2020 allowed an additional borrowing limit of up to 2 per cent of gross state domestic product (GSDP) to the states for 2020-21. This made an amount up to Rs 4,27,302 crore available to the states. One per cent of this is subject to the implementation of four specific state-level reforms, where the weightage of each reform is 0.25 per cent of GSDP. These reforms include implementation of the One Nation-One Ration Card system, ease of doing business reform, urban local body or utility reforms and power sector reforms. In the first half of the current fiscal, 27 states and two Union Territories have cumulatively raised Rs 3.53 lakh crore via market borrowings, which are a 57 per cent increase from the borrowings in the first half of 2019-20 (Rs 2.25 lakh crore), Care Rating said in a research note. According to the borrowings calendar, states were to borrow a total of Rs 3.05 lakh crore in the first half of 2020-21. Their borrowings, however, during this period were 16 per cent, or Rs. 48,115 crore, higher than that. The borrowing calendar for the second half of 2020-21 will be announced in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
03-10-2020||Business||Finance ministry to start budget-making exercise for 2021-22||The finance ministry will start its budget-making exercise for 2021-22 on October 16. The budget projections will be built around the special circumstances prevailing in the country as a result of Covid-19. The expenditure decisions for individual ministries and department will be made by January 16. The pre-budget meetings will be held till the first week of November.
The finance commission is expected to submit its report on Centre-state finances and the new devolution formula by the end of this month — and the finance ministry will base its exercise around its recommendations. “The Budget Estimates for 2021-22 will be provisionally finalised after the secretary (expenditure) completes discussions with the secretaries and financial advisers. Pre-Budget Meetings shall begin from 16th October 2020 and shall continue till the first week of November 2020,” according to a Budget Circular (2021-22) of the budget division of the finance ministry’s department of economic affairs. “In the special circumstances of this year, the basis of the final budgetary allocations will be first and foremost overall fiscal position, and subject to that the absorptive capacity of the ministry/department. Using the trend in expenditure, approval of the schemes/projects by competent authority and committed expenditure, each ministry would project the requirements,” the circular said. It will be the third budget (including an interim one) of both the Modi government — after its victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Budget 2021-22  is likely to be presented on February 1. The budget will have to address critical issues relating  to the  contraction in the economy and a subdued revenue collection triggered by the pandemic-induced lockdown and the gradual re-opening of the economy. North Block officials said the exercise would be very difficult, including potential revenue collections and expenditure requirements to bring the economy back on its feet. The budget meetings, according to the circular, will dicuss ceilings for all categories of expenditure, including central sector and centrally sponsored schemes. In the April-June quarter of 2020-21, gross domestic product contracted 23.9 per cent. It is the first contraction in quarterly GDP data since their publication almost a quarter of a decade ago from 1998-99. All the 2020-21 budget calculations made before the pandemic have gone for a toss, and the government was forced to announce a steep 54 per cent hike in its full-year gross market borrowing plan to a record Rs 12 lakh crore in just over a month into the current fiscal. Recently, the finance ministry said it is not able to submit the rolling target of medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) for 2021-22 and 2022-23, according to the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act.The ministry said because of the pandemic  it was difficult to make reliable growth projections. The Modi government has scrapped a colonial-era tradition of presenting the budget at the end of February. The then finance minister Arun Jaitley had for the first time presented the annual accounts on February 1, 2017. With the advancement of the dates, the ministries are allocated their funds from the start of the financial year beginning April. This gives government departments more leeway to spend as well as allow companies time to adapt to business and taxation plans.
As due to pandemic, it is difficult to obtain reliable protection of GDP growth. The finance commission is expected to submit its report on Centre-state finances and the new devolution formula by the end of this month -- and the finance ministry will base its exercise around its recommendations. "The Budget Estimates for 2021-22 will be provisionally finalized after the Secretary (Expenditure) completes discussions with the Secretaries and Financial Advisers. Pre-Budget Meetings shall begin from 16th October 2020 and shall continue till the first week of November 2020," according to a Budget Circular (2021-22) of the budget division of the finance ministry's Department of Economic Affairs. "In the special circumstances of this year, the basis of the final budgetary allocations will be first and foremost overall fiscal position, and subject to that the absorptive capacity of the Ministry/Department. Using the trend in expenditure, approval of the schemes/Projects by Competent authority and committed expenditure, each ministry would project the requirements," the circular said. The budget meetings, according to the circular, will dicuss ceilings for all categories of expenditure, including central sector and centrally sponsored schemes will be discussed. Accordingly, the RE 2019-20 and BE 2020-21 for all categories of expenditure, and select schemes/projects specifically included in the MTEF (medium term expenditure framework) Statements, may be indicated separately for Revenue and Capital expenditure," the Budget circular said. Recently, finance ministry said that it is not able to submit the rolling target of MTEF for FY22 and FY23, according to the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. As due to pandemic, it is difficult to obtain reliable protection of GDP growth. Budget circular also proposed to discuss the totality of the requirements of funds for various programmes and schemes, along with receipts of the Departments (viz. interest receipts, dividends, loan repayments, departmental receipts, receipts of Departmental Commercial Undertakings, etc.) during the pre-budget meetings chaired by Secretary (Expenditure). All the Ministries and Departments are required to submit details of all the Autonomous Bodies, for which a dedicated corpus fund has been created, clearly indicating the purpose, whether in Public Account, accumulated balances as on March 31, 2020, annual expenditure for the last three years and allocations made during the current financial year, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-273
