04-10-2020||Business||Government clears limited interest waiver||The finance ministry, in an affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court on Friday, said it supports the waiver of compound interest for loans under a moratorium for certain categories. The submission comes ahead of the hearing on October 5, when the court is expected to deliver its verdict in the matter. According to the affidavit submitted in the court, the government has effectively reversed its earlier stand on compound interest or ‘interest on interest’ waiver, experts feel. The ministry will support the waiver of compound interest only for the smaller borrowers, and not the large borrowers. Small ticket affordable housing loans, personal loans, education loans, MSME loans, auto loans, credit card loans up to Rs 2 crore would be considered for the compound interest waiver by the government However, in order to ensure that those borrowers who repaid loans on time are not penalised for doing so by being left out of the benefit, the government is likely to extend the relief to all borrowers of the selected categories whether they availed of the moratorium or not, added this person. The nature of this relief is still unclear, and modalities are expected to be worked out with banks in the coming days. The affidavit has been filed by Aditya Kumar Ghosh, under-secretary in the ministry of finance, after the apex court asked the government to make its position clear on the issue. The court, which will take up the Centre’s affidavit next week, had passed the earlier direction while dealing with a batch of petitions filed by UP-based businessman Gajendra Sharma and several others challenging the decision of the banks to collect interest and also interest on interest during the six month moratorium period which ended on August 31, 2020. The RBI had earlier in March this year announced the moratorium on loans in view of the severe pandemic in the country. “This category of borrowers, in whose case the compounding of interests will be waived, would be MSME loans and personal loans up to Rs 2 crore. “In other words, any individual/entity whose loan amount is more than Rs 2 crore will not be eligible for waiver of the compounding of interests,” the ministry clarified. According to the Centre, the RBI’s intention to provide “moratorium” was never intended to be a “waiver of interests” but “deferment of interest”. “The majority of the borrowers have in fact not taken the benefit of the moratorium which is nothing but deferment of payment of installments. “If the government were to consider waiving interests on all the loan and advances to all classes and categories of borrowers corresponding to the six month period for which the moratorium was made available under the relevant RBI Circulars, the estimated amount is more than Rs 6 lakh crore,” the Centre said. By way of illustration the affidavit said in case of State Bank of India alone, waiver of six months interests would completely wipe out over half of the bank’s net worth which has accumulated over nearly 65 years of its existence. Referring to concerns over downgrading of accounts as NPAs and consequent impact on credit ratings, the government said: “Any account becoming non-performing even due to the bank’s or any other delay, need not suffer from being labeled as NPA.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
04-10-2020||Business||Rise of 2% in electricity demand||Electricity demand is showing signs of recovery with the easing of lockdown and commercial activity getting back to operation. Central Electricity Authority (CEA) chairman Prakash Mhaske on Saturday said that the demand met in September was up 2 per cent year-on-year. “In September 2020, we have met around 177GW of demand against 173GW in September 2019, a growth of about 2 per cent,” said Mhaske at an event organised by CII. The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent preventive lockdown had resulted in a slowdown of commercial as well as industrial activities. This had reduced demand by more than 20 per cent during April 2020. “But after the gradual easing of restrictions, electricity demand has peaked and it reached almost the level of the previous year in August 2020,” he said. He added that a differential tariff structure where there is over reliance on revenue from commercial and industrial consumers to offset the subsidy given to agriculture and some residential consumers has added to the stress of the power distribution companies. Discoms are facing cash flow concerns as they had to pay fixed charges to generators even as collection of payments was affected during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
04-10-2020||Business||Retailers in major sales push||Organised retail players have teamed up with banks to roll out festive offers for customers as they look to encourage spending that has taken a hit because of Covid-19. On Saturday, Walmart-owned Flipkart said it will host its annual “The Big Billion Days” sale from October 16-21. Its rival Amazon is expected to announce its sale dates next week. Snapdeal will hold its first sale in mid-October to coincide with Navratri festivities. Its next two sales will run in late October and early November. JioMart is already in the midst of its “Festive Ready Sale” which it claims is the festive season’s biggest grocery sale. The sale, which will end on Sunday, offers 25-50 per cent off on various items. While such offers are not uncommon among the e-tailers during the festive season, it remains to be seen if customers who have faced salary cuts and job losses will bite the bait this time around. Flipkart said it has enabled new and convenient payment offerings on its platform. It will make available no-cost EMIs through offers from Bajaj Finserv EMI cards and other bank credit and debit cards, while its partnership with Paytm will offer consumers assured cashback, it added. “In our 1,001-person survey, only 16 per cent said they saw no change in income/employment since lockdown, while 19 per cent have lost their jobs. This in turn is leading to postponement of discretionary consumption,” BofA Securities said in a recent note. At the same time, a recent report by RedSeer says that online players will benefit as consumers as still apprehensive about visiting high human touchpoint areas such as malls and retail outlets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
04-10-2020||Business||Piyush Goyal pitches for need to focus on exports ||Commerce minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday pitched for the need to focus on quality and scale to meet a $1-trillion export goal, adding that subsidies alone would not help boost shipments. “Why can’t we aim for $1 trillion of exports from India. We certainly can. For that we need to be clear on actionable items (and) subsidies are never going to get us there, I am very clear about that,” he said at a webinar organised by Exim Bank. “At least in my six years of engagement, I have not found subsidies to be the solution to India’s problems. I think it’s quality, technology, growth, scale; and sometimes for a short period, you may need to give a little thrust or support. But if they are looking at literally running a long-term engagement with the world on subsidy, it is not going to work,” the minister said. Exim Bank managing director David Rasquinha said India’s manufacturing and export sectors need to become globally competitive. According to a study by Exim Bank, specific policy initiatives could improve operational conditions and the efficiency of exporters in sectors such as gems and jewellery, textiles, apparel, automobile, electronics and pharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
