05-10-2020||Business||The loan recast riddle||In August, the Reserve Bank of India directed banks to offer borrowers a one-time loan restructuring scheme. The scheme is aimed at alleviating the stress of borrowers unable to repay their loans because of loss of income and business during the lockdown. The restructuring would extend the loan tenure up to two years. This would make the repayment easier in some ways, tougher in others. A handful of banks have already announced their restructuring schemes and the others will follow soon. Let’s look at what stressed borrowers need to do with respect to their home, car, personal or education loans. Only eligible borrowers can avail the restructuring. For example, State Bank of India in its resolution framework says the borrower must have a demonstratable reduction or loss of income in these last few months. The RBI has directed that the scheme be provided only to those borrowers who had been repaying their dues on time till February 2020. Those who’d already stopped repayments 30 days prior to March 1, 2020, may not be able to avail the scheme because it focuses specifically on Covid-impacted borrowers. Therefore, before you apply for the scheme, check with your lender about your eligibility. If your lender hasn’t yet announced the framework, wait for it. Do note that applying for the scheme doesn’t guarantee acceptance. For example, ICICI states that the application is merely “the beginning of the whole process. Once the borrower applies for restructuring of credit facility, the bank will review the application on the basis of its internal policies”. As you need to demonstrate a loss of income compared with the  February levels, you’ll need proof of income. For the salaried, the proof will be salary slips and bank statements. For the self-employed, bank statements, GST returns, income tax returns etc may suffice. If there’s been a job loss, a letter stating termination of employment may be needed. The norms vary from one bank to another. Therefore, know which documents your lender will require. The restructuring will not come cheap. SBI, for example, will charge you 35 basis points over and above the current rate of interest on the loan being restructured. HDFC states that a processing fee may be levied. ICICI states that additional interest will be charged for the restructured loan. Apart from the charges, you may need to pay a higher EMI. Overall, your interest will increase especially if you’d also availed the moratorium on EMIs from March. Use an EMI calculator to ascertain long-term costs. Let’s be very clear that the restructuring framework has been designed keeping in mind the needs of borrowers stressed by Covid. If you have a stable income as well as the ability to keep paying your EMIs, do not take this option. You have nothing to gain. A 24-month extension, including an additional moratorium, will not just add to your borrowing costs because of an increased interest rate and applicable processing fees, but it will also result in higher EMIs to make up for the time lost in any moratorium you have availed. This may further strain your already stressed finances. As the scheme also needs you to establish a loss of income, you cannot avail it if you’re expecting your income to fall in the future. It needs to have already happened. If you do avail the scheme, you’ll be incurring higher interest. The only way to cut down the interest is by pre-paying regularly on your dues. Pre-payments, which directly cut your loan balance, will reduce your loan tenure as well as the applicable interest. In the illustration shown above, on a loan of Rs 50 lakh for 20 years at 8.50 per cent, your total interest is Rs 54.13 lakh. Assuming a moratorium from month 13 to 42 (a six-month moratorium followed by another 24-month moratorium — the maximum you can avail in the restructuring), your loan balance will increase to over Rs 60 lakh, but it still needs to be repaid in the remaining tenure of 222 months. This  means your EMI will increase to Rs 53,357 from Rs 43,391. To hack the interest back to the Rs 54-lakh range, you can prepay 2.5 times your EMI with every 12th EMI for four years. Assuming your income continues to improve, sustained pre-payment in this or any other manner will accelerate you out of debt. Lastly, each bank has announced a date before which you need to apply for the restructuring. SBI says it’s December 24, 2020. For ICICI, it is December 18, 2020. Keep in touch with your lender to remain on top of the process. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Auto sales surge not sustainable||The recovery seen in auto sales in the past couple of months is not a sustainable one and there is a question mark on how the industry would fare next year as the sector is hugely linked to the economy, according to MG Motor India president and MD Rajeev Chaba. After the reopening of the economy after lockdown, auto sales have gradually picked up month-on-month since June and gained further momentum with the onset of the festive season in September. “We should not think this is a sustainable recovery. This recovery is very tactical because of pent-up demand,  lockdown, some shifting from public to private transportation and maybe some very few people who just want to buy cars now because they want to have some feel-good factor," Chaba said. However, “Sustainable or robust demand depends on the economy. Automotive industry is hugely linked with the economy of the country and vice-versa,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Personal data protection bill in budget session ||The Personal Data Protection Bill, which proposes to put restriction on the use of personal data without the explicit consent of citizens, is likely to be tabled in next year’s Budget session of Parliament, according to a source. The draft of the bill, approved by the cabinet in December 2019, proposes a penalty of up to Rs 15 crore and up to three-year jail term for company executives for violating privacy norms. “The time for the joint committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill has been extended to the second week of the winter session. The final bill is expected to be tabled in Parliament in the Budget session after incorporating the suggestions,” the source said. The bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in February and has been referred to a joint parliamentary committee of both the Houses, headed by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, for examination and report. The draft approved by the cabinet in December mandates storage of critical data of individuals by internet companies within the country while sensitive data can be transferred overseas only after explicit consent of the data owner. The bill has been drafted following a Supreme Court judgment in August 2017 that declared “Right to Privacy” a fundamental right. The need for a strong personal data protection regime was further highlighted by the apex court in September 2018 when it struck down some provisions in the Aadhaar Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Economic recovery predicted to be slow L-shaped||Axis Bank’s chief executive and managing director Amitabh Chaudhry feels economic recovery will be slow, but there is optimism coming in from improved loan demand and credit card spends for the third-largest private sector lender. He, however, sounded sceptical on whether the government can come out with more stimulus measures and said that the economic recovery will be a slow “L-shaped” one. The country’s GDP contracted nearly a fourth in the June quarter and everybody is watching for signs of revival. Some analysts feel the encouraging data for the last month can be a sign of pent-up demand. “My assessment is that the macro situation has improved quite a bit, especially in the last month or so. I’m seeing a clear return of optimism and this is evident when I converse with the CEOs of various organisations and when I see our own new loan enquiries, credit card spends and account openings,” Chaudhry said. He was quick to add that we are not completely out of the woods yet and a sustained recovery may take a few quarters. Over the recovery trajectory, Chaudhry said it will be “L-shaped” which is characterised by a slow rate of recovery with persistent unemployment and stagnant economic growth. When asked if he expects the government to come out with a second stimulus package ahead of the festivities, Chaudhry sounded a bit sceptical and asked everybody to be “realist”. “Frankly, we have to do and get the business back rather than waiting for further handouts from the government,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Unlock 5: Business sentiments on the mend||The CEOs of top 115 companies who met at CII’s National Council earlier this week indicated the revival of business sentiment and a gradual rise in expected corporate performance in a poll, raising hopes that a steady recovery of India’s economy is on the anvil. The CEOs, who took the poll, included representatives from across sectors such as metals and mining, manufacturing, auto, pharma, health and leading services sector including ITeS, health hospitality tourism and e-commerce, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said on Sunday. “A steady recovery of the Indian economy is on the anvil as corporate India restarts business and economic activity with lockdowns being increasingly relaxed in many parts of the country,” the chamber said. India Inc is now estimating a capacity utilisation of more than 50 per cent in the second half of this financial year, it added. However, according to the CII, governments, both at the Centre and states, would need to focus on livelihoods in addition to lives, and hence efforts need to be made to stall the practice of sudden and ad-hoc lockdowns. “It is important to allow a complete opening up of the economy for demand to pick up which in turn will propel capacity utilisation,” the CII said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Mini SUVs race ahead in popularity||The SUV rage in the passenger vehicle segment has spawned a new sub-segment, the mini SUV, which is witnessing increased activity both in terms of customer enquiries as well as manufacture updates to cater to the rising demand for personal mobility. For many original equipment manufacturers, the min-SUV is their entry-level car. For Renault India, the Kwid has been a volume driver ever since its launch in the Indian market in 2015 except for August this year when the Renault Triber sales overtook the Kwid. The Kwid has sold around 3,000 units in August 2020. Renault has recently announced a limited version of the Kwid, called the 2020 Neotech edition. “The Kwid has emerged as a game-changer. It redefines the entry segment’s value index led by its SUV bodystyle and an economical cost of ownership, which is enabled by its 98 per cent localisation levels,” said a company spokesperson. Maruti’s S-Presso, a mini SUV, also celebrated its first anniversary recently and is also a major volume driver for the car maker. Shashank Srivastava, executive director, marketing and sales, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL), said, “Within a short span of a year, the S-Presso has carved a strong niche for itself. In line with the aspirations of young India, S-Presso is exclusively designed to offer a mini SUV feel with the best of technologies and features.” In the premium segment, Audi India is driving in the Q2, its entry-level SUV whose bookings opened last week. Balbir Singh Dhillon, head of Audi India, said, “Our fifth launch for the year — the Audi Q2 — is an extremely important product for India as it opens up a new segment of buyers for the brand. It is a luxury all-rounder that is big on features and extends the successful Q-family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Covid: Online food retail a hit after shift in consumer shopping habits||India’s e-grocery space is likely to grow more than two-fold this year as the Covid-19 pandemic has led to shifts in the shopping habits of consumers. According to an UBS report, the gross merchandise value (GMV) of online grocery retail is seen to grow about 2.4 times in 2020 to $0.3 billion (Rs 2,200 crore aproximately) in December 2020 from $0.13 billion (Rs 900 crore) in January. Further, online grocery, which accounted for around 0.3 per cent of the total retail segment last year, is likely to see its contribution rise to around 1.5 per cent by 2023. The brokerage had hosted a call with Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India. The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown has not only seen players such as Grofers and BigBasket ramp up their customer base but also the entry of JioMart and food ordering platform Swiggy turning to the delivery of groceries. Retail giants Amazon and Flipkart also have a presence in the market. The activity is only set to pick up with Reliance Retail turning its focus into online grocery, backed by a series of investments in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL). RRVL has so far raised Rs 32,198 crore from seven investors. BigBasket is also reportedly in talks to raise around $400 million from Temasek and others. According to Rajagopalan, the shift in consumer focus to fresh and healthy foods, the use of technology to increase efficiencies and enhance consumer experience, the growth of local convenience stores and the modernisation of the local grocery stores have been the key trends that have shaped the landscape. Further, there have been other changes in the evolving grocery retail landscape in India. These include a digital leap by neighbourhood stores, consumers’ adoption of digital platforms, the shift towards a touch-free shopping journey, the emergence of mindful shopping and the launch of relevant new products in health, hygiene and immunity space. A report from consulting firm RedSeer and online grocery player BigBasket is also optimistic of a strong growth in  the segment. It projects that e-grocery will grow very fast to be a $18.2-billion industry by 2024 from $1.9 billion in 2019 — a CAGR of 57 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Domestic gas price review call||A review of the gas price formula is necessary as at the current prices it will be very difficult to get investment in production, industry has said. The prices were slashed last week by 25 per cent to $1.79 per million British thermal unit (mBtu), prompting an outry. Price of gas from difficult fields such as in deep-sea was reduced to $5.61 per mBtu from $4.06 per mBtu. Gas producers have written to the oil ministry offering various suggestions, including the review of the formula that puts domestic producers at a disadvantage over imported LNG. They said ONGC in a recent communique to the government has stated that the break-even price to produce gas from new discoveries was in the range of $5-9 per mBtu. P. Elango, managing director of Hindustan Oil Exploration Company (HOEC), told The Telegraph that the new price was “extremely unviable” for producers. “There is a need to review the gas pricing formula so that it is fair to both producers and consumers. It should be transparent and predictable. The current formula is based on the gas surplus market and is not applicable to India.” He said the prices should be linked to a percentage of the crude price index such as Brent which is globally understood and offer predictability to investors. The policy of offering price and marketing freedom to discoveries made from April 2019 should be extended to all fields. “The gross production of domestic natural gas is to fall by 10.6 per cent during 2020-21. E&P prospects in the fiscal  do not look promising as no company would aggressively want to increase production or get into high risk projects with such a low gas price,” Care Rating said in a research note. The BJP-led government had in October 2014 adopted a formula that takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (UK), Alberta (Canada) and Russia with a lag of one-quarter. Prices are set every six months — on April 1 and October 1 each year. A fall in $1 in price reduces ONGC’s revenues by around Rs 4,500 crore, according to estimates. ONGC accounts for 75 per cent of crude oil and natural gas production by volume, and 17 per cent of domestic refining capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||GST portal infrastructure scaled up to handle 3 lakh users||The technology infrastructure of Goods and Service Tax has been upgraded to allow more concurrent users of the portal, offer more convenience to assessees and plug in revenue leakage. The indirect tax backbone had come under the scanner earlier this year for its inability to handle the large volume of users who struggled to file their monthly and annual returns in January. The matter was taken up at the 39th GST Council meeting where Nandan Nilekani, non-executive chairman of the board of directors of Infosys, had pointed to the rush of the late filing of returns. According to the minutes of the meeting, around 65 per cent of the people were filing returns by due date and a system that is designed to handle only 1.25 lakh concurrent users saw more than 1.5 lakh people hit the server for return filing. The issue of delivery of one-time password by mail further compounded the load on the server. A solution was proposed to scale up the portal infrastructure to handle 3 lakh concurrent users. But the Covid-19 outbreak delayed the process to source equipment despite orders being placed with Chinese suppliers. The Goods and Services Tax Network, a non-profit body, is in charge of providing the IT infrastructure and tech major Infosys is the managed service provider. GSTN officials told The Telegraph that despite the challenges of Covid-19 and the lockdown, the project to scale up the number of concurrent users has been completed in June. The system can now handle 3 lakh concurrent users against 1.5 lakh earlier. GSTN CEO Prakash Kumar said they have introduced several other changes. Prominent among them is the partly automatic population of liabilities from return form GSTR-1 to GSTR-3B for the monthly filing, which was implemented last month. Earlier GSTR-1 was not connected with GSTR-3B and there was no way to check if the tax paid by the taxpayer was equal to the tax liability declared by him in GSTR-1. As a result there was no control on input tax credit and this became a source of fraud. 42,618 cases were registered between the fourth quarter of 2018-19 and the third quarter of 2019-20 where there are excess input tax credit claims. The minutes of the GST Council meeting also pointed out that there were cases where registration was taken on fake documents with the intent to defraud the exchequer.  Around 1 crore taxpayers file GSTR-3B returns every month. GSTN officials said that subsequent to the introduction of GSTR-2B, taxpayers would now be able to reconcile input tax credit with their own records. “This enables taxpayer to find invoices not uploaded by supplier or invoices where some discrepancies exist vis-à-vis those in the purchase register,” said Prakash. Further, nil filing of GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B over SMS has been implemented to reduce the compliance burden of around 22 lakh taxpayers. All these changes have been introduced between June and September. Infosys did not immediately respond as the company is in a silent period ahead of its board meeting later this month to approve financial results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||GST borrowing leeway on meeting agenda||The Centre plans to let states borrow a higher sum for its inability to pay their GST dues because of the pandemic as it looks to avoid confrontation at the GST Council meet on Monday though the six non-BJP states have shown no inclination to climb down on their demand to junk the proposal altogether The change may be done under the first option scheme, with the sum raised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore from Rs 97,000 crore. This option was supported by 21 states mostly ruled by the BJP or states which have supported it on issues. Finance ministry sources said the higher borrowing could be offered after some states questioned the assumptions made by the Centre on growth. Revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey had said the sum of Rs 97,000 crore was fixed based on a 10 per cent growth in the GST receipts for 2019-20. The second option invloved borrowing Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market, which has not been accepted by any of the states. However, some of the states while going for the first option had objected to the 10-per-cent projection. A growth of 7 per cent in state GST receipts was the more likely estimate as growth in the receipts in 2018-19 and 2019-20 were 6-7 per cent; and given the fall in collections in this fiscal, the 7-per-cent figure was more realistic. The lower growth estimation would increase the compensation sum to about Rs 1.10 lakh crore, which could be offered to the states during the council meet on Monday, sources said. However, the chief ministers of six non-BJP ruled states — Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu —  have written to the Centre opposing both the options. In the current fiscal, the states are staring at a staggering Rs 2.35 lakh crore goods and services tax (GST) revenue shortfall. About Rs 97,000 crore of the sum, according to the Centre’s calculation, is on account of GST implementation and the rest Rs 1.38 lakh crore the impact of Covid-19 on states revenues. The Centre in August gave two options to the states: borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market. The Modi government  has also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-271
05-10-2020||Business||Recovery signs in housing market||Sale of residential properties witnessed a sequential uptick during the July-September quarter as India began to slowly come out of one of the strictest lockdowns imposed anywhere in the world, allowing buyers to visit sites, finalise mortgage and act on pending purchase decisions. Real estate brokerage and consultancy JLL said residential sales were up 34 per cent during July-September over the April-June period across the seven metro cities in India, tabulating figures from established developers only, prompting the head of the institution to be “cautiously optimistic” about the residential market. Even though a more granular report is expected later this month about the health of the real estate market in each city, including Calcutta, the cumulative sales number pales in shadow when compared with 2019 and points to the extent of contraction in sales. These seven cities recorded sales of 14,415 units during July-September compared with only 10,753 units in April-June, when much of the country was completely shut. However, the sale was less than half of the 36,826 units sold in the July-September period of 2019. “We are feeling cautiously optimistic about the residential market, driven by sales volumes in Mumbai and Delhi. A combination of factors such as low mortgage rates, attractive prices combined with developers’ lucrative payment plans reinforce the longer-term potential of the sector,” Ramesh Nair, CEO and country head of JLL, said. Samantak Das, chief economist and head of research at the brokerage, said it did not make much sense to compare with last year.  It was more important to see if there is an incremental gain month-on-month. “The festive season may bring back more buyers to the market even though the residential space is unpredictable.” Bangalore was the only city other than Calcutta which witnessed a decline in sales over the last quarter. Only 390 units were sold in July-September against 481 in the year-ago period, a 19 per cent drop. Bangalore saw a 12 per cent dip. Das declined to read much into the numbers. “There was hardly any launch in Calcutta in the last quarter. In a small market like this, launches can move sales dramatically,” he explained. Meanwhile, Bengal Peerless signed on former India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly to promote the second phase of Avidipta, billed as the tallest building on EM Bypass. “Somebody has to take the lead to shake up the market. We are trying to convey that it would be the best time to buy a property,” Ketan Sengupta, managing director of the company, said. Prices have not moved up in the last one year and the home loan rate has come down to 7 per cent, the lowest ever, making it compelling to buy if there is possibility of income impairment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-272
