06-10-2020||Business||Netflix airs Bad Boy Billionaires||Netflix has released three episodes of its four-part series about four Indian tycoons facing fraud allegations after a state court lifted an injunction, a lawyer for the world’s largest streaming service said on Monday. The Bad Boy Billionaires: India documentary series about liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya, Subrata Roy of the Sahara group, IT executive Ramalinga Raju and jeweller Nirav Modi had been set for release last month. But Netflix suspended it after an order from the Araria district court in the eastern Bihar state, where the Sahara group argued it would damage Roy’s reputation. The court lifted this injunction on Saturday, Amit Shrivastava, a lawyer for Netflix, said. Shrivastava declined further comment and it was not immediately clear why the court had overturned its previous order. The official order is yet to be released. Netflix did not respond to a request for comment. On Monday, Netflix made three of the four episodes in the series available on its app for viewers in India. The episode focusing on Raju was unavailable. Raju has obtained a separate injunction from a court in South India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||TCS to announce share buyback||The board of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will consider a share buyback proposal on Wednesday. The announcement led to its shares rallying by more than 7 per cent with its market cap breaching the Rs 10-lakh- crore mark. TCS, the largest IT services firm in the country, has been in focus particularly after Shapoorji Pallonji (SP Group) announced its plans to exit Tata Sons. While the Mistry camp has been eyeing a valuation of Rs 1.78 lakh crore for its 18.37 per cent stake in Tata Sons, there has been speculation on how the Tatas would fund such a purchase. Proxy advisory firm IiAs had earlier said in a report that Tata Sons will need to sell about 16 per cent of TCS at the current market valuations to raise around $20 billion. The Tatas currently hold a little over 72 per cent in TCS. However, while the possibility of a stake sale remained an overhang for the TCS counter, the buyback announcement removes that possibility for now. According to the current rules, a company buying back its shares from the market is barred from issuing more shares for a period of six months. Despite this condition, Tata Sons can be a beneficiary of the buyback if it decides to participate in the proposed programme. The IT services giant had come up with such a share purchase plan last in 2018 when it announced a plan to purchase 7,61,90,476 shares under a tender offer at a price of Rs 2,100 per share. The promoters had then participated in the programme and 4.97 crore shares (65 per cent of the total shares that were bought back) were accepted from Tata Sons. In 2017, too, TCS had undertaken a similar share purchase programme and these are part of its long-term capital allocation policy. TCS has cash reserves of Rs 73,993 crore. In a buyback, a company buys its shares from the market, which are subsequently extinguished. Share buybacks generally improve earnings per share and help return surplus cash to shareholders. On the bourses, TCS became the second Indian firm after RIL to attain a market valuation of more than Rs 10 lakh crore. The stock rose 7.30 per cent to close at Rs 2,706.85 on the BSE. During the day, it rose 8 per cent to a record high of Rs 2,727. Similarly, on the NSE it rallied 7.55 per cent to end at Rs 2,713.95.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Google Play Store billing relief for Indian developers||Google on Monday said it is deferring the deadline for developers in India to integrate with its Play billing system by six months to March 31, 2022. The development comes days after many Indian developers and start-ups had raised concerns around Google’s Play billing system, saying the tech giant cannot force Indian app developers/owners to sell digital services by compulsorily using its billing system. Interestingly, Paytm — which competes with Google Pay — has announced the launch of its Android Mini App Store to support Indian developers. In a blogpost on Monday, Google said it had heard some additional questions from the developer community in India after posting its clarification to its Play Payments policy at the end of September. The company is also setting up “listening sessions” with leading Indian start-ups to understand their concerns and will also hold “policy workshops” to help clear any additional questions about its Play Store policies, it added. “We’re also extending the time for developers in India to integrate with the Play billing system to March 31, 2022. This will give them enough time to implement the UPI for subscription payment option that will be made available on Google Play for all apps that currently use an alternative payment system,” Google said. Walmart-owned Flipkart on Monday said it has partnered fintech major Paytm to provide customers a slew of offers and benefits during its festive season sale. “This partnership will enable millions of Paytm users to conveniently pay through their Paytm Wallet and Paytm UPI while shopping on Flipkart during The Big Billion Days. In addition, Flipkart customers will enjoy instant cashback to their Paytm wallets,” a statement said. Flipkart will host its annual “The Big Billion Days” sale from October 16-21, while Myntra will hold its “Big Fashion Festival” between October 16-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||IT sector expected to lift results gloom||The IT sector is expected to be one of the few shining stars as corporate India heads for another results season. Buoyed by an uptick in spending as work from home continues to remain the norm, technology firms are set to report a robust quarter marked by a strong deal pipeline and an upward revision of revenue guidance for the year. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will be the first off the block as it will announce the July-September 2020 numbers on Wednesday. It will be followed by Infosys on October 14. “We expect companies to announce their highest order books in history, substantial revenue acceleration, modest margin expansion and a massive outlook upgrade,” Sandip Agarwal and Pranav Kshatriya of Edelweiss said in a note. Analysts at Kotak said that the deal pipeline looked robust and that Infosys can up its guidance for the third quarter even as Wipro is expected to resume quarterly guidance. “We remain positive on the sector to reach pre-Covid revenue by the third quarter of 2020-21,” a note from HDFC Securities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Hush-hush hearing on Mallya||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate “secret” legal process in the UK, which is “judicial and confidential in nature is resolved”. The Centre said it is not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings as the government of India is not party to the process. The ministry of home affairs, in its affidavit filed in the contempt case in which Mallya has been held guilty, said this legal issue is “outside and apart from the extradition process” and is “confidential and cannot be disclosed”. A bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, which took up the matter through video conferencing, asked Mallya’s lawyer to apprise the court by November 2 what kind of “secret” proceedings were going on to extradite him. The bench told advocate Ankur Saigal, representing Mallya, that as the government of India says it has no idea about the proceedings, he has to apprise the court about the nature of proceedings, when these proceedings would get over and when the contemnor (Mallya) was going to appear before the court. Mallya, an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Contain contagion, spend smartly says Joseph Stiglitz||Nobel laureate economist Joseph Stiglitz made a strong case for spending money to combat the long-term economic damage of the pandemic, saying that India would be well advised to focus on containing the contagion as the economic aftermath cannot be tackled without tackling the pandemic. Bracketing India with Brazil and the United States for its “utter failure” to deal with Covid-19, Stiglitz described ”India as a poster child of what not to do”, saying the lockdown failed to have any impact and the migrant labour crisis precipitated the contagion. “It (India) picked up one idea that is important. Lockdown. Did not think about what it means in a poor country. How are people going to live, large number of people moving across the country. One could not have imagined anything worse for spreading the disease,” said the professor of Columbia University in the US. Speaking at a web conference hosted by business chamber Ficci, the outspoken economist suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his party must get rid of the politics of division as “the source of economic prosperity of the last 250 years is one of tolerance”. “I will start by trying to create an inclusive society. Politics of division is an antithesis of what needs to be done. Modi has tried to divide your country, Moslems against Hindus, and that is going to undermine your society and economy no matter what else happens. This fundamental division will weaken India forever. “So if I were to say where to begin, I would say the politics of division, get rid of that,” he said when asked what India should do to prosper in a post- pandemic world. Several prominent industrialists participated in the event, moderated by Rudra Chatterjee, chairman of Ficci West Bengal State Council. Sanjiv Mehta, chairman of HUL, asked what his advice would be to the India government, which has been a little circumspect in spending money to kick-start the economy because of fiscal concerns even as it did a good job ensuring no one goes hungry. Stiglitz, the author of several celebrated books, including “Globalisation and its Discontent”, said the first option should be to print money as there is a compelling case to spend money. “If we don’t, there will be long term damage.  Companies that go bankrupt don’t go un-bankrupt in two years time,” he said. The Nobel winner for economic sciences in 2001 suggested what could be done if there were budget constraints. “Use your money well. Make sure that money is well targeted to places where it is really needed. “The first priority is to help the vulnerable but also contain the disease. Spending the money in a way that prevents contagion and also helps people gives double dividends. Let me say very clearly, you can not control the economic aftermath if you cannot control the pandemic,” Stiglitz said. He also suggested allocation of resources judiciously. “Targeting is really important. Some spending gives a big bang for the buck and others that don’t. By shifting money from those areas to areas where impact is high, you can maximise the effect even within budgetary constraints,” he said. The professor also argued that taxes on the rich may be increased to meet the shortfall. “Raise taxes on the very rich — you have a lot of billionaires in India — and spend the money well, it can stimulate the economy,” he argued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||SpiceJet to fly non-stop to London||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet will launch non-stop flights connecting Delhi and Mumbai with London’s Heathrow airport from December 4. These flights will operate under the air bubble agreement with the UK, the airline said in a statement on Monday. “The airline will operate thrice a week to London, including twice from Delhi and once a week from Mumbai,” the airline said. SpiceJet will use an Airbus A330-900 Neo aircraft for these flights. The 371-seater twin-aisle A330 has a configuration of 353 economy and 18 business class seats. “This is a huge milestone for us and I am proud of the fact that SpiceJet will be the first Indian low-cost airline to operate non-stop long-haul flights to the UK. London is one of the busiest long-haul destinations from India and our convenient flight timings should suit the convenience of our passengers perfectly,” said Ajay Singh, chairman & managing director of SpiceJet. The low-cost airline’s announcement comes less than two months after Vistara launched its maiden flight to London. The two airlines, along with Air India, continue to operate charter flights to London. Till April 2019, Jet Airways was among the dominant players on the routes to London. But since it stopped operations, Air India was the only Indian carrier to fly to London. SpiceJet has launched the new service with a promotional return fare of Rs 53,555 on both the Delhi-London and Mumbai-London routes. “The one-way starting fare will be Rs 25,555 on the Delhi-London and Mumbai-London routes, and Rs 29,555 on the London-Delhi and London-Mumbai routes,” the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Centre bows to states on GST||The Narendra Modi government had to eat humble pie on Monday when it was forced to back down on its contentious plan to deny states a payout of the Rs 1.38 lakh crore arising from the anticipated shortfall in goods and services tax (GST) collections this year. The sudden volte-face came during a stormy, eight-hour meeting of the GST Council where Opposition-ruled states, including Bengal, Kerala and Punjab, challenged the Centre’s despotic stand in disclaiming its constitutional obligation to fully compensate the states for any shortfall in tax collections this year. The Centre was also forced to concede the states’ demand that the compensation cess, which is levied on luxury goods like cars and tobacco products,should be extended beyond 2022. The cess will be used to cover the shortfall that the Centre had attributed to the outbreak of Covid-19 --- and which it had initially argued it was not obliged to compensate under the law. There was near-chaos late in the evening when finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey abruptly called an end to the daylong, clamorous discussion, with several states furious that a mere bureaucrat had usurped the right to terminate a Centre-states meeting when the finance minister — the chairperson of the council — was present. A source quoted Pandey, who is also the revenue secretary, as saying: “The meeting is closed. The department of economic affairs has assured that it would help the states to borrow. The meeting is closed.” “Such an incident has never happened in the last 41 meetings of the council. There are CMs and finance ministers and the meeting was closed abruptly,” said a furious participant at the meeting. On August 29, the Modi government had estimated the overall shortfall in GST collections this year at Rs 3 lakh crore. It feared a yawning gap of Rs 2.35 lakh crore as the compensation cess that is levied on a small group of luxury goods like cars and tobacco would yield only Rs 65,000 crore this year. The Centre had arbitrarily attributed a sum of Rs 1.38 lakh crore to Covid-related causes and disclaimed its responsibility to fork out the sum since it was not covered by the GST legislation. The Modi government had offered two choices to the states: borrow a sum of Rs 97,000 crore from a cheap loan window that the Reserve Bank of India would open for them, or raise the entire sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the form of loans at market rates. Sitharaman told reporters that 21 of 30 states and Union Territories had accepted the first option -- a claim later contested by the state finance ministers who had attended the meeting. They said Andhra and Puducherry had not opted to borrow on their account and had instead asked the Centre to borrow the sum and pass it on to the states. Pandey’s abrupt move to end the meeting threw the entire meeting into disarray. “This meant that the states would have no choice but to accept Option 1: that is, borrow a sum of Rs 97,000 crore on their account,” a source said. The Opposition-ruled states immediately sought a vote and said the outcome would then be binding on all. “(They said) let this be a decision of the GST Council. At least two states, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh, who were said to be siding with the Centre and were rooting for Option 1, immediately turned around and said they wanted the Centre to borrow instead,” the source said. The vote was not eventually held -- presumably because the Centre was no longer confident of the result. Sensing trouble, Sitharaman immediately struck a conciliatory stand and said she wanted to build consensus on the controversial issue of GST compensation. She offered to schedule another meeting on October 12 where the differences would be ironed out. The finance minister looked upset at her virtual media conference, held after the meeting, as it became obvious that the Modi government had come away with egg on its face after being forced to concede the states’ demand to extend the term of the compensation cess beyond 2022. “The GST council has approved to extend the cess (surcharge) beyond five years,” the finance minister said in her opening remarks at the media conference. The surcharge on luxury goods such as cars and tobacco products, which varies from 12 per cent to 200 per cent, is part of the national goods and services tax (GST) introduced in 2017, and was due to expire in 2022. In another effort to appease the Opposition-ruled states, Sitharaman said the shortfall of Rs 97,000 crore that had been attributed to GST implementation — and, therefore, covered by the constitutionally backed compensation obligation — would be raised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. For the first time, she explained how the Centre had arrived at the sum. Under the law, the states have been promised an annual increment of 14 per cent in GST revenues for the first five years. Any shortfall has to be compensated by the Centre through the surcharge on luxury goods. The Centre had initially estimated the base revenue growth this year at 10 per cent instead of the promised 14 per cent. The figure of Rs 97,000 crore was calculated on the basis of this gap between promise and achievement. The states have argued that this calculation was flawed -- and insisted that the gap should be calculated on the basis of a 7 per cent anticipated increase in revenue this year. The Centre buckled before the pressure and, therefore, raised this sum to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. A perturbed Sitharaman said: “There are some states which have not chosen any (borrowing) option and the suggestion was that the Centre should borrow. On this, there was a lot of discussion. Coming almost to the end of the day, it was felt that you cannot really decide on the basis of 21 states who have written to you and that we need to talk further.” “I was also gently reminded that I cannot take anybody for granted,” she added. “I do not take anybody for granted; I said this there and I am saying it here. And, I have always been open for more and more talks.” Thomas Isaac, finance minister of Kerala, tweeted after the marathon meeting that “10 states demand that full compensation should be paid to the states during the current year as per clauses in the law and centre should borrow. Decision was postponed to the next meeting on 12th of October.” The 10 states are Bengal, Kerala, Punjab, Delhi, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Andhra, Rajasthan and Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Supreme Court seeks clarity on interest relief plan||The Supreme Court on Monday said the Centre’s response did not contain the “necessary details” and asked it and the RBI to furnish the Kamath committee report on debt restructuring to sectors affected by the unprecedented pandemic situation in the country. The RBI had set up the committee under K.V.Kamath, former CEO of ICICI Bank, to recommend various measures and resolution plans for sectors hit by the virus. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R.Shah passed the direction after the real estate and other business expressed dissatisfaction over the government’s affidavit filed on Friday in which it had announced the waiver of compound interests (interest on interests) for the six-month moratorium period ending on August 31 to all those who had availed themselves of loans below Rs 2 crore such as housing, credit cards and MSMEs. “The affidavit (of October 2) does not give necessary details as was required by this court’s order dated September 10. Tushar Mehta, solicitor general and V. Giri, senior counsel, pray for further time to file additional affidavit bringing on record the relevant decisions and circulars issued,” the bench said. The apex court, while giving time to the Centre and the RBI to file their additional affidavits by October 9 on the concerns raised by various sectors, posted the matter for further hearing to October 13. At the hearing on Monday, senior advocates Kapil Sibal, C.A. Sundara, Huzefi Ahmadi and others, appearing for various petitioners, said the relief of compound interest waiver had been extended to only eight sectors whereas other crucial sectors such as real estate had been left out. Further, it was complained that no consequential orders or circulars had been brought out by the government or banks to give effect to the assurance of waiver of interests on loans. Meanwhile, Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association (Credai) and other parties have been granted liberty by the bench to file their responses to the affidavit of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
06-10-2020||Business||Rush to clear GST dues of states||The compensation cess of Rs 20,000 crore collected this fiscal will be disbursed to states on Monday night itself, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after the meeting of the GST Council. In a bid to lower compliance, tax payers whose annual turnover is less than Rs 5 crore will submit GST quarterly returns instead of monthly filings. Besides the council has accepted the Sushil Modi-panel proposals on the sharing of proceeds collected on the movement of goods and services across states — the integrated goods and services tax (IGST). Earlier, there was no formula for the devolution of IGST, which had resulted in several anomalies in its distribution. For states which received less amount of IGST for 2017-18, Sitharaman said the Centre will next week transfer a cumulative sum Rs 24,000 crore. Excess IGST apportioned to certain states would be retrieved. However, the minister did not mention the amount. “A committee under Bihar minister Sushil Modi has worked out a way to resolve IGST devolution issue. A sum of Rs 24,000 crore which has to go to states that received less will get the amount now. We aren’t asking states that received more to pay back dues now,” the finance minister said. The council also extended the GST compensation cess beyond 2022. However, on the issue of borrowing options to meet revenue shortfall, there was no consensus. “Entire compensation is going to be paid back to the states. Compensation shortfall which has arisen due to GST implementation or due to Covid-19 is all going to be given back to the states,” Sitharaman said. Some changes have already been made, based on inputs from states, to the borrowing options to meet the shortfall in compensation, the finance minister said. In the first borrowing option, instead of Rs 97,000 crore provided earlier, the amount has been raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore. On repayment schedules, the minister said, interest on borrowed amounts will be the first charge on the cess which gets collected beyond five years. The next charge could be 50 per cent on the principal amount which gets borrowed. “The gap in compensation arising due to the extraordinary situation because of Covid-19 will be paid out of the cess which gets collected after five years,” Sitharaman said. From January 1, taxpayers whose annual turnover is less than Rs 5 crore will not be required to file monthly returns such as GSTR 3B and GSTR-1. They will only file quarterly returns, said finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey. “Ease of compliance holds the promise of more taxpayers coming forward to be compliant and thus truly transforming GST to become a good and simple tax,” Atul Gupta, partner at Deloitte, said. From April 1, 2021, for B2B suppllies, taxpayers with a turnover of more than Rs 5 crore will have to compulsorily mention HSN codes up to six digits. Those with turnover less than Rs 5 crore will have to mention HSN code up to four digits. In certain classes of goods where the government feels the need for closer tracking, HSN codes will be of eight digits. These will be notified by the government, Pandey said. The GST Council also exempted satellite launch services by ISRO, Antrix from GST. As for refunds, in order to keep a check on them, they will be given to those bank accounts validated by PAN and Aadhaar. “The GST Council has decided that the refund application can be signed via Aadhar,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-270
