07-10-2020||Business||Electrosteel Castings: Promoters’ share buying stirs disquiet||The promoters and directors of ductile iron pipe maker Electrosteel Castings bought close to 1.02 crore shares from the market in the run up to the announcement of a proposed merger with an associate company. Data available with the stock exchange — filed under section 7(2) of Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations, 2015 —  reveals 25 transactions involving promoter group entities and directors starting from August 25. In all, they acquired shares worth Rs 17.36 crore up to September 29, 2020, translating into 2.35 per cent of the equity capital of the company. On October 5, ECL informed the bourses that it intended to merge Srikalahasthi Pipes Ltd, an associate company of Electrosteel Casting based in Andhra Pradesh, with itself. The merger will be done through a share swap deal under which shareholders of SPL will get 59 shares of ECL of face value Re 1 for every 10 shares of face value Rs 10 held in SPL. Promoters held 48.15 per cent stake in SPL, which includes 41.33 per cent direct shareholding by ECL, which has a plant in Khardah on the outskirts of Calcutta. The merger terms say that ECL, as promoter of SPL, will be excluded from the share swap deal. ECL stock hit a 52-week high on the bourses on October 5, rising prodigiously at the end of September. The stock had closed at Rs 16.07 a share on August 25, when the promoter group started buying through market purchase. It rose to Rs 27 during the market hours on October 5, representing a gain of 68 per cent in a little over one month. However, after hitting a high, the ECL stock came off sharply to close the day at Rs 21.50, losing by close to 20.5 per cent. The sharp volatility prompted BSE to seek clarification from ECL on Tuesday. The company replied that it understands that the significant price movement may be due to the intimation of the draft merger scheme with SPL. The Kejriwal family from Calcutta held 52.41 per cent stake in ECL as on June 30, 2020. Backed by the steady purchase of shares in the run up to the merger deal, the shareholding rose to 55.19 per cent at the end of September 30, 2020. Under the proposed scheme, the shareholding of the promoter group will dip to 44.01 per cent in the merged entity. While ECL had a turnover of Rs 2,479.89 crore, SPL clocked Rs 1,662.9 crore in 2019-20. The share swap ratio had a telling effect on SPL stock, which tanked 29.3 per cent after the deal was announced. The fact that promoters were buying shares leading up to the announcement calls for a suo motu investigation by the market regulator Sebi, said Shriram Subramanian of InGovern, a proxy advisory and corporate governance firm. “Anybody who is in possession of unpublished price sensitive information must not use it. A merger would not have happened overnight. It must have taken at least a month or more, during which the shares were bought,” Subramanian said while responding to a question from The Telegraph. This newspaper reached out to Ashutosh Agarwal, executive director (group finance) and CFO of ECL for comment. He said the management had no information about it. Text messages sent to Umang Kejriwal, managing director of the company, also failed to elicit any response. “The problem in India is that there is a lack of fear among the promoters about the market regulator, which creates its own problem,” Subramanian argued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Mobile phone firms’ plans cleared||The government has cleared investment proposals of 10 mobile phone makers and six electronic component producers, including Foxconn, Wistron, Pegatron, Samsung and Rising Star, under its new production-linked incentive  and phased manufacturing programme schemes that are designed to attract investments into the country. The other companies cleared are Lava, Bhagwati (Micromax), Padget Electronics (Dixon Technologies), UTL Neolyncs and Optiemus. Foxconn, the Taiwanese contract manufacturer, assembles Apple devices among other brands and had announced plans in May to invest $165 million (Rs 1,300 crore) in a new production facility near Bangalore. The move comes at a time Apple is looking to shift 20 per cent of its production capacity to India from China. Samsung Electronics Co and Apple’s assembly partners are among the 22 companies that have pledged to invest Rs 11,000 crore ($1.5 billion) to set up mobile phone manufacturing units in India. “The ministry of electronics and information and technology has approved 16 eligible applicants under the PLI Scheme,” an official statement said. This will generate more than 2 lakh direct jobs and nearly 6 lakh indirect employment opportunities, it said. “The companies approved under the scheme will bring in an additional investment in electronics manufacturing to the tune of Rs 11,000 crore,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Abu Dhabi bet on Reliance Retail shopping spree||Reliance Industries on Tuesday announced another investment from a global investor in its retail arm. Abu Dhabi Investment Authority’s (ADIA) wholly owned subsidiary will invest Rs 5,512.50 crore into Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL). Like the previous deals, this investment values RRVL at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.285 lakh crore. ADIA’s investment will translate into a 1.20 per cent equity stake in RRVL on a fully diluted basis. With this investment, RRVL has raised Rs 37,710 crore from global investors, covering  Silver Lake, KKR, General Atlantic, Mubadala, GIC, TPG and ADIA in less than four weeks. These investors have picked up close to 8.50 per cent in RRVL. In June, ADIA had invested Rs 5,683.50 crore in Jio Platforms, the digital services subsidiary of RIL. While the announcement came after market hours, the RIL stock on Tuesday ended at Rs 2,210.15, showing a marginal fall over its previous close. Reliance Retail, a subsidiary of RRVL, has around 12,000 stores in the country. Reliance Retail has now embarked on digitalisation of small and unorganised merchants and is looking to expand this network to over 20 million of these merchants. “We are delighted with ADIA’s current investment and continued support and hope to benefit from its strong track record of over four decades of value creation globally,’’ Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries, said. “On the very low base of the first quarter, we expect the retail business to recover broadly on the back of lockdown easing, a note from BofA Securities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Additional Tier 1 bonds kept out of retail reach||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Tuesday made it difficult for retail investors to subscribe to additional Tier 1 bonds (AT1 bonds). The market regulator said that banks can only issue these instruments to qualified institutional buyers, adding that the minimum allotment should be at least Rs 1 crore and that the minimum trading lot size should also be Rs 1 crore. Earlier this year, Yes Bank was dragged to the courts with writ petitions filed against it and others in the Bombay and Madras high courts with regard to the write down of these bonds in its rescue plan. The bank wrote down bonds worth Rs 8,415 crore, impacting retail investors that included senior citizens who alleged that the instruments were mis-sold to them. AT1 bonds are hybrid instruments with features of both equity and debt. The bonds offer high interest rates but run the risk of getting converted to ordinary shares or even be written-down if the  bank’s common equity tier 1  ratio falls below a threshold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Retail inflation check on policy rate cut||The newly constituted monetary policy committee — which has been packed with notable doves — is expected to keep the policy rates unchanged on Friday as retail inflation stubbornly hovers above 6 per cent, the outer bound of the RBI's tolerance limit. The meeting of the MPC from October 7 to October 9 was announced by the RBI on Tuesday not much later than the Centre’s midnight announcement of the panel’s three new independent members — Ashima Goyal, Jayanth R Varma and Shashanka Bhide. Soon after the appointment of the trio, observers were looking at  their leanings  on rates: while Goyal is a dove, Varma may have a dovish tilt even as Bhide could be neutral. A note from Nomura said overall the new external members appear to be “more neutral-to-dovish” in their policy views. Nomura said they are likely to be vocal on liquidity, credit market dynamics and may not shy away from advocating unconventional or untested measures. “`They are likely to look through the current phase of elevated inflation and find space to lower rates further. In the previous external panel, Chetan Ghate was more hawkish; so the composition of the current MPC has turned incrementally more dovish, in our view,” Nomura economists Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi said. However, the note said, the members were inducted following considerable policy easing, which limits the scope to turn incrementally more dovish. It is largely felt MPC will leave the repo rate unchanged at four per cent and any cut is likely only in the next calendar year. However, there are others who expect a cut in December as inflation is likely to soften after September. Nomura sees RBI governor Shaktikanta Das and Goyal as the firm doves; Jayanth Varma may have a dovish tilt. On the other hand, Bhide and RBI executive director Mridul Saggar are seen as being neutral while deputy governor Michael Patra is having an hawkish tilt. “We do not believe the new appointments dramatically change the near-term monetary policy outlook,” said Rahul Bajoria, economist with Barclays. “We believe that room to cut rates further will likely open up only in Q1 2021.” All 66 respondents in a Reuters poll conducted ahead of the originally scheduled MPC meeting said they expect the repo rate to remain unchanged at 4 per cent and a large majority saw no cuts until the January-March quarter. The apex bank has so far slashed rates by 115 basis points in response to the Covid-19 pandemic since late March. The RBI however is expected for the first time since February provide guidance on how the economy is performing amid the coronavirus pandemic and give its outlook on inflation and growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
07-10-2020||Business||Deep divide on GST payout||The Narendra Modi government on Tuesday ruled out a vote on the compensation issue while arguing that that borrowing by states did not require the approval of the GST Council. The government, which headed off a vote on the contentious issue at Monday’s meet after failing to rustle up the numbers, appeared to have changed its tactics as it sought break Opposition unity on an issue that has divided the Council that is due to meet again on October 12. States can borrow on the basis of future receipts of compensation, for which they do not need the GST Council's recommendation, finance ministry officials said. Borrowing is not under the council's jurisdiction; voting can only take place on issues that fall within its jurisdiction, they said. The officials said the council can only decide on the extension of cess beyond five years, and that was done on Monday. “The issue of borrowing by states is not something that comes within the jurisdiction of the GST Council,” officials said. “It has the jurisdiction to extend the levy of cess to compensate for the shortfall in the compensation. It has done that.  Now the ball rests in the court of individual states, not the GST council.” The officials pointed to Article 293 of the Constitution which “empowers each individual state to borrow”. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac has now said the states will have no choice but to move the Supreme Court if the Centre tries to push for the implementation of the first borrowing option that entitles states to borrow a sum of Rs 1.10 lakh crore from a cheap loan window. The Centre has refused to set up a dispute resolution mechanism — and therefore a petition before the apex court is the only way out. Article 279A (11) of the Constitution states that the GST Council can create a mechanism to resolve disputes between the central government and states or among two or more states. Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram in a series of tweets complimented the states that rejected the two options given by the Centre to bridge the gap in the GST compensation cess and asked them to stand firm at the next meeting of the GST council on October 12. The former finance minister said the states should not borrow as the liability to provide GST compensation as well as the onus to find resources fall on the Centre. “I compliment the 9-10 states that stood firm and rejected the two options given by the Centre to bridge the gap in the GST compensation cess. The liability to provide the GST compensation to the full extent falls on the Centre, as admitted by the FM. The onus of finding the resources also falls on it,” he said in his tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
