08-10-2020||Business||India's GDP likely to contract by 9.6 per cent this fiscal, says World Bank||The World Bank on Thursday said that India's GDP is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent this fiscal which is reflective of the national lockdown and the income shock experienced by households and firms due to the COVID-19 pandemic, noting that the country's economic situation is much worse than ever seen before. The Washington-based global lender, in its latest South Asia Economic Focus report ahead of the annual meeting of the World bank and International Monetary Fund, forecasts a sharper than expected economic slump across the region, with regional growth expected to contract by 7.7 per cent in 2020, after topping six per cent annually in the past five years. India's GDP is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent in the fiscal year that started in March, the World Bank said in the report released here. Regional growth is projected to rebound to 4.5 per cent in 2021, it said. Factoring in population growth, however, income-per-capita in the region will remain 6 per cent below 2019 estimates, indicating that the expected rebound will not offset the lasting economic damage caused by the pandemic, it said. The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before, Hans Timmer, World Bank Chief Economist for South Asia told reporters during a conference call. It is an exceptional situation in India. A very dire outlook, he said. There was a 25 per cent decline in GDP in the second quarter of the year, which is the first quarter of the current fiscal year in India. In the report, the World bank said that the spread of the coronavirus and containment measures have severely disrupted supply and demand conditions in India. With the intent to contain the spread of COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with effect from March 25, announced a nationwide complete lockdown that brought as much as 70 per cent of economic activity, investment, exports and discretionary consumption to a standstill. Only essential goods and services such as agriculture, mining, utility services, some financial and IT services and public services were allowed to operate. Dubbed as the world's biggest lockdown, it shut a majority of the factories and businesses, suspended flights, stopped trains and restricted movement of vehicles and people. According to the World Bank, monetary policy has been deployed aggressively and fiscal resources have been channeled to public health and social protection, but additional counter-cyclical measures will be needed, within a revised medium-term fiscal framework. Despite measures to shield vulnerable households and firms, the trajectory of poverty reduction has slowed, if not reversed, it said. We have seen from the rapid survey that many people have lost their jobs, Timmer said, adding that this is happening against a background when India's economy was already slowing down before the pandemic. We had seen a rise in non-performing loans. Those are all vulnerabilities that India has to deal with, he said. Responding to a question, Timmer said what the Indian government has done with limited resources and limited fiscal space is very impressive. We have seen a loosening of monetary policy. You have seen attempts to increase credit to the private sector to help a company survive, he said, adding that there have been big efforts in the health sector and expansion of a social safety net. But with every big crisis, I think, we have to realise that this will not go over anytime soon. And it will actually change the longer-term future also. What this reveals is really as good as federal policies, especially the policies related to the informal sector. There's a big problem that the informal sector has no coverage in social insurance. What we see now is that especially the informal workers in the middle of the income distribution have lost their jobs. There are no systems in place to support those people, Timmer said. Responding to another question, Timmer said that as a result of COVID-19, the World Bank estimates that in one year, the number of people living below the poverty line has increased by 33 per cent. In its report, the World Bank said that the response of the government of India to the COVID-19 outbreak was swift and comprehensive. A strict lockdown was implemented to contain the health emergency. To mitigate its impact on the poorest, it was complemented by social protection measures; to ensure that businesses could maintain their operations, the Reserve Bank of India and the government also provided liquidity and other regulatory support, it said. Nonetheless, there was a massive contraction in output and poor and vulnerable households experienced significant social hardships specifically urban migrants and workers in the informal economy, the bank said. After fiscal 2017, during which the economy grew at 8.3 per cent, growth decelerated in each subsequent year to 7.0, 6.1 and 4.2 per cent. This was on account of two mutually reinforcing dynamics: emerging weaknesses in non-bank financial companies (a major source of credit growth, making up for risk aversion from banks) and slowing private consumption growth, the bank added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||Bandhan Bank advances up 20% ||Bandhan Bank on Wednesday said it has posted a 20 per cent year-on-year growth in total advances during the second quarter ended September 30, 2020. In a regulatory disclosure to the bourses, the bank said its total advances during the quarter was Rs 76,724 crore against Rs 64,186 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. The total deposits of the bank during the quarter was Rs 66,153 crore, up 34 per cent over Rs 49,195 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. The bank logged a 3 per cent growth in advances and a 9 per cent increase in deposits over the first quarter ended June 30, 2020. However, the city-based bank lowered its interest rate on savings bank deposits to 3 per cent per annum from 4 per cent during the quarter. The collection efficiency of the microfinance segment, which took a hit during the lockdown, has recovered to 89 per cent  during the quarter. It was around 15 per cent at the start of June. The overall collection efficiency of the bank, which includes mortgage and other lending, has increased to 92 per cent for the period. The bank is also making core changes in its management. Having earlier announced the appointment of Kumar Ashish as the head of emerging entrepreneurs business, the bank has also recently announced the appointment of Rahul Parikh, former CEO of Bajaj Capital as the executive president and chief marketing and digital officer of Bandhan Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||AirAsia debt rejig for long-haul arm||Malaysia’s AirAsia X Bhd, the long-haul arm of AirAsia Group Bhd, said it wanted to restructure $15.3 billion of debt and slash its share capital by 90 per cent to continue as a going concern. Hard hit by the coronavirus pandemic as closed borders have grounded most of its planes, the budget airline said it had severe liquidity constraints and, with no return to normalcy in sight, added, “Imminent default of contractual commitments will precipitate a potential liquidation.” Its statement late on Tuesday came just days after Malaysia Airlines, the other major carrier, said it was very low on cash and had reached out to lessors, creditors and suppliers for urgent restructuring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||UP government signs pact for Noida airport||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday signed a concession agreement with representatives of Zurich Airport International to develop the green field Noida International Airport at Jewar in the National Capital Region. The “concession agreement” for the airport, estimated to cost Rs 29,560 crore, was signed between the Uttar Pradesh government’s agency and Yamuna International Airport Private Limited, a special purpose vehicle floated by Zurich Airport for the project. The agreement grants Zurich Airport International the licence to design, build and operate Noida International Airport for 40 years. The airport will be developed under the public private partnership (PPP) mode and will operate as a fully digital airport. The airport will be the first net zero-emissions airport in its class. On November 29 last year, Zurich Airport had emerged as the highest bidder to develop the Jewar airport, outbidding competitors such as Adani Enterprises, DIAL and Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holding. Daniel Bircher, chief executive officer of Zurich Airport International (Asia), said: “When phase 1 development is completed in 2024, we will provide capacity for 12 million passengers per year. Construction will start in 2021, while operations are expected to begin in 2024.” “The airport will initially have one runway and 90 per cent of the traffic in these years will be domestic,” he added. “We are expecting 12 million to 16 million passengers annually at the Jewar airport,” said Arun Vir Singh, a board member of NIAL. NIAL officials have earlier stated that the airport in Gautam Buddh Nagar district in western Uttar Pradesh will be spread over an area of 5,000 hectare and is billed to be the biggest in India with six runways upon completion. The first phase of the project will be spread over an area of 1,334 hectare and is expected to cost Rs 4,588 crore, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||Pay less to gulp beer||Beer prices of some of the most popular brands in Bengal will be cut, said an order from the West Bengal State Beverage Corporation notifying the declared prices and the maximum retail price to be charged. The state government had introduced a 16-slab excise structure on beer which included an excise duty of Rs 50 per bulk litre for strong beer and Rs 40 per bulk litre for mild beer. The additional excise duty is in the range of Rs 66 to Rs 640 per bulk litre depending upon the price slab. Popular brands from Anheuser Busch Inbev India such as Budweiser, Corona, Heywards, Hoegaarden, Foster’s, Beck’s Ice and from United Breweries’s stable such as Kingfisher, Carlsberg, Tuborg along with three other companies would see a revision in prices. The prices will come down by 15-60 per cent depending upon the brands from the rates charged since March. The state had imposed an additional 30 per cent duty to shore up revenue during the lockdown. But this compounded brewers’s problems as sale of beer declined 90 per cent on a year-on-year basis during the early months of the Covid-19 lockdown. Beer sales were already down in the previous two years because of a change in pricing in the state. A 650-ml bottle of Kingfisher strong beer will cost Rs 130 under the new pricing against Rs 170 earlier. A similar sized Budweiser will now cost Rs 154 against Rs 250 earlier. The state beverage corporation had sought expressions of interest from breweries and after evaluating the financial bids from technically qualified bidders had arrived at the declared price and maximum retail price per unit. “It is a very good policy and timely as well because the festive season is here. Last 2-3 years have been difficult for because of the rise in prices. So this is a welcome move. Moreover, the state excise is encouraging consumption of mild beer which is also a good move,” an industry source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||Renewed calls for economic fiscal stimulus ||The economy needs continued fiscal stimulus to get back on a growth path, says Pronab Sen, chairman of the standing committee on statistics and programme implementation. Without stimulus the growth rates of 2019-20 cannot be achieved before 2024-25. The economy will see a marginal growth towards the end of 2020-21, driven by pent up demand. However, if the government does not take action this growth will not be sustainable. “There is a hope that by some magic the economy will bounce back and will attain the level it has had in 2019-20 by the end of next year. I am sorry to say that if the government does not do anything, that is not going to happen,” Sen said at a session organised by the Bharat Chamber of Commerce on Wednesday. Without any additional stimulus from the government, he said, after a 24 per cent contraction in the first quarter, there would be two consequent quarters of contraction followed by a small positive in the fourth quarter and a positive growth in the first quarter of the next fiscal. “The choice before the government is either you do something now or you get to a situation where your finances will continue to slide and FRBM would be almost impossible to meet,” he said. He added that when Covid-19 struck India, there was already a negative momentum and capacity utilization had gone down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||Exporters seek freight rate relief||Exporters have flagged concerns over the spike in shipping freight rates by about 40 per cent to destinations in the US and Europe because of shortage of containers and have sought the intervention of the government. Sharad Kumar, president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), said sea freights have started increasing gradually since July and all the shipping lines have increased the freights by 20-40 per cent depending on the destinations. The exporters also expressed the need to set up a regulator for the sector. “We expect the proposed National Logistics Efficiency Advancement Predictability and Safety Act would be formulated and implemented soon to protect the exim (export-import) sector from such sudden and abrupt changes,” the FIEO president said. “The availability of containers has become a big issue. Almost all shipping lines are giving reasons of container shortage and have jacked up the freights for October by a massive $300 to $800 per 40 feet full container load, particularly for the European and North and South American ports,” he said. According to Kumar, all the major carriers have consolidated. They are abruptly increasing the rates by forming cartels and actions should be initiated against such practice. It is experienced that the shipping lines are offering vessel space of 3 weeks to 4 weeks ahead. Even after such a long date for shipment, lines are shutting out the containers abruptly and are not liable to pay any compensations to the shipper for delays. The shippers are charged with demurrages and detention charges for any small delay of any sort, but there is no responsibility of the carrier in case they delay the cargo for their operative reasons, he added. Saraf  said exports have started picking up turned positive for the first time in the last seven months registering a growth of about 5.3% in the month of September and "therefore, this important component of export logistics needs immediate attention, else our exporters would not be able to capitalise on the new opportunities". He also said the government order to pay terminal handling charges to ports directly should be implemented across ports, as it will bring down logistics costs for the export sector and make them more competitive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
08-10-2020||Business||RBI let off the hook for failure to curb inflation||The Centre has asked the RBI to consider July as the starting month for inflation targeting as there was a break in the inflation series in April and May, meaning the apex bank will not have to submit a report as to why it has failed in the targeting for three quarters running starting January. According to the RBI Act, if the central bank is unable to meet the inflation target (4 per cent with a band of +/- 2 per cent) for three quarters in a row, it will have to send a report to the Centre, citing the reasons for the failure to achieve the target, the remedial actions proposed to be taken and an estimate of the time period within which the inflation target shall be achieved after the implementation of the remedial actions. However, in what could be a face saver to the government, it has now asked the central bank to consider the retail inflation data from the quarter beginning July 2020. The Centre is taking refuge in the break in the CPI series during April and May, which had prompted it to give an imputed inflation data for these two months. Since January this year, inflation has stayed above the 6-per-cent mark. Economists project the headline CPI inflation in September to also remain well above the upper band of 6 per cent. According to a Nomura note, the sharp unseasonal rise in vegetable prices is likely to keep headline inflation elevated at around 7 per cent in September. Murthy Nagarajan, head of fixed income, Tata Mutual Fund, also expects headline inflation to remain elevated in the near term on account of higher food, fuel and gold prices. If these projections are right, the average CPI inflation for the July-September quarter will be above 6.50 per cent compared with 6.69 per cent from January-March and 6.52 per cent from April-June 2020 which should compel the RBI to submit a report to the Centre. A Cogencis report said that last month economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj had written to the RBI saying the imputed CPI data for April and May do not reflect the true state of the price situation in the economy from the perspective of the monetary policy. Bajaj said that for the purpose of assessing the failure to meet the inflation target, the RBI is allowed to not include the inflation data from April to June. So, the central bank’s accountability to meet the inflation target will begin from the July 2020 quarter. Meanwhile, the government on Wednesday appointed RBI’s senior-most executive director M Rajeshwar Rao as the deputy governor of the central bank. The post was vacated by N. S. Vishwanathan who stepped down three months ahead of his extended tenure on health grounds The RBI Act mentions three quarters in a row, so inflation numbers for the rest of the months (before July when data was available) cannot be counted. In its meeting held in August, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) had said that the NSO has not provided inflation rates for April and May. ``For the purpose of monetary formulation and conduct, therefore, the MPC is of the view that CPI prints for April and May can be regarded as a break in the CPI series’’, this indicating that these two months should not be counted while fixing its accountability on meeting the medium term inflation target. The Government’s move should bring relief to the reconstituted MPC which is set to announce the monetary policy on Friday. It is widely expected to retain the repo rate at four per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
08-10-2020||Business||New SBI chief allays fears on asset recast ||The new State Bank of India (SBI) chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara on Wednesday indicated that the stress on its books because of Covid-19 was within “manageable limits” even as the lender has seen its business now improving to around 70-80 per cent of the pre-pandemic levels. Khara, who took over the reins from Rajnish Kumar with effect from Wednesday, was speaking to reporters at a virtual press conference. Observers say keeping bad loans under check and ramping up credit growth will be the key challenges before Khara, who has been appointed for a three-year tenure. The banking system has seen anaemic loan growth with the latest Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data showing it rising only 5.3 per cent. Here, the SBI chief pointed out that maintaining the quality of the loan book is one of his top priorities. He added that while the retail segment was doing well, corporate houses were not approaching the credit market or banks and were instead tapping the debt markets. “We will have to re-adjust to the new realities and meet their (companies) requirement whether through credit or through the investment market... we have got the wherewithal,” he noted. In August, the RBI had announced a one-time restructuring scheme for individuals and corporate borrowers affected by the pandemic. This will apply to only those accounts that existed in the banks’ books as on March 1, 2020. Following this, the country’s largest bank had launched a facility on its website to help retail customers check their eligibility for the one-time loan recast. Khara said the bank was closely monitoring the cases applying for restructuring  and the numbers were manageable. Further, when it comes to companies too, the bank has not witnessed any unusual numbers. Responding to a query, he reiterated that SBI will come to the aid of any corporate house that is in distress because of the current Covid-19 situation within the framework prescribed by the RBI. The new SBI chairman also disclosed that the bank will continue its annual hiring and his focus will be on skill development of employees. On the bank’s capital raising plans, he said it would depend on the movement of credit growth and at present the bank is adequately capitalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
08-10-2020||Business||6.7% rise in QoQ profits at TCS||Tata Consultancy Services kicked off the earnings season in an ebullient fashion as its net profits rose 6.7 per cent over the previous quarter to Rs 7475 crore as its clients raised spending on technology solutions. It had reported profits of Rs 7008 crore in the April-June quarter. However, it was 7 per cent lower than the net profit of Rs 8,042 crore in the year ago quarter. TCS also announced a Rs 16,000-crore share buyback programme and declared an interim dividend of Rs 12 per share apart from resuming salary hikes for its employees from October. The pandemic has affected several industries but it has had a positive rub-off on the IT sector as enterprises have accelerated their technological transformation with work from home and work from anywhere becoming the norm. The demand recovery came a quarter earlier for TCS. The IT services giant had earlier said that an improvement would only happen in the third quarter of this fiscal. Revenues during the period came in at Rs 40,135 crore, which is a growth of 3 per cent over Rs 38,977 crore a year ago. This is more than the pre-Covid topline of Rs 39,854 crore in the October-December 2019 quarter. The net profit was lower than Street estimates as TCS has set aside Rs 1,218 crore for the case involving EPIC Systems Corporation. In October 2014, EPIC had filed a legal claim against TCS in the court of Western District Madison, Wisconsin, alleging infringement of its proprietary information. At a virtual press conference on Wednesday, Rajesh Gopinathan, managing director & CEO, said TCS is confident that the current revival will sustain. However, he added that during the third quarter of this fiscal, the company may see a seasonal weakness and it is likely to be more exaggerated in a few verticals or regions. Gopinathan said operating margins at 26.2 per cent are now at an eight-quarter high. Its performance was also broad-based across verticals and geographies during the quarter. The core BFSI vertical saw a sequential growth of 6.6 per cent in constant currency terms. Sectors such as retail, which were earlier deeply impacted by the pandemic, saw a growth of 8.8 per cent. In terms of geographies, North America saw a quarter-on-quarter growth of 3.6 per cent even as other key markets such as the UK and Continental Europe grew 3.8 per cent and 6.1 per cent, respectively. At its board meeting on Wednesday, the directors approved a proposal to buy back up to 5,33,33,333 equity shares (1.42 per cent of its total paid up equity share capital) at Rs 3,000 per share for an aggregate amount of up to Rs 16,000 crore under the tender offer route. This marks a premium of 9.59 per cent to the closing price of the TCS scrip on the bourses on Wednesday. Free cash flow had risen by Rs 20,830 crore to Rs 99,860 crore in the second quarter. Meanwhile, Bangalore-based Wipro also announced that its board will meet on October 13 to consider a share buyback.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
08-10-2020||Business||Govt allows affiliate companies to buy gas produced from non-regulated fields||The government on Wednesday allowed affiliate companies to buy gas produced from non-regulated fields as part of giving complete marketing freedom to the operators. The move is expected to benefit Vedanta and Reliance Industries, though the plea to raise the price of gas produced by PSUs ONGC and Oil India from their nominated fields failed to cut much ice with the Modi government. They will get $1.79 per mBtu, which is half their production costs. Between 2016 and 2019, the government had granted pricing freedom to all fields except those farmed out to state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation and Oil India on a nomination basis. But there were restrictions on marketing, including a ban on the affiliates of producers buying the fuel and, in some cases, a state nominee being mandated to offtake the gas. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved the natural gas marketing reforms, oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told reporters here. Vedanta will benefit as its prolific Rajasthan block has only pricing freedom. With GAIL being the sole buyer nominated by the government, the Anil Agarwal-company had found it hard to negotiate an optimal price. Reliance will benefit from the sale of gas from its Krishna-Godavari basin. Last year, Reliance and its partner BP had bid out 5 mscmd (million standard cubic metres per day) from their KG-D6 block to firms such as Essar and GSPC. Reliance and BP were keen to buy the gas but rules did not allow. Now, India Gas Solutions Pvt Ltd, an equal joint venture of Reliance and BP, will join the fray. However, there will be rebidding if only the affiliates participate, Pradhan said. A policy debate on who can participate in an auction to sell gas has raged for about three years after Reliance Industries sold all gas from its coal bed methane field in Madhya Pradesh to itself in an open auction. The auction, held in September 2017 for gas to be produced until March 2021, prompted an inquiry by the government. The oil ministry had found that Reliance violated the government policy by selling gas to itself. Pradhan said the CCEA approved a standard procedure for price discovery through a transparent and competitive e-bidding as also “permitting affiliates to participate in the bidding process for the sale of gas”. “This will add 40 million standard cubic metres per day of production from Krishna-Godavari basin and other areas to the current output of 84 mscmd,” he said. Participation of affiliates will “facilitate and promote more competition in marketing of gas,” an official statement said. In February 2019, the government gave ONGC and Reliance pricing and marketing freedoms from the yet to be produced fields. “However, rebidding will have to be done in case only affiliates participate, and there are no other bidders,” it said. A policy debate on who can participate in an auction to sell gas has raged for about three years after Reliance Industries sold all gas from its coal bed methane field in Madhya Pradesh to itself in an open auction. The auction, held in September 2017 for gas to be produced until March 2021, prompted an inquiry by the government.  The Oil Ministry had found that Reliance violated the government policy by selling gas to itself. Last year, Reliance and its partner BP had bid out 5 mscmd (million standard cubic metres per day) from their KG-D6 block to firms such as Essar and GSPC. Reliance and BP were keen to buy the gas but rules did not allow. Now, India Gas Solutions Pvt Ltd, an equal joint venture of Reliance and BP, will join the fray. However, there will be rebidding if only affiliates participate, Pradhan said. "The objective of the policy is to prescribe a standard procedure to discover the market price of gas to be sold in the market by gas producers, through a transparent and competitive process," Pradhan said. He added that it permits affiliates to participate in the bidding process for the sale of gas and allows marketing freedom to certain field development plans (FDPs) where PSCs already provide pricing freedom. Pradhan said the policy aims to provide a standard procedure for the sale of natural gas in a transparent and competitive manner to discover market price by issuing guidelines for sale by the contractor through e-bidding. "This will bring uniformity in the bidding process across the various contractual regimes and policies to avoid ambiguity and contribute towards ease of doing business," he said. In February 2019, the government gave ONGC and Reliance Industries pricing and marketing freedom for yet-to-be-developed discoveries and agreed to levy a lesser royalty in case of state-owned firms raising production from existing fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-269
