09-10-2020||Business||India Inc welcomes RBI's monetary policy stance||India Inc has welcomed RBI's resolve to continue with an accommodative monetary policy stance and focus on reviving growth. RBI's six-member Monetary Policy Committee on Friday voted unanimously to retain the repo rate at 4 per cent while keeping its policy stance accommodative. The central bank sees the economy contracting 9.5 per cent in the current fiscal. CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said additional measures announced by RBI to support growth in the form of liquidity support, reviving exports, credit support, and improving ease of doing business are expected to give the much-needed impetus to drive the 'three-speed' recovery which the central bank expects. Ficci President Sangita Reddy said while the policy repo rate was not cut by RBI, several other measures were announced that should help bring down interest rates in the market. Assocham Secretary General Deepak Sood said RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das' dared to be optimist approach shows his steely resolve to face the unprecedented situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. What is notable in this edition of RBI's monetary policy announcement is its emphatic commitment to 'public good' and its intent to remain accommodative for such public good. These are welcome words in support of an economy that is looking to rebound from a pandemic, said Ashutosh Bishnoi, MD & CEO at Mahindra Manulife Mutual Fund. Reliance Home Finance CEO Ravindra Sudhalkar said RBI's stance to rationalize risk weightage on home loans is a welcome move. With all new housing loan risk now linked only to loan to the value, the rates will continue to be in check and hence encourage new buyers, he added. Sunteck Realty CMD Kamal Khetan said the announcement of rationalizing risk weightage on home loans is a targeted intervention and comes at a time when the property sector is making significant recovery across all segments. "With rates remaining unchanged, higher inflation is certainly a matter of concern. We are expecting better revival of business in smaller towns basis RBI's expectation of further strengthening of rural economy," Spykar Lifestyle CEO Sanjay Vakharia said. Stating that RBI stands ready to take further measures on liquidity, Governor Shaktikanta Das announced Rs 1 lakh crore of targeted long-term funds with tenors of as much as 3 years from the central bank to banks for investing only in corporate bonds, aimed at easing cash crunch at firms. Das said the economic growth, which slumped to a negative 23.9 per cent in April-June , will turn positive only in the final March quarter. For exporters hit by the pandemic, RBI discontinued the system-based automatic caution-listing to allow them to realise export proceeds. The central bank has slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points since late March to support growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||RBI keeps policy rate unchanged at 4 per cent ||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) left key interest rates unchanged on Friday but signalled more easing ahead to support an economy that it sees contracting 9.5 per cent in the current fiscal. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee, with three newly inducted external members, voted unanimously to retain the benchmark repurchase or repo rate at 4 per cent while keeping its policy stance accommodative, implying it could ease again. The central bank had slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points since late March to support growth. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said the economic growth, which slumped to a negative 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter, will turn positive only in the final January-March quarter. "By all indications, the deep contractions of Q1 2020-21 (April-June) are behind us; silver linings are visible in the flattening of the active case load curve across the country," he said. Barring the risk of a second wave of infections, the economy appeared poised to begin a recovery, he said, noting food grain production was set for record highs and factories and cities were coming back to life. With macro indicators pointing to a recovery, "GDP growth may break out of contraction and turn positive by Q4 (January-March)," he said. "For the year 2020-21 as a whole, therefore, real GDP is expected to decline by 9.5 per cent, with risks tilted to the downside," he said, adding that if the current momentum of upturn gains ground, a faster and stronger rebound is eminently feasible. "Against all odds, we shall strive and revive," he said. Das also unveiled a number of unconventional measures to boost liquidity and support economic activity while ensuring the government's record borrowing programme goes through smoothly. In a video live stream, he said RBI will "continue with the accommodative stance of monetary policy as long as necessary at least during the current financial year and into the next year to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of COVID-19, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward". RBI saw inflation easing close to the targeted band of 4 per cent, plus or minus 2 per cent, in the fourth-quarter ending March. Stating that RBI stands ready to take further measures on liquidity, Das announced Rs 1 lakh crore of targeted long-term funds with tenors of as much as 3 years from the central bank to banks for investing only in corporate bonds, aimed at easing cash crunch at firms. RBI will buy bonds issued by state governments as a special case and also extended till March 31, 2022, its permission to banks to hold more government bonds without marking to market. For exporters hit by the pandemic, the RBI discontinued the system-based automatic caution-listing to allow them to realise export proceeds. In order to facilitate swift and seamless payments in real-time for domestic businesses and institutions, RBI decided to make available the RTGS (Real Time Gross Settlement) system round-the-clock on all days from December. In December last year, RBI had made available the National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) system on a 24x7x365 basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||Government talks tough against Lufthansa||The Narendra Modi government on Thursday made it clear greater concessions to foreign airlines will not be given at the expense of Indian carriers even as it continues to negotiate with German carrier Lufthansa, which has cancelled flights between the two nations till October 20 over the air bubble disagreement. Without taking the name of Lufthansa, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri told reporters, “We are all for foreign carriers operating here. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be done at the expense of the Indian carriers.” “Under the regulated (air bubble) arrangements, we are not insisting on total parity. Even near parity will do,” Puri added. On September 28, Lufthansa had to cancel its flights between India and Germany from September 30 to October 20 as the DGCA withdrew permission, saying there are restrictions on Indians who want to travel to Germany and this puts “Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage, resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa”. The resolution professional (RP) of Jet Airways on Thursday denied reports suggesting that London-based Kalrock Capital has emerged as the winner of the bid for the airline that closed operations last April. In a clarification, the RP Ashish Chhawchharia says the creditors’ committee will vote on the bids till October 16. The airline has debt claims of over Rs 39,000  crore out of which a little over Rs 16,000  crore has been admitted by the RP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||Mercedes Benz India flags tax hurdle in EV journey||Mercedes Benz India Ltd (MBIL) on Thursday ruled out the possibility of introducing a plug-in hybrid in its Indian portfolio any time soon because of the current tax regime. While the GST on electric vehicles (EVs) has been slashed to 5 per cent from 12 per cent, the GST on hybrids is still 28 per cent along with a cess of 15 per cent on the larger models. While launching its first electric vehicle in India — the EQC — on Thursday, MBIL managing director Martin Schwenk said: “Mercedes Benz globally has the mission of attaining 50 per cent of its global sales from plug-in hybrids and EVs as part of its  Ambition 2039 programme.” On when India would have a plug-in hybrid in its portfolio, Schwenk said: “There are a number of hybrids in the global portfolio but there is not such a strong case for plug-in hybrids for India. Here we are stressing on battery-operated electric vehicles partly because of the tax regime.” The EQC will retail in India for Rs 99.3 lakh for the first 50 units after which the company has hinted at a price rise. Automobile dealers’ body Fada on Thursday said passenger vehicle retail sales in September witnessed a year-on-year increase of 9.81 per cent to 1,95,665 units amid a shift in customer preference for personal mobility over public transport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||IBM to split into two||International Business Machines Corp is splitting itself into two public companies, capping a years-long effort by the world’s first big computing firm to diversify away from its legacy businesses to focus on high-margin cloud computing. IBM will list its IT infrastructure services unit, which provides technical support for 4,600 clients in 115 countries and has a backlog of $60 billion, as a separate company with a new name by the end of 2021. The new company will have 90,000 employees and its leadership structure will be decided in a few months, chief financial officer James Kavanaugh told Reuters. IBM, which currently has more than 352,000 workers, said it expects to record nearly $5 billion in expenses related to the separation and operational changes. Investors cheered the surprise move by chief executive officer Arvind Krishna, the key architect behind IBM’s $34-billion acquisition of cloud company Red Hat last year, sending the company’s shares up 7 per cent. “We divested networking back in the ‘90s, we divested PCs back in the 2000s, we divested semiconductors about five years ago because all of them didn’t necessarily play into the integrated value proposition,” Krishna said on a call with analysts. In a blog, Krishna called the move a “significant shift” in the 109-year-old company’s business model. “IBM is essentially getting rid of a shrinking, low-margin operation given the cannibalising impact of automation and cloud, masking stronger growth for the rest of the operation,” Wedbush Securities analyst Moshe Katri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||Economy: World Bank projects 9.6% contraction||The World Bank expects India’s economy to contract 9.6 per cent in the current fiscal and to rebound to a 5.4 per cent growth in 2021-22 assuming that Covid-related restrictions will be completely lifted by 2022. A weak global scenario and a tough domestic environment mean both Indian imports and exports will be affected this year. India needs to continue with critical reforms to reverse the sudden and steep impacts of Covid-19 on its economy, the World Bank said in its twice-a-year-regional update. Millions of people in South Asia are being pushed into extreme poverty as the region,  where a quarter of humanity lives, suffers its worst-ever recession, the World Bank said. The latest South Asia Economic Focus forecasts a sharper-than-expected economic slump across the region, with regional growth expected to contract 7.7 percent in 2020, after topping 6 per cent annually in the past five years. Regional growth is likely to rebound to 4.5 per cent in 2021. “Covid-19 will profoundly transform South Asia and leave lasting scars. But there is a silver lining toward resilient recovery— it could spur innovations that improve South Asia’s future participation in global value chains,” said Hans Timmer, World Bank chief economist for the South Asia Region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
09-10-2020||Business||Clix Group bids for Lakshmi Vilas Bank||Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB), the troubled private sector lender, on Thursday said it has received an “indicative non-binding” offer from Aion-backed Clix Group for a merger. LVB was in the news last month when its shareholders voted out seven directors on its board, including CEO S. Sundar and promoters K.R. Pradeep and N. Saiprasad. Subsequently, the RBI appointed a three-member team to run the bank under Meeta Makhan as chairperson and Shakti Sinha and Satish Kumar Kalra as members. In a regulatory filing on Thursday, the bank’s chief financial officer K. Hariharan said, “Further to the process of evaluating a proposed amalgamation with Clix Capital Services, Clix Finance and Clix Housing Finance, we are glad to inform that the bank has received an indicative non-binding offer from Clix Group.” The filing did not provide any details on the offer. On September 15, LVB had agreed to an amalgamation with Clix Capital Group, a mid-sized non-banking lender,  in an all-share deal. Earlier, the bank had tried to merge with Indiabulls Housing Finance but the RBI had objected to the merger proposal. In June, the bank and Clix Group had entered into a non-binding agreement for amalgamation and later the parties extended the validity of the agreement to September 15 citing the nationwide lockdown. Against a minimum required tier-I capital ratio of 8.8 per cent, the ratio for LVB stood at 1.88 per cent at the end of the June quarter. At the end of March, it was even lower at 0.88 per cent. Last week, the bank, which is under the RBI’s prompt corrective action (PCA), had announced that its board had approved fundraising plans for Rs 1,500 crore and also to increase foreign shareholding up to 74 per cent from the current 12.35 per cent. The bank had suffered a net loss of Rs 112.28 crore in the June quarter against a loss of Rs 237.25 crore. Its asset quality deteriorated with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rising to 25.40 per cent of the gross advances as from 17.30 per cent in the earlier quarter. If the merger happens, the networth of the bank is expected to more than double to Rs 3,100 crore from the current Rs 1,200 crore. Ahead of the announcement, shares of the lender rallied 7.23 per cent to close at Rs 17.80 on the BSE, giving it a market valuation of Rs 599.35 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
09-10-2020||Business||Legal notice in Murugappa family battle||Valli Arunachalam, the daughter of former executive chairman M.V. Murugappan, has sent a legal notice to Ambadi Investments Ltd (AIL), Murugappa family members and others. This comes after the shareholders of AIL had last month voted against inducting her as a director in the Murugappa group’s holding company. “I can, hereby, confirm that following careful and thorough deliberation and in consultation with our independent advisers, we have decided to seek legal remedies with respect to our ongoing efforts to settle my father’s will. Accordingly, we issued legal notices to the Murugappa family members, Ambadi Investments management, the company and other people in relation thereto,” she said in a statement. The US-settled nuclear scientist has been fighting for a board seat and had earlier alleged that she was denied a berth because she was a woman. “It was a big step for us and a very unfortunate one, as we have worked tirelessly over the course of the last three years to bring about an amicable settlement of my father’s interests in AIL. With the family voting unanimously to reject my appointment to the AIL board, we have seemingly reached the end of the road for an amicable settlement,” she added in the statement. M.V. Murugappan passed away in September 2017, leaving a probate will bequeathing his 8.15 per cent stake in group holding firm Ambadi Investments to his wife and two daughters. At the AGM of AIL last month, around 91.36 per cent of its shareholders voted against a resolution that proposed a board position to Arunachalam. Pointing out that she had taken a “leave-no-stone-unturned’ approach to bring an amicable settlement, Arunachalam went on to say that these efforts included a proposal for the engagement of an independent mediator. “Given how the Murugappa family has treated our family branch over the past three years, we have no confidence that our substantial stake in the family business will be safeguarded by them. Perhaps most confounding to us is that the Murugappa family has attempted to project their stand as principled and righteous,” she noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
09-10-2020||Business|| GST cess shortfall reduced to Rs 1.83 lakh crore for this fiscal ||The Centre is reducing the compensation cess shortfall for this fiscal year to Rs 1.83 lakh crore from Rs 2.35 lakh crore earlier. The cut arises because the government intends to roll over the amount for February and March next year to 2021-22. Therefore, the borrowing option 2 before the states at their October 12 meeting will be the reduced sum of Rs 1.83 lakh crore. The Centre had earlier raised the borrowing option 1 to Rs 1.10 lakh crore from Rs 97 lakh crore. The Centre has already indicated that there will be no vote at the GST Council next week since the borrowing by states does not come within the ambit of the Council’s jurisdiction. The initial sum of Rs 97,000 crore under the first borrowing option was based on the assumption of 10 per cent growth in GST receipts in 2019-20. The Centre was forced to raise the sum to Rs 1.10 lakh crore as some of the states had argued the growth in receipts was 6 per cent to 7 per cent in 2018-19 and 2019-20. The growth this fiscal would be lower still, meaning the shortfall would be higher at Rs 1.10 lakh crore. Analysts said the changes in the borrowing numbers indicate the Centre plans to come up with some strategy to push through its plans. After the last GST Council meeting on Monday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that some of the BJP-ruled states such as Assam, Goa, Karnataka and Bihar have pushed for a quick decision as they wanted to borrow at the earliest to meet their revenue shortfall. With the 10 Opposition-ruled states against both the borrowing options, the GST Council meeting next week is expected to see some fireworks. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac has said the states will have no choice but to move the Supreme Court if the Centre tries to push the first borrowing option. Since the Centre has refused to set up a dispute resolution mechanism, a petition before the apex court is the only way out. Article 279A (11) of the Constitution states the GST Council can create a mechanism to resolve disputes between the central government and states or among two or more states. Chhattisgarh minister T.S. Singh Deo in a tweet has said “the rightful GST compensation of states is being denied by the central govt and it is forcing undemocratic borrowing to deal with the shortfall. The utter mismanagement from the Centre has led to this fiasco and Centre should take responsibility”. “We will seek a decision by consensus regarding the borrowing option for the GST compensation in the upcoming meeting on October 12. If consensus cannot be reached then a division may be sought to resolve it through democratic ways,” the Congress leader tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-268
