10-10-2020||Business||Govt considering floor price for nominated gas fields, or price formula||State-run ONGC on Friday said the government was considering a floor price for nominated gas fields or even changing the gas formula with the PSU staring at a loss of Rs 6,000-7,000 crore on domestic gas production after prices fell to a low of $1.79 per million British thermal unit (mBtu) for the six months beginning this month. “The government-mandated rates are way below the cost of production of $3.5-3.7 per million British thermal unit… Our losses will be in the order of Rs 6,000-7,000 crore in the current fiscal,” Subhash Kumar, director (finance) of Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC), told reporters after the AGM. Every dollar reduction in gas price leads to a revenue loss of about Rs 5,200 crore and a Rs 3,500-crore loss in profit. ONGC produces about 65 million standard cubic metres per day of gas from domestic fields. Kumar, however, hoped the government will act on the firm’ request and a floor price would be set to check losses. ONGC chairman and managing director Shashi Shanker said the current gas price does not cover cost and the company has made representations to the ministry of petroleum and natural gas for suitable amendments to the formula. “The ministry is favourably inclined and a committee has been set up to look into this. Prices have to be remunerative if the domestic output has to be raised. There is talk of a floor price and changes in the formula itself by linking the rate to relevant market benchmarks such as JKM,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
10-10-2020||Business||Vedanta close to getting delisted from domestic bourses||Vedanta is close to getting delisted from the domestic bourses after 137.78 crore shares were tendered at the close of the buyback offer made by the promoters. The shares tendered are more than the 134 crore out of the public holding of 169.73 crore shares that the promoter group, headed by Anil Agrawal, needed to delist the company. The promoters hold a little over 186 crore shares. Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal had earlier told a news channel he may come out with a counter offer if the delisting plan struggles to overcome the 90 per cent hump that is mandatory for it to become successful. Agarwal added that the response has been good and even LIC has tendered its shares. Some of the shareholders also reported glitches during the tendering process. However, data available from bourses showed that 137.78 crore shares were tendered at various price levels starting from Rs 87.25 apiece. Around 21.51 crore shares were offered at Rs 160 apiece, followed by 18.9 crore shares at Rs 145 and another 10.87 crore shares being offered at a price of Rs 153 per share. The company will now have to accept the shares and declare a buyback price. Vedanta promoters want to buy out 169.73 crore shares, or 47.67 per cent, held by the public to delist the firm. The reverse book building process started on October 5 and closed on Friday. The Vedanta scrip closed at Rs 122.10 on the BSE on Friday, a gain of 3.83 per cent over Thursday’s close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
10-10-2020||Business||RBI to buy state development loans in the secondary market||In a first of its kind move, the RBI on Friday announced that it will buy state development loans (SDLs), or bonds issued by state governments, in the secondary market. The step comes three days before a crucial GST Council meeting where states are going to discuss — but possibly not vote — on the contentious proposal to force them to borrow money from a cheap loan window to get a part of the money stuck because of poor GST collections and inadequate cash in the compensation cess fund. State governments raise loans from the market which are called SDLs. SDLs are dated securities issued by them in the primary market through normal auctions which are similar to those conducted for bonds issued by the central government. Interest is serviced at half-yearly intervals and the principal is repaid on the maturity date. The interest rates offered on SDLs are generally higher than central government securities, also called as G-Secs. There is also a secondary market for SDLs. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the central bank would conduct open market operations (OMOs) in SDLs. The RBI would conduct these OMOs as a special case during the current financial year to address concerns about illiquidity and the absorptive capacity of the total government borrowing in the current year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
10-10-2020||Business||RBI seeks to address ‘disconnect’ with bond markets||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday sought to address the ‘disconnect’ with the bond markets through a combination of words and action. Three recent auctions of government securities conducted by the RBI have devolved as the markets demanded a higher yield, which the government was not prepared to concede. Market participants are apprehensive that the Centre may borrow more and that elevated inflation will force the RBI to go in for an extended pause in its interest rate cycle.
On Friday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das finally chose to address the burning issue. Consequently, bond prices rallied with yields on the benchmark 10-year security falling by 10 basis points to 5.92 per cent. It later settled at 5.93 per cent. Asking the bond market participants to be “competitive without being combative”, Das said they needed to take a broader time perspective and display bidding behaviour (in the auctions) that reflects a sensitivity to the signals from the RBI in the conduct of monetary policy and debt management. “Yields in the government securities market, both primary and secondary segments, need to evolve in alignment with the comfortable liquidity conditions.” Das said the weighted average cost of borrowings by the Centre during the first half of 2020-21 at 5.82 per cent was the lowest in the last 16 years. He added that the RBI had assured that the borrowing programme of the Centre and the states for the rest of 2020-21 would be completed smoothly. The RBI said it would maintain comfortable liquidity conditions and conduct market operations in the form of outright and special open market operations (OMOs). It raised the weekly size of OMOs through which it buys bonds to Rs 20,000 crore from Rs 10,000 crore. Further, it extended the held-to-maturity relaxation for banks’ investment in government bonds till March 31, 2022. These are investments held till their maturity. On-tap LTRO The RBI will conduct on-tap targeted long term repo operation (TLTRO) with tenors of up to three years for a total of up to Rs 1,00,000 crore at a floating rate linked to the policy repo rate. The scheme will be available up to March 31, 2021 with flexibility on raising the amount and term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
10-10-2020||Business|| India Inc. welcomes RBI's monetary policy stance||The RBI’s resolve to continue with an accommodative monetary policy stance and focus on reviving growth has been welcomed by India Inc. CII director-general Chandrajit Banerjee said the additional measures announced by the RBI in the form of liquidity support, reviving exports and improving ease of doing business are expected to give an impetus to the recovery process. Ficci president Sangita Reddy said the measures would enable banks to manage liquidity without facing many frictions given the government’s own borrowing requirements. Assocham president Niranjan Hiranandani said the recast in home loan rules will give a boost to the real estate sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
10-10-2020||Business||RBI recasts rules for new home loans||The RBI has recast the rules for new home loans to boost the real estate sector. At present, differential risk weights are applicable to individual home loans, based on the size of the loan as well as the loan-to-value ratio (LTV). The LTV is that proportion of a loan given relative to the total value of the property. Risk weightage determines the amount of capital that banks must maintain while providing loans. Thus, a risk weightage of 100 per cent means that banks have to set aside Rs 9 for every Rs 100 lent (the minimum capital adequacy ratio is 9 per cent) or Rs 4.5 if the risk weightage is 50 per cent. “In recognition of the role of the real estate sector in generating employment and economic activity, it has been decided to rationalise the risk weights and link them to LTV ratios only for all new housing loans sanctioned till March 31, 2022,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. So far, the risk weight differed across the size of the loan and the LTV ratio. For instance, in the case of loans up to Rs 30 lakh and a LTV ratio of less than 80 per cent, the risk weight was 35 per cent, while for a higher LTV ratio, the risk weight stood at 50 per cent. The risk weight was 35 per cent for loans of Rs 35-75 lakh (LTV ratio of less than 80 per cent) and 50 per cent for loans above Rs 75 lakh where the LTV ratio is less than 75 per cent. Now, all new housing loans sanctioned till March 31, 2022 will attract a risk weight of 35 per cent where LTV is less than or equal to 80 per cent, and a risk weight of 50 per cent where LTV is more than 80 per cent but less than or equal to 90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
10-10-2020||Business||RBI projects economy to contract 9.5 per cent this fiscal||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday projected the economy to contract 9.5 per cent in this fiscal with risks tilted to the downside — the first forecast by the apex bank since the onset of the pandemic which almost matches that of the World Bank (9.6 per cent contraction) made 24-hours ago. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also refused to buy into projections of a V-shaped recovery made by finance ministry mandarins a month ago or any of the other U, L, of K shaped figures speculated by economists. Recovery would be a three-speed one with revival different across sectors, the RBI governor said after the monetary policy committee (MPC) held the repo rate constant as widely expected. Surprisingly, the RBI governor’s statement doesn’t square with the forecasts in the 100-page monetary policy report. In his statement, Das said: “There is currently an animated debate about the shape of the recovery. Will it be V, U, L, or W? More recently, there has also been talk of a K-shaped recovery. In my view, it is likely to predominantly be a three-speed recovery, with individual sectors showing varying paces, depending on sector-specific realities.” However, the monetary policy report paints a very different picture, clearly pointing to a very sharp V-shaped recovery. In its baseline forecast, real GDP is projected to contract by 9.5 per cent this year but then bounce back to a positive 10.1 per cent in 2021-22. It lays out two other scenarios. In Scenario 1 — which assumes a faster normalisation of supply chains — the RBI forecasts a contraction of 7.5 per cent this fiscal and a strong 11.6 per cent growth next year. In Scenario 2 — an adverse case — real GDP growth this year will shrink by 11.5 per cent this year before rebounding to 7.2 per cent next year which it characterises as a “tepid growth”. In all three scenarios, there is a clear V-shaped recovery with the only difference being in the trajectory of the second arm.
The newly constituted MPC, while keeping rates intact, has maintained an accomodative stance that led to analysts projecting rate cuts not very far ahead as  financial stocks advanced on the bourses with the Sensex rising more than 300 points. Inflation watch In a “decisively” dovish commentary, the MPC said they would await the easing of inflationary pressures to use the space available for supporting growth further since the revival of the economy from the Covid-19 pandemic assumes the highest priority in the conduct of monetary policy. The growth oriented committee also decided to look through the current inflation hump as transient. Economists feel that the RBI will bring down the repo rate by 25-50 basis points in the coming months. “We currently have a pause in December followed by a 25 basis points rate cut in February and we maintain that call. The assurance that policy will stay accommodative is likely to help anchor market pricing as well as markets-based borrowing cost,” Radhika Rao, economist, DBS Group Research, said. Edelweiss Research said it continued to expect another 25-50 basis repo rate cuts, but potentially a much sharper fall in long-end rates as well over the next 6-12 months. 
The monetary policy committee  also came out with an inflation forecast for the first time after January. CPI (consumer price index) inflation is projected at 6.8 per cent for the second quarter and at 5.4-4.5 per cent during the second half and 4.3 per cent in the first quarter of next fiscal with risks broadly balanced.  The Reserve Bank’s target inflation range is 4 per cent plus/minus 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
