11-10-2020||Business||Fuel demand rises in September ||India’s fuel demand in September rose for the first time since June as easing coronavirus restrictions supported economic activity and travel even as consumption remained weaker than a year earlier. Consumption of refined fuels, a proxy for oil demand, rose 7.2 per cent in September from the prior month to 15.47 million tonnes — the first monthly increase since June when demand rose to 16.09 million tonnes. However, demand fell 4.4 per cent from the same period a year earlier, posting its seventh consecutive year-on-year slide, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell of the ministry of petroleum & natural gas showed. Factory activity also expanded at its fastest pace in more than eight years in September, even as layoffs continued. Fuel demand in August was the weakest since April. Diesel consumption rose 13.2 per cent to 5.49 million tonnes last month from 4.85 million tonnes in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
11-10-2020||Business||HDFC CEO Keki Mistry sees Q3 rebound||Keki Mistry, CEO of mortgage lender HDFC Ltd, on Saturday said the “worst is behind us” and the economic recovery has been faster than expected. Stating that the December quarter growth could outperform the expansion logged in the corresponding quarter a year ago, Mistry said that the Indian economy has shown its resiliency. A benign interest rate regime will continue going forward and that rates will go up only after economic activity gathers more pace and inflation pressure rises, Mistry said at an online dialogue organised by the All India Management Association (AIMA). He, however, said that interest rates have bottomed out. The government should identify the job creating sectors and address their issues on a priority basis, AIMA said in a release quoting him. Mistry said the housing and real estate sector is the biggest employer in the economy after agriculture, and that 80 per cent of the workforce in the sector require minimal skills. Talking about the repayment issues in the housing and the real estate sector, Mistry said that he expected non-performing loans to be in single digits. The veteran financial sector player also said that most of the job losses during Covid-19 were confined to low-income workers and the job losses for the kind of people who borrow money were not alarming.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
11-10-2020||Business||Vedanta delisting process fails||Metals and mining baron Anil Agarwal’s attempt to take Vedanta Ltd private has suffered a major jolt as the de-listing offer has failed. The total number of shares tendered in the offer was less than the threshold required to make it successful. Vedanta will now return all the equity shares that were tendered during the delisting process to the shareholders. The failure of the delisting attempt came amid a rollercoaster ride for Agarwal with the reverse book-building process getting off to a slow start. Agarwal had told a news channel early on Friday he may come out with a counter offer if the delisting plan struggles to overcome the 90 per cent hump that is mandatory for it to become successful. Hopes rose later in the day with stock exchanges data showing that shareholders had tendered more than the minimum amount required. However, reports of glitches as some investors could not put in their bids saw the offer getting extended to 7 pm on Friday. But because of unconfirmed bids of a little over 12.54 crore shares, Vedanta fell short of the mark. While the promoter group needed around 134.1 crore shares to delist the company, they could only muster 125.47 crore bids. In a regulatory filing on Saturday, Vedanta said the total number of shares validly tendered by the public shareholders was 1,25,47,16,610. “Thus, the delisting offer is deemed to have failed in terms of Regulation 19(1) of the delisting regulations. The acquirers will not acquire any equity shares tendered by the public shareholders in the delisting offer and the equity shares will continue to remain listed on the stock exchanges. The company’s American Depositary Shares will continue to remain listed on the NYSE,” Vedanta said. No final application will be made to the stock exchanges for delisting, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
11-10-2020||Business||RBI urges Supreme Court to lift bar on NPA tagging||The Reserve Bank of India has urged the Supreme Court to permit banks to start classifying loan defaulters as non-performing accounts once again, now that the six-month loan moratorium period has ended as of August 31. The apex court had imposed a restraint on NPA classification while hearing a batch of petitions from borrowers who were seeking waiver of interest on interest on their loans — called compounding interest in financial parlance — during the moratorium period. Some petitioners have also been seeking a court directive to extend the loan moratorium itself to help them tide over the crisis wrought by the pandemic. Many of these borrowers have been dissatisfied by the limited waiver of compound interest that the government recently granted to loans worth Rs 2 crore and below that were extended to small and medium businesses and a stack of retail loans to individuals. “The petitions are without any merit and are liable to be dismissed. It is further prayed that the interim order dated September 4, 2020 restraining classification of accounts into non-performing assets in terms of the directions issued by the RBI may kindly be vacated with immediate effect,” said the affidavit filed by Prashant Kumar, assistant general manager of the Reserve Bank of India. The central bank has cautioned that failure to immediately lift an interim stay on banks classifying any loan as an NPA would also undermine the RBI’s regulatory mandate. The court is set to rule on the matter on October 13. In a separate affidavit, the finance ministry has requested the apex court not to grant any further relief in the case apart from what has already been decided and submitted in the court. The decision to bear the cost of penal interest on loans up to Rs 2 crore for the six-month moratorium was taken in the specific context of the pandemic. The plan to implement this decision will be put in place by November 15, the affidavit said. The RBI has also told the court that any blanket waiver of interest on interest or a further extension of moratorium on loans was not feasible. Such a move would cause a “serious dent” to the economy and lead to financial instability and a “debilitating impact on the process of credit creation in the economy”, the RBI said. “Any blanket waiver of interest on interest will entail significant economic costs which cannot be absorbed by the banks without a serious dent to their financials, which in turn will have huge implications for depositors and the broader financial stability. “A long moratorium can also impact credit behaviour of borrowers and increase the risks of delinquencies post resumption of scheduled payments,” the affidavit said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
