12-10-2020||Business||Sebi has added a new category to its MF risk-o-meter||Risk, as identified by the securities regulator for the mutual fund industry, seems somewhat like separation these days — there are six degrees of it. An altogether new category has been added to “risk-o-meter”, the pictorial marker that is used to tab a fund on the basis of its risk-level. Product labelling for mutual fund investors now has “very high risk” as a distinct identifier. In ascending order, the five existing levels of risk are: low, low to moderate, moderate, moderately high and high. The latest inclusion, however, has jimmied a rather rusty doorknob, bringing certain elementary issues to the fore. In a highly commoditised world of financial products, these issues concern all investors, big and small. But, first, if you please, a bit about the risk-o-meter. Introduced by Sebi a few years ago, this is a well-intentioned initiative aimed at enabling investors to take meaningful decisions. To invest (or to abstain from investing) in complex products such as mutual funds, there needs to be a clear understanding of the risks involved, something that the regulatory agency wants to inculcate. Product labelling on the basis of risk, it is felt, needs to be as perfect as possible. An asset management company is required to assign a risk-level to a new fund right at the time of its launch. This is depicted in the risk-o-meter, which has to be evaluated on a regular basis and divulged as part of the overall portfolio disclosure. The product label has to be displayed prominently in all critical documents (such as Key Information Memorandum), which the investing public is expected to comprehend. So, a liquid fund is typically branded “low” on the risk scale, while a mid-cap equity fund bears the “high” tag. In both cases, the indicator dutifully marks the appropriate slot; in essence, it underscores an age-old dictum — the higher the risk, the higher is the potential return. This inevitable risk-return metric is a vital concept, an understanding of which is an absolute necessity in today’s world. Let me dwell a bit more on the idea and its application in real life. It is generally felt that equity is an extremely high-risk asset class. It is subject to great volatility, there can be absolutely no assurances of any kind of performance from the stock market. Debt, on the other hand, is a lot more sedate. There is instability here too, and debt allocations are not without attendant risks. Nevertheless, at certain levels, returns from the debt market are not so unpredictable. Its seemingly predictable feature, in fact, adds to its core appeal. Specific categories of debt funds draw their basic strength from their evergreen nature, and their impressive year-round sales figures are often a direct consequence of the same. It can be generally inferred, therefore, that equity is a high-risk category of assets, while debt is its low-risk counterpart. That is of course a sweeping statement, as there are multiple sub-classifications at both ends of the spectrum. Such sub-classifications, therefore, require differentiated labels. An investor, for instance, must understand that equity funds do bear all sorts of tags, including diversified, thematic and sectoral. It is also important to realise that a diversified equity fund can be somewhat less risky, while a sector fund will be located somewhere higher on the risk scale because of its inherent nature. The risk-o-meter really cannot capture such fine differentiation in just a single pictorial format; yet it does give a preliminary idea of a fund’s risk content in a friendly manner. Irrespective of what the visuals may suggest, investors would do well to ask pertinent questions before actually allocating resources to Fund A while staying away from Fund B. The choice — here, it doesn’t really matter what assets it holds in its portfolio — must match their risk profile. Is Fund A a perfect fit for me? Or should I actually choose Fund B instead? These posers are extremely critical when there is great diversity of products. Selection is everything. Risk analysis in this context deals with the degree of risk — a comparative benchmarking that must be done on the basis of a fund’s core characteristics, investment objectives, and the universe of securities from where it draws up its portfolio. In real life, a comparative degree such as this is not an absolute element, nor is it iron-clad in any way. It is actually a matter of perception, which is determined by an investor’s risk appetite. What is risky for you may not be so risky for me; each investor has a unique set of opportunities and challenges. However, the application of the new-look, extended risk-o-meter is still quite necessary. It is a useful guide for all. It helps us understand that an equity fund is riskier by far than a debt fund, a sector fund is riskier than a diversified fund, a low-duration debt fund is a lot less risky when compared to a credit risk fund. As things stand, there are quite a few standard classifications of funds, each with risks of its own. I have created a roster of debt and equity funds as well as their risks. These are grouped according to risk in an ascending order, numbered 1 to 4 on the debt side where product differentiation is extremely sharp. At the lowest rung are overnight, liquid, ultra short duration funds and so on. At the highest stratum are dynamic bond and credit risk funds. On the equity side, I have worked out another set of four groups, again on the basis of their salient features. You will notice, only the most relevant categories have been chosen. I have kept the likes of gilt funds, arbitrage funds and gold funds out of its ambit. A whole bunch of hybrid categories, as well as miscellaneous others like asset allocation funds, have not been considered. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||Steel industry seeks royalty relief on iron ore||The country’s steel players are demanding a reduction in the royalties on iron ore which will reduce their production costs to make them more competitive and also meet the government's ambitious target to produce 300 million tonnes (mt) by 2030. Sources said the industry has approached the steel ministry to cut royalties, which will also benefit many other industries which used steel as an input such as cars and construction. The royalty on iron ore fines is 15 per cent — one of the highest in the world — and the industry wants it reduced to 5 per cent to bring them on a par with other nations. Steel ministry officials said the issue would be taken up at the highest level soon as it would incentivise manufacturing within the country. In its annual report for 2019-20, the steel ministry said it had submitted a proposal to its mines counterpart to reduce the royalty to 5 per cent from 15 per cent to incentivise the beneficiation (cleaning) and pelletisation of ore as well as reduce the stockpile of low-grade fines dumped at the mine heads. The ministry in the annual report had warned the industry was facing challenges both in the short and long-term because of raw material security. Iron ore and coking coal are the two key raw materials used for steel making. India’s steel industry. Biswajit Dhar of the Jawaharlal Nehru University said, “The government should encourage value added exports as the shipment of raw material does not boost the atmanirbhar philosophy of the government. Steel is the mother industry and its encouragement would boost other sectors, especially at a time the country is trying to give an infrastructure push.” Steel ministry officials said the issue of royalty reduction would be taken up at the highest level soon as it would incentivise manufacturing in the country.” Though India has done well to emerge as the world’s second-largest steel-maker, overtaking Japan, many challenges remain in achieving the ambitious target of 300mt in another 10 years. Aggregate production is just 140mt. Achieving another 160mt of capacity will be an uphill task unless the Indian companies are able to increase their competitiveness significantly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||IndiGrid to double asset base by 2022||IndiGrid, a listed infrastructure investment trust (InvIT), backed by global investors such as GIC and KKR, aims to build an asset under management of around Rs 30,000 crore by 2022, buoyed by the monetisation opportunities of power transmission projects in the country. IndiGrid’s current assets under management is around Rs 13,500 crore, meaning it aims to double assets in just two years. This includes projects in 14 states, including in Bengal. “Around Rs 6,000-7,000 crore worth of assets are in the pipeline for which we have exclusive agreements in place and over the next two years, our ability to find another Rs 10,000 crore is not a daunting task. The market is good and there is sufficient appetite,” said Harsh Shah, chief executive officer, IndiGrid. According to estimates, there is a potential to monetise assets worth Rs 45,000-60,000 crore of central and state power transmission firms and investment through the InvIT route would allow a wider participation of both domestic and overseas institutional investors as well as retail investors. At least two government bodies in the infrastructure space have already announced their intention to tap the InvIT route for asset monetisation. The Union cabinet committee on economic affairs had last month approved the first lot of monetisation of the assets of Powergrid through the InvIT route with gross block value of around Rs 7,000 crore. In July, the NHAI had announced plans to set up an InvIT. InvITs and REITs have raised equity of around Rs 40,000 crore with assets under management worth over Rs 1,15,000 crore over the last three years across roads, power transmission, real estate and telecom assets. While the segment has seen several policy changes over the past few years, there are a couple of areas where companies and investors are in favour of regulatory intervention. The first change relates to the trading lot size. Although  Sebi has lowered the trading lot size to Rs 1 lakh, sources said that there is scope for further reduction. Moreover, insurance companies and pension funds should be allowed to subscribe to the debt securities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||Honda check on inventory across country||Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India (HMSI) Ltd is keeping a close watch on the inventory levels with its dealers across the country as there is a tendency to hoard stocks ahead of the festive season to cater to a rise in demand. The company remains “cautiously optimistic” about the upcoming festive season “which is going to be like no other festive season before”, said Yadvinder Singh Guleria, director, marketing and sales, HMSI. Amid reports of inventories in the two-wheeler segment climbing to 45-50 days and retail sales down 13 per cent in September, Guleria clarified: “We are far less in terms of inventory in our network  compared with others. We are in touch with our regional dealers and keeping a close watch on the build-up of inventory.” The company is only allowing a “cash and carry” for dealers and are not allowing any credit system. “The bankers are also cautious in providing inventory funds. They are providing a third-party check on build-up of inventories,” said Guleria, adding that the company has witnessed a 43 per cent jump in bookings in the first eight days of October. On the decreasing share of scooters in the company’s total sales, Guleria said: “The contribution of scooters was 32 per cent in 2018-19 and 2019-20. In 2020-21, it has dropped to 28 per cent but that is because majority of the volume of scooter sales comes from urban areas which has witnessed lockdowns. Once these areas opened up, we have been adding to our volumes month-on-month.” He added that there was no change in trend in the usage pattern. The company  has been launching products in the mid-sized and premium segments such as the Hornet 2.0 and most recently the Highness CB 350 that will retail at Rs 1.85 lakh (ex showroom Gurgaon). However, it has been losing out on sales at the entry-level category. Acknowledging that the company has no products in the entry-level segment, Guleria said: “The company sees a lot of potential in the mid-sized segment. The Highness is booked for this month’s production. But we are also aware that we need products at the entry level and we are working towards filling up the gaps.” The 350cc Highness will be sold from the company’s Big Wing sales network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||RBI sees V-shaped recovery in next fiscal||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to go in for another 25-50-basis-point cuts in the policy repo rate during this fiscal and follow it up with an extended pause with the domestic economy projected to show a sharp rise in real GDP growth during the next fiscal. After the three-day meeting of its reconstituted monetary policy committee (MPC) that concluded on Friday, Reserve Bank governor Shaktikanta Das projected a “three-speed recovery” with the pace of growth varying across different sectors. However, the MPC has projected a sharp recovery quarter-on-quarter: the record contraction seen in the first quarter (23.9 per cent decline) will narrow down to -9.8 per cent in the second quarter of this fiscal. Contraction will be lower at 5.6 per cent in the third quarter, followed by a marginal growth of 0.5 per cent in the fourth quarter, the MPC said. For the year as a whole, the economy is expected to contract  9.5 per cent. In the first quarter of the next fiscal, real GDP growth will jump 20.6 per cent, the MPC said.
Though the MPC did not give a growth projection for 2021-22, the RBI’s monetary policy report which accompanies the MPC statement projected real GDP will grow 10.1 per cent. This is more than the median projection of professional forecasters at 8.2 per cent. The RBI’s optimism with regard to growth is shared by others as well, though this will largely be because of the base effect. Standard & Poor’s has said  economic activity in India will begin to normalise in 2021-22, resulting in real GDP growth of about 10 per cent pointing out that “a significant proportion of this rebound will be due to the very weak base in the current fiscal year”. On the other hand, a Jefferies report puts 2021-22 real GDP growth at 12 per cent, helped by the low base in the first half. Analysts  said  the supply of vaccine will be a key factor to shape up the economic activity. The monetary policy report is assuming supply chains are fully restored with the availability of effective vaccines and a normal monsoon. MPC also expects no major exogenous or policy shocks along with a large favourable base effect. The panel noted that in such an environment, the significant monetary accommodation already provided through cuts in the policy repo rate and ample liquidity infusion through conventional and unconventional measures would add to the upside. Besides, the fiscal stimulus and other structural reform measures announced by the government would be expected to play their part. Economists expect there is room for another 25-50 basis points cut in the current fiscal and in 2021-22, the interest rate setting panel will go for a pause should the recovery take off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||India to face limited impact of US levy on aluminium sheets||India will not be significantly affected by the anti-dumping duty imposed by the US on its common alloy aluminium sheets as the material is exported in small amounts out of the country to the US. “As we sell such sheets in limited quantity to the US, the impact would not be significant. It is a reflection of the countries impacted by Covid-19 adopting protectionist measures on one pretext or another,” Biswajit Dhar of the JNU said. Over 70 countries across the globe have notified the WTO of having taken protectionist measures since the outbreak of Covid-19. India and some other countries have not done so despite taking such measures as New Delhi is not a signatory to some WTO agreements. “The department’s aluminium sheet investigations constitute the broadest US trade enforcement action in two decades,” said US secretary of commerce Wilbur Ross in a statement. German exports have faced the highest duties ranging from 52-132 per cent. Anti-dumping duties on imports from India will range from 0-47.92 per cent, the US Commerce Department said. Analysts said the anti-dumping measures would not have a significant impact on the forthcoming third round of 2+2 ministerial dialogue on 26-27 October between India and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||Steel makes rapid recovery||Top Indian steelmakers have been able to sell more steel in the last quarter than they did in the same period last year, backed by an uptick in demand from automobile and consumer durables industries and exports to China and Vietnam. Industry leader Tata Steel recorded a 22 per cent jump in sales, while public sector Steel Authority of India Ltd clocked a 31.3 per cent rise in sales during July-September as India came out of a pandemic-induced lockdown. Steel mills run by the Jindal brothers — JSW Steel and Jindal Steel & Power Ltd — also put up an impressive performance during the period. A sequential spike in sales and production was expected in the second quarter given that the mills operated at a very low capacity during April-May. But what brought cheer to the companies is sales reaching pre-Covid levels. “This quarter was always expected to be better than the first but it is heartening to note that sales have surpassed the second quarter of the last fiscal,” a SAIL spokesperson said. A JSW official said demand from automobile and consumer durables industries was strong. “They use flat products which bring better margin for the steel companies,” the official explained. Production of rolled products in the flat segment rose 5 per cent in the July-September period of 2020 compared with the same period last year, making up for the dip in sale of long products, which is used in the construction sector. The divergence suggests that spending in infrastructure is yet to pick up, while real estate continues to remain sluggish. Sajjan Jindal-promoted JSW does not give out the quarterly sales figure even as it has guided to maintain last fiscal’s number despite a near washout in the first quarter. Domestic demand picked up as more Indians opted to buy small cars to avoid public transport and consumers purchased dishwashers and washing machines amid the pandemic. Export remained strong, too. Exports comprised 38 per cent of the total sales of Navin Jindal-promoted JSPL in the second quarter. The significant role played by exports was also highlighted in Tata Steel’s commentary which noted that even though sales were up, domestic steel consumption was down 7.5 per cent year-on-year, suggesting that overseas shipments formed a major part of the sales. Steel companies have also taken multiple price hikes and the benchmark HRC prices are hovering at Rs 43,200 per tonne. “Steel makers have announced multiple price hikes whereas the input costs are likely to trend lower, largely because of tepid seaborne coking coal prices. This would support a recovery in mill margins from the Q1 lows,” Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president, corporate sector ratings of Icra, said. According to Roy, the third and fourth quarters are traditionally better than the first half, so the momentum of the second quarter should be maintained going forward. However, he had a word of caution. Around 60-65 per cent of Indian steel consumption is driven by the construction and infrastructure sectors and unless a few large projects start moving, the momentum may not sustain for long. This is critical particularly for long products. While large primary integrated players mostly focus on flat products, the long items are produced by small secondary producers. This is the reason why the capacity utilisation of the smaller units have been less than their bigger counterparts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
12-10-2020||Business||Proposal to pay GST dues in cash||The government may consider allowing India Inc to deposit GST on a cash basis to help them tide over the liquidity woes during the Covid-19 pandemic, a PwC report said. Formalising its support strategy for industry in the next phase, PwC said the government could consider suspending GST payments for select sectors during the Covid-19 period. In its report titled “Reimagining GST 3”, PwC said cash liquidity support schemes that advance business continuity are the need of the hour. “The government has announced a timely budgetary support scheme in line with the relief packages of various developed nations. Despite these steps, much ground remains to be covered,” it said. The report said that some key issues which require the immediate attention of the government before taxpayers get entangled in long-drawn litigation include the eligibility of ITC (input tax credit) on expired stock, intermediary services and taxability of discount schemes. “The government should consider issuing clear guidelines around these critical issues, keeping in mind the evolving international taxation principles and business models prevalent in the trade and industry,” it said. On suggestions to overcome the current crisis, the PwC report suggested some measures the government could consider while formalising its support strategy for India Inc in the next phase. These are facility to deposit GST to the treasury on cash basis, suspension of GST payments for select sectors during the pandemic, dispensation of credit reversal requirement on expired stock during this period.It also suggested one-time dispute settlement scheme under GST. The government can also consider introducing a scheme for voluntary disclosure of tax payments before the taxpayer undergoes GST audits, the report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
12-10-2020||Business||Non-BJP states push for ministerial panel on GST||The GST Council in its meeting on Monday is likely to discuss the suggestion of non-BJP states to set up a ministerial panel to develop consensus on the issue of compensation, sources said. The council, chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state finance ministers, will for the third time in a row discuss the issue of funding the shortfall in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue of states. While some Opposition-ruled states are demanding that a group of ministers be set up to arrive at a decision on the mechanism for funding the compensation shortfall, the BJP-ruled states, which have already opted for the borrowing option given by the Centre, are of the view that they should be given a go-ahead so that they can get the money quickly. In its previous meeting last week, the council had decided to extend the surcharge on taxes on luxury goods such as cars and tobacco products beyond June 2022, but failed to reach a consensus on ways to compensate states for loss of tax revenue. The projected total compensation shortfall in the current fiscal stands at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. In August, the Centre gave two options to the states — to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from market — and had also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. Following demand by some states, the amount of Rs 97,000 crore was increased to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. As many as 21 states —  which are BJP ruled or have supported it on various issues — have opted to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore to meet the compensation shortfall. The Centre has released Rs 20,000 crore to the states towards compensation shortfall so far in the current fiscal. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under the 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods, and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss. The payment of GST compensation to states became an issue after revenues from the imposition of cess started dwindling since August 2019. The Centre had to dive into the excess cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
