13-10-2020||Business||Indian economy to contract by 10.3% in 2020: IMF||The Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday. However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest growing emerging economy, surpassing China's projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest 'World Economic Outlook' report. Released ahead of the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank, the report said global growth would contract by 4.4 per cent this year and bounce back to 5.2 per cent in 2021. America's economy is projected to contract by 5.8 per cent in 2020 and grow by 3.9 per cent the next year, the IMF said. China is the only country, among the major economies, to show a positive growth rate of 1.9 per cent in 2020, it said. The IMF in its report said that revisions to the forecast are particularly large for India, where Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contracted much more severely than expected in the second quarter. "As a result, the economy is projected to contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, before rebounding by 8.8 per cent in 2021," it said. In 2019, India's growth rate was 4.2 per cent. According to the IMF, India is among those likely to suffer the greatest damage from global warming, reflecting its initially high temperatures. For India, the net gains from climate change mitigation-relative to inaction-would be up to 60-80 per cent of GDP by 2100. While estimates of losses from climate change are somewhat smaller for colder regions (for example, Europe, North America, and east Asia), these are likely underestimations as they do not include a number of damages (for example, rise in sea levels, natural disasters, damage to infrastructure from thawing of permafrost in Russia) and negative global spillovers from large economic disruptions in other parts of the world. Last week, the World bank said India's GDP this fiscal is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent. "India's GDP is expected to contract 9.6 per cent in the fiscal year that started in March," the World Bank said in its latest issue of the South Asia Economic Focus report. "The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before," Hans Timmer, World Bank Chief Economist for South Asia, told reporters during a conference call last week. "It is an exceptional situation in India. A very dire outlook," he said. There was a 25 per cent decline in GDP in the second quarter of the year, which is the first quarter of the current fiscal year in India. In the report, the World bank said the spread of the virus and containment measures have severely disrupted supply and demand conditions in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||British Airways replaces CEO as part of shake-up||British Airways has replaced CEO Alex Cruz after more than four years on the job as part of a broad shake-up as the Covid-19 pandemic pummels airlines around the world. International Airlines Group, British Airways’ parent company, on Monday named Sean Doyle, previously the boss of Aer Lingus, another carrier in the group, as BA’s new chief executive. Cruz will remain non-executive chairman during an unspecified transition period. BA’s passenger traffic dropped 95 per cent from a year earlier in the second quarter, leading to a first-half operating loss of 4.04 billion euros ($4.77 billion). In recent months, unions have criticised the way Cruz handled 12,000 job cuts linked to the pandemic. The shakeup comes just a month after Luis Gallego became CEO of IAG, promising to shore up the group’s finances and adapt to the “new normal” of air travel during the pandemic. Gallego led a cost-cutting drive at Iberia Airlines after it merged with British Airways to create IAG. He replaced long-time CEO Willie Walsh. Airlines around the world have seen passenger numbers plummet amid government-imposed travel restrictions and concerns about the safety of air travel during the pandemic. British airlines have been particularly hard hit because travelers from most countries are required to quarantine themselves for 14 days after arrival, killing off most business and holiday travel. “This is a sign that the new chief executive of IAG, Luis Gallego, is flexing his muscles and trying to demonstrate he’ll make the changes necessary to lead a sustained recovery for the airline group,” said Susannah Streeter, a market analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown. “Sean Doyle will have his work cut out to make immediate progress given that British Airways is facing the toughest challenge in its history as demand for international travel has plummeted and quarantine restrictions continue to constrain bookings.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||Portfolio reshuffle at RBI after deputy governor addition||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday re-allocated the portfolios of deputy governors following the appointment of Rajeshwar Rao. Rao took over as the fourth deputy governor of the RBI on October 9 for a period of three years. He replaced N.S. Vishwanathan who had retired in March. He was the executive director of the Reserve Bank before being elevated to the post of deputy governor. It took around six months for the government to announce the appointment of Rao and till then the portfolios were with the three other deputy governors — B.P. Kanungo, M.K. Jain and Michael D Patra. As deputy governor, Rao will now look after the department of regulation, the department of communication, the enforcement department, inspection department, legal department and the risk monitoring department. The crucial monetary policy department will continue to be headed by Patra along with various other departments. Kanungo will have 10 portfolios. He will be in charge of co-ordination, department of currency management, while Jain will handle the crucial department of supervision, Central Security Cell among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||Stocks cold to Centre's festive stimulus measures||Equity benchmarks pared early gains but managed to end modestly higher on Monday after the finance minister announced fresh stimulus measures to revive festive demand and boost the economy. After rallying nearly 400 points in the morning, the 30-share BSE Sensex buckled under selling pressure in afternoon trade, before ending 84.31 points, or 0.21 per cent higher, at 40593.80. The NSE Nifty rose 16.75 points, or 0.14 per cent, to close at 11930.95. According to Arjun Yash Mahajan, head of institutional business at Reliance Securities, the government’s effort to stimulate consumers demand by offering advances and cash voucher schemes looks to be short term in nature and lacks commitment to have a sustainable growth. “This may lead to a kind of destocking led demand improvement ahead of festivals. However, it may not necessarily result in a sustainable recovery,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||Interest-free loan of Rs 12,000 crore offered to states||The Centre is offering Rs 12,000 crore in special interest free 50-year loans to states for additional capital spending to boost the economy that has been battered by the pandemic and the resulting lockdown. The sum has been parcelled among the states in three ways: the eight north eastern states will get Rs 200 crore each, while Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will get Rs 450 crore each, aggregating Rs 2,500 crore. A sum of Rs 7,500 will go to the other states according to the Finance Commission's devolution formula. Another Rs 2,000 crore will go to the states which implement at least 3 out of the 4 reforms spelled out in the government's earlier stimulus package. Analysts estimated the boost to capital spending would be a modest one. Aditi Nayar, principal economist with Icra, said the allocation to states “appears to be rather modest, ranging from Rs 32 crore for Goa to Rs 1,485 crore for Uttar Pradesh. “The relatively small magnitude of the long-term loans to be provided by the Centre to the states, is unlikely to provide any meaningful boost to capex in 2020-21. “In our assessment, it may allow for an accelerated settlement of pending dues of contractors or suppliers,” she said. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also said Rs 25,000 crore would be provided towards capital expenditure on roads, defence infrastructure, water supply, urban development and domestically produced capital equipment for defence. This is over and above the Rs 4.13 lakh crore capital expenditure announced in the budget for 2020-21. “The capital expenditure is a positive measure as it will help the state government to finance the ongoing capital projects,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said. The fiscal impact of the additional expenditure by the central government will be around 0.2 per cent of GDP. “We expect the fiscal deficit to be around 9.2 per cent for 2020-21 assuming these funds have to be raised by the Centre this year to finance such spending,” Sabnavis said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||Factory show dismal, food prices pinch||In a double whammy for the economy, industrial production declined 8 per cent in August, while retail inflation rose to an eight-month high of 7.34 per cent in September, further delaying a rate cut by the central bank to bolster the shrinking economy. Lower output in the manufacturing, mining and power generation sectors dragged down industrial output, which had contracted 1.4 per cent in August 2019. Production of the manufacturing sector fell 8.6 per cent, while the output of the mining and power segments was down 9.8 per cent and 1.8 per cent, respectively. “It may not be appropriate to compare the IIP in the post pandemic months with the IIP for months preceding the pandemic,” the ministry of statistics and programme implementation said in a statement. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, fell 15.4 per cent in August against a contraction of 20.9 per cent earlier. Consumer durables output also declined 10.3 per cent against a contraction of 9.7 per cent in August 2019. Consumer non-durable goods production fell 3.3 per cent compared with a growth of 3.1 per cent a year ago. Meanwhile, the contraction in IIP in July has been revised to (-)10.8 per cent from the (-) 10.4 per cent provisional data released last month. The May IIP has been revised marginally to a 33.4 per cent contraction from a 33.9 per cent decline. According to data released by the National Statistical Office, the Consumer Food Price Index (CFPI) crossed the double-digit mark and was 10.68 per cent in September. The inflation in the vegetable segment was 20.73 per cent in September, significantly up from 11.41 per cent in the preceding month. The rate of price rise in protein-rich eggs was 15.47 per cent in September compared with 10.11 per cent in August. Economists said food prices soared because of a pick-up in demand ahead of the festival season and supply-side disruptions caused by the coronavirus lockdown. The Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based inflation was 6.69 per cent in August and 3.99 per cent in September 2019. Retail inflation has remained above 4 per cent, the middle-point of the RBI’s target of 2-6 per cent, for a year. The previous high in the CPI was witnessed at 7.59 per cent in January 2020. “Our concerns on stagflation appear to be getting stronger and while the RBI has communicated its decision on continuing with an accommodative environment well into next fiscal, such increasing levels of inflation will clearly be a concern for policymakers,” said Suman Chowdhury, chief analytical officer, Acuite Ratings & Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
13-10-2020||Business||Unused LTC as stimulus bait in festive season||At a time air and train travel has virtually dried up, the Modi government is looking to unlock spending in the leave travel concession (LTC) which is not being availed and by reintroducing the Rs 10,000 festival advance. “This is expected to create a consumer demand of about Rs 28,000 crore,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, voicing a plan to boost the economy ahead of the festival season when people tend to spend more. There is a rider: employees will need to spend three times their entitlements in order to qualify for the tax breaks they get. LTC is tax free for government employees in two years out of a block of every four years. The plan is to persuade government employees to spend the LTC amount on purchases of GST items that attract a rate of 12 per cent or more. This  will hopefully catalyse spending in white goods and home appliances, she said. The festival advance scheme is being brought back as a one-time measure and will involve a disbursal of Rs 4,000 crore. Govt employees will get prepaid Rupay cards with a spending limit of Rs 10,000 that must be spent by March 31 next year when the cards will expire. They cannot be used at ATMs to withdraw cash and can be used only at points of sale. Unspent money will lapse on May 31 next year. The amount is being given in the form of an interest-free advance and will be recovered in 10 equal monthly instalments next year. The Centre says if all the states also adopt the scheme, the spending will go up by another Rs 8,000 crore. However, economists feel the move would not significantly boost consumption at a time Covid-19 related uncertainties remain and the spending measures are not something new. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said: “The consumption push is not really any fresh money in the system... Employees could prefer to use the facility for travel as and when it would be possible – maybe a year down the line rather than spend the money now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
13-10-2020||Business||GST Council fails to arrive at borrowing consensus||The GST Council on Monday again failed to arrive at a consensus on how to compensate the states for the shortfall in collections. But finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman appeared to charge the Opposition-ruled states for blocking those who want to take up borrowing option one to meet the shortfall. “Does the collective conscience of the GST Council in its quest for unanimity, which I too strived for, allow us to hold back states which have opted for a borrowing option, saying we have to hold you back till a consensus is arrived at? I asked this to the members,” Sitharaman said after a five-hour council meeting. She said  the Centre would be ready to facilitate those states which have opted for option one and their borrowing rights cannot be held back by others. The political slugfest continued to act as a stumbling block in arriving at a consensus as the 10 opposition states, including Bengal, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, have refused to go by the Centre’s proposals. “The Centre has issued a borrowing calendar, if I go beyond that to borrow, the G-Sec deals which are used as a benchmark for every other borrowing will go up. This will increase borrowing costs for states and the private sector too,” the finance minister said. “An increased borrowed cost is not something we can afford at a time India is looking at more money to invest and to borrow to do business.” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac slammed Sitharaman for her move to facilitate the borrowing for the BJP states and those who support the party on various issues. In a tweet, Isaac said: “It is unfortunate that the Union FM does not propose a decision in the Council or even make a statement what she is going to do but chose to make the announcement in the press conference. Why does the Centre refuse to take a decision in the Council? Total disregard for democratic norms.” “The Union FM’s announcement that she is going to permit 21 states to borrow under Option one is illegal. Option one involves deferment of compensation payment beyond five years for which a Council decision is necessary according to the AG’s opinion. No such decision has been made in the Council,” Isaac said in the tweet. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra was equally scathing of Sitharaman. “Today, will @nsitharaman with (PM) Modi’s direction ignore & muzzle views of 10 states at the GST Council, using brute majoritarianism? If she does, it will impart a death blow to cooperative federalism already on ventilator. Will today be marked a black day for India's democracy,” Mitra said in his tweet. Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said:  “A stalemate seems to be continuing on the issue of cess. The only certainty is that the levy of cess will continue beyond 2022 which means that eventually it is the consumers who will be funding the shortfall.” M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte, said, “Businesses would be keenly waiting to know the period and the terms on which the compensation cess would be extended as that would have a significant bearing on their business plans.” Sitharaman said that majority of the states have agreed on option one where states can borrow up to Rs 1.1 lakh crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI. Other states are of the view that a consensus should be reached. However, Sitharaman said that a lot of members discussed whether the Council has any authority to stop them from going and borrowing funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
13-10-2020||Business||Demand tonic: central LTC for shopping, Rs 10,000 advance  ||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has announced another faux stimulus package that seeks to boost demand in India’s pandemic-battered economy by Rs 73,000 crore this fiscal by persuading high-saving central government employees to open up their wallets during the looming festive season. The central government employees have been allowed to tap into their tax-exempt leave travel concession (LTC) and spend it on a range of white goods, home appliances and other consumer products that attract a goods and services tax rate of 12 per cent and higher. These allowances might have lapsed if employees — who have been loath to go on a holiday during the pandemic — did not use them. Each employee will also be given a pre-paid Rupay card for Rs 10,000 under a special festival advance scheme — an idea being resurrected from the Sixth Pay Commission report — to ignite spending. The interest-free loan will be recovered in 10 instalments next year, officials said. Employees will be allowed to use the card till March 31 after which it will lapse. But like the first stimulus package announced in May, the Narendra Modi government is making very little upfront funding commitments. It will, therefore, not move the needle on its gross borrowings which, officials said, would stay pegged at Rs 12 lakh crore this year. The government is hoping to crank up demand by Rs 36,000 crore by “incentivising” government employees to spend more. Of this, a sum of Rs 28,000 crore will come from an leave travel concession (LTC) voucher scheme and Rs 8,000 crore from a festival advance scheme. It also expects an additional capital expenditure of Rs 37,000 crore by the Centre and the states. An additional capital expenditure of Rs 25,000 crore will be provided in the budget over and above the Rs 4.14 lakh crore allotted. This capital expenditure will be spent on roads, defence infrastructure, water supply, urban development, and domestically produced capital investment. “All these measures are likely to create an additional demand of Rs 73,000 crore),” Sitharaman told a media conference where she unveiled the new package, adding the proposals would stimulate demand in a “fiscally prudent way”. She refused to indicate whether the government was prepared to consider additional stimulus measures between now and the budget which is traditionally presented on the first working day of February. “Let us wait and see the response to these proposals,” she said. “There will be no change in the borrowing target for the current fiscal,” said economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj. “We have taken into account estimates for the stimulus that we would be taking. At this point of time, our estimate remains at Rs 12 lakh crore for the current fiscal,” he said. Economists said the measures were intended to spur consumer and capital spending but their fiscal cost and impact on economic activity appears to be fairly modest. N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar School of Economics University, Bangalore, said: “The demand side measures would have an immediate impact but the supply side measures would start showing its results with a lag. The stimulus packages announced so far give an indication that the country’s nominal GDP for the current fiscal would be positive. One has to watch out the inflation numbers if the supply constraint fails to cope up with the demand.” Retail inflation rose to 7.34 per cent in September, far above the comfort level of the Reserve Bank of India which prompt the central bank to hold interest rates in the coming months. “The fiscal impact of the additional expenditure by the central government will be around 0.2 per cent of GDP. We expect the fiscal deficit to be around 9.2 per cent for this fiscal assuming these funds have to be raised by the Centre this year to finance such spending,”  said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA, said: “We anticipate that the LTC and festival advance schemes will result in a temporary boost to consumer sentiment and economic activity, with a sharper pick up in festive season sales that would subsequently fizzle out…. The relatively small magnitude of the long-term loans to be provided by the Centre to the states is unlikely to provide any meaningful boost to capex in FY2021, in our assessment, although it may allow for an accelerated settlement of pending dues of contractors or suppliers.” “The timing of these announcements is just right as we are entering the festival season and this should help improve consumer sentiment and demand in the economy. These announcements also give us additional reasons to review the GDP growth forecast for the full year and we hope to be back in the positive growth terrain by the last quarter of this fiscal,” said Ficci president Sangita Reddy. Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of CII, said: “The two-pronged strategy will provide a huge impetus to spending both by consumers and government which in turn will accelerate economic activity.” This is the third stimulus package since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government announced the Rs 1.70 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKP) in March to protect poor and vulnerable from the impact of the Covid-19 crisis. It was followed by Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package of Rs 20.97 lakh crore in May, which was largely focused on supply side and long-term reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
