14-10-2020||Business||Bank of England alert on sub-zero interest rate||The Bank of England has asked commercial banks whether they are ready for negative interest rates, signaling that the central bank is moving closer to cutting its key interest rate below zero. If the benchmark rate were cut to less than zero, from the current 0.1 per cent, commercial banks would have to pay the Bank of England to hold deposits for them. Policy makers have previously indicated that they were willing to consider negative interest rates amid the economic pressures caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. A negative interest rate would encourage banks to lend money out rather than leave it at the Bank of England. A negative interest rate could theoretically result in savers being charged to hold deposits in their bank accounts, but commercial considerations, such as the need to attract deposits, might prevent banks from passing on all their costs to customers. The central bank, in a letter dated Monday, asked the CEOs of commercial banks to provide information on their operational readiness for negative interest rates and challenges presented by such a move. “For a negative Bank Rate to be effective as a policy tool, the financial sector — as the key transmission mechanism of monetary policy — would need to be operationally ready to implement it in a way that does not adversely affect the safety and soundness of firms,” deputy governor Sam Woods said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
14-10-2020||Business||Coal India auction sales jump||Coal India on Tuesday said it has posted a 65 per cent rise in the sale of fuel through the electronic auction route in the first six months of this fiscal. The public sector miner has booked 41.4 million tonnes (mt) of raw coal through e-auction between April and September 2020 against 25.1 mt a year ago. “Even with the pandemic slowdown, Coal India could net a 10 per cent average premium over the notified value in the first six months compared with 48 per cent in the  previous year. But the aim was to increase volume,” a Coal India official said. To mitigate the liquidity crunch of coal consumers amid Covid-19 pandemic, the miner also brought down the reserve price to lift more coal during the lockdown phase. Spot e-auction, meant for both regulated and non regulated sectors, was at 16 MT during the six month period followed by exclusive action of 13.4 MT for non power consumers. A forward auction for power producers bagged 10 MT while a special spot auction yielded 2 MT during the period. Coal India board has vetted a reserve price of up to a maximum of 10 percent of notified price in October to gauge the market response. Based on the premium fetched, the miner would decide on the reserve price for November. “Power sector showing signs of recovery bodes well for us to ramp up sales,” said the official. Around 80 per cent of the offtake of Coal India is for the power sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
14-10-2020||Business||Stimulus package size questioned||The actual size of the government’s stimulus package could work out to a modest Rs 40,000 crore and not Rs 73,000 crore, a report from the economic research wing of the State Bank of India (SBI) has said. On Monday, the government  had announced measures to boost demand by allowing central government employees to dip into their leave travel concession (LTC). The LTC amount can be tax free provided the employee spends three times the sum on goods and services which carry GST of 12 per cent or more. Further, the employees will be given a pre-paid Rupay card of Rs 10,000 under a special festival advance scheme. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had put the size of the stimulus at Rs 73,000 crore. While the announcement did not excite the markets, a report from the economic research wing of the SBI said the estimate was overblown and the actual sum  was only Rs 40,000 crore, or 0.21 per cent of  GDP. The LTC Voucher carrot, the report says, will not work because only 10-15 per cent of the employees will avail themselves of the scheme. The obligation on the employee to spend three times the value of the entitled fare in order to claim the tax break puts a disagreeable choice before the employee, the report said. Around 3.5 million central government employees would be entitled to this benefit, the report said. “It is doubtful how many will avail this scheme. If the person has to pay GST then it will be a burden and in fact he would be better off paying taxes on the amount availed by him,’’ the report said. The report also questioned the interest-free loan scheme to states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
14-10-2020||Business||GST borrowing door opened for 20 states||The Centre on Tuesday permitted 20 states to raise additional Rs 68,825 crore through open market borrowings to bridge the revenue shortfall caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision comes a day after the GST Council meeting failed to reach a consensus on the stalemate over the Centre’s proposal of states borrowing against future GST collections to make up for the shortfall. The projected total GST compensation shortfall in the current fiscal stands at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. “Additional borrowing permission has been granted at the rate of 0.50 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to states that have opted for Option 1 out of the two options suggested by the ministry of finance to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation,” an official statement said. In the meeting of the GST Council held on August 27 these two options were put forward and were subsequently communicated to the states on August 29. The final instalment of 0.5 per cent out of this 2 per cent limit was linked to carrying out at least three out of four reforms stipulated by the government. However, in case of states who have exercised Option-1, the condition of carrying out the reforms to avail the final instalment of 0.5 per cent of GSDP has been waived. “The 20 states that have opted for Option-1 are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Eight states are yet to exercise an option,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
14-10-2020||Business||Bane sparks boom for tea growers as prices spike||Tea — the golden elixir — brought some shine back to its hapless producers after a gap of seven years as the pandemic tightened supply by weeding out excess crop from the market and household consumption increased as people preferred to work from home. The ongoing trend of supply outstripping demand as small tea growers flooded the market was reversed from June onwards as the lockdown induced disruption and floods destroyed crops, resulting in more than 50 per cent higher auction prices during the July-September period. Even after factoring in a 20 per cent drop in production, a lot is left on the table for the producers, especially the well-managed ones. Large planters — the garden owners — had their best quarter in this period, helping them wipe off some of their losses of past years. They, however, are unsure if the party will last long as prices have started correcting sharply after hitting a high in mid August. Listed companies will come out with their second-quarter results some weeks later but Atul Asthana, managing director of Goodricke Group, agreed that the second quarter should be better than the first. “Prices were firm and demand was strong. There was an uptick in domestic at-home consumption too. Packet tea is doing good too, making up for the slack in sale of loose tea. I expect the trend to continue at least till September of 2021,” Asthana told The Telegraph. Goodrick is part of Camellia Group Plc, the world’s largest producer of bulk tea. Tea Board data suggests that in the months of July, August and September, north India tea (Assam, Darjeeling, Dooars & Terai) prices at the auction were higher by more than 50 per cent than the corresponding months of 2019. If an annual average is taken, prices are higher by 26 per cent between January and September. So far there has been a 153 million kg crop loss till August, representing an 18.3 per cent cut from 2019. Initial estimates suggest that September production was less than last year too, all but balancing out the 160-170 million kg surplus in the system at the start of the year. As plants remained unattended and leaves grew bigger during the lockdown resulting in minimal production of the first flush, planters took up deep skiffing — a form of pruning — which resulted in good quality tea when plucking started from June. “Packet tea players had bought large quantities in the early period as they had to maintain a certain blend quality throughout the year. However, it appears they are not as aggressive now as they used to be,” an industry insider said. Hindustan Unilever (HUL), India's largest packet tea seller, said it experienced double digit growth in tea sales in the first quarter as it raised prices a bit to offset input cost pressure. Tata Consumer Product Ltd (formerly Tata Tea), the second largest player, said it had 4 per cent volume and 8 per cent value growth in the first quarter. Chandra Kant Dhanuka, past president of the ITA and owner of Dhunseri Tea, said it was about time that prices go up as it was stagnant for seven years while costs increased by 8-10 per cent during this period. Offering an ingenious take on inflation adjusted historical prices, Dhanuka threw up a tantalising proposition: “By profit from 1 kilo of tea, I could buy 10 kilo of potato during 1974-99. Today with the same profit, I may be able to buy just 2 kilo.” Dhanuka said his company would make good profit but the future is hazy as prices have “crashed”. It is a fact that Calcutta auction prices have come down by 17 per cent to Rs 258.59 a kilo by October 10, after hitting a high of Rs 314.22 a kilo in the week ending August 15. Unsold quantities in the auctions are growing, driving a downward pressure on prices. At least one source said packeteers are picking up from that lot but offering extended payment terms. Asthana, however, predicted that next season could start with a shortfall in the pipeline (as against a surplus) this year and the demand-supply will not reach equilibrium before September when usually higher quantities of crop is produced. “By then, there will be a new benchmark in tea prices. Let’s face it. A Rs 100 per kilo rise translates into only Rs 0.25 increase in per cup of tea. I think all consumers can afford it and it would ensure long term survival of Indian tea industry,” he said. ITA secretary Sujit Patra believed that higher domestic consumption could hold up the price going forward. Exports, however, would be lower this year, industry sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||Business||Wipro posts 3.4 per cent drop in net profits||Wipro on Tuesday met Street estimates when it posted a 3.4 per cent drop in net profits at Rs 2,465.7 crore for the September quarter of 2020 against Rs 2,552.7 crore a year ago. Analysts were expecting the company to report profits between Rs 2400-2500 crore. Technology firms are largely expected to report strong numbers buoyed by increased spends on technological transformation because of the challenges thrown up by the Covid-19 pandemic. Wipro said it expects the revenue of its IT services business for the December quarter of 2020 to be in the range of $2,022-2,062 million. This translates into a sequential growth of 1.5-3.5 per cent. During the second quarter, US dollar revenues stood at $1.99 billion, which marked a sequential growth of 3.7 per cent. The October-December period is usually a seasonally weak period for IT services companies. “We had an excellent quarter with growth in revenues, expansion of margins and robust cash generation. I am very excited about the opportunities that are ahead of us and encouraged by the acceleration in business momentum we have seen this quarter,’’ said Thierry Delaporte, CEO and managing director. Wipro has announced a Rs 9,500-crore share buyback programme that may lead to promoters’ stake inching up further. At a board meeting on Tuesday, the directors approved a proposal to repurchase up to 23.75 crore shares representing 4.16 per cent of total paid-up equity capital from the shareholders through the tender route at a price of Rs 400 per share. This is a premium of 6.45 per cent over the closing price of the Wipro share on Tuesday. Wipro is the second technology firm after Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) to announce a share buyback. In a regulatory filing to the bourses, the company said that its promoters will also participate in the programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||Business||IMF predicts deep global recession ||The IMF on Tuesday predicted a deep global recession this year with world growth contracting 4.4 per cent. The global economic crisis is far from over mainly because of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the Fund added. In its latest World Economic Outlook report, the International Monetary Fund also said the swift recovery in China has surprised all while the global economy’s long ascent back to pre-pandemic levels of activity remains prone to setbacks. “This crisis is, however, far from over. In our latest World Economic Outlook, we continue to project a deep recession in 2020. “Global growth is projected to be -4.4 per cent, an upward revision of 0.8 percentage points compared to our June update,” Gita Gopinath, the chief economist of the IMF, said. This upgrade owes to somewhat less dire outcomes in the second quarter, as well as signs of a stronger recovery in the third quarter, offset partly by downgrades in some emerging and developing economies. According to the report, in 2021, growth is projected to rebound to 5.2 per cent, -0.2 percentage points below its June projection. Noting that the Covid-19 pandemic continues to spread with over one million lives tragically lost so far, the Indian-American economist said living with the novel coronavirus has been a challenge like no other. However, she said the world is adapting as a result of eased lockdowns and the rapid deployment of policy support at an unprecedented scale by central banks and governments around the world. She said governments should support incomes by well targeted cash transfers, wage subsidies and unemployment insurance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||Business||Indian economy: IMF projects 10.3% contraction ||The Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday. However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest growing emerging economy, surpassing China’s projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest ‘World Economic Outlook’ report. Released ahead of the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank, the report said global growth would contract 4.4 per cent this year and bounce back to 5.2 per cent in 2021. America’s economy is projected to contract by 5.8 per cent in 2020 and grow by 3.9 per cent the next year, the IMF said. China is the only country, among the major economies, to show a growth rate of 1.9 per cent in 2020, it said. The IMF in its report said that revisions to the forecast are particularly large for India, where gross domestic product (GDP) contracted much more severely than expected in the second quarter. “As a result, the economy is projected to contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, before rebounding by 8.8 per cent in 2021,” it said. In June, the IMF had projected 4.9 per cent contraction in the economy. According to the IMF, India is among those likely to suffer the greatest damage from global warming, reflecting its initially high temperatures. For India, the net gains from climate change mitigation-relative to inaction-would be up to 60-80 per cent of GDP by 2100. While estimates of losses from climate change are somewhat smaller for colder regions (for example, Europe, North America, and east Asia), these are likely underestimations as they do not include a number of damages (for example, rise in sea levels, natural disasters, damage to infrastructure from thawing of permafrost in Russia) and negative global spillovers from large economic disruptions in other parts of the world. Last week, the World Bank said India’s GDP this fiscal is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent. “The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before,” Hans Timmer, World Bank chief economist for South Asia, told reporters during a conference call last week. “It is an exceptional situation in India. A very dire outlook,” he said. The Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday. However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest growing emerging economy, surpassing China’s projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest ‘World Economic Outlook’ report. Released ahead of the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank, the report said global growth would contract 4.4 per cent this year and bounce back to 5.2 per cent in 2021. America’s economy is projected to contract by 5.8 per cent in 2020 and grow by 3.9 per cent the next year, the IMF said. China is the only country, among the major economies, to show a growth rate of 1.9 per cent in 2020, it said. The IMF in its report said that revisions to the forecast are particularly large for India, where gross domestic product (GDP) contracted much more severely than expected in the second quarter. “As a result, the economy is projected to contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, before rebounding by 8.8 per cent in 2021,” it said. In June, the IMF had projected 4.9 per cent contraction in the economy. According to the IMF, India is among those likely to suffer the greatest damage from global warming, reflecting its initially high temperatures. For India, the net gains from climate change mitigation-relative to inaction-would be up to 60-80 per cent of GDP by 2100. While estimates of losses from climate change are somewhat smaller for colder regions (for example, Europe, North America, and east Asia), these are likely underestimations as they do not include a number of damages (for example, rise in sea levels, natural disasters, damage to infrastructure from thawing of permafrost in Russia) and negative global spillovers from large economic disruptions in other parts of the world. Last week, the World Bank said India’s GDP this fiscal is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent. “The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before,” Hans Timmer, World Bank chief economist for South Asia, told reporters during a conference call last week. “It is an exceptional situation in India. A very dire outlook,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||Business||Bengal set to get Rs 613 crore loan||Bengal is expected to get about Rs 613 crore from the Centre in 50-year interest free loans as part of the package to boost capital expenditure announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. However, the government did not provide any clarity on how the loan will be given. According to rating agency Icra, three states will get a sum higher than Bengal: Uttar Pradesh, Rs 1,485 crore, Bihar (Rs 820 crore) and Madhya Pradesh (Rs 643 crore). Aditi Nayar, the principal economist with Icra, said the sum allocated to each states was modest. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac in a sarcastic tweet said: “An example of fiscally prudent stimulus policy of central govt: Rs 12,000 cr 50-year interest free additional loan to states. Kerala is entitled Rs 200 cr. Some stimulus indeed!” The government is keeping the option of coming out with more stimulus steps to boost demand and various measures are being assessed, senior finance ministry officials said on Tuesday. “We are not ruling out further measures, if required,” said the official who did not wish to be identified, a day after the government announced measures to boost consumer spending. The officials said several stimulus measures are under consideration, and they could be sector specific or even tax relief including individual tax payers, which would put money into the pockets of people. The government has been stressing on the need for a fiscally prudent approach at a time several economists have suggested the Centre should increase spending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
