15-10-2020||Business||Sensex crashes 1,066 points amid global selloff||Snapping its 10-session winning run, equity benchmark Sensex plunged 1,066.33 points on Thursday as investors pressed the exit button amid a massive selloff in global markets. The 30-share BSE index plummeted 1,066.33 points or 2.61 per cent to end at 39,728.41. The broader NSE Nifty crashed 290.70 points or 2.43 per cent to 11,680.35. Global equities cratered as hopes faded of a pre-election stimulus deal in the US, while multiple countries in Europe braced for a second round of lockdowns to curb rising COVID-19 cases, jeopardising the already shaky economic recovery. Back home, market participants were also eager to book profits after the recent rally amid already stretched valuations, traders said. Barring Asian Paints, which inched up 0.32 per cent, all Sensex constituents closed in the red. Bajaj Finance was the top loser, tumbling 4.68 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel and HCL Tech. Investors lost Rs 3.25 lakh crore in Thursday's session as the total market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies fell to Rs 157.31 lakh crore. "The market had moved-up in expectation of a big stimulus, but the desired fiscal package was not announced in India and a delay of it in US and Euro has changed the trend. At the same time, the pace of economic recovery is under stress because of a resurgence of high rates of COVID infections... "The margin of safety is low given premium prices and slowdown in economic recovery. The trend going forward will depend on the supportive measures announced in context to stimulus and commentary of Q2 results," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. All sectoral indices closed lower, with BSE telecom, bankex, energy, finance, teck and IT indices plunging as much as 3.54 per cent. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices nosedived up to 1.75 per cent. In rest of Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended up to 2 per cent lower. Stock exchanges in the Europe slumped up to 3 per cent in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.17 per cent lower at USD 42.38 per barrel. In the forex market, the rupee pared its initial gains and settled 5 paise lower at 73.36 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||Relief may vary across borrowers||The Centre and the Reserve Bank will be hard at work over the festival period to come up with the details of the interest waiver scheme. The speculation is the relief will not be uniform across all categories of loans, and different sub-limits across the categories are likely. The finance ministry and the RBI will also have to decide whether all borrowers in a category will be eligible for the waivers or if only the vulnerable among them will get the relief. They will also have to specify how the benefit will be passed on by banks to the customers — whether it would be adjusted against the outstanding in one go or in phases. A report by Edelweiss said the interest for banks under its coverage forms 1.5-2 per cent of the loan sum. Edelweiss said 25-40 percent of loan books for most  banks under its coverage will qualify for the Rs 2-crore compound interest waiver. The development comes at a time banks are staring at uncertainty with regard to their asset quality. Bankers for now are not expecting a spike in their bad loans. Recently, the new SBI chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara had said the number of accounts that were applying for the restructuring was “manageable”. “Collection efficiency has improved, and most banks expect the restructuring pool to be in the low single digits, with negligible deferments in the large corporate portfolio,” analysts at Motilal Oswal said in a research note. “Asset quality is likely to remain under watch as the moratorium ends; however, the bulk of stress is likely to manifest over the second half of 2020-21,” the Motilal Oswal report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||Supreme Court ultimatum on interest waiver ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed a reluctant Centre to issue by November 2 the circular on compound interest waivers relating to the moratorium on loans offered by banks till August 31. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah rejected solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s plea to give the government time till November 15 for the circular as the Centre wanted to work out certain modalities for the waiver on loans up to Rs 2 crore given for homes, consumer purchases and MSMEs. “Why one month time (till November 15) to implement such a small decision? Not fair on the part of the central government,” the bench observed while adjourning the matter to November 2. By that time, the court said the government must issue the circular to give effect to the waiver. “… See the plight of common people, when you’ve already decided to help…their Diwali is in your hands, Mr Mehta…” the bench told the solicitor-general while passing the direction. The solicitor-general pleaded the court not to make “any harsh observations.” “We don’t stand to gain by delaying things unnecessarily,” Mehta said. The court was dealing with a batch of petitions challenging the decision of banks to levy compound interest on all loans on which the moratorium was announced by the RBI to overcome the pandemic crisis. Senior advocate Rajiv Datta appearing for Gajendra Sharma, the main petitioner in the case, complained that several banks had already started levying compound interests on customers. However, senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for the banks assured the court that any such interest levied by the banks would be reversed once the government and the RBI issue the necessary circulars as directed by the court. The Centre and the RBI had earlier argued any blanket waiver of interest on all sectors as sought by the petitioners was unviable and would lead to the collapse of the entire banking industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||Wholesale price inflation at 7-month high||A spike in the prices of food items pushed wholesale price inflation to a seven-month high of 1.32 per cent in September, after turning positive in August for the first time since March. The WPI-based inflation appears to be moving in sync with CPI-based retail inflation which shot up to an eight-month high of 7.34 per cent in September, mainly on account of rising prices of food items. Although the RBI takes into account retail inflation while deciding the monetary policy stance, ICRA’s principal economist Aditi Nayar said, “Today’s data (on WPI inflation) further cements the likelihood of an extended pause from the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC).” Before recording an increase of 0.16 per cent in August, the WPI inflation was in the negative territory for four straight months —April (-) 1.57 per cent, May (-) 3.37 per cent, June (-) 1.81 per cent and July (-) 0.25 per cent. Inflation in food articles in September was at 8.17 per cent against 3.84 per cent in August. Vegetables as a category had inflation of 36.54 per cent in September, potato prices skyrocketed by 107.63 per cent from a year-ago period. However, onions had deflation at 31.64 per cent and in fruits, the inflation was at (-) 3.89 per cent. Prices of cereals came down with a deflation of 3.91 per cent during the month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||Hyundai Motor scion takes charge||Hyundai Motor Group appointed Euisun Chung as group chairman on Wednesday, cementing his succession from his octogenarian father in a move likely to give impetus to the world’s fifth-largest auto maker’s push into electric vehicles and flying cars. In the first generational handover at the South Korean automobile giant in 20 years, Chung, 49, said he hoped to lead change at South Korea’s second-biggest conglomerate as it battles to stay ahead of the pack in a time of rapid technological innovation in the global auto industry. “Carrying on their bold and innovative legacies, I feel privileged, yet also a sense of great responsibility for opening a new chapter of Hyundai Motor Group,” Chung said in a speech to employees. Chung identified autonomous driving, electrification, hydrogen fuel cell, robotics and Urban Air Mobility (UAM) — industry jargon for flying cars — as his initiatives for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||China curbs to hurt start-ups||There will be a temporary impact on investment flow to start-ups because of the curbs imposed by the government to stop opportunistic takeover by firms from countries with which India has border tensions, chief economic adviser K. V. Subramanian said on Wednesday. According to a Press Note 3 issued by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) in April, a company or an individual from a country that shares land border with India can invest in any sector here only after getting government approval. The decision has bearing on foreign investments from countries such as China and Hong Kong. Speaking at a virtual event organised by Ficci, Subramanian said investment, both direct and indirect, coming from countries, especially with which India has border tensions, needs to be scrutinised. As a result, he said, “There will be some impact on start-up funding in the short run, but I do think that space will get filled by a large number of private equity (PE) companies from other countries.” He was replying to a question on whether Press Note 3 will have any impact on investment flow from Hong Kong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||Isuzu Motor rolls out BS-VI trucks||Japanese utility vehicle (UV) maker Isuzu Motor India on Wednesday launched its BS-VI vehicles. The launch was deferred because of the global outbreak of the pandemic. The company rolled out the BS-VI compliant D-Max Regular Cab and D-Max S-Cab on Wednesday. Isuzu also launched a new variant the D-Max Super Strong with a 1,710 kg payload. Isuzu Motors’ India portfolio now comprises the D-Max Regular Cab High-Ride with flat deck, D-Max Regular Cab-Chassis, S-Cab Standard-Ride, S-Cab High-Ride and the new D-Max Regular Cab Super Strong. The D-Max range with 1,710 kg payload will be available for Rs 8.38 lakh (ex-Mumbai) and the S Cab range will be available for Rs 9.82 lakh. On the delay in the launch, a company spokesperson said: “The global outbreak of the pandemic affected all the plans, including the BS-VI engine development process. With the disruptions on the supplier ecosystem and stabilisation of the production process of the BS-VI D-Max range, we took time to ensure that everything was up to expectations.” Credit rating agency Icra continues to have a negative outlook on the industry. Unlike the Chinese automobile market that witnessed a V-shaped recovery, India is witnessing a slow paced recovery, said Ashish Modani, vice-president, Icra. “Car purchase is looked as a discretionary purchase in India. Income levels in India are far lower than China and in an atmosphere of uncertainty, purchases are going to be deferred,” said Modani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||Tamil Nadu caves in on GST||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday said it will borrow Rs 9,627 crore through open market borrowings to meet its GST revenue shortfall, becoming the 21st state to go for option 1 of the borrowing plans suggested by the Centre. Tamil Nadu was one of the eight Opposition states who had earlier refused to take up the options suggested by the Centre to meet the shortfall in their GST revenues. However, the government is facing flak for dividing the states and economists feel the cost of borrowing would be higher. “The permission was issued after the state formally communicated its acceptance of Option-1 to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation. So far, 21 states and two Union Territories — Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir — have requested Option 1,” the finance ministry said in a release. “The additional borrowing permission has been granted at 0.50 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to those states who have opted for Option-1 out of the two options suggested by the ministry.” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac in a tweet said: “Had repeatedly appealed in the (GST) Council to increase unconditional component of additional 2 per cent borrowing permitted to ensure fiscal space for the states, while negotiations could go on for a new compromise option. Now Centre uses it to divide states. Still, the Centre wants consensus.” So far in the current fiscal (April 7-October 13, 2020), the 20 states that have opted for option 1 have cumulatively raised Rs 2.24 lakh crore. According to the borrowing calendar for the first three quarters of 2020-21 (April-December), these 20 states are to borrow Rs 3.27 lakh crore and 69 per cent of this amount has already been borrowed by these states, Care Rating said in a research note. “The cost of borrowings has seen a progressive increase across states in recent months. The weighted average cost of borrowings of the 20 states has increased by 35 bps during August to October 2020. The additional borrowing of Rs 68,825 crore by the 20 states would entail an interest cost of Rs 4,632 crore per annum based on the weighted average cost of borrowing in October (6.73 per cent),” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||Export from crude oil caverns||The Narendra- Modi government on Wednesday dropped its stand on an export ban from the country’s  giant crude storages in south India as the Union cabinet gave permission to Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) to export its crude stored inside the Mangalore strategic petroleum reserve facility. The move may enhance foreign participation as India seeks to expand its storage capacity. Union minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters after the cabinet meeting that the council of ministers have decided “to allow Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (ADNOC) to trade the oil it has stocked at the strategic reserves”. The permission to ADNOC — the national oil company of Abu Dhabi — to export its oil mirrors a model adopted by countries such as Japan and South Korea which allow producers to re-export the crude in their storages. The Mangalore storage has a total capacity of 1.5 million tonnes. Of this, half had previously been hired by ADNOC. The arrangement with ADNOC allows India to have a first right over the crude oil stored in the reserves during any emergency, the minister said. Besides hiring half of the Mangalore capacity, ADNOC had in November 2018 signed up to hire half of the 2.5 million tonne (about 17 million barrels) capacity at Padur, the biggest of the three storages. However, Adnoc did not store any oil. Javadekar also said that the Cabinet has given a post-facto approval to spend Rs 3,874 crore on stocking low priced oil in the three underground crude oil storages. India had saved over Rs 5,000 crore by taking advantage of the low crude oil prices in the international market during April-May by filling up the crude caverns. The cabinet on Wednesday approved the demerger of the under-construction Nagarnar steel plant (NSP) from NMDC  and its disinvestment by selling the entire stake of the Centre to a strategic buyer. State-owned NMDC is building the steel plant at Nagarnar in Chhattisgarh. The process of demerger and disinvestment will be initiated in parallel and the divestment of the demerged company (NSP) is expected to be completed by September 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||Infosys profit jumps 20%||Infosys on Wednesday beat the Street with a 20.5 per cent jump in net profits for the September quarter and raised its revenue guidance for the year — demonstrating its optimism on the road ahead as Covid-19 has pushed clients to increase spending on technology solutions. The country’s second largest IT services firm posted a net profit of Rs 4,845 crore against Rs 4,019 crore a year ago. Analysts had expected the company to report a profit of around Rs 4,500 crore. Like its peers, Infosys is also confident that its strong client connect and the digital transformation seen among enterprises will lead to even better days ahead. Therefore, it raised the revenue and margin guidance. The Bangalore-based company now expects revenue to grow 2-3 per cent this fiscal compared with its earlier estimate of 0-2 per cent growth. Similarly, operating margin is forecast to be 23-24 per cent against 21-23 per cent projected earlier. Infosys reported a quarterly operating margin of 25.4 per cent, up from 21.7 per cent last year, following rivals TCS, which posted a 2.2 per cent rise in operating margin to 26.2 per cent, while Wipro saw its margin rise to 19.2 per cent for the period. During the period, revenue in US dollar terms grew to $3.3 billion — a growth of 3.2 per cent over the same period last year and a sequential rise of 6.1 per cent. In rupee terms the revenues were at Rs 24,570 crore, a rise of 8.6 per cent over the year-ago period and nearly 4 per cent over the preceding three months. “Our digital and cloud capabilities combined with intense client relevance are helping us achieve differentiated results in the market,” said Salil Parekh, CEO and MD. Infosys, which provides services such as cloud, data and analytics to companies across the world, said it will roll out salary increases and promotions across all levels effective January 1. Infosys is also giving 100 per cent variable pay, along with a special incentive for the second quarter. The company had 2,40,208 employees at the end of September 2020 quarter. “We will pay a one-time special incentive in the third quarter to our junior employees,” Parekh said. Infosys COO Pravin Rao said the quantum of salary hikes will be identical to those seen in previous years. Last year, Infosys gave an average hike in India of around 6 per cent, while it was 1-1.5 per cent outside the country. Voluntary attrition for IT services on an annualised basis declined to 7.8 per cent compared with 18.3 per cent in the year-ago period. Rao said attrition has come down significantly than what is typically seen around this time of the year. “Infosys results today ... signifies how important it has become for enterprises to invest in IT to weather any disruptive situation — be it pandemic or an economic recession,” Forrester analyst Ashutosh Sharma said. Infosys also declared an interim dividend of Rs 12 per share. Rohan Murthy, who is part of the promoter group, will draw close to Rs 73 crore as payout. Similarly, Sudha Gopalakrishnan, wife of Infosys co-founder S. Gopalakrishnan, will get close to Rs 114 crore from the payout. While the results came after market hours, the Infosys share fell almost two per cent to settle at Rs 1136.10 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||US apparel industry watchdog to probe Jockey India unit||A top US apparel industry watchdog has launched an investigation into underwear maker Jockey International’s Indian partner Page Industries Ltd following allegations of human rights abuses at one of its factories. The investigation by US-based Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) comes after Norway’s $1-trillion sovereign wealth fund dropped Page from its investment portfolio because of concerns of human rights violations at “Unit-III” — one of Page’s Jockey manufacturing sites in Bangalore. Page has denied wrongdoing and called allegations of verbal abuse and workplace intimidation against employees “outrageous”. It did not answer Reuters questions about the the WRAP probe, but said it has evidence which “flatly disproves” the allegations. Shares of Page Industries fell as much as 3.2 per cent on the National Stock Exchange on Wednesday after the news of the probe. In an email to Reuters, WRAP spokesperson Seth Lennon said such violations could normally result in a factory losing its certification. “Should the facility refuse to remediate such non-compliances or should the remediation efforts be insufficient, WRAP will revoke the facility’s certification. In case any non-compliances noted prove to be so egregious as to leave no room for remediation, WRAP reserves the right to immediately suspend the facility’s certificate,” Lennon said. WRAP said it makes certification decisions on a facility-by-facility basis and that it investigates whenever it receives credible concerns. The Page site under investigation is certified until November 15. WRAP did not say whether it would investigate any of Page’s other manufacturing sites. A WRAP certificate is much sought after by garment factories in countries, including India, Bangladesh, China and Vietnam, as it provides assurance to international clothing brands that a factory adheres to certain ethical and safety standards. US-based Jockey, a WRAP founding member, told Reuters it requires all of its partners to maintain the certification and that it would “closely monitor” the outcome of an internal evaluation of the allegations being carried out by Page. It did not comment on whether it would sever ties with Page if the Indian company was censured by WRAP. Bengaluru-headquartered Page is the exclusive licensee for Jockey wear in India and six other countries. Page also makes apparel for Britain-based swimwear maker Speedo, but in a smaller capacity. Speedo said last month it would investigate the Norwegian wealth fund's allegations and follow up with Page "as a matter of urgency". It did not respond to a Reuters email seeking comment on the WRAP probe. While WRAP did not specify when it began its investigation into the Page factory, a person with knowledge of the development said it started in late September. The Unit-III factory in Bengaluru employs about 1,000 workers. Page, which reported roughly $400 million in revenue in he fiscal year ended March 31, did not disclose what proportion of sales came from Unit-III. The outcome of the WRAP probe is due in the coming weeks, the person said, without specifying a date. The person was not authorised to speak publicly on the matter and so declined to be identified. WRAP said it would not comment on the details of an ongoing investigation. Page said it has engaged with the Norwegian wealth fund's Council on Ethics - the body which recommended the fund exclude Page from its portfolio after its investigation "assessed the risk that Page is contributing to or is itself responsible for systematic abuses of internationally recognised human and labour rights". The Council on Ethics told Reuters it had accepted Page's request for a meeting, and that it would likely need to conduct another investigation to assess whether its recommendation on Page should change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
