16-10-2020||Business||India must protect most vulnerable people: IMF Managing Director||India’s priorities should be to protect the most vulnerable people, well targeted support and protecting small and medium sized enterprises so that they do not collapse as the country battles the Covid-19 pandemic, Kristalina Georgieva, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, has said. Speaking at a news conference during the ongoing annual meeting of the IMF and the World Bank, Georgieva said on Wednesday: “Like everywhere else, until we have a durable exit from the health crisis, we will be faced with difficulties, uncertainty, and uneven recovery.” Describing Covid-19 as a human crisis everywhere, and especially in countries where the loss of life has climbed up so much, she said: “In India, 100,000 people had died. Therefore, focusing on protecting people and on the health of the population remains a priority.” “India has taken measures within the capacity of the country — 2 per cent fiscal measures plus 4 per cent in the form of guarantees, not direct fiscal measures,” Georgieva said. “This helps, but if you compare what advanced economies have been able to do, what some of the other emerging markets with very strong fundamentals could do, clearly is somewhat constrained.” “What we see in India is a very dramatic shrinkage of GDP this year by over 10 per cent, according to our just released forecast. “Let’s remember that it stepped into this crisis as one of the fastest growing economies in the world. For next year, our projections in baseline scenario is return to growth of 8.8 per cent,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||Mindtree reports 87.9 per cent rise in consolidated net profit ||IT firm Mindtree on Thursday reported a 87.9 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 253.7 crore for the July-September 2020 quarter, and said it was confident of continuing its growth momentum. The company, which had registered a net profit of Rs 135 crore in the September 2019 quarter, will also roll out salary hikes with effect from January 1, 2021. The Bangalore-based company saw its revenue grow marginally to Rs 1,926 crore in the September 2020 quarter from Rs 1,914.3 crore in the year-ago period. The company attributed the strong growth in profits to operational efficiencies. “The world is slowly emerging from the challenges caused by the pandemic...we achieved our commitment of delivering profitable growth, quarter-over-quarter, and also successfully navigating through the challenging business environment,” Mindtree CEO and MD Debashis Chatterjee said. The board of directors has declared an interim dividend of Rs 7.5 per equity share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||Infosys plan to reduce dependence on H-1B work permits||With as many as 37 per cent of its employees in the US holding the contentious H-1B visas, Infosys has drawn up a plan to reduce its dependence on these work permits that envisages expanding operations to Mexico and Canada to cater to US clients. Infosys also plans to step up hiring in the US amid challenges related to the H-1B visa regulations. These measures, according to the management, will help them to address the challenges in these geographies. The company said in its second-quarter earnings call that  North America contributes 60.7 per cent to its revenue for the quarter ended September 30, 2020. Earlier this month, the Trump administration tightened the rules related to H-1B visa holders, resulting in a wage hike and more stringent inspection and monitoring of employers. The wage hike is expected to inflate the expenditure of the firms who rely on these visas. “The wage increase will impact only people going on new LCAs (labour conditions applications). It will not impact people who will go on older LCAs or existing LCAs,” Infosys COO Pravin Rao said. Salil Parekh, MD and CEO of Infosys, said at the earnings call that the company in the past three years has launched six digital centres in the US and hired over 13,000 US workers. It is looking to hire 12,000 more workers over the next two years to take the overall hiring commitment in the country to 25,000 over a five-year period ending 2022. “Since 2017, we have aggressively embarked on the localisation strategy. In the last three years, we have recruited more than 13,000 locals in the US. Today nearly 63 per cent of our workforce is local and visa independent…In addition we have also expanded our presence in Mexico and Canada where we can provide same time zone services to clients,” said Rao. Parekh said the company has launched Infosys Cobalt, bringing together all its cloud services, platforms and solutions. A big surprise in the second-quarter has been a 270-basis point sequential expansion in operating margins to 25.3 per cent.  CFO Nilanjan Roy said that the margins were not sustainable. The benefits of lower travel costs are expected to shrink in the coming quarters and the company plans to incentivise employees with the salary hike, affecting margins in the second half.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||BMW India launches most affordable sedan||BMW India has launched its most affordable sedan in the country — the BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé. Locally produced at BMW’s Chennai plant, the car is available in a diesel variant at present. The petrol variant will be launched later. The 2 Series Gran Coupe will carry a price tag of Rs 39.30 lakh. Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, said, “The BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé brings BMW’s four-door coupé concept into the segment for the first time.” The German car maker is offering low monthly payments starting Rs 39,300, assured buyback value of Rs 22.79 lakh and flexible end of term options to lure customers. Meanwhile, Jaguar Land Rover India brought the Defender brand to India with the launch of the Land Rover Defender on Thursday. Offered with a 2.0-litre four-cylinder petrol engine, the New Defender is available in two body styles — the 90 (3 door) and the 110 (5 door).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||Sanjeev Krishan appointed as new PwC chairman||Sanjeev Krishan has been appointed as the new chairman of PwC in India for a four-year term commencing on January 1, 2021, the consultancy firm said on Thursday.
Krishan will succeed Shyamal Mukherjee, the current chairman, who will step down on December 31, 2020 at the completion of his term. Prior to this, Krishan has been the “deals” leader and has over the years made significant commitment to help build a sustainable practice for the future, a statement said. He has been with the organisation for 29 years, having joined in 1991 as an article trainee. He became a partner in 2006 and has led the firm’s transactions and private equity business over the years, getting the firm to a pre-eminent position amongst private equity clients and their investee companies, it added. He is also part of Ficci’s national committee on stressed assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||Finance minister observes V-shaped recovery||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said the V-shaped pattern of recovery is being seen in several high-frequency indicators, driven by various measures taken by the government to revive economic growth, hit hard by the pandemic. In her address to the plenary meeting of the International Monetary and Financial Committee (IMFC), the ministerial-level committee of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), through video conference, she said several low-income and developing countries are confronted with the challenge to protect and ensure livelihood for millions slipping below the poverty line. The finance ministry mentioned that recovery and rehabilitation efforts in these countries must not be allowed to be undermined in any manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||Business||REL approaches BSE and NSE to remove Singh duo as promoters||Religare Enterprises Ltd (REL) has approached the BSE and NSE for the removal of Shivinder Mohan Singh and Malvinder Mohan Singh, who stepped down following allegations of siphoning off funds, as promoters and shift them to public shareholders category. Following the exit of the Singh brothers, the new management under executive chairperson Rashmi Saluja had moved market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to remove and declassify them as REL promoters in 2018. However, the decision got delayed after changes in norms by Sebi wherein stock exchanges were authorised to take a call on the declassification of promoters with shareholding up to 10 per cent. By March 2018, the stakes of the Singh brothers had come down to 3 per cent which further fell to 0.88 per cent in June 2020, according to data available with the exchanges. Even with 0.88 per cent, the exchanges are yet to declassify the Singh brothers and their associate companies as promoters. The remaining 99.12 stake is with the public and the highest 6.83 per cent holding is with Resilient India Growth Fund, followed by World Bank arm International Finance Corporation at 4.97 per cent. Having completed all the necessary work, including approval from the board and shareholders for the purpose, REL again approached the BSE and the NSE during the second half of the current financial year and a decision is pending with exchanges, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||Business||Equitas Small Finance Bank to explore acquisition and block deals||Chennai-based Equitas Small Finance Bank will explore both acquisition and block deals on the bourses to comply with the Reserve Bank of India’s guidelines of lowering promoter holding to 40 per cent. After completing four years of operation, the bank has come out with a revised public offer of a little over Rs 500 crore, almost half of the previous offer of Rs 1,000 crore. The promoter holding would come down to around 82 per cent following the offer that runs from October 20-22. The holding company has a 95.49 per cent stake in the bank. The bank has to further lower its holding company’s stake and is exploring different ways of the same. “There are two routes we are looking at. A potential merger and acquisition which will dilute the holding company’s shares and the other route is a block sale by the holding company,” said P.N. Vasudevan, managing director, Equitas Small Finance Bank. Vasudevan said there were two reasons as to why the bank reworked and reduced the issue size. First, the bank is  comfortable with a capital adequacy of around 21 per cent.  The current economic and market condition is the other reason.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||Business||Lakshmi Vilas Bank board approves plans to raise up to Rs 500 crore||Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) on Thursday said its board has approved plans to raise up to Rs 500 crore through a rights issue. The terms of the issue will be decided by the board or a duly constituted committee of the board at a later date in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and Sebi’s regulations, the lender said in a filing to the stock exchanges. The issue will be subject to necessary approvals. Shares of LVB ended nearly 3 per cent lower at Rs 17.80 on Thursday on the BSE. The old-generation private sector bank, which has been on the hunt for capital and an investor, was in the news late last month when its shareholders voted out seven directors, including CEO S. Sundar and promoters K.R. Pradeep and N. Saiprasad. Last week, LVB had announced that it had received a non-binding offer from Clix Group, an Aion-backed non-banking finance firm, for a merger. If the merger goes through, the net worth of the bank is expected to more than double to Rs 3,100 crore from Rs 1,200 crore now. The promoters hold 6.80 per cent in the bank. Among other investors, Indiabulls Housing Finance holds 4.99 per cent equity,  JM Financial Services 3.88 per cent and Srei Infrastructure Finance, 3.34 per cent. The RBI had earlier shot down Indiabulls Housing’s merger with LVB. LVB’s tier-1 capital ratio turned negative at 0.88 per cent in March and worsened to 1.83 per cent in June  compared with the minimum requirement of 8.875 per cent.
During the June quarter, the lender suffered a loss of Rs 112.28 crore against a net profit of Rs 93 crore in the preceding three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||Business|| Sensex plunges 1066 points; investors book profits in an expensive market||The Sensex plunged 1066 points on Thursday as a 10-session rally got upended by negative global cues and profit booking with the selloff wiping out Rs 3.25 lakh crore of investor wealth in a single day. Equities worldwide are under pressure as the possibility of another round of US fiscal stimulus fades, while more European countries brace for a second round of lockdowns to curb the rising coronavirus cases, posing yet another challenge to the already shaky global economic recovery. Back home, there was nothing to cheer about as investors booked profits in an expensive market that has shown a disconnect with the economy. Retail inflation has been well above the RBI’s comfort zone, limiting any chances of a further interest rate cut, while the Centre’s recent fiscal stimulus is being seen as too little, too late. Moody’s Investors Service on Thursday said the Centre’s second round of stimulus will spur consumer spending in the near term but support to economic growth will be minimal. “Global cues were weak as fresh Covid concerns and fading hopes of more US fiscal stimulus before the presidential election weighed on market sentiments,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal  Financial Services. He said investors would keep a close watch on earnings announcements, rising Covid cases globally, developments around the vaccine and the US elections . Investors could use this opportunity to buy on dips in select defensive sectors such as IT, healthcare, FMCG and rural-focused stocks, he said. On the BSE, the 30-share Sensex opened in the green at 41048.05 and then remained under pressure. However, the slide accelerated in late noon trade and the index fell below the 40000 mark to hit an intra-day low of 39667.47. The BSE belwether later closed at 39728.41, showing a fall of 1066.33 points or 2.61 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty crashed 290.70 points or 2.43 per cent to 11680.35. Barring Asian Paints, which inched up 0.32 per cent, all Sensex constituents closed in the red. Bajaj Finance was the top loser, crashing 4.68 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel and HCL Tech. “The market had moved up on expectation of a big stimulus, but the desired fiscal package was not announced in India... this has changed the trend,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Paribas. Nair said the future trend would be determined by any additional stimulus measures and commentary on second quarter results. Rupee falls The rupee on Thursday settled 5 paise lower at 73.36 to the dollar as weaker Asian peers and fund outflows from domestic markets weighed on investor sentiment. Additionally, importers’ mid-month dollar demand also put pressure on the local unit, analysts said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
