17-10-2020||Business||SBI issues notice to McNally Bharat Engineering invoking SARFAESI Act||The clock has started ticking for the troubled EPC contractor McNally Bharat Engineering Company Ltd. The State Bank of India has issued a notice to the company invoking the SARFAESI Act, which is used by bankers to recover dues by selling assets. The bank, which is the second largest lender to McNally after the Bank of India, made the move against the working capital loans availed by the company. The Khaitan family-owned McNally owes around Rs 600 crore cumulatively to SBI. McNally owes Rs 1,963.49 crore to banks and other financial institutions. The company is in default on the entire loan amount as on September 30, 2020. The notice was issued under Section 13 (2) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act (SARFAESI), 2002, which stipulates that the borrower must discharge the full liability within 60 days of receiving the notice. If a company fails to make the payment, the lender may take action under Section 13(4) of the Act, which includes taking possession of the secured assets of the borrower and realising the money by selling the same. McNally said the company is in dialogue with all lenders for a comprehensive debt restructuring exercise. The interest outstanding on the various loans availed by McNally is over Rs 550 crore as of the last quarter. It also owes Rs 1,000 crore to promoter group companies. However, while publishing the results for the first quarter, the company had disclosed it had submitted a restructuring proposal before the lenders but bankers had asked for certain changes. The auditor to McNally had again extended an adverse opinion on the results, noting that the company’s ability to continue as a going concern will depend on the successful execution of the debt restructuring proposal. Earlier in the year, the company had said it had received a binding term sheet from an overseas investor. It now appears that the investor developed cold feet as the pandemic has roiled the world economy, raising significant doubt about the pace of recovery. An official of McNally said he was hopeful of concluding negotiations with the lenders within 60 days as envisaged under Section 13(2) of the notice. “We have time till December 6. It is possible to have an outcome by that time. Negotiations are going on,” the official said. Outsized, continued losses at McNally have put the entire Williamson Magor Group under financial stress. The two other operating companies, Eveready and McLeod Russel, lent heavily to salvage McNally but without any success. The Khaitans borrowed heavily, pledging their stakes with the financiers. As they defaulted on payments,  financiers invoked the shares and sold them in the market, bringing down promoter holding in the two firms. The SBI move also brings to the fore how lenders are approaching a stressed asset during the Covid period. Lawyers  say SARFAESI is gaining currency in dealing with defaulters as Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 remains suspended. SARFAESI over IBC The Centre has suspended initiation of Insolvency and Bankruptcy code, 2016 for any default that took place after March 25 for six months. The suspension has been extended for another 3 months. For defaults prior to March 25, IBC is not being much of help as National Company Law Tribunals are not functioning to their full strength, choosing to take up only urgent matters. “In a way, SARFAESI is an out of court process. A secured creditor can give notice and after 60 days, it can go ahead to take possession of the assets and sell them for recovery of dues. In a situation like it is today, SARFAESI becomes more useful because IBC is suspended and for pre-March 25 defaults, new admissions are difficult. So we are seeing many lenders are assessing this route,” a senior lawyer who specialises on stressed assets, said. However, invocation of 13(2) does not always automatically go to Section 13(4). The lender can give leeway to a borrower beyond 60 days. But, Section13(2) being a statutory notice, a lender is free to take action after the time period. It is usually upon the discretion of the lender to go ahead with Section 13(4) or give more time to the borrower to pay up. The borrower, also, has the option to litigate if he is not happy with the banker's decision. “It puts pressure on the borrower to comply with their obligation. In that sense banks have these tools to keep borrowers in check wherever they are facing delinquencies,” the lawyer explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
17-10-2020||Business||China, Thailand to be hit as India bans import of ACs with refrigerants||Shipments from China and Thailand are set to take a hit as India bans the import of air-conditioners with refrigerants to promote domestic manufacturing. Data showed that India imported split air-conditioners worth $469 million in 2019-20 with $241 million from China and $189 million from Thailand. It imported window air-conditioners worth $35 million with $18 million from Thailand and $14 million from China during the same period. Most of the air-conditioners imported to India come with refrigerants. The domestic market of air conditioners is believed to be around $5-6 billion. The government aims to shift the focus from importing ACs to manufacturing them domestically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
17-10-2020||Business||Passenger vehicles witness 26.45 per cent increase in wholesale sales||Auto firms are looking forward to a festival season boom, buoyed by the 26.45 per cent increase in wholesale sales of passenger vehicles in September. According to latest data by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), sales of passenger vehicles rose to 2,72,027 units in September this year against 2,15,124 units in the same month last year. “We are expecting good demand in the festive season starting tomorrow. In the second quarter, some segments have shown signs of recovery. Passenger vehicles and two-wheelers are positive, although on a very low base of the previous year,” Siam president Kenichi Ayukawa said. Two-wheeler sales also rose 11.64 per cent to 18,49,546 units in September compared with 16,56,658 units in the same month last year. Motorcycle sales stood at 12,24,117 units against 10,43,621 units in September 2019, up 17.3 per cent. Scooter sales were also up marginally at 5,56,205 units from 5,55,754 units in the same month last year. The industry, reeling under a slowdown for almost two years, is finally seeing some recovery. Auto makers believe the Covid-19-induced lockdown, unexpectedly, proved to be a major contributing factor in building demand for passenger vehicles. Ever since the pandemic struck and social distancing measures became a part of daily life, there has been a renewed interest in buying a personal mobility vehicle as people increasingly looked to move away from public transport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||Business||Coal India approves performance-linked reward of Rs 68,500 per employee||Coal India has approved a performance-linked reward of Rs 68,500 per employee for all its non-executive cadre workforce for 2019-20. Around 2.62 lakh employees of Coal India across its eight subsidiaries who were on the payroll during 2019-20 will benefit. The total outgo for the public sector miner is a little over Rs 1,700 crore. Non-executive employees, who have completed at least 30 working days during 2019-20, will be eligible for the payment on a pro-rata basis. Despite the pandemic affecting coal sales in the first half of the year, Coal India has offered a 5.87 per cent rise over previous year’s performance-linked reward of Rs 64,700 per employee. The agreement was arrived at the 10th meeting of the Standardisation Committee of the Joint Bipartite Committee of Coal Industry held in Ranchi on Thursday. The Coal India management and trade union representatives were present. Coal India has seen an improvement in demand in September in both production and offtake. “We are happy that we could conclude the performance related reward on time to the satisfaction of both sides. The payment ahead of the festive season should enthuse our employees to put in a greater effort to raise our performance levels significantly,” said a senior executive of the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||Business||RBI to purchase state government bonds worth Rs 10,000 crore||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday said it will purchase state government bonds worth Rs 10,000 crore in the first such auction to be conducted on October 23. On October 9, the central bank had announced that it will conduct open market operations (OMOs) in state development loans (SDL). The step is expected to improve the liquidity in these bonds and reduce the spread over government securities, thereby helping states in their borrowing plans. The RBI will conduct OMOs for bonds issued by 15 states. However, it did not disclose the amount that will be purchased from each of them. The 15 states are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The RBI will purchase debts that are maturing between March 2029 and March 2031. The SDLs of other states are likely to be announced in the next batch. The RBI’s announcement comes after the Centre said it will borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore, which will be passed on to the states. According to Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president and group head (corporate sector ratings) of Icra, the central government’s decision will reduce the supply of state bonds in the second half of this fiscal and the cost of such borrowings would go down. Roy added that SDL spreads should further ease because of the plan to conduct OMOs. At present, SDLs are eligible collateral for the Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) along with T-bills, dated government securities and oil bonds. Realty push In a bid to increase the flow of credit to the real estate sector, the RBI in a notification on Friday rationalised the risk weightage to LTV (loan to value) ratio for all new housing loans sanctioned up to March 31, 2022. New home loans will attract a risk weight of 35 per cent where LTV is less than 80 per cent and a risk weight of 50 per cent where LTV is more than 80 per cent but less than 90 per cent. This measure, according to the RBI, is expected to give a fillip to bank lending to the real estate sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||Business||Indiabulls Housing Finance sells additional stake in OakNorth Holdings Ltd||Indiabulls Housing Finance on Friday said it has sold an additional stake in OakNorth Holdings Ltd for Rs 220 crore. The sale proceeds will be accretive to the regulatory net worth and the CRAR (capital to risk weighted assets ratio) of the company, the company added. “Indiabulls Housing Finance has further sold a portion of its stake in OakNorth Holdings Ltd (the wholly owned parent company of OakNorth Bank Plc) for around Rs 220 crore,” it said in a communication to the stock exchanges. With the latest stake sale, the company has raised a total of Rs 2,493 crore as fresh equity in the months of September and October. This includes Rs 683 crore through qualified institutional placement (QIP) and Rs 1,810 crore through a stake sale in OakNorth which will add to the regulatory equity capital of the company. Earlier this month, the housing finance company had said that it had sold a part of its stake in OakNorth Holdings to HighSage Ventures LLC for Rs 440 crore. HighSage Ventures LLC is a Boston-based investment firm with an investor network spanning the venture capital, private equity and public equity segments. OakNorth Bank was launched in September 2015 and Indiabulls Housing had invested Rs 663 crore in November 2015 for a 40 per cent stake in the bank.  Shares of Indiabulls Housing closed at Rs 151 on the BSE on Friday, a loss of 0.33 per cent over its last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||Business||Finance minister writes to states on terms of GST offer||After making a U-turn on borrowing to compensate the states for GST revenue loss, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has written to them on the terms under which the Centre will borrow a sum of Rs 1,10,208 crore from a special window and pass it on to the states as loan. However, the letter lacked clarity on several counts including the interest rate and whether the states or the Centre will pay the administrative and the service costs of borrowing the sum. The letter of the finance minister says “the interest rate will be very reasonable” but does not confirm the earlier promise “to bear the margin between G-Secs and the average of State Development Loan yields up to 50 basis points) through a subsidy”. The margin relates to the borrowing the states themselves will do to the tune of Rs 1.06 lakh crore over and above the Rs 1.10 lakh crore borrowing. “Under this scheme, state governments get funds from two sources. First, they will get loans through a special window arranged by the Government of India. The special window covers the shortfall arising from the implementation of the GST (calculated at Rs 1,10,208 lakh crore),” the letter by Sitharaman said. “The second source is through additional unconditional market borrowing. The condition attached to the final portion of the borrowing package issued on May 17, 2020 will be relaxed. Thus, states will be able to borrow an amount equivalent to 0.5 per cent of GSDP without meeting any reform conditions,” the letter said. The letter said the states will get access to resources of over Rs 2,16,000 lakh crore  this year comprising Rs 1,10,208  crore (from the special window) plus Rs 1,06,830 crore (because of the relaxation of the borrowing headroom under the package in May to the extent of 0.5 per cent of GSDP without condition. The Centre said the Rs 2.16 lakh crore will more than cover what the states were supposed to get this year. Out of the estimated GST shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore this year, only Rs 1.83 lakh crore would have been payable this year as the dues for February and March 2021 would be rolled over to the next year. Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram in a tweet said Sitharaman has written to the states that the central government will borrow Rs 1,10,208 crore and give them “back-to-back loans”. “There is no clarity on the balance of the gap in the GST compensation. FM’s letter puts the number at Rs 1,06,830 crore for this financial year. There is no clarity on who will borrow the money and no clarity on how the debt will be serviced and repaid,” Chidambaram’s tweet said. “States are opposed to borrowing on their own account. States are right. There is no difference between the first amount and the second amount,” Chidambaram said. He also asked the Centre to resolve the impasse immediately by offering the same terms for Rs 1,06,830 crore as it has now offered for Rs 1,10,208 crore. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac in a tweet said:  “But there is one issue yet to be resolved — how much of compensation is to be  deferred to 2023? Negotiate this point and reach a consensus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
