18-10-2020||Business||HDFC Bank reports 18.4% growth in net profits for September quarter||HDFC Bank on Saturday beat Street estimates when it reported an 18.4 per cent growth in net profits for the September quarter. The country’s largest private sector bank posted a standalone net profit of Rs 7,513.11 crore against Rs 6,344.99 crore a year ago. Analysts were expecting the lender to report profits in the region of Rs 6,500 crore. Incidentally, this was the last quarter under Aditya Puri who will step down later this month. Puri will be succeeded by Sashidhar Jagdishan. During the July-September period, the lender’s asset quality improved with the percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) to gross advances declining to 1.08 per cent from 1.36 per cent on a sequential basis. Bad loans on absolute terms fell to Rs 11,304.60 crore from Rs 13,773.46 crore in the same period a year ago. During the period, provisions and contingencies rose to Rs 3,703.50 crore (consisting of specific loan loss provisions of Rs 1,240.6 crore and general and other provisions of Rs 2,462.9 crore) against Rs 2,700.68 crore. The bank disclosed that total provisions for the second quarter included contingent provisions of around Rs 2,300 crore for “proforma” NPA and additional contingent provisions to make the balance sheet more resilient. The Supreme Court had, through an interim order on September 3, directed that accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31 shall not be declared as such until further orders. HDFC Bank said that following the interim order, accounts that would have otherwise been classified as NPA have not been and will not be classified as bad loans till such time that the apex court rules on the matter. However, had the bank classified accounts as NPA after August 31, 2020, the proforma gross NPA ratio would have been 1.37 per cent as on September 30, 2020 against 1.36 per cent as on June 30, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
18-10-2020||Business||Paytm 2% fee on credit cards||Paytm users will have to pay a 2 per cent fee on the amount added to their e-wallet using a credit card. Till now, users had to pay a 2 per cent fee if they loaded more than Rs 10,000 in their e-wallets via credit card in a month. “A nominal charge of 2 per cent is applicable on adding money using credit card. The nominal fee is applicable since we pay high charges to your bank when you add money using a credit card. Please use UPI or debit card to add money for free,” said a message when customers tried to add money to their Paytm wallet via credit card. Paytm is also providing an offer, wherein users will get 2 per cent cashback up to Rs 200 on adding a minimum Rs 50 using credit card, according to the message. A Paytm Payments Bank spokesperson said customers have the flexibility to add money to their Paytm wallet from any of their preferred funding source, including UPI, net banking and cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
18-10-2020||Business||Jharkhand refuses loans to make up for GST revenue shortfall||Jharkhand has rejected the Centre’s proposal to take a loan to make up for its GST revenue shortfall, chief minister Hemant Soren told reporters after a meeting of the state cabinet in Ranchi late on Friday. The Jharkhand cabinet has also decided not to avail itself of loans meant for power distribution companies under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package. This stand is being seen as a retaliation against the move of the Union power ministry to auto-debit a sum of Rs 1,417.50 crore from the state’s consolidated account — maintained by the RBI — to pay for DVC’s dues. This amount is the first installment of the Rs 5,600 crore Jharkhand owes DVC for power supplied to seven of its districts. “It’s really unfortunate that the Centre is unable to pay GST compensation to states. To add to our woes, it is asking the RBI to debit money from the state’s consolidated fund,” Soren said. “Such misuse of power was never seen since Jharkhand was formed or even earlier.” “Coal sector units owe us huge amounts but we never stopped them from carrying coal from the state or never stopped the DVC from using water from our rivers,” Soren said. “Why should we take a loan when the Centre was supposed to pay us GST compensation,” Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon told The Telegraph on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
18-10-2020||Business||Kalrock Capital-Murari Lal Jalan win Jet Airways bid||Creditors to Jet Airways have approved a resolution plan which will give the country’s oldest private carrier a new lease of life, the airline said in a regulatory filing on Saturday. Eighteen months after it shut down and sixteen months after it became the first airline company to be admitted under the insolvency and bankruptcy code (IBC), a plan submitted by a consortium of London-based Kalrock Capital and UAE-based businessmen Murari Lal Jalan was approved on Saturday. In April 2019, Jet — which operated a fleet of more than 120 planes serving dozens of domestic destinations and international hubs such as Singapore, London and Dubai — was forced to ground all flights, crippled by mounting losses as it attempted to compete with low-cost rivals. Claims made by financial creditors, operational creditors and employees have ballooned to over Rs 40,000 crore, out of which claims to the tune of Rs 15,525 crore has been admitted by the resolution professional. Financial creditors such as SBI, Yes Bank, and others have claimed Rs 11,344 crore but only Rs 7,459. 80 crore has been admitted. The approved proposal will now go to the National Company Law Tribunal. After the tribunal approves it, the airline will have to apply to the civil aviation ministry for its approval. Jet Airways RP (resolution professional) Ashish Chhawchharia said in a filing to the bourses that the plan was approved after the conclusion of the e-voting on Saturday. Jet Airways had received another valid bid from the consortium of Haryana-based Flight Simulation Technique Centre, Big Charter of Mumbai and Abu Dhabi’s Imperial Capital Investments LLC. On Friday, the airline had extended the deadline for voting as only half the lenders had submitted their votes and the remaining had sought time till Saturday evening to submit their votes. Under IBC norms, an approval by 66 per cent (by value) of the lenders is necessary for a resolution plan to go through. While the announcement was silent on how much votes the winning plan secured, it is understood to be over 70 per cent. Financial details of the winning plan will be known once it is presented to the NCLT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
