19-10-2020||Business||Bangladesh is upbeat, it’s where things can only get better||We’ve all heard the story of tortoise and the hare, but have you heard the one about the termites and the elephant? It’s a story in which the termites cross the finishing line before the lumbering elephant. Anyone who thinks this an unlikely tale should travel to the Mirsarai Special Economic Zone, that’s coming up on 30,000 acres of reclaimed land a short distance from Chittagong. The sea here is held back by an enormous “super-dyke” and in the midst of this barren landscape, Asian Paints is building a $20-million factory slated to start up next June. Not far away, Berger Paints is putting up its second factory in Bangladesh for $29 million. Even more ambitiously, Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone has begun work on a $115-million India Special Economic Zone (ISEZ) that will sprawl over 1,000 acres and be used exclusively by Indian investors. With a nod to Amit Shah, our “termite friends” seem to be moving faster than our own Indian elephant. Bangladesh, which to India’s chagrin is forecast by the IMF to surpass us in per-capita GDP this year, is positioning itself as the new high-growth, low-wage country that aims to be an Asian industrial hub. It’s wooing everyone from giant Japanese corporations like Marubeni and Mitsubishi to South Korean and Chinese companies. Mirsarai is also located close to Chittagong Port from which exports can be easily and quickly shipped out of the country. “You can’t beat Bangladesh for low wages. We’re the biggest exporter of cheap labour,” says one veteran analyst. He adds: “Bangladeshis will do all jobs and are even cheaper than Indians.” But low wages are only one part – though an important one – of the Bangladesh economic success story. Today, 93 per cent of the country’s households have electricity and the government says that will hit 100 per cent in two years. Dhaka, which had power cuts that lasted six to eight hours daily two decades ago, now has weeks, even months, without power outages and it’s the same story in the rural areas. The Shapoorji Pallonji group, owned by construction tycoon Pallonji Mistry, and the Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group are both putting up power stations in Bangladesh, and the Adani Group plans to export power from India to Bangladesh. Shapoorji Pallonji, though, has reportedly put its Bangladesh plant on the block to cut debt. The homegrown Summit Group, meanwhile, is one of the largest power players in Bangladesh, a country of 164.4 million. There are multiple factors tilting in favour in Bangladesh which India helped liberate in 1971. One Chinese company, Jinyuan Chemical Industry, is investing $6 million initially in Bangladesh and is about to go into production. The company’s chairman Wang Yang told a Bangladeshi newspaper she was exiting China to dodge tariffs the company might face if exporting to the US. “My first aim is to avoid the impact of the US-China trade conflict and make my products competitive,” she said. A much larger Chinese investment is the state-owned Kunming Iron & Steel Co that is looking to invest $2.13 billion in Mirsarai’s Iron and Steel Industries Park. Bangladesh’s huge textile industry is also being taken care of and there will be room for 76 garment factories at Mirsarai. Around 1.5 million jobs are expected to be created totally at the industrial park when it is fully operational. The Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Shilpa Nagar (as Mirsarai is officially known) is the flagship export zone for the country’s industrial development. But Bangladesh also aims to put up another 100 industrial parks around the country by 2030 to super-charge economic growth. Political stability under Hasina Will all this happen? There’s currently political stability and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has created the right conditions for growth but inevitably like any emerging market, there could be both political and economic upheavals. Also, the Islamists have grown much stronger politically in recent years, carrying out deadly attacks on liberal bloggers, academics and religious minorities. By contrast, it could be said that India has taken its eye off the ball when it comes to the economy. The giants of the corporate sector were weighed down by excessive debt taken during boom times. We also squandered the opportunity offered by falling oil prices in 2014. And we indulged in costly experiments like demonetisation – we’ve never been able to figure exactly how much damage it did, but it certainly didn’t do any good. In addition, there was the botched switchover to GST with its multiple tax levels. During this period the Bangladesh has been forging ahead and its GDP has grown faster than ours in the last two years. Also, another point in its favour is that the Bangladeshis have turned into entrepreneurs in a big way. There are at least 10 groups with revenues of more than $3 billion. Even in the $35-billion garment industry, almost $32 billion is exported by Bangladeshi entrepreneurs. Says an observer: “No matter who’s ruling, these people can take the country forward. The zeal for investment is quite high. New industrial groups are coming up fast.” Vulnerable to external shocks Still, don’t imagine that Bangladesh is about to overtake India as an economic power even though news that the country’s per capita GDP is overtaking ours has jolted many. “I’ve been telling people they shouldn’t get too excited,” says Zahid Hussein, former lead economist at the World Bank, adding: “India is much more integrated with the global economy so the Covid shock is much bigger.” Hussein adds also that 84 per cent of the country’s total exports still come from one industry -- garments -- which makes Bangladesh vulnerable to external shocks. But there’s no denying that Bangladesh has grown steadily over the last decade and since 2016 growth has crossed 7 per cent each year. India, by contrast, has had its ups and downs and full-year growth in 2019-20 dropped to 4.2 per cent. In 2018-19, it was at a relatively lowly 6.9 per cent. On a per capita basis, India’s GDP is expected to contract this year by 10.5 per cent to $1,877 while Bangladesh’s per capita GDP is expected to increase by 4 per cent to $1,888. Another sobering fact is that five years ago Indian per capita income was 25 per cent higher than its neighbour. “We had good fiscal management. The macro-economic position has been stable. India has gone through ups and downs,” says Ahsan H. Mansur, head of the Dhaka-based Policy Research Institute. Bangladeshis look with bemusement at the economic shocks that have convulsed India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi such as demonetisation and the hastily introduced GST. Remittances have climbed Most crucially, Bangladesh has been less hit by the pandemic than India over the last eight months. (Its infections peaked in June while ours have yet to peak). Remittances from non-resident Bangladeshis have climbed to over $18 billion, an increase over last year, at a time when the Gulf countries have been sending workers back. That’s in sharp contrast to India where remittances are expected to drop this year from around $83 billion to around $64 billion. Remittances account for about 6 per cent of Bangladesh’s GDP. Importantly, says Mansur, most Bangladeshis abroad are from the rural areas. “Because they are from the rural areas, they send 100 per cent of their remittances to the rural economy,” he adds. How have Bangladesh remittances actually risen during this crisis-filled time? Many theories have been doing the rounds including a suggestion that Bangladeshis working in the Gulf are dispatching all their savings back home before returning themselves. Alternatively, economists speculate Bangladeshi workers abroad are sending back more money to families who’ve been more in need of cash during the last few pandemic-and lockdown-hit months. But the most likely explanation is that the pandemic shutdown hit the illegal cash transfer channels and Bangladeshi workers were forced to send money back via legal routes, adding to the recorded amount. Also, analysts say Bangladeshis may be hanging on to their jobs in places like the Gulf because they are paid even less than the Indians there. Around 10 million Bangladeshis work abroad in the Gulf, Europe and other parts of the world. They’re the second-largest contingent in the Gulf after the 8.5 million Indians there. Each year, about 2 million Bangladeshis enter the workforce and around 25 per cent are thought to head abroad (most Bangladeshis insist that youngsters looking for jobs do not head to India but other parts of the world). Though the picture is changing, remittances, the vibrant textile sector and farming are the three pillars of the Bangladeshi economy. Like India, the Bangladesh economy is primarily all about consumption-led growth as the population has become more affluent. Also, agriculture has grown steadily and that includes fisheries, livestock, poultry and high value crops. Micro-credit, which has played a bigger role in Bangladesh than anywhere else in the world, has had an important impact in building the agricultural sector.  More women have also been involved in poultry and livestock farming. Bangladesh is now amongst the world’s top ten fish producing countries because of its successful freshwater aquaculture. There were great fears that Covid-19 would decimate Bangladesh’s economy and particularly its garment factories which operate in cramped conditions. But the garment units have come out relatively unscathed with the help of government financing. One explanation is that garment factory workers – who are mainly women – are young and therefore haven’t been so badly hit by the infections. Bangladesh’s exporters initially said $3,25 billion worth of orders had been cancelled but now report that 80 per cent of these orders have been reinstated. Also, the garment exporters have built up a new business making PPE suits and other health-related products. Far behind in education What are the downsides to the Bangladesh growth story? Education is far behind desired levels. Political leaders at all levels have a huge say in the education system and the appointment of teachers. In terms of higher education Bangladesh is far behind India and doesn’t have established institutions like the IITs and the IIMs. Corruption is rife and, of course, there are fears that Islamist elements could destroy the country’s founding secularist principles. On healthcare and hunger, Bangladesh outperforms India. For instance, Bangladesh ranked 75 out of 107 nations in the Global Hunger Index 2020 while India stood at 94. The country managed to end open defecation more than a decade ago and there are toilets in even the smallest village houses. In most villages, all houses have power connections and indoor toilets. LPG is also widely used. The availability of stable power has created a demand for refrigerators, TVs and even rice cookers. Even in a pandemic-battered year, economists say that the mood in Bangladesh is upbeat and there’s a feeling that things can only get better. The IMF, meanwhile, forecasts that India and Bangladesh will likely be running neck-and-neck in terms of GDP per capita income in coming years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||India loses Farzad gas field in Persian Gulf ||India has all but lost the ONGC Videsh Ltd-discovered Farzad-B gas field in the Persian Gulf after Iran decided to prefer domestic companies over foreign firms for the development of the field, sources said. ONGC Videsh Ltd (OVL), the overseas investment arm of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC), had in 2008 discovered a giant gas field in the Farsi offshore exploration block. OVL and its partners had offered to invest up to $11 billion for the development of the discovery, which was later named Farzad-B. After sitting over OVL’s proposal for years, the National Iranian Oil Co (NIOC) informed the firm in February this year about its intention to conclude the contract for Farzad-B development with an Iranian company, sources said. OVL, however, continued its engagements with NIOC over the development of the field and sought terms and conditions of the proposed contract for its evaluation, they said, adding that Iran has so far not responded to the Indian firm’s request. Farzad-B holds total reserves of around 21.7 trillion cubic feet of which around 60 per cent is recoverable, and production is slated to be around 1.1 billion cubic feet per day. Sources said unconfirmed information suggests that Iran has identified a local firm for the development of the field, but OVL has not yet given up hopes and continues to chase Iranian authorities for the contract. The 3,500-square-kilometre Farsi block sits in water depth of 20-90 metres on the Iranian side of the Persian Gulf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||MSME loan relief till month-end||The government is unlikely to extend the Rs 3-lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for the MSME sector beyond October even though the sanctioned amount so far is only nearly 65 per cent of the target, sources said. The scheme is meant to provide financial support to businesses, primarily micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), impacted by the slowdown triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. The sources said the objective is to provide support to all those affected and if there are no takers for the scheme, there is no need to extend the scheme even though there is some room left. On August 1, the government widened the scope of the  scheme by doubling the upper ceiling of the loans outstanding and including certain loans given to professionals such as doctors, lawyers and chartered accountants for business purposes under its ambit. To ensure more companies  benefit, the upper ceiling of loans outstanding as on February 29 for being eligible under the scheme was increased to Rs 50 crore from Rs 25 crore. The maximum amount of Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line funding under the scheme was also raised to Rs 10 crore from Rs 5 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||10 bad investment habits you must get rid of||The festive season brings respite from what has been an extremely challenging year. We can take a breather and rejoice in the fact that we have overcome steep odds. The Covid-19 crisis has turned our world upside down.We are slowly returning to something resembling normalcy. However, things remain difficult for countless people because of the economic fallout of the pandemic. Money management has never been as critical as it is now. We’ve been taught some harsh lessons we’d do well to remember when better days come. In keeping with the festive spirit and the triumph of good over bad, here are the 10 demons you’d do well to exorcise from your financial life. To borrow a 2020 metaphor, going without health insurance is like stepping into a crowded marketplace without a face mask —you may survive this adventure, but is the risk worth taking? By now, you may personally know someone who had multiple family members hospitalised for Covid-19, their finances devastated by the ordeal. Depending on savings, friends and family, or even crowd-funding websites isn’t ideal.Protect yourself: buy health insurance. This year provided us plenty of moments to reflect upon our mortality and think about how our families will sustain themselves should we are not around. Relieve yourself of some of this stress. Get adequate term insurance coverage that’s at least 10 or 20 times your current annual income. The time to be sitting on the fence about life coverage is past us. At a time of economic hardship such as this, money in hand is worth gold. If you are solvent, you are likely to survive. And for you, losing income temporarily would be just a bump on the way, and not a calamity that puts an end to your life plans. Therefore, save up. Save at least three to six times your currently monthly income. The pandemic had nothing to do with the crisis some banks experienced this year. Their depositors were left without access to their life savings. The result? Weddings had to be postponed. Medical treatments couldn’t be funded. This is a reminder that there’s no such thing as risk-free banking. Savings must be diversified with different banks to lower risks and maximise rewards. Interest rates have been trending downwards. Economists says we’ll not see double-digit rates soon. Among its repercussions is the impact on fixed income earners — especially senior citizens. Their retirement savings have been hurt, making sustenance a challenge. This is a reminder to not be hung up on guaranteed returns. Taking no risk is also a great risk. If you’re young, equity investment may be good for you. Gold won in 2020. But those who tried to get into gold in 2020 may have lost. The message is clear. Long-term thinking helps. Short-term thinking leads to crushing losses. A well-balanced portfolio with fixed income, equities, gold, real estate and small savings is your best bet against volatility. So invest to your plan, and buckle down for the long run. The economy shut down in April. Millions struggled with their debts. Then came the moratorium on loans. But the option to defer payments was given only to those regularly repaying their dues till February 2020. It seems only they will now benefit from the waiver of compounded interest, if it happens. . In a tough time, your late payments could snowball into an unmanageable crisis. Petty debt is easy to get into. Petty debt is also expensive. One must exercise caution using credit cards and other forms of unsecured credit to fund lifestyle. Credit is easily available when the times are good. During tough times, the high rate of interest can become an albatross around your neck. Therefore, pay off your expensive debts aggressively, within the interest-free cycle. It will help you when the going gets tough. The ongoing situation demands frugality. However, frugality can be maintained even after we come out of the pandemic. Having a monthly budget and sticking to it, ensuring forced savings, differentiating between needs and wants and goal-oriented thinking are useful habits to have at all times but especially during a tough period. With a deadly virus in the air, we're constantly reminded that life is delicate.But life must go on, too. Continuity of financial plans-whether you're there to see them through or not-is crucial to any family. Therefore, empower your dependents with knowledge of what needs to be done if you're incapacitated. If you’re of a ripe age, prepare a will. Settle unsettle debts. Tie up the loose ends in your finances. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||WBIDC thrust on single-window facility upgrade||Rajiva Sinha, the newly appointed chairman of Bengal’s premier investment promotion vehicle West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC), has hit the ground running. After assuming charge on October 1, following the completion of his tenure as the chief secretary of the state, Sinha has held informal consultations with city-based chambers and industry-specific trade bodies. He also appeared to have prioritised the areas that WBIDC should concentrate. Speaking to The Telegraph in his first interview after assuming his new role, Sinha said: “WBIDC will work like a consultant and service provider, doing all the leg work within the framework of existing government policies and laws. Setting up more industrial parks, multi-sector or product-specific, directly or in partnership with the private sector, is an immediate 
priority area.” Sinha’s statement suggests that the government agency would make yet another attempt to provide a truly single-window assistance to industries, big or small. Even though a mechanism is in place to address the myriad issues and problems an investor faces while setting up industries, the system can do with an upgrade. “WBIDC is ideally positioned to be a one-stop shop for all sectors and all categories of industry - small to large. It can act as a facilitation centre and the investor could be from any sector -manufacturing, service, logistics,” Sinha, who held charge as the secretary of the industry department and MSME, said over the weekend. The agency, set up in 1967, will provide the prospective investor with all the assistance in getting land, power and licences. However, that does not mean the inherent power to grant licence and clearances of the different departments will be absorbed into WBIDC. “It will ensure that they (investors) don’t have to run around different departments and government offices. The already created ecosystem of online and time-bound services needs strengthening,” Sinha added. Known for his unconventional and dynamic approach, Sinha — one of the very few non-politician to adorn the chairman’s post — will have his task cut out as the pandemic has all but shut down the investment tap. Courting outsiders to set up shop in Bengal, not exactly a top of the mind destination for investors, is all the more harder. Holding road shows, making promo films may go out of the window for now as the state government refocuses on homegrown entrepreneurs —  the sons of the soil. Sinha believes there are major opportunities within the state, especially in MSME, IT and agri-business sectors that need to be harnessed with WBIDC playing a facilitative role. “Unless we take care of the problems that the existing or potential industries are facing in the state getting investments from outside would remain a challenge. Moreover, this Covid has thrown up fresh challenges. If industry believes that the government is there to offer a helping hand and understand and recognise it, this will do more good than holding road shows or investment -promotion activities,” Sinha said. Creating more infrastructure in public-private partnership for a plug and play model would be accelerated. The chairman said the industrial parks can come up in Siliguri and the neighbouring districts in North Bengal; the Asansol-Durgapur belt; the Howrah-Kharagpur belt and areas within 40-50 km from Calcutta. In other districts, the agri industry focused parks would be considered. Will WBIDC again take up the role of putting seed capital by way of equity as it had in the past? Sinha did not see such opportunities in the immediate future but stressed that it would facilitate bank lending or even funding from private equities. While industry would welcome a recharged agency, it would also hope that faster disbursal of promised and contracted incentives. Asked to comment, Sinha directed the matter towards the government. “Incentive is governed by state policies. WBIDC is just a channelising agency,” he signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||MG Motor looks to use Volkswagen idle capacity||Chinese auto company MG Motor India is eyeing idle capacity at the Volkswagen plant for contract manufacturing. MG Motor India is a subsidiary of SAIC, a Chinese auto giant. With investments through the FDI route subject to maximum scrutiny from the government following the border standoff with the Chinese , MG Motor India is in talks with Volkswagen Group India to lease out their idle capacity in plants for contract manufacturing. Talks are in advanced stages with Volkswagen who is a partner of SAIC, said sources. The capacity at MG India’s Halol plant stands at 1 lakh unit per annum. At present, the capacity utilisation stands at 50 per cent. About 3,000 units of the Hector are manufactured there. The ZS EV and the Gloster SUV, launched recently, are assembled in India. “It makes sense for the company to go for brownfield projects than greenfield plans. The investment is much less. For a greenfield plant, the investment required would be worth Rs 6,000 crore. But to take on lease idle capacity, the company needs to pay around Rs 2,000 crore,” said a source. As Volkswagen is a partner of SAIC, it is logical that the German company will help out MG India, a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||Audi questions Centre's quality norms||Luxury automaker Audi has asked for a separate quality control regime for the premium segment which is subject to a higher tax regime than the mass market manufacturers. Audi India head Balbir Singh Dhillon told The Telegraph, “As we are subject to the highest customs duty and GST rate, we should also have a quality control regulation regime separate from the mass market.” Dhillon was referring to the recently notified quality control order for automobile wheel rims, making it mandatory for all wheel rims of vehicles, either imported or domestically manufactured for use in the country, to be certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards. The certification will be effective 12 months from the date of notification in the official gazette. There will also be quality control orders for glass, alloy wheels, tyres. The quality control order exempts low-volume players, following suggestions made by the automobile industry to the government. The industry, however, says that the exemptions are not enough. “It takes time to implement such regulatory orders. We face a lot of problems. We have to first shut down production and then meet the regulations. Hence, we request for a stable policy regime and a clear road map for us to operate without a hitch,” Dhillon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||Micromax makes a comeback call||Homegrown consumer electronics brand Micromax is planning a comeback in the smartphone segment. The company has unveiled its subrand “in” as it hopes to take on the Chinese handset makers backed by policy support from the Indian government. Micromax started operations in 2008 and by 2015 had become a global Top 10 handset maker, according to research firm Gartner. It had a 20 per cent marketshare in  2016, with Hollywood heartthrob Hugh Jackman endorsing the brand. But the fall was equally swift as the rise with Chinese brands Xiaomi, Oppo and Vivo muscling the Indian company out of the market. In the second quarter of 2020, the three Chinese handset makers together commanded more than half of the smartphone shipments in the country, according to data from IDC. The trio not only relied on e-commerce channels but also spent heavily on distribution and marketing in India. The advent of 4G drastically changed the landscape and Micromax found itself not in a position to compete with the Chinese in a price sensitive market. “With the other players like Nokia, Samsung, Sony etc, it was fair play. But the Chinese were burning money and we were not able to do that,” Rahul Sharma, co-founder, Micromax, told The Telegraph. But Sharma sees the present global geopolitical situation and the thrust of the government in the domestic manufacturing of electronics as an opportunity for a comeback. The central government has announced a production linked incentive scheme for large scale electronics manufacturing in the country with benefits in the range of 4-6 per cent for a period of 5 years. “The PLI scheme is a fantastic move. We will be able to tackle the pricing war. Moreover the sentiment against China is also strong. India today needs a domestic smartphone option and we are in a position to offer that,” said Sharma. The company has factories in Rajasthan and Hyderabad and plans to invest Rs 500 crore in expanding local manufacturing, research and development with an eye to produceg around 2 million phones per month. “India is one of the top five mobile gaming markets in the world and with the ‘in’ brand we will provide a bona fide choice that will allow consumers to edge ahead with high performance oriented products, without infringing on privacy,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
19-10-2020||Business||Exide Life Insurance upbeat about growth in second half of 2020-21||Exide Life Insurance hopes to bounce back in the second half of 2020-21 with a 10-15 per cent growth in new business. A combination of new products along with rising awareness of insurance and a gradual opening up of the business will aid the growth. According to data from IRDAI, the first-year premium collection of Exide Life Insurance for the period up to September 30, 2020, was down 29.93 per cent to Rs 268.07 crore from Rs 382.60 crore in the corresponding year-ago period. “As far as new business is concerned I would be happy with a growth of 10-15 per cent compared with last year in the second half. We have countered the decline in the first six months in new business premium by being cautious in terms of managing cost. In the second half, we will be able to grow,” said Kshitij Jain, MD and CEO of Exide Life Insurance. According to Jain,  the first-year premium comprises different products and even as sale of investment oriented products have gone down, the amount of premium the industry has picked up from protection products have gone up. The average sum insured has also increased in the first six months signifying an increased awareness. He gave three-fold reasons supporting the growth. “There is rising customer awareness as far as the need for protection is concerned. There is an overall increase in business with our branches opening up and our sales people engaging with customers. We are also coming out with compelling propositions at the end of this quarter and beginning of next quarter,” he said. The company has launched a pension product to enter into a market it was not participating earlier. Also improved versions of its existing smart term plus policies will be coming up shortly, Jain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
19-10-2020||Business||Uniform term plan pitfall||The “Saral Jeevan Bima” policy proposed by the IRDAI may pinch the pockets of policyholders as insurance companies venture into the uncharted territories of risk pooling. The regulator has issued guidelines for a standard term life insurance product with a sum assured as low as Rs 5 lakh and going up to Rs 25 lakh. The policy which offers death benefits but no maturity benefit can be bought by individuals between 18 years and 65 years. All life insurance companies have been mandated to offer the standard product with effect from January 1, 2021. According to the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), there are many term products in the market with varying terms and conditions; customers who cannot devote adequate time and energy to make informed choices find it difficult to select the right product with the intended sum assured. “To take care of this situation and to make available a product by all life insurers that will broadly meet the needs of an average customer, it is felt necessary to introduce a standard, individual term life insurance product, with simple features and standard terms and conditions,” the IRDAI said. The regulator added that this will reduce mis-selling and disputes at the time of claim settlement. The IRDAI, however, has left the pricing of the policies to the insurance companies. The insurance industry while welcoming the decision said that the target customers would be different with lower middle income individuals set to be the potential beneficiaries. At present, the majority of the term plans sold by the insurance companies have a sum assured starting at around Rs 25 lakh and these are mostly availed by individuals with income above Rs 3 lakh per annum. The new policies will benefit individuals who cannot afford a higher sum assured. “The product caters to a different segment of customers as compared to the segments currently being served by the existing term products. This will increase insurance penetration,” said Anjali Malhotra, chief customer, marketing, digital and IT officer, Aviva India. But for insurance companies, this adds to the risk. Several factors such as the place of living, the level of education, the job and lifestyle of the individual and the ability to afford healthcare will all add to the risk. “Insurance is risk pooling. The lifestyle of a daily wage earner would be vastly different from that of a person working in a corporate office. So, when there is a pooling of both kinds of risk, premium is expected to be relatively higher,” said Santosh Agarwal, chief business officer, life insurance, Policybazaar.com. “But the other way to look at it is there is now an option to have term insurance for this population,” said Agarwal. “In terms of direction this is absolutely spot on. But, implementation is going to be complex because pure protection carries a certain amount of risk and in order to take on that risk a life insurance company needs to do a fair bit of due diligence of the customer which for a small policy is difficult to establish unless there is a clear binary system of saying which are the kinds of life that will be covered and which are not,” the CEO of a private life insurance company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
19-10-2020||Business||Clock ticking on BPCL stake sale||The Centre is unwilling to extend the deadline for the submission of expressions of interest for state-owned refiner BPCL as the Modi-government  struggles to meet its selloff target for the fiscal. The government plans to sell its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL and has extended the deadline four times, with the present one being November 16. The BPCL share price on Friday at Rs 339.95 on the BSE is far below its 52-week high of Rs 549.70, and a stake sale of 53 per cent will fetch the government around Rs 40,000 crore. The selloff target for the fiscal is Rs 2.10 lakh crore. Senior finance ministry officials said “we expect the bidders to be ready this time. We hope we need not extend the deadline further, otherwise it sends a wrong message”. Global and domestic players had shown interest in the stake sale of BPCL during the road shows. However, reports suggest energy majors such as Saudi Aramco, Russia’s Rosneft may not bid because of lower prices and fragile demand recovery. “The competition will be a key factor for BPCL to help the government get a better price,” the officials said. Analysts said the government’s expectations of a hefty premium to the current market price may be misplaced and the quick privatisation of the PSU may prove to be challenging. “We maintain neutral on the stock, with the slim possibility of divestment in the current circumstances,” Motilal Oswal said in a research report. Fitch Rating said “the government may require OMCs (oil marketing companies) to cut marketing margins to keep retail fuel prices affordable if crude oil prices continue to rise. However, state interference in fuel prices, if any, will have a bearing on its plans to divest BPCL, which we believe will limit any drastic steps.” Fitch had also said the potential privatisation of BPCL is an “event risk” as there is little information about bidders and potential transaction structure. “We all will appreciate looking into the net worth and looking into the size. The government is trading very cautiously on how to off load the stake through a proper process,” oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan has said. After the EoIs, the government will open a data center for the interested bidders to do due diligence of the books of the company and its operations after which financial bids will be called. The financial bids will have to be evaluated and approved by the cabinet and the transaction will close once the payment is made, sources said. The government has barred PSUs from the bidding. The government has proposed a strategic disinvestment of its entire shareholding in BPCL — comprising 114.91 crore equity shares, or 52.98 per cent of  share capital — along with the transfer of management. BPCL will not sell its 61.65 per cent stake in Numaligarh Refinery to the strategic buyer. The Numaligarh stake will be sold to a state-owned oil and gas firm. The Centre has allowed prospective bidders with a minimum net worth of $10 billion to present their bids. A maximum of four members are permitted in a consortium, with the lead member holding 40 per cent. Other members of the consortium must have a net worth of $1 billion. The EoI allows changes in the consortium within 45 days, though the lead member cannot be changed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
