20-10-2020||Business|| GST compensation row: Centre told to borrow more||The GST compensation row is festering over the sum the Centre must borrow to bail out the states who have their hands full with the pandemic. Opposition ruled Kerala, which have been in the forefront to gouge out more from the Centre on account of the shortfall in GST collections, wants the Centre to borrow the entire shortfall of Rs 1.83 lakh for the year and not the Rs 1.10 lakh crore offered by the finance ministry. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac on Monday asked the central government to take the initiative to settle the matter. “Having come half way through for amicable settlement on the issue of who should borrow, the Centre now should take the initiative to settle the remaining issue: How much to borrow?” Isaac tweeted. The state, thus, wants the Modi government to borrow the Rs 73,000 crore shortfall estimated to be caused exclusively by the coronavirus as well as the Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the result of GST implementation. “Higher borrowing will not affect the Centre’s FD (fiscal deficit). Fears of crowding out private investment is misplaced in recession,” Isaac tweeted. The shortfall to states and the Centre’s obligation on that count had threatened to spill over to the Supreme Court with eight Opposition states, including Bengal and Kerala, rejecting the twin options proposed by the finance minister. In August, the Centre had told the  states to a) either borrow Rs 97,000 crore on account of GST implementation from a special window facilitated by the RBI or b) the complete shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, including Rs 1.38 lakh crore because of Covid-19, from the market. The options have since been revised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore and Rs 1.6 lakh crore, respectively. The Centre had made much of the fact that it had given them a larger borrowing window of Rs 1.6 lakh crore instead of Rs 73,000 crore which is the actual sum for the fiscal given the dues of February and March are rolled over to the next fiscal. Last week, the Centre gave in to the demands of the Opposition states to borrow and fund the GST compensation shortfall. The finance ministry said the Centre would borrow from the market to pay the GST compensation shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to states and then act as an intermediary to arrange back-to-back loans to state governments. Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram in a tweet said the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has written to the states that the central government will borrow Rs 1,10,208 crore and give them “back-to-back loans”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
20-10-2020||Business||Sharp spike in raw material shipments from India||The sharp spike in raw material shipments from India compared with manufactured goods in the first half of the current fiscal has raised the eyebrows of the government, prompting the commerce ministry to study the data and take requisite measures, if needed. According to trade data, of the 12 major commodities that account for 80 per cent of the country’s exports, only four commodities — drugs and pharmaceuticals, rice, iron ore and plastic products —  witnessed growth in the first half of 2020-21 over the corresponding period last year. These four commodities have a 17 per cent share in total exports. Exports contracted 3-55 per cent for the other eight commodities. Petroleum products and gems and jewellery witnessed the sharpest decline at 43 per cent and 55 per cent, respectively. Engineering goods, which is the largest component of the  export basket with a 27 per cent share, fell 15 per cent in the first half of the current fiscal. Commerce ministry sources said,“The data needs to be studied to see if it was a one-off issue or there is a pattern that needs to be reversed. If the pattern continues, it is a worrying thing as value addition of raw material increases manufacturing output, results in job creation and better returns to the product.” The country is keen to increase the share of manufacturing in GDP to 25 per cent from 14 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
20-10-2020||Business||IL&FS: Vineet Nayyar steps down||The IL&FS group on Monday said Vineet Nayyar has resigned as the company’s executive vice-chairman because of poor health. A statement from IL&FS said Nayyar requested the board to relieve him of his duties as the executive vice-chairman with effect from October 31, 2020, on grounds of “indifferent health”. “The board, in its meeting held here on Monday, has accepted Nayyar’s resignation with effect from October 31, 2020, and granted him leave till then, on medical grounds,” it said. The group disclosed that in the interim, C.S. Rajan, the managing director of IL&FS, has been asked by the board to discharge Nayyar’s responsibilities and, in consultation with the senior management, put in place a revised organisational structure. Nayyar was appointed the executive vice-chairman and managing director of IL&FS on October 4, 2018, in the first meeting held by the new board immediately after its constitution by the corporate affairs ministry. He has been leading the IL&FS resolution, involving over 300 companies, for the last two years with the new board. Nayyar had served as the former executive vice-chairman of Tech Mahindra. He was also credited with turning around Satyam Computer Services which was later renamed Mahindra Satyam (later acquired by Tech Mahindra and merged with the latter). “Vineet brought with him unique insights and conviction with respect to our challenges over the last two years. I wish him speedy recovery,” Uday Kotak, the non-executive chairman of IL&FS, said. Kotak was appointed by the Centre as the head of the infrastructure financier’s board in 2018 to help the company come out of its difficulties. Recently, the government extended the term of Kotak as the non-executive chairman of the IL&FS group by one year, till October 2, 2021. “Nayyar’s vast experience in corporate resolution with Satyam and his sharp understanding of government functioning has provided the new board with immense learning at every stage of the complex IL&FS resolution process. We wish him speedy recovery,” Rajan said. In June this year, the IL&FS group’s chief operating officer, N. Sivaraman, had decided to part ways with the group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
20-10-2020||Business||Britannia consolidated net profits up 23%||Britannia Industries on Monday met Street estimates when it posted a 23 per cent rise in consolidated net profits at Rs 495.20 crore for the September quarter. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 402.73 crore in the same period last year. Total revenue rose 12.15 per cent to Rs 3,419.11 crore during the quarter against Rs 3,048.44 crore a year ago as the country-wide lockdown was lifted in many places. Britannia Industries managing director Varun Berry said the company got its full range of products to the market, focussed on efficiency in distribution, followed continuous replenishment system of distribution and inched closer to normality in advertisement and promotions. Further, all the adjacent businesses delivered a healthy growth. “On the cost front, we witnessed moderate inflation in the prices of key raw materials and expect the prices to be stable given the positive outlook on monsoon and harvest,” he said. However, it sustained a large part of the gains in the previous quarter through supply chain efficiencies and reduction in wastage. “These measures helped us sequentially sustain the shape of our business and record a massive 390 basis points increase in operating profit during the quarter versus last year,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
20-10-2020||Business||India needs to export six million tonnes of sugar||India needs to export six million tonnes of sugar in the 2020-21 marketing year, which started this month, as production is estimated to increase 13 per cent to 31 million tonnes on higher availability of sugarcane, trade body Isma said on Monday. The output has been estimated after taking into account a likely diversion of about 2 million tonnes of cane juice and B molasses for ethanol production, it said. In the 2019-20 season (October-September), sugar production remained lower at 27.42 million tonnes and diversion to ethanol was about 0.8 mt. Since higher production is forecast for the 2020-21 season, Isma said India will need to continue to export about 6 million tonnes of surplus sugar this season. With higher availability of sugarcane and surplus sugar production, it is estimated that a larger quantity of cane juice /syrup and B-molasses will get diverted to ethanol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
20-10-2020||Business||Third win for JSW in insolvency courts||JSW Steel has won the approval of the National Company Law Tribunal to acquire value-added steel maker Asian Colour Coated Ispat Pvt Ltd (ACCIPL). The company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sajjan Jindal-promoted JSW, presented a resolution plan entailing Rs 1,550 crore for the Khopoli, Maharashtra-based unit. The principal bench of the NCLT, Delhi, approved the plan with certain modifications on Monday. This is the third acquisition by JSW from the insolvency courts. In 2018, the company’s plan for integrated steel maker Monnet Ispat was approved. The Monnet proposal was placed in partnership with AION Capital, where AION was a majority partner, with a deal size of Rs 2,457 crore. It also made a small acquisition of Vardhaman Industries in 2019 for Rs 63.5 crore. The ACCIPL deal will give JSW access to a million tonnes of value-added products such as colour-coated sheets and coils and galvanised corrugated sheets. The Pradeep-Agarwal promoted secondary steel maker has a large land bank at Khopoli and Bawal in Haryana, which JSW can use to scale up its production. Industry sources say the product line would bolster JSW’s presence in the western market and help it compete with AM/NS India (formerly Essar Steel). The basic raw material for ACCIPL is hot rolled coil, which JSW can supply from the Dolvi plant in Maharashtra. The ACCIPL facility would add to JSW’s overall capacity of cold rolled value-added products as it also makes colour-coated sheets/coils and galvanised sheets at its Vijaynagar plant in Karnataka. The acquisition comes at a time benchmark prices for steel have gone up in the domestic market, backed by demand from the user industries, especially consumer durables and automobiles. Frontline integrated steel makers had reported strong sales in the second quarter and the momentum is expected to continue in this quarter too. A buoyant market would help JSW to quickly turn around the asset. JSW is also keen to close the acquisition of Bhushan Power and Steel — its biggest bet through the IBC route so far. The Rs 19,500-crore offer for the primary steel maker is now stuck in a legal logjam at the Supreme Court. The company is also in an early stage of making an offer for Gonterman Peipers (India).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
20-10-2020||Business||Finance minister keeps the pot boiling on stimulus||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman spoke of the possibility of another round of stimulus and said the Centre would come out with fresh growth and budgetary estimates for the pandemic-ravaged fiscal. “I am not closed to the option of further stimulus package. Every time we have announced one, it has been after much deliberation and aimed at specific sections. If there is a need, further stimulus is an option I am open to,” Sitharaman said at the launch of the book Portraits of Power by  N.K. Singh, the chairman of the 15th Finance Commission. The government had last week announced steps to stimulate consumer demand, including the advance payment of a part of the wages of central government employees during the festival season and more capital spending. Analysts said the total fiscal stimulus from the government till date amounts to 1.5-2 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP), with the package of last week just a piffling 0.2 per cent of GDP, She said the Centre would revise the growth estimate and the budget figures for the fiscal. “We have only now started doing some sort of assessment of the economy and budget numbers. We have had inputs now which are very different from July. Sometime, we will have to come out with a statement, whether I do it in public or in Parliament is what we have to decide,” she said. At a separate event, the finance minister asked central public sector enterprises to complete 75 per cent of their planned capital expenditure for the fiscal by December itself. Reviewing the performance of the PSUs, the finance minister  said capital expenditure needed to be scaled up for the current and the next fiscal year as it a “critical driver for economic growth”. She held a virtual meeting with the secretaries of oil and coal along with the chiefs of 14 PSUs associated with the ministry. In the fourth such meeting with her, Sitharaman sought greater co-ordination at the secretary-level of the concerned ministries and the heads of PSUs to achieve the targets, a finance ministry statement said. The ministry data showed the PSUs to have spent just one-third of their targeted capital expenditure in the first six months of the fiscal. In 2019-20, against the capex target of Rs 111,672 crore for these 14 PSUs, the achievement was Rs 116,323 crore, which is 104 per cent, the statement said. It further said the achievement in the first half of the current financial year stood at Rs 37,423 crore (32 per cent of the target), while it was Rs 43,097 crore (39 per cent) in the previous financial year. She said the better performance of PSUs can help the economy to recover in a big way from the impact of Covid-19. The capex review of PSUs is carried out jointly by the department of economic affairs and the department of public enterprises Last week, Sitharaman said an additional budget of Rs 25,000 crore would be provided as capital expenditure to develop roads, defence, water supply, urban development and domestically produced capital equipment to boost economic growth. India has asked at least eight state-run companies to consider share buybacks in the fiscal year that runs through March 2021, two government officials said, as New Delhi scours for ways to raise funds to rein in its fiscal deficit, according to Reuters. The firms asked include Coal India, NTPC, minerals producer NMDC and Engineers India Ltd, said one of the sources. The government is unlikely to be anywhere near its fiscal deficit target of 3.5 per cent of GDP for 2020-21 as coronavirus curbs hit tax collections and delayed efforts to privatise BPCL and Air India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
