21-10-2020||Business||Vedanta Resources rating heat||Moody’s Investors Service on Tuesday placed Vedanta Resources Limited’s rating under review for downgrade following its failure to delist the Indian listed subsidiary. Moody’s placed the London-based firm’s B1 corporate family rating (CFR) under review for downgrade. The same action was also initiated for the B3 ratings on the senior unsecured bonds issued by Vedanta and those by its wholly-owned subsidiary Vedanta Resources Finance II Plc, and guaranteed by Vedanta, affecting $4.2 billion in outstanding debt. “The ratings outlook was changed to ratings under review from negative,” Moody’s said in a statement. The review, it said, follows an increase in refinancing risk and significant funding needs at the holding company level following Vedanta Resources’ failure to acquire the balance shareholding in key subsidiary Vedanta Ltd that would have improved access to group cash. On October 10, the company announced that its voluntary delisting offer had failed at the reverse book building stage. The total number of shares tendered by Vedanta Ltd’s public shareholders fell 7 per cent short of the mandatory minimum 90 per cent for successful delisting. “Moody’s had viewed the proposed delisting as a credit positive and a step forward in simplifying the group’s complex shareholding structure, that would have allowed for better access to consolidated cash while avoiding leakage during dividend distributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
21-10-2020||Business||Gas pricing at arm’s length||The government has banned natural gas and coal-bed methane (CBM) producers from buying their own produce in the newly notified gas marketing freedom guidelines. The government on October 15 notified the natural gas marketing reforms that give producers the freedom to discover the market price of gas through a standard e-bidding process. The notification, which follows the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approving gas reforms, also gives them the liberty to market or sell the gas produced to anyone, including affiliates. However, the producer or any member of its gas field consortium cannot bid and buy the fuel, the notified guidelines said. “Sale to affiliates will be allowed if affiliates participate in the open competitive process,” it said. “However, the contractor or its constituents shall not be eligible to participate in the bidding process.”  “Seller and buyer will not be the same entity,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
21-10-2020||Business||Coal mine auction runs into hurdles||The allocation of coal blocks for commercial mining will be delayed as the nominated authority to conduct the auction has sought additional information and clarification on the technical bids submitted by bidders. The nominated authority has sought “supplemental information” and “additional clarification” on the technical bids submitted by the bidders, causing a delay, according to the auction website. The government received bids for 23 of the 38 coal blocks for commercial mining. A total of 42 domestic companies submitted bids. The technical bids were submitted on September 29 and are being examined by the authority. It was supposed to evaluate the financial bids from October 19 and a technical evaluation committee will make final offers to the qualified bidders by  November 9. Global giants had stayed away from the bidding and there were no bids for 15 of 38 coal mines on offer. Gautam Adani-controlled conglomerate Adani Enterprises placed the highest number of seven bids, while group company Adani Power Resources placed a bid for one mine. Vedanta, JSPL, Hindalco Industries, JSW Steel and Nalco were among others that have submitted bids for 23 coal blocks. The government has  put up for auction 38 coal blocks for commercial mining. The highest number of bids (seven) were submitted by Adani Enterprises; followed by Hindalco Industries and JMS Mining (five each); and The Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation, Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure and EMIL Mines and Minerals Resources submitted four bids each. Of the total 76 bids, the highest bids were made for Gotitoria (East) and Gotitoria (West) and Gare Palma IV/7 coal blocks (eight bids for each), followed by six bids each for Brahmadiha and Urma Paharitola mines. In May, the cabinet had allowed coal blocks for commercial mining ending the monopoly of state-run Coal India in the commercial production of the dry fuel. Coal mines will be put for auction on the basis of revenue share instead of the regime of fixed rupee/tonne, the Coal Ministry had said. There shall be no restriction on the sale and/or utilisation of coal from the coal mine, the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
21-10-2020||Business||Debt leeway for Air India bidders||In a bid to revive Air India’s privatisation, the government is planning to give flexibility to potential investors to decide on the humongous debt of the national carrier, a top official has said. The flexibility to decide on the quantum of debt they want to absorb will replace the current condition of the buyer taking over more than a third of the debt and transferring the rest to a special purpose vehicle, Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary, department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) , said. The potential investors have said that because of the uncertainty created by Covid-19 in the aviation sector, the debt should not be fixed at the expression of interest (EoI) stage, he said. According to the Air India EoI floated by DIPAM in January, of the airline’s total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.50 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. “On Air India, we would try and sort out the investor issues with respect to debt... We will see whether we can give flexibility at least at the EoI stage and let the debt be determined through the market rather than freezing it upfront. This is what we are examining,” Pandey said. He said a decision on this would be taken by the Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) and if there is a change in the Preliminary Information Memorandum (PIM), the potential investors would be given time to raise queries. “There is a lot of uncertainty in the aviation sector because of Covid and accordingly we should structure the transaction. We should not fix everything at the EoI stage. That’s the feedback we are getting. The point is what debt is sustainable. There is a point of view that it can be decided by the market rather than deciding upfront,” he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Queue before Equitas Small Finance Bank ||Equitas Small Finance Bank has raised Rs 139.68 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial public offer. The Chennai-based bank on Tuesday said that 35 anchor investors, including mutual funds and insurance companies, have participated in the pre IPO allocation of 4.23 crore equity shares at an upper band of Rs 33 per share. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, ITPL-Invesco India Contra Fund, SBI Life Insurance, Franklin India Smaller Companies Fund, Mirae Asset Large Cap Fund and IIFL Special Opportunities Fund are among the lead investors, picking up a 8.95 per cent stake each. HDFC Life Insurance, Nippon India and Sundaram Mutual Fund are among the other investors. The bank plans to raise a little over Rs 500 crore from the public offer that closes on October 22. The offer includes a fresh issue of Rs 280 crore and an offer of sale up to 7.2 crore equity shares by Equitas Holdings Limited, its parent company. The holding company of the bank is looking to marginally dilute its stake to around 82 per cent from 95.49 per cent. But the bank would have to bring it down to 40 per cent to comply with the Reserve Bank of India’s licensing requirement. It is exploring options such as acquisition and bulk sale for compliance. Bangalore-based Jana Small Finance Bank on Tuesday said that it has opened its 500th branch at Bangalore. The microfinance-turned-small-finance-bank is planning to expand to 600 branches by March 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Hindustan Zinc dividend largesse||The board of Hindustan Zinc on Tuesday declared an interim dividend of Rs 21.30 per share amounting to Rs 9,000 crore, the bulk of which will go to debt-laden Vedanta Limited which holds 64.92 per cent in the company. The payout has brought the focus again on Vedanta Ltd which was in the news for its botched delisting attempt that led to speculation that the Anil Agarwal-led company may also come out with a high dividend payout. Vedanta Resources Ltd (VRL), the group holding company, had raised $1.4 billion (around Rs 10,500 crore) through bonds, to primarily fund the de-listing of Vedanta Ltd. Prior to the bond offer, it had taken a three-month term loan, taking the total amount of debt to $3.15 billion. On Tuesday, the board of Hindustan Zinc approved an interim dividend of Rs 21.30 per share — 1065 per cent on face value of Rs 2 per share. This means that Vedanta will get close to Rs 5,840 crore because of its 65 per cent stake, though 23 per cent of this is pledged. Hindustan Zinc reported a 7 per cent fall in net profit for the quarter ended September 3  to Rs 1,940 crore compared with Rs 2,081 crore in the same period of the previous year. Sales, however, showed a growth of 25 per cent to Rs 5,660 crore against Rs 4,511 crore in the year ago period. “On the back of streamlined operations, we continue to deliver record volumes despite the challenges posed by the pandemic. We are setting up Hindustan Zinc for its next phase of growth and are confident to deliver superior value to our stakeholders in a sustainable manner,” CEO Arun Misra said while commenting on the results. During the quarter, total expenses of the company increased to Rs 3,428 crore from Rs 3,014 crore in the year-ago period. The company''s CFO Swayam Saurabh said HZL’s operational discipline and focused cost optimisation programmes leveraging technology and digitalisation are driving down its cost. Shares of HZL closed with gains of nearly one per cent, while the Vedanta Ltd scrip rose almost 2.53 per cent to settle at Rs 99.20. Brokerage CLSA had flagged off concerns over the high leverage of Vedanta Resources following the failed delisting of Vedanta. Vedanta could either declare a high dividend payout, an increase its inter-company loans to VRL which would be negative for the minority shareholders of Vedanta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Mercedes Benz India reaps localisation gains||Mercedes Benz India will soon reduce the prices of its performance cars under the sub-brand AMG as it starts assembling these vehicles locally. The first AMG car to roll out from its flexi assembly line in Pune will be the AMG GLC 43 4MATIC Coupe, which is due for launch next month. The price of such assembled vehicles will drop 20 per cent, said sources. AMG is Mercedes-Benz’s sub-brand having a wide portfolio of performance limousines, performance SUVs, SUV Coupés, and sports cars. The AMG brand has a dedicated retail presence through the AMG Performance Centres located across Indian metros. These imported cars attract a duty of 110 per cent. Now with localisation, the duty is expected to come down between 16 and 60 per cent, said sources. The company is going to pass on the tax benefit to the customer. Commenting on this move, Martin Schwenk, managing director & CEO of Mercedes-Benz India, said: “The AMG brand over the years has become synonymous with performance motoring in India and remains highly aspirational.” “The decision to locally produce AMG in India underlines Mercedes-Benz’s clear roadmap for the Indian market and our long-term commitment to our customers here. We want AMG to be more accessible and play a bigger role in the overall portfolio we offer in India. This decision is an important milestone towards strengthening our AMG ambitions in India further,” Schwenk said. The AMG GLC 43 4MATIC Coupé is one of the highest selling AMG models in India. Commenting on the localisation decision of the AMG, Piyush Arora, executive director (operations) of Mercedes-Benz India, said: “Our production facility is a global benchmark in quality and technological advancement in manufacturing, and remains the backbone of our growth story in India. “We are highly excited to commence the local manufacturing of AMG in India as it will add a new production milestone in our India journey.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Final act of Amazon, Future row||A one-man arbitration panel heard the plea of Amazon and Future Group last week and a verdict is expected in a few days, according to sources. A hearing of the arbitration took place at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre on October 16. US-based Amazon had slapped a legal notice on Future Group, alleging that the retailer’s Rs 24,713 crore asset sale to Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) violated an agreement with the e-commerce giant. According to sources familiar with the matter, V.K. Rajah — the sole arbitrator in the Amazon vs Future vs Reliance arbitration matter — heard the case on October 16. Rajah, former attorney-general of Singapore, is expected to deliver his judgment in the next few days, the sources said. Amazon has declined to comment on the development. “We cannot offer any comments as the matter is sub-judice,” said an Amazon spokesperson. Future Group and Reliance did not respond to emails sent to them. An outcome in this matter would decide the fate of the Future-Reliance deal announced on August 29, 2020 in which Future Group had announced the sale of its retail, wholesale and logistics division to Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (“RRVL”), the retail arm of RIL. In the hearing, Future Retail was represented by advocate Harish Salve, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Hindustan Unilever posts 8% rise in profit||Hindustan Unilever Limited rode on the resilience of the rural markets during the pandemic to post an 8.25 per cent growth in consolidated net profits for the second quarter ended September 30. Net profit of the FMCG giant stood at Rs 1,967 crore compared with Rs 1,817 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Sales during the quarter jumped 16 per cent to Rs 11,510 crore against Rs 9,931 crore in the year-ago period. Domestic volume grew 1 per cent against a contraction in the preceding three months. “In the context of a challenging economic environment, our growth has been competitive and profitable. Our operations and service levels are now back to pre-Covid levels and we have accelerated the pace of digitising under the ‘Re-imagine HUL’ agenda,” Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of the company,  said. The steps taken by the Centre and the RBI has improved the economic outlook. The rural markets have been resilient but the demand in urban India especially in the metropolitan cities have been muted, Mehta said. “We believe that the worst is behind us and we are cautiously optimistic on demand recovery.” HUL said growth in the quarter was “competitive and profitable” and that the strength of its portfolio was evident from the fact that 70 per cent of its business is gaining penetration. According to the company, health, hygiene and nutrition, forming close to 80 per cent of its portfolio, grew in double digit. Home care sales fell 1 per cent, with the laundry category affected by confined living. Fabric wash made inroads with the company passing on the benefits of lower commodity costs to consumers. The liquids and fabric sensations segments grew strongly because of  the focus on driving market development. Beauty & personal care saw flat sales growth though skin cleansing grew in double digits while hand sanitisers and hand wash segments continued to gain penetration. Oral care and hair care grew in double digits. While the essential part of skin care saw pickup in demand, the “winter portfolio sell-in” was impacted because of muted trade sentiment. Foods and refreshment sustained the high growth momentum and grew in double digits. The company said its  consumer-focused activations and innovations are leveraging the “in-home consumption” trend. Shares of HUL on Tuesday ended marginally lower at Rs 2,172.10 as the markets were not enthused by the results. “About 80 per cent of the company’s portfolio (including hygiene and nutritional) products registered double digit growth while discretionary categories continue to post a decline in the revenues,” Kaustubh Pawaskar, AVP — research, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said. He said higher input prices would continue to put pressure on margins. Recovery in the rural markets and strong traction to new launches coupled with improving penetration of nutritional portfolio would help HUL to sustained revenue and net profit growth in the near to medium term,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
