22-10-2020||Business||Cabinet to consider wide-ranging reforms of PSUs||The cabinet is set to consider wide-ranging reforms of PSUs, while the government is looking to extend the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to 7-8 more sectors, department of economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said on Wednesday. In May, the government had promised sweeping PSU reforms but these have not made much headway. The plan envisages the government defining strategic sectors in the economy where there will be a minimum of one PSU and a maximum of four state-owned entities, apart from private players. State entities in the non-strategic sectors will be privatised. “The other important thing which is slightly delayed... and it is testing the patience of all of you and ours too. It is the policy that we have to come up with for the privatisation of our public sector units,” Bajaj told a CII seminar. “Though it is an open secret, but till it gets the stamp of the cabinet we are not satisfied about it. It should happen very soon. So that is a major step in the making.” He said the government was expanding the PLI scheme in response to the positive feedback from industry. The government recently announced the PLI scheme for mobiles, pharma products and medical equipment sectors. “I have a lot of confidence and hope on the PLI scheme that we have brought out for mobile phones and others. In the offing are about 7-8 sectors where the PLI scheme would be extended,” Bajaj said. The PLI scheme, unlike other schemes, is an outcome- and output-oriented programme where manufacturers get cash incentives in over 5-7 years for production. “So, the kind of response that we received on the mobile phones scheme where we have finalised the contours gives me a lot of confidence that there is demand in the world now, to have a diversification of supply chains, and we can take advantage,” he said. He said the government was working on another round of stimulus measures amidst positive signs of a fall in the number of Covid-19 cases. The government has received suggestions from various ministries and sectors on the necessary measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
22-10-2020||Business||RBI governor stresses on post-Covid fiscal roadmap||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said India was at the “doorstep of revival” even as he maintained that the government will have to spell out its fiscal road map post the Covid-19 pandemic. Das made these comments while speaking at the virtual launch of the book, Potraits of Power, written by N.K. Singh, the chairman of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. He said while India is at the cusp of a recovery, it is also important that banks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have adequate capital to support growth and ensure credit flow when the economy revives. While India’s economy contracted 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal, Das had projected a “three-speed recovery”, with individual sectors showing varying paces of growth. According to the monetary policy committee (MPC), the recovery in the rural economy will be faster than in the urban areas even as the contact-intensive services sector will take time to regain the pre-Covid levels. The interest rate setting body has projected real GDP growth in 2020-21 to contract 9.5 per cent, with risks tilted towards the downside. Though Das did not throw much light on the economic recovery, he said once the pandemic is contained, the government will have to spell out the fiscal roadmap and adhere to the debt-to-GDP target that the N.K. Singh panel had recommended. The RBI on Wednesday announced an “on-tap” targeted long-term repo operations (TLTRO) scheme of up to Rs 1 lakh crore to enable banks to provide liquidity support to a host of sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||Bajaj Finance reports 36% drop in net profit||Bajaj Finance on Wednesday reported a 36 per cent drop in consolidated net profit at Rs 965 crore for the September quarter of 2020. The non-banking finance company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,506 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Total consolidated income grew 3 per cent to Rs 6,523 crore against Rs 6,323 crore a year ago. Net interest income was up 4 per cent at Rs 4,165 crore against Rs 4,000 crore a year ago. New loans booked in the second quarter dropped 44 per cent to 36.2 lakh from 64.7 lakh a year ago. UltraTech Cement on Wednesday reported an over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,235.11 crore in the September quarter, mainly on account of operational efficiencies. Aditya Birla group firm had posted a net profit of Rs 578.55 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 10,354.21 crore, up 7.68 per cent from Rs 9,615.12 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||Central govt employees  get bonus||In a move to boost spending during the festive season, the government has decided to give a Rs 3,737 crore bonus to the 30.67 lakh central government employees. The bonus will benefit over 30 lakh non-gazetted employees, including those in autonomous central organisations. The decision to give a productivity-linked bonus and non-productivity-linked bonus for 2019-20 was taken at a cabinet meeting, said Prakash Javadekar, minister of information and broadcasting. The bonus will be disbursed in a week’s time. “Payment of bonus to non-gazetted employees for their performance in the preceding year is usually made before Durga Puja/Dussehra season. The government is announcing the productivity linked bonus and ad hoc bonus for its non-gazetted employees to be disbursed immediately,” a release said. The productivity linked bonus for 2019-2020 will benefit 16.97 lakh non-gazetted employees of establishments such as railways, posts, defence, EPFO and ESIC. The ad-hoc bonus, which is given to non-gazetted central government staff, will benefit 13.70 lakh staff. Meanwhile, the government has relaxed import norms till December 15 to facilitate shipments of onions to boost domestic supply and check its retail prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||SBI rate relief  on home loans||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Wednesday announced a concession of up to 25 basis points on its home loan rates in another festive offer to lure borrowers. The country’s largest lender said customers will get this interest concession  on loans above Rs 75 lakh based on their Cibil score and only if they are applying through the digital lending platform YONO. In an extension of its festive offers announced recently, SBI will provide a credit score based concessions of up to 20 basis points, up from 10 basis points earlier, for a home loan of above Rs 30 lakh to Rs 2 crore across the country . This concession will also be applicable for a loan amount of up to Rs 3 crore in eight metro cities. An additional 5 basis points concession is there for all home loans if applied through YONO. SBI now offers interest rates starting as low as 6.90 per cent for a home loan of up to Rs 30 lakh and 7 per cent for above Rs 30 lakh. “With SBI’s lowest interest on home loans, we believe this move will facilitate and encourage home buyers to plan their dream house. With the nation all geared up to the post-Covid era, we are witnessing increased customer demands and we at SBI will continue to offer lucrative benefits for our customers, managing director (retail and digital banking)” C.S. Setty said. Last month, the bank rolled out a slew of festive offers for its retail borrowers, including a 100 per cent waiver on processing fee for all customers applying for a car, gold, and personal loans through YONO. Several banks have in the recent weeks announced various festival offers as they look to ramp up retail lending amid indications of economic recovery from the lows seen earlier because of the pandemic. Recently, Kotak Mahindra Bank had reduced its interest rate on home loans to 7 per cent. It also announced other offers, including loan processing fees waivers and faster online approvals on retail and agricultural loan products as part of the festive offers christened as ‘Khushi Ka Season’. The lender has said that home loans will start at 7 per cent per annum and that savings of up to Rs 20 lakh can accrue on balance transfer cases. Similarly, Axis Bank announced home loans at an interest rate of 6.90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||Nissan rolls out compact SUV Magnite||Nissan India is all set to join the compact SUV bandwagon with the Magnite, which it plans to sell in India in the second half of 2020-21. The Japanese auto major, with limited launches in India, has promised eight models over a period of four years in Africa, West Asia and India. Magnite, unveiled on Wednesday, is one of them. Reiterating Nissan’s commitment to the Indian market, Nissan Motor India president Sinan Ozkak said: “India is a key market. The company will prioritise operations in business areas which will give profitable growth. It will reduce fixed costs to ensure steady performance. The Magnite plays a vital role in our strategy and we expect it to be the first product that will enable sustainable growth.” The Magnite will be competing in a very crowded segment comprising the Hyundai Venue, Maruti Vitara Brezza, Toyota Urban Cruiser and Kia Sonet. “The Magnite is the ideal  upgrade for hatchback customers who are looking to own a world-class SUV,” said Rakesh Srivastava, managing director, Nissan Motor India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||Sebi chief proposes diversification of funds route||Entities should not just rely on banks for funding. There is an urgent need to diversify funding sources such as capital raising from the primary markets, Ajay Tyagi, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), said. The Sebi chief also brought out certain “positive aspects of market recovery” from the panic that was seen in March following the declaration of the pandemic. According to Tyagi, the recovery in the market has been broad-based with not only the large cap but also the mid- and small-cap indices participating in the turnaround. His remarks come at a time many experts feel there was a disconnect between the economy and the markets and that abundant liquidity and low interest rates were the only factors responsible for the rally. Tyagi was speaking at the 11th Financial Markets Summit organised by the CII. According to Tyagi, “Some investments are best funded through the capital markets. For instance, it would be a challenging task to achieve the government’s target of having Rs 100 lakh crore investments in infrastructure by 2024-25 unless the bond market is adequately developed.” The development of the corporate bond market needs “deeper structural and regulatory changes”, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||DLF signs deal with Standard Chartered GBS||DLF on Wednesday said it has signed an anchor deal with Standard Chartered GBS for its office building in Chennai. Standard Chartered GBS will take on lease 7.7 lakh square feet in one of the largest commercial office space deals in the country in recent times. Though the real estate firm did not disclose the financial details, sources put the construction cost at Rs 450 crore for the upcoming commercial tower in Chennai. A statement by DLF said Standard Chartered GBS will set up its largest office at this address. DLF Cyber City Developers Ltd (DCCDL), which is a joint venture between DLF and Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC, has leased out the space in its commercial project ‘DLF Downtown’ at Taramani in Chennai, which is being developed at a total investment of Rs 5,000 crore. The Standard Chartered GBS office will be its largest campus globally. “This strategic partnership is a testament to the success of our vision of new-age workplaces. “DLF Downtown, spanning over 27 acres, is being planned as a multi-block campus with inter-connected office blocks at the podium level and a host of retail amenities for a perfect work-life integration,’’ said Amit Grover, executive director of DLF Offices. While the announcement came after market hours, shares of DLF on Wednesday ended with gains of almost 3 per cent. On the BSE, the scrip closed at Rs 172.15 — a rise of 2.81 per cent over its last close. The construction of the prime office tower is expected to start in January 2021 and will be completed in 36 months. The DLF Downtown project is spread over 27 acres and has a total leasable area of 68 lakh sq ft, largely office space with some retail portion. Around 25 lakh sq ft built-up area is under construction in this project. In December 2017, DLF had formed a joint venture with GIC (Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund) after its promoters sold their entire 40 per cent stake in DLF Cyber-City Developers Ltd (DCCDL) for nearly Rs 12,000 crore. t present, the DCCDL has 33 million sq ft of office and retail portfolio, generating a total rental income of Rs 3,500 crore annually During the first quarter ended June 30, DLF posted a consolidated net loss of Rs 70.65 crore as construction and sales activities were badly hit due to coronavirus pandemic. It had posted a net profit of Rs 414.73 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
