23-10-2020||Business||Vedanta board to meet this week||Mining conglomerate Vedanta on Thursday announced that its board will meet this week to consider and approve the first interim dividend for the current financial year. “The board of directors of the company on Saturday, October 24, 2020, will consider and approve the first interim dividend on equity shares, if any, for financial year 2020-21. The record date for the purpose of determining the entitlement of the equity shareholders for the said dividend, if declared, is being fixed as Saturday, October 31, 2020,”  the Anil Agarwal group firm said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges. The announcement led to the shares of Vedanta ending higher on the bourses. On the BSE, the scrip settled at Rs 104.50, a rise of 3.21 per cent over its previous close. Market circles have been expecting a high dividend payout from Vedanta after its delisting effort failed earlier this month. Expectations rose earlier this week when group firm Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) declared its highest interim dividend in 12 years at Rs 21.3 per share amounting to Rs 9,000 crore. The record date for paying the dividend is October 28. Hindustan Zinc had paid a higher dividend of Rs 30 per share in July 2008. Vedanta Ltd holds a 64.92 per cent in Hindustan Zinc. This dividend payout came as Hindustan Zinc reported a 7 per cent fall in net profits for the quarter ended September 30. Net profits declined to Rs 1,940 crore from Rs 2,081 crore in the same period of the previous year. Sales, however, showed a growth of 25 per cent to Rs 5,660 crore against Rs 4,511 crore in the year-ago period. On October 10, Vedanta Ltd announced that its voluntary delisting offer — to acquire the balance public shareholding and then delisting it from the stock exchange — had failed at the reverse book building stage. The total number of shares tendered by Vedanta Ltd’s public shareholders fell 7 per cent short of the mandatory minimum 90 per cent for a successful delisting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Burger King India files draft papers with Sebi o raise Rs 542 crore||Burger King India Ltd, a quick service restaurant chain, has filed draft papers with market regulator Sebi to raise Rs 542 crore through fresh issuance of shares in the IPO. According to the addendum to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) filed with Sebi on Wednesday, Burger King’s IPO comprises fresh issue of equity shares aggregating up to Rs 542 crore and an offer for sale of up to 6 crore equity shares by QSR Asia, the promoter. Net proceeds from the fresh issue are proposed to be utilised for funding the rollout of the new company-owned Burger King Restaurants and for general corporate purposes. The initial share-sale is being managed by Kotak Mahindra Capital Company, CLSA India, Edelweiss Financial Services and JM Financial. The company’s shares are proposed to be listed on the BSE and the NSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Liberty Group starts Adhunik Metaliks unit||Liberty Group has restarted the operations of Adhunik Metaliks Ltd seven months after it acquired the steel company from a bankruptcy court, marking London-based steel magnet Sanjeev Gupta’s first foray into India. The unit, located near Rourkela in Odisha, is capable of producing half a million tonnes of steel when fully functional. The new management, led by managing director Uday Gupta, is targeting a turnover of Rs 2,000 crore. India-born Sanjeev Gupta-led Liberty, part of GFG Alliance, has so far spent Rs 75 crore to bring the unit to production. The unit, which also has a 34MW power plant, has pressed 1,500 people to work. Gupta, who is executive chairman of GFG Alliance, described the restart as a “proud moment” for him on Thursday as the plant became fully operational. In an interview with this newspaper in August this year, Gupta had expressed hope that India would be a hub for Liberty as he planned to weave “a string of pearls” — mid-sized acquisitions — to eventually reach a 5-million-tonne steel capacity in this country. A successful turnaround of Adhunik would give Gupta and the Indian lenders more confidence in Liberty’s ability to expand business in India, not just in steel but in other sectors too. “We expect to clock a turnover of Rs 1,400-1,600 crore in the next fiscal. However, I believe Adhunik could be a Rs 2,000-crore business in the subsequent period,” Adhunik MD Uday Gupta said. The upscaling will happen when Adhunik manages to sell more value-added ferro alloy products for the automotive, engineering, energy, oil and gas sectors. “More we convert the billets and sponge iron into value-added items, the better will be the price realisation,” Gupta said. While the initial focus will be on running the plant profitably without hiccups, Calcutta-bred Uday is not going to lose sight of aligning Adhunik with Liberty’s global plan to reach carbon neutrality by 2030 with Greensteel initiative. Adhunik would first try to convert the coal-fired power plant into a renewable source-based unit and then recycle steel scrap to produce steel. It may also introduce hydrogen technology to cut carbon emission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Royal Enfield to set up assembly plants in Brazil, Columbia and Thailand ||Royal Enfield plans to set up assembly plants in Brazil, Columbia and Thailand over the next one year after having set up a plant in Argentina as the company majorly expands its overseas business. The company’s exports had dipped 11 per cent in September this year to 4,131 units against 4,642 units a year ago. However, company chief operating officer Lalit Malik said: “The dip is because of the pandemic. We sold 36,000 bikes in our international operations in 2019 and we should be going back to such numbers or more after the pandemic.” The company exports the RE Himalaya and the 650 Twins to North and South America, Europe, Japan and Thailand. It, however, does not have a presence in Africa or China. While the company is witnessing a resurgence of demand in domestic sales, particularly in the festive season, it does not hope to record any growth in 2020-21. “The first two months were a complete wipe out, we cannot recover that. I will be happy to reach the 2019 sales of about 7 lakh,” said Malik. “All the pent up demand has been met. Now what we are seeing is a sustainable growth. But like every year, just after festive season comes a period of lean sales. That will happen this year too,” he added. Maruti Suzuki on Thursday said its Hansalpur plant in Gujarat has rolled out 1 million units over a span of three years and nine months. Of all three Maruti Suzuki plants in India, the Gujarat plant becomes the fastest to achieve this feat. The Hansalpur plant  began production in February 2017. The Gujarat plant is specifically involved in the production of the Baleno and the Swift.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||SBI Cards reports higher NPA||SBI Cards has recorded a sharp deterioration in asset quality as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the repayment capacity of some of its customers. The SBI subsidiary saw its gross non-performing assets (NPAs) shoot up to 4.29 per cent of gross advances as on September 30, 2020 against 2.33 per cent as on September 30, 2019 and 1.4 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal. During the period, net profit declined to Rs 206 crore compared with Rs 381 crore in the year-ago period. SBI Cards said the pandemic has led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets, which may persist even after restrictions related to the outbreak are lifted. While there have been some improvements in economic activities in the current quarter, the continued slowdown has impacted new credit card originations, use of credit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Bajaj Auto profit falls 21%||Bajaj Auto on Thursday said its consolidated net profit declined 21.62 per cent to Rs 1,193.97 crore for the September quarter . The two-wheeler major had posted a net profit of Rs 1,523.31 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. The company’s revenue from operations declined to Rs 7,155.86 crore during the period under review compared with Rs 7,707.32 crore in the year-ago period, Bajaj Auto said in a regulatory filing. State-run Indian Bank on Thursday reported a standalone profit after tax of Rs 412 crore in the quarter ended September, helped mainly by fee income, treasury profits and lower bad loans. The bank amalgamated Allahabad Bank with itself with effect from April 1, 2020. In the year-ago quarter, the amalgamated entity had reported a net loss of Rs 1,755 crore. The pre-amalgamated profit of the bank in July-September quarter of 2019-20 stood at Rs 358.56 crore. State-owned Uco Bank on Thursday reported a second-quarter net profit of Rs 30.12 crore. The bank had posted a net loss of Rs 891.98 crore during the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year. Sequentially, the profit during the second quarter of 2020-21 was higher from Rs 21.46 crore in the first quarter ended June 2020. Total income was down at Rs 4,326.14 crore during the reporting quarter from Rs 4,533.51 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||RBI signals end of proprietary QR code||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said payment system operators (PSOs) who use proprietary quick response (QR) codes will have to shift to one or more interoperable QR codes by March 31, 2022. The regulator also announced a framework for the recognition of a Self-Regulatory Organisation for these operators. Some of the PSOs in the country include Clearing Corporation of India, NPCI, MasterCard, Visa Worldwide, American Express, Amazon Pay, State Bank of India (SBI) and Punjab National Bank. In a circular, the central bank said no new proprietary QR codes can now be launched by any PSO for any payment transaction. This comes after it accepted the recommendations made by the Deepak Phatak committee which was appointed to review the current system of QR codes in India. The RBI added that it will continue a consultative process to standardise and improve interoperable QR codes. It further disclosed that the two interoperable QR codes in existence — UPI QR and Bharat QR — will remain. The panel had said that proprietary or closed loop QR codes are a hindrance to an open, interoperable payments ecosystem and that there should be a clear plan to phase out such codes in favour of open, interoperable standards. Meanwhile, in a separate notification, the central bank also announced a framework for recognition of a self-regulatory organisation (SRO) for the operators. The RBI said an SRO should have authority, derived from membership agreements, to set up behavioural and professional standards and enforce them on the members apart from objective and well-defined processes to make rules and enforce them among the members. It should also have standardised procedures for handling conflicts and disputes, as well as methods to resolve them through a transparent and consistent dispute resolution mechanism. An SRO, the regulator said,  should be set-up as a not-for-profit entity under the Companies Act, 2013. “While self-regulation would release regulatory resources that can be better focused on issues of systemic importance, it would, by virtue of being developed by the industry itself, be more appropriate and encourage better compliance,” the RBI observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Deficit: Quibble over GST borrowing||The GST Council should meet and evolve a consensus on the borrowing by the Centre to compensate the states, Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac said on Thursday. “Having reached a consensus on who should borrow, the Centre and states can reach a consensus on how much to borrow. Extend to all states additional 0.5 per cent unconditional borrowing in the 2 per cent borrowing already permitted. Let the GST Council meet and continue the dialogue,” Isaac tweeted. The Centre had in August proposed two options to states: borrow Rs 97,000 crore (on account of GST implementation) from a special window facilitated by the RBI or the complete shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore (including Rs 1.38 lakh crore because of Covid-19) from the market. The options have since been revised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore and Rs 1.8 lakh crore, respectively. However, the Centre has now said that it would borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore and pass it on as a loan to the states. While the total compensation due to the states is Rs 2.35 lakh crore, states would have got Rs 1.83 lakh crore in the normal course as compensation for 10 months is paid in a fiscal year. Dues for February and March 2021 would be rolled over to the next year. “It will be an irreparable damage to the functioning of the GST Council if the Centre insists on its first option and enforces it without the consensus of the Council,” Isaac wrote in an article which he tagged with his tweet. “The best option would be to extend to all states 0.5 per cent more unconditional borrowing to the 2 per cent additional borrowing already permitted. “I am certain it would provide sufficient fiscal staying power to states to discuss and reach a consensus on how much to borrow,” he wrote. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in a letter to the states, had said: “Under this scheme, states get funds from two sources. First, they will get loans through a special window arranged by the government of India. The special window covers the shortfall arising from the implementation of the GST (calculated at Rs 1,10,208 lakh crore). The second source is through additional unconditional market borrowing. The condition attached to the final portion of the borrowing package issued on May 17, 2020 will be relaxed. Thus states will be able to borrow an amount equivalent to 0.5 per cent of GSDP without meeting any reform conditions.” The letter said the states will get access to resources of over Rs 2,16,000 lakh crore this year comprising Rs 1,10,208  crore (from the special window) plus Rs 1,06,830 crore because of the relaxation of the borrowing headroom under the stimulus package in May to the extent of 0.5 per cent of GSDP without condition. The Centre said the Rs 2.16 lakh crore will more than cover what the states were supposed to get this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
