24-10-2020||Business||Sebi grants NTPC exemption from certain buyback norms||Sebi on Friday granted exemption to state-run NTPC from certain buyback norms for the proposed merger of wholly-owned subsidiaries with itself. In October, NTPC had filed an application with Sebi to seek exemption from the strict enforcement of the buyback norms. The application had been necessitated on account of a scheme of amalgamation providing for the merger of NTPC’s wholly-owned subsidiaries with itself. Sebi considered NTPC's application and noted the proposed buy-back will be in the interests of investors as the shareholders will benefit from return of surplus cash through the buy-back programme. In November 2019, NTPC’s board had approved a scheme of amalgamation of Nabinagar Power and Kanti Bijlee Utpadan Nigam with NTPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||Electric vehicle penetration likely to get delayed by Covid-19||Electric vehicle penetration in the country is likely to get delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic as low affordability and the government’s priority on reviving the conventional automobile industry has moved the focus away from EVs in the interim, a research report said. The sector also faces supply side risks as most of the components are sourced from China, which is the major global supplier for these vehicles. The passenger vehicles (PVs) segment of e-mobility will face a double whammy as consumers would be wary of buying a costlier EV over an internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle, while original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) would refrain from incurring high capex, India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said in a statement. Reduced affordability and lower economic activities due to the pandemic could result in the automobile industry recording a decline in sales of over 20 per cent year-on-year for the second consecutive year in 2020-21, the agency said. “Most of the components for an EV are imported from China and the supply side risks are high, given the current geopolitical tensions with China,” the report said. India lacks meaningful resources of lithium and cobalt, which are the key raw materials for a lithium ion battery. Moreover, significant capital expenditure is required to establish battery manufacturing facilities, undertake research and development and develop required expertise, which is difficult in the current scenario and can only be justified with a larger scale. Hence, Ind-Ra expects that it would be limited to assembling of battery packs in the near to medium term, while manufacturing of batteries may take longer. The other components of EVs could be localised in India as the overall volumes go up. Indian auto ancillaries have made several tie-ups to enter into the EV space. While some of these are also supplying to global EV OEMs, the overall number is fairly small.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||Onion price hike: Centre imposes stock holding limit||In a move to contain the spiralling prices of onions, the Centre on Friday imposed stock holding limit on retail and wholesale traders till December 31 to boost availability of the bulb crop and provide relief to consumers during the festive season and also to prevent adverse political impact in poll-bound Bihar. Retailers can stock onions only up to 2 tonnes, whereas wholesale traders are allowed to keep up to 25 tonnes, consumer affairs secretary Leena Nandan told reporters. The prices of the kitchen staple have surged across the country for the second consecutive year. She said the government has to invoke the Essential Commodities (Amendment) law — which was passed last month in Parliament — that allows it to regulate perishable commodities in an extraordinary price rise situation. Consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal tweeted “to control rising onion prices and curb hoarding, the government has taken the third step. Imposed stock limit of 2 tonne on retailers and 25 tonne on wholesalers”. Onion prices have shot up sharply to about Rs 100 per kg in some parts of the country, including Mumbai and Pune in the last few weeks in the wake of damage to standing Kharif crops in producing areas due to heavy rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||OTT video content providers revenue to increase at 28 per cent||The revenue of Over-The-Top (OTT) video content providers is set to increase at a growth rate of 28 per cent between 2019 and 2024 in India, according to a study by PwC on global entertainment and media outlook. The OTT video segment revenue in India was $0.8 billion in 2019 and is projected to grow to $2.9 billion by 2024, driven by changing trends of media consumption, emerging device ecosystem and accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic. US, China, South Korea, Germany and Australia are among the key markets for OTT players such as Netflix and Amazon. But the growth rate in India will surpass the global growth rate over the next four years. “In the case of OTT, there would be a two times growth in India compared with the global growth rate over the forecast period. In terms of absolute revenue, India would be sixth globally by the end of 2024. The drivers of the growth being smartphones, connected TVs and availability of affordable data,” said Rajib Basu, partner and leader, entertainment and media — PwC India. He added that the new at-home environment has led to the rise of direct to consumer apps, local ‘bite-sized’ entertainment platforms and user generated contents format. “In tier 2 and tier 3 cities, there is a significant proliferation of OTT mode of delivery,” Basu said. While the global OTT market revenue is expected to increase at a CAGR of 13 per cent to $86.8 billion by 2024, the growth rate for India is estimated at 28 per cent. Within the OTT options, subscription VOD (Video On Demand) will be the prime driver of revenue, increasing at a 30.7 per cent CAGR from $708 million in 2019 to $2.7 billion by 2024. In case of subscription VOD, a user pays a recurring fee to an operator that grants them access to all content without limit. This is in contrast to transactional VOD, where users mostly pay per view. There are platforms that also offer both options to the user. “By 2024, the s-VOD segment in India would be 93 per cent of the market against 83 per cent globally,” Basu said. PwC in its report also said that OTT revenues are expected to surpass that of box office in 2020, mostly on account of Covid-19 and cinema halls being closed due to lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||JSW Steel reports over 37 per cent decline in consolidated net profit||JSW Steel on Friday reported an over 37 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,595 crore for the September quarter of 2020. The company had posted a profit of Rs 2,536 crore for the same quarter a year ago, JSW Steel said in a BSE filing. Total income stood at Rs 19,416 crore against Rs 17,728 crore in the corresponding quarter of the preceding fiscal. Expenses were at Rs 16,958 crore against Rs 17,025 crore in the year-ago quarter. The company also informed exchanges about acquiring four mine blocks in the auctions held by the Odisha government in February. JSW Steel has signed the mining development and production agreements with regard to all the four blocks and executed the lease deeds. Nestle to invest Rs 2,600 crore FMCG major Nestle India on Friday announced its plans to invest Rs 2,600 crore over the next three to four years to augment its manufacturing capacity in the country, terming the move as “vindication of confidence and trust” the company has in its India journey. The company, which saw a robust 10.23 per cent growth in its domestic sales in the July-September quarter, said its production units have returned to “normal output” post lockdown. The FMCG major — which follows January-December financial year — posted a marginal 1.37 per cent drop in its net profit at Rs 587.09 crore in the third quarter ended September 30, 2020. Net sales, however, were up 10.19 per cent at Rs 3,525.41 crore during the period under review, the company said. Yes Bank profit at Rs 129 crore Yes Bank on Friday reported a net profit of Rs 129.37 crore, helped by a decrease in operational expenses and widening of margins on a much lower loan book. The lender had posted a net loss of Rs 600 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. The bank’s core net interest income declined 10 per cent to Rs 1,973 crore, majorly because the loan book was 28 per cent lower, but was helped by a 0.34 per cent expansion in net interest margin at 3.1 per cent. IDBI Bank IDBI Bank on Friday reported a net profit of Rs 324 crore for the second quarter of the current fiscal year against a loss of Rs 3,459 crore for the same period of the previous fiscal. Compared sequentially, the bank registered a 125 per cent jump against the first quarter net profit of Rs 144 crore, IDBI Bank said in release.         Total income of the bank fell by 7.5 per cent to Rs 5,761.06 crore during July-September 2020-21 compared to Rs 6,231.02 crore in the same period of 2019-20, the private sector lender said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||MPC retains growth focus hoping high rate inflation rate will recede||The monetary policy committee (MPC) has retained its growth focus on hopes that the high rate of inflation will recede in the second half of this fiscal thereby giving it more space for further rate cuts, the minutes of the first meeting of the reconstituted panel showed on Friday. Earlier this month, the government had appointed Ashima Goyal, Shashanka Bhide and Jayanth R. Varma as external members of the interest rate setting panel. The three-day meeting of the committee, which ended on October 9, saw them keeping the repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent though the accommodative stance was maintained. The RBI released minutes of the meeting on Friday. The CPI-based retail inflation had risen to an eight-month high of 7.34 per cent in September, largely due to rising prices of food items. It has stayed above the medium term inflation target given to the panel. While the minutes did indicate the dovish tilt of the panel, a key highlight was that the discussions also saw the mention of the management of government borrowing, availability of liquidity, real negative interest rates and steep yields which do not fall under the purview of the panel. It also saw a dissent from Varma, who disagreed with the wording of the forward guidance given by the committee. The MPC had said that it had “decided” to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next financial year — to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward. Varma, who felt that the date based forward guidance is not a decision but an expectation, said the committee should say that it expects to maintain a low policy rate and an accommodative stance during the current financial year and well as into the next financial year. Board meets The RBI’s central board on Friday held a meeting to discuss, among other things, the economic situation and other challenges. The meeting, which was held through video conferencing, also deliberated on the issues concerning financial stability in the present context. “The board reviewed the current economic situation, continued global and domestic challenges and various areas of operations of the Reserve Bank,” the RBI said. The board also discussed the working of sub-committees of the central board and the local boards and deliberated on the aspects related to financial stability in the present milieu," the RBI said in a release. “In a world that is full of unpleasant surprises, the MPC must out of necessity be data driven... In practice, I suspect that the word ‘decided’ only means an intention to remain accommodative as long as realised outcomes do not diverge drastically from what is currently expected. I am firmly of the view that the MPC risks a damage to its credibility when it uses words that do not accurately reflect what it means,’’ a blunt Varma said. Varma who is a well-known figure in financial circles also raised the subject of India having the steepest yield curves in the world. Pointing out that the yield curve here is extremely high beyond a maturity of about a year, he observed that for monetary policy to have the desired impact, it is desirable that the forward guidance should extend beyond the one year horizon at which the steepness of the yield curve sets in and that forward guidance of six months in the MPC resolution is 'suboptimal’. "It appears to me that the steep yield curve reflects a lack of credibility of the MPC’s existing accommodative guidance’’, he said while noting that excessively high long term rates are inflicting damage to the economy. Among other members, RBI executive director, Mridul Saggar raised the plight of savers when he said that retail fixed deposit rates are currently ranging between 4.90-5.50 per cent for tenors of 1-year or more and the headline inflation have been prevailing above that for some months now, thereby giving them a negative carry. He cautioned that if current real negative interest rates fall further, it may generate significant distortions that could adversely affect aggregate savings, current account and medium-term growth in the economy. He added that headline inflation should start softening from October. Apart from favourable base effects, the unlocking has picked speed and would significantly reduce supply chain bottlenecks causing both agriculture and non-agricultural prices to correct. Ashima Goyal who is seen as a dove, was of the view that though inflation is at present above the target band, it is expected to come down and therefore no change in the policy rate is appropriate and that one should await impact of on-going supply-side improvement, as well as for uncertainty around COVID-19 to dissipate. She added that while there is scope for further prudent expansion of government spending to boost demand and trigger private spending to raise growth, there is a need to keep the cost of government borrowing low. Dr Michael Patra, deputy governor, RBI said that if the projections of real GDP for 2020-21 (-9.5 per cent) made by the committee hold, the level of GDP would have fallen by around 6 per cent below its pre-COVID level by the end of 2020-21 and it may take years to regain this lost output. He cautioned that the COVID curve is arching inwards, from the cities where infections had hitherto festered, into interior regions. The fear of a second wave looms over India and the country with the second highest caseload of infections and over-stretched healthcare infrastructure, cannot be immune. "In the absence of intrinsic drivers, the recovery may last only until pent-up demand has been satiated and replenishment of inventories has been completed...with unprecedented contractions in economic activity and elevated inflation posing a razor’s edge trade-off fraught with uncertainty, forward guidance has to be clear and decisive’’, he observed. On the other hand, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das felt that there exists space for future rate cuts if the inflation evolves in line with the central bank’s expectations. "This space needs to be used judiciously to support recovery in growth. Meanwhile the ongoing transmission of past monetary policy actions would help ease financial conditions further..With the supply side disruptions that are seen to drive the current inflationary pressures likely to be transient and wane out in months ahead as economy normalises, there is merit in looking through the current high levels of inflation and persevere with the accommodative stance for monetary policy as long as necessary to revive growth on a durable basis ’’, he said while adding that there are downside uncertainties that could put sand in the wheels of a nascent recovery seen lately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||Centre borrows and transfers Rs 6,000 crore as first tranche of GST compensation||The Centre has borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore as the first tranche of GST compensation under the special borrowing window to 16 states even as some states continue to demand a meeting of the GST Council to discuss the quantum of borrowing. “The borrowing is at an interest rate of 5.19 per cent. Tenor of borrowing is expected to be broadly in the range of 3 to 5 years,” the finance ministry said. The Centre gave in to the demands of Opposition-ruled states last week to borrow and fund the GST compensation shortfall. The finance ministry said the Centre would borrow from the market to pay the GST compensation shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to states, and then act as an intermediary to arrange back-to-back loans to state governments. The 16 states and 2 Union Territories that received the first tranche are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, MP, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, UP, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir. This borrowing will not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the government. The amount will be reflected as the capital receipts of the state governments and as part of financing of its respective fiscal deficits, said the finance ministry. The Centre has evolved a special borrowing window to address the shortfall in the GST collection during the year 2020 – 2021. The release said 21 states and 2 Union Territories opted for this special window involving back-to-back borrowing coordinated by the finance ministry. Out of these, five states did not have any shortfall on account of GST compensation, explaining why the sum has been transferred to 16 states and 2 UTs, it said.
Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac had said that the GST Council should meet and evolve a consensus on the quantum of borrowing by the Centre to compensate states.
“Having reached a consensus on who should borrow, the Centre and states can reach a consensus on how much to borrow. Extend to all states additional 0.5 per cent  unconditional borrowing in the 2 per cent borrowing already permitted. Let the GST Council meet and continue the dialogue,” Isaac tweeted. The Centre had in August proposed two options to states: borrow Rs 97,000 crore (on account of GST implementation) from a special window facilitated by the RBI or the complete shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore (including Rs 1.38 lakh crore due to Covid-19) from the market. The options have since been revised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore and Rs 1.8 lakh crore, respectively. However, the Centre has now said that it would borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore and pass it on as a loan to the states. While the total compensation due to the states is Rs 2.35 lakh crore, states would have got Rs 1.83 lakh crore in the normal course as compensation for 10 months is paid in a fiscal year. Dues for February and March will be rolled over the early part of next fiscal year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||Flipkart to invest Rs 1,500 crore for 7.8 per cent stake in Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail||Walmart-owned Flipkart is investing Rs 1,500 crore to pick up a 7.8 per cent stake in Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd (ABFRL). The transaction will enable ABFRL to sell its various brands on the latter’s platform. The investment by Flipkart will be through a preferential issue. ABFRL will issue 7,31,70,732 shares at Rs 205 apiece. In a regulatory filing with the bourses, the Birla group firm said this investment agreement “provides for pre-emption rights and the right of first refusal, which are for a limited period of between 1-5 years from the date of allotment of equity shares or if the equity shareholding of the investor falls below a certain threshold’’. ABFRL has the Pantaloons fashion chain in its portfolio along with other brands such as Louis Philippe, Van Heusen, Allen Solly and Peter England. However, both the companies were silent on the brands that will be marketed as part of the agreement. Shares jump Shares of ABFRL zoomed by almost 8 per cent on the announcement. On the BSE, it closed at Rs 165.05 — a gain of Rs 11.65 over the last finish. In a press statement, the Aditya Birla group firm said that following the issuance, the promoter and promoter group companies of ABFRL will hold about 55.13 per cent.
ABFRL said it plans to use this capital to strengthen the balance sheet and accelerate its growth trajectory. The company is also looking to aggressively scale-up its existing businesses where it holds strong, market leading positions while increasing its presence in emerging high-growth categories such as innerwear, athleisure, casualwear and ethnic wear. The company added that it will aggressively drive its large-scale digital transformation strategy that will deepen the consumer connect of its brands, expand the reach of its diverse brand portfolio, build strong omni-channel functionalities and augment its backend capabilities; positioning it amongst the most comprehensive omni-channel fashion players in the country. The Flipkart group said that through this partnership, it will strengthen the range of brands offered on its e-commerce platforms — Flipkart and Myntra—  even as it would also deepen the relationship with ABFRL. “Flipkart’s technology prowess will enhance ABFRL’s omni-channel capabilities, enriching customer experiences while continuing to provide access to premium loyalty programmes and affordability constructs,’’ the statement said. The transaction comes at a time when Reliance Retail is also set to aggressively venture into online fashion retail through JioMart. Though JioMart largely sells groceries now, the plan is to enlarge its portfolio to include electronics, fashion and even pharmaceuticals. Flipkart, however, has a major presence in the online fashion segment, because of Myntra. “This partnership is an emphatic endorsement of the growth potential of India. It also reflects our strong conviction in the future of the apparel industry in India, which is poised to touch $100 billion in the next five years. “Fashion retail in India is set for robust long-term growth due to strong fundamentals of a large and growing middle class, favourable demographics, rising disposable incomes and aspiration for brands. Rapid growth of technology infrastructure will further accelerate this process. “Over the years, we have shaped ABFRL into a strong platform to capture future growth opportunities in India. This partnership is a critical component of that strategy,’’ Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman of Aditya Birla Group, said. “Through this transaction with ABFRL, we will work towards making available a wide range of products for fashion-conscious consumers across different retail formats across the country. “We look forward to working with ABFRL and its well established and comprehensive fashion and retail infrastructure as we address the promising opportunity of the apparel industry in India,’’ Kalyan Krishnamurthy, CEO of Flipkart Group, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
