25-10-2020||Business||Tata Motors’ search for a co-rider||Tata Motors is scouting for a partner for its passenger vehicle business in order to be ready for growth in the next decade which would see huge investments going into new technologies and regulations, according to a top company official. The auto major is looking for collaboration even as the process to carve out passenger vehicle (PV) business as a separate standalone unit gathers steam. Earlier this year, the auto major’s board had approved to form a separate entity which would house the PV business, including the EV vertical, by transferring relevant assets, IPs and employees directly relatable to the vertical for it to be fully functional on a standalone basis. “The whole purpose of subsidiarisation is to actively look for a partner because this is a reality for all of us that a collaboration can unleash a bigger potential in the next decade which is going to see significant investments in new technologies and regulations,” said Shailesh Chandra, president of Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles Business Unit (PVBU). The collaboration would also help in reducing product lifecycles and enhance new product launch intensity, he added. “All this requires huge investments and agility is also the key. So, this is something which we are actively looking into,” Chandra said. He noted that while the subsidiarisation process is on, the company is alongside “actively looking for a partner” to create assets and capabilities with a win-win situation for both. When asked about the timelines for both the initiatives, Chandra noted: “There are no specific timelines... as far as the subsidiarisation process is concerned, converting the business into a separate legal entity, we would like to accelerate in a year and as far as partner is concerned it is an active work which we will continue to work on.” On the company’s performance in the PV segment, Chandra said despite the lockdown Tata Motors posted a double-digit growth during the first half of this fiscal. “This has resulted in a market share of 7.9 per cent in the passenger vehicle segment..the company’s product range has been appreciated for safety and pleasure of driving,” he said. Chandra said the PV segment was witnessing growth revival as sales grew 18 per cent in the July-September quarter this fiscal. “A big part of it is pent-up demand which has been a big factor for the growth. There was 20 per cent decline last year because people wanted to wait for BS-VI products leading to pent up demand in the last year itself. Further, two months of lockdown this year has led to huge pent-up demand,” he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
25-10-2020||Business||Samsung’s Lee Kun-hee dies at 78||Lee Kun-hee, who built Samsung into a global giant of smartphones, televisions and computer chips but was twice convicted —  and, in a pattern that has become typical in South Korea, twice pardoned — for white-collar crimes committed along the way, died on Sunday in Seoul, the South Korean capital. He was 78. Samsung announced the death but did not specify the cause. Lee had been incapacitated since a heart attack in 2014. When Lee took the helm at Samsung Group in 1987, after the death of his father and the conglomerate’s founder, Lee Byung-chull, many in the West knew the group’s electronics unit only as a maker of cheap televisions and unreliable microwaves sold in discount stores. Lee Kun-hee pushed the company relentlessly up the technological ladder. By the early 1990s, Samsung had surpassed Japanese and American rivals to become a pacesetter in memory chips. It came to dominate flat-panel displays as screens lost their bulk. And it conquered the middle-to-high end of the mobile market as cellphones became powerhouse computing devices in the 2000s. Samsung Electronics today is a cornerstone of South Korea’s economy and one of the world’s top corporate spenders on research and development. Lee — who was chairman of Samsung Group from 1987 to 1998, chairman and chief executive of Samsung Electronics from 1998 to 2008, then Samsung Electronics chairman from 2010 until his death — was South Korea’s richest man. He and his family members used a web of ownership arrangements to exert influence over the other companies under the Samsung umbrella. Over the course of his tenure, even as professional managers came to have more responsibility at the group, Lee remained Samsung’s big thinker, the provider of grand strategic direction. But his reign also showcased the sometimes dubious ways in which South Korea’s family business empires, known as chaebol, safeguard their influence. South Korea’s corporate dynasties are such a major source of economic vitality that some South Koreans wonder whether the chaebol are holding their country hostage. In 1996, Lee was convicted of bribing the country’s president, then pardoned. More than a decade later, he was found guilty of tax evasion but given another reprieve, this time so he could resume lobbying to bring the Winter Olympics to the mountain town of Pyeongchang in 2018. Soon after the Pyeongchang Games, Lee Myung-bak, South Korea’s president from 2008 to 2013 and no relation, was sentenced to 15 years in prison for accepting $5.4 million in bribes from Samsung in exchange for pardoning Lee. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
25-10-2020||Business||JSW upbeat on sustaining growth momentum||JSW Steel posted robust numbers in the second quarter, driven by a gradual recovery in the domestic market and strong price for the metal. Sambit Saha of The Telegraph caught up with Seshagiri Rao, joint managing director and CFO of the company, who exuded confidence that steel would continue to do well for the rest of the fiscal, backed by unexpected pull from the automobile and appliances industry. An edited excerpt: JSW had a stellar show, recouping the loss of the first quarter. Can the momentum continue? If we look at the steel demand supply scenario in India and globally, I believe the momentum will continue. China produced 4.5 per cent, or 34 million tonnes (mt) higher than last year from January-September, driven by a $550-billion stimulus package, 50 per cent of which is going to construction and infrastructure. During this period, China’s export has fallen 20 per cent to 40mt from 50mt. During the same period, imports have gone up over 200 per cent, from 7.6mt to nearly 23mt. This means China is sucking steel from the global market while also increasing the production. In the rest of the world, there is a lower production of 78mt. But if total production is considered, it is down 44mt. This indicates that places where demand is slower, production is also lower. But in countries such as China and South Korea where demand is strong, production is going up too. — This is bringing harmony to the market and balance in steel prices. How does India look compared to the world? Here demand had fallen 50 per cent in the first quarter, while it is down 10 per cent in the second quarter. So, overall it is down 30 per cent in the first half. India on an average consumes 25mt every quarter. So far, 15mt is down in the first half but only 2mt in the second quarter compared with 13mt in the first quarter. So, making up the 15mt in these quarters may not be possible. But we will reach the last fiscal level from this quarter. What will be the drivers of growth? Nobody expected automotive to be the growth driver — be it two-wheelers or passenger cars — 33 per cent year-on-year and 392 per cent quarter-on-quarter jump. JSW has 80 per cent of the best quarter in terms of auto steel sales. For commercial vehicles, everyone is looking at the scrappage policy by the Centre. If that comes, demand will shoot up. I also think that the rural economy will drive the recovery and steel consumption — good monsoon plus government intervention. Strong demand came from roofing and colour coated sheets, which had the highest EBIDTA ever for us. Auto contracts will be reset with effect from October. Auto and appliances are 20 per cent of the sales. We will have better realisation from the auto contract going forward. Would JSW be able to meet production and sales guidance? Do not think of any problems on the sales side (target 15mt), but not sure about production. We lost 1.2mt of production in the first quarter which could not be recovered in the second quarter. Iron ore availability was a big issue. India had produced 110mt iron ore in the first half of the last fiscal compared with75mt this year. Odisha alone contributed 30mt of the shortfall. But the export of iron ore has gone up 10mt, to 20.3mt. Moreover, 3.7mt of pellets was also exported. So, the availability is down 48.5mt. In contrast, there was a 12mt shortfall in steel production, which translates to 17mt demand contraction for ore. So, there is a net supply shortfall of 30mt. JSW somehow managed to maintain because we started four mines in Odisha from July 1. It could have been a disaster otherwise. Out of the 19 mines which were auctioned and handed over in March in Odisha, only five could be operational, including four by JSW and one by ArcelorMittal. The companies who lost the mine had a chance till October 31 to clear the dump. So, they are very aggressive in moving material, paying any amount to the truckers, blocking the logistic chain. Even if we increase our production at the mines, we are unable to evacuate. If the time to move the dump is extended, the industry will be in a soup. We have to run at 100 per cent capacity to achieve a production target of 16mt. That may be difficult because of ore shortage. JSW faced delay in completing expansion at Dolvi because of Covid. Would it now be able to meet the year-end target? Absolutely. Dolvi work is in full swing. There are more than 15,000 people at the site. Our capex is about Rs 9,000 crore, including Rs 800 crore for Odisha. JSW reduced net debt by Rs 1,635 crore in the second quarter. Can we expect more deleverage going forward? We cleared 4.75 lakh tonnes of inventory, releasing Rs 1,300 crore into the system. We accounted Rs 400 crore in relation to our liabilities towards foreign currency debt as rupee appreciated. We reduced working capital limits to that extent. Finance costs also went down on foreign currency loans because of the reduction in Libor rates. Our forex loans are Libor based — which has been reset to 0.30 per cent from 1.5 per cent. Foreign currency loan is 54 per cent of overall loan, of which floating based loan is 75 per cent. Our rupee loans were also reset based on MCLR. Weighted average cost has come down from 6.08 per cent to 5.81 per cent quarter-on-quarter. But a similar trend may not be possible going forward because of inorganic growth and capex lined up. However, our relative ratio of debt to EBIDTA will certainly improve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
25-10-2020||Business||Karnataka high court spanner in Franklin plan||The Karnataka high court on Saturday ruled that Franklin Templeton cannot implement its decision to wind-up six debt schemes unless it gets the consent of unit holders by a simple majority. Franklin Templeton MF had shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. A division bench on Saturday ruled that while it will not interfere in the decision taken by the trustees on April 23, consent by its unit holders will be required. “We hold and declare that the decision of the trustees (Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Pvt Ltd) to wind up the six schemes... by taking recourse to sub-clause (a) of clause (2) of Regulation 39 of the mutual funds regulations cannot be implemented unless the consent of the unit-holders is obtained in accordance with sub-clause (c) of clause (15) of Regulation 18,’’ the bench said. Under Sebi’s mutual fund regulations, trustees should obtain consent of the unit holders to wind up or prematurely redeem the units. In a 336-page order, Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi also directed the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to examine the report submitted by the forensic auditor and take a decision on further action. This decision shall be taken within six weeks from the date of the receipt of the forensic audit report. The market regulator had earlier appointed Chokshi & Chokshi to conduct a forensic audit on the six schemes. The Karnataka high court also pulled up the market regulator. “Sebi should have been prompt and proactive especially when this is perhaps the first case of winding up under Regulation 39(2)(a). “As a watchdog, Sebi was expected to play a very proactive role ... The investors/unit-holders of the said schemes will be justified in their criticism that Sebi was a silent spectator,’’ the bench said. Janak Dwarkadas, the counsel representing the AMC and trustees, prayed for a stay on the operation of the judgment so as to appeal the order. “Considering the nature of issues involved, we deem it appropriate to stay the operation of the final judgment and order for a period of six weeks from today subject to the condition that none of the respondents will take any steps to implement or to act upon the impugned notices dated April 23 2020 and May 20 2020.” During these six weeks, there will not be any redemptions or borrowings for the six schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
25-10-2020||Business||Tax returns by December 31||The government on Saturday extended the deadline for filing returns by individual taxpayers for 2019-20 by a month till December 31. For those taxpayers whose accounts need to be audited, the deadline has been extended by two months till January 31, 2021, the finance ministry said. The due date for completion of statutory audit and presenting them in the AGM was already extended to December 31, 2020. The present extension aligns the due dates for completion of statutory audit, tax audit and transfer pricing certification to December 31, 2020. Naturally, the due date for filing of ITR for such taxpayers who are subject to such audit/certification is extended to January 31, 2021,” Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia & Co LLP, said. The government had in May extended the date for filing ITR for financial year 2019-20 from July 31 to November 30. Tax advocate Narayan Jain has welcomed the timely decision of the CBDT and said: “It was needed because of the prevailing situation of the Covid-19 pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
25-10-2020||Business||Interest waiver before Diwali||India’s lenders were set a November 5 deadline on Saturday to waive penal interest payments on loans in a move that could give relief to millions of people ahead of one of the country’s biggest festivals. The government was forced to rethink the loan moratorium scheme which allowed borrowers to not pay loan instalments between March and August, but allowed lenders to accrue additional interest on the unpaid sum. An Indian optician from Agra was among the first to challenge the scheme for making borrowers pay additional “interest-on-interest”. Earlier this month, the government told the Supreme Court it will waive certain interest levies on loans below Rs 2 crore to provide relief to eight category of loan takers, including home, education, automobiles, consumer durables, MSMEs and credit card dues. The court had asked the government to implement the scheme, which will bring relief to millions of borrowers, at the earliest. The government has said lenders have to credit borrowers on or before November 5. Lenders will have to claim reimbursement from the government by December 15. The scheme will cost the government about Rs 6,500 crore. The five-day Diwali festival, which starts on November 14, is a time when houses are re-decorated, big-ticket items purchased, feasts held and gifts exchanged. The court is set to hear the case on November 2. The government also said that an “ex-gratia” amount would be given to borrowers with loans up to Rs 2 crore who had not availed the moratorium during the six month period. “Borrowers who have loan accounts having sanctioned limits and outstanding amounts of not exceeding Rs 2 crore (aggregate of all facilities with lending institutions) as on February 29 shall be eligible for the scheme,” it said. According to the eligibility criteria mentioned in the guidelines, the accounts should be standard as on February 29, which means it should not be a non-performing asset. The lending institutions shall credit the difference between compound interest and simple interest with regard to the eligible borrowers in respective accounts for the said period irrespective of whether the borrower fully or partially availed themselves of the moratorium on repayment of the loan announced by the RBI on March 27, 2020. The circular explained that the rate of interest for education, housing, auto, personal and consumption loans would be as specified in the loan agreement. In cases where no interest is being charged on EMI for certain periods, interest to be applied at lenders’ base/MCLR rate. For credit card dues, it said that weighted average lending rate charged by the card issuer to be charged and for MSME loans, it would be as specified in loan agreement. For cash credit/overdraft, the contracted rate would apply. Basis of calculation would be according to the prevailing rate on February 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
25-10-2020||Business||Vedanta declares dividend of Rs 3,500 crore||The board of Vedanta on Saturday declared an interim dividend of Rs 9.50 per share, amounting to Rs 3,500 crore. “The board of directors of the company through a resolution passed by circulation on Saturday, October 24, have approved the first interim dividend of Rs 9.50 per equity share — 950 per cent on the face value of Re 1 per share for 2020-21, amounting to Rs 3,500 crore,’’ Vedanta said in a regulatory filing on Saturday. The interim dividend from Vedanta was keenly watched particularly after subsidiary Hindustan Zinc (HZL) declared its highest interim dividend in 12 years at Rs 21.3 per share amounting to Rs 9,000 crore. In May, it had declared an interim dividend of Rs 16.50 per share. Vedanta holds a 64.92 per cent in HZL and the focus was on whether the mining conglomerate will pass on the entire amount received as dividend from HZL to its shareholders. However, Saturday’s decision would indicate that Vedanta is not passing on the complete amount received from HZL to shareholders. Market circles were looking forward to a high dividend payout from Vedanta after its delisting effort failed earlier this month. On October 10, Vedanta announced that its voluntary delisting offer — to acquire the balance public shareholding and then delisting it from the stock exchange — had failed at the reverse book building stage. The total number of shares tendered by public shareholders fell 7 per cent short of the mandatory minimum 90 per cent for successful delisting. Shares of Vedanta had ended with gains of 0.29 per cent at Rs 104.80 on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
