26-10-2020||Business||Clarity on leave travel concession stimulus||Central government employees can submit multiple bills of goods and services purchased in their own name to avail the benefit of the LTC (Leave Travel Concession) cash voucher scheme, according to the finance ministry. The expenditure department, under the ministry, has issued a set of FAQs (frequently asked questions) on LTC cash voucher scheme, clarifying that an employee can also avail the scheme utilising the applicable LTC fare without leave encashment. The government on October 12 announced the LTC cash voucher scheme under which central government employees can purchase any goods or services with GST rate of 12 per cent or above to avail the benefit. Till now, employees got LTC benefits only on travels made, or had to forgo the amount. The ministry said employees can avail the scheme utilising the applicable LTC fare without leave encashment. “The expenditure should be in accordance with the ratio as prescribed for LTC fare,” it said. To a query on whether the scheme would be applicable if a particular LTC which is meant to be used for the scheme has been partially availed by either self or members of the family, the FAQ said, “This scheme is applicable to the LTC fare left unutilised during the block year (2018-21).” On whether an employee with four family members eligible for LTC can avail the scheme for less than four members, the ministry said an employee can avail the scheme in partial, that is for the LTC part of the eligible family. “Since this is an optional scheme, if the LTC fare of any member of the family has not been utilised for this purpose, those members can avail LTC subject to extent instructions under LTC rules.” The FAQ further clarified that multiple bills would be accepted, but purchases should happen within the current financial year ending March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
26-10-2020||Business||Amazon wins interim award against Future group’s sale of retail business to Reliance Industries||Amazon on Sunday won an interim award against the Future group’s sale of its retail business to Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) after a Singapore-based single judge arbitration panel put the deal on hold. It may be recalled that the US-based retail giant had dragged the Future group to arbitration after it agreed to sell businesses to Reliance Retail. Earlier, this month Amazon had slapped a legal notice on the group, alleging that the asset sale to Reliance violated an contractual agreement with the e-commerce giant. It then approached the Singapore International Arbitration Centre saying that the Future group breached the contract. Last year, Amazon had bought a 49 per cent stake in one of Future’s unlisted firms, Future Coupons Ltd, with the right to buy into flagship Future Retail after a period between 3 years and 10 years. Future Coupons owns 7.3 per cent stake in Future Retail. Passing an interim award in favour of Amazon, V. K. Rajah — the sole arbitrator in the arbitration matter — has asked the Future group to put the deal on hold and said that the deal cannot go through until it finally decides the matter. A PTI report quoting an Amazon spokesperson said that the arbitration panel has granted the reliefs sought by it and expect an expeditious conclusion of the arbitration process. “We welcome the award of the Emergency Arbitrator. We are grateful for the order which grants all the reliefs that were sought. We remain committed to an expeditious conclusion of the arbitration process," the Amazon spokesperson said. Late last month, Reliance Industries Ltd had announced that it is acquiring the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing division from Future Group for a lump sum consideration of Rs 24,713 crore. The acquisition was to bring retail formats like Big Bazaar, fbb, Foodhall, Easyday, Nilgiris, Central and Brand Factory into the Reliance fold. The Future group had announced that the transaction will initially see it merging close to five companies carrying the formats or the businesses that will go into the Reliance fold into Future Enterprises Ltd (FEL). As per the announcement, the retail and wholesale undertaking of the group will be transferred to Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Ltd (RRFLL), while the logistics & warehousing undertaking will go to Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), which is a RIL subsidiary. RIL had said that RRFLL, a subsidiary of RRVL will acquire 6.09 per cent of the post merger equity of FEL and it will invest another Rs 400 crore in preferential issue of equity warrants, which after conversion will see its stake going up by another 7.05 per cent in the company. Shares of Future Enterprises had ended with gains of almost five per cent on Friday. The scrip ended had settled at Rs 10.03 — marking a rise of 4.48 per cent over its last close. The Future Retail share too finished higher by 3.39 per cent. These counters may come under pressure on the news of Amazon winning interim award against the Future group on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
26-10-2020||Business||Life Insurance Corp float date gets delayed||The mega initial public offering of Life Insurance Corp (LIC) may spill over to the next fiscal as the government will first look at the independent actuarial valuation of the country’s largest insurer, a top official has said. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said the pre-IPO work of LIC is going on at four stages — appointment of advisors for ensuring compliance, legislative amendment, LIC’s internal software changes to come out with its “embedded value” and appointing an actuary to  vet LIC’'s actuarial valuation. The government plans to amend the Act under which the state-run LIC was set up to prepare for the sale. A stake sale in LIC is crucial for meeting a record Rs 2.1 lakh crore disinvestment target set for the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021. Pandey said only after the four stages converge, then a decision would be taken on the quantum of government stake to be diluted in LIC. “Then the IPO decision would be there, what percentage of IPO we will go forward. Only after these four things converge... we are trying our best to do this fiscal. But this IPO is a big issue and I think it will take time,” Pandey said when asked if the offering would happen this fiscal. Pandey said Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed pre-IPO advisors who have been working with LIC to list out the items of compliance. The second part is a legislative amendment that the Department of Financial Services (DFS) is working along with Dipam, he said. This amendment would facilitate the initial public offering (IPO) of LIC, by making changes in the LIC Act. “Third, is the issue of internal changes in LIC like software changes to come out with embedded value. LIC has been doing old-style actuarial valuation. But for IPO they need to do embedded value,” he said. He said Dipam would come out with an RFP to appoint an actuarial firm that will independently verify the actuarial value produced by LIC. “LIC also has to do the valuation of its real estate assets,” Pandey added. In the 2020-21 Budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the government’s plan to sell a part of its holding in LIC by way of IPO. “Listing of companies on stock exchanges disciplines them and provides access to financial markets and unlocks its value. It also gives an opportunity for retail investors to participate in the wealth so created,” she had said. The government has budgeted to collect Rs 2.10 lakh crore from stake sale. This include Rs 1.20 lakh crore from CPSE disinvestment and Rs 90,000 crore from selling stake in financial institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
26-10-2020||Business||Shaktikanta Das tests positive for Covid||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19. He is 63. “I have tested Covid-19 positive. Asymptomatic. Feeling very much alright. Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days. Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all deputy governors and other officers through video conference and telephone,’’ he said on Twitter. A growth oriented Das has been doing much of the heavy-lifting of the economy with the pandemic inflicting a record contraction. Since March this year, the central bank has brought down the policy repo rate by 115 basis points. The RBI has also taken several other steps that includes infusion of liquidity, easing financing conditions an cooling down yields amid a record government borrowing. Earlier this month, he also indulged in moral suasion. He said yields of government securities (G-sec) need to evolve in alignment with the comfortable liquidity conditions and that market participants, on their part, need to take a broader time perspective and display bidding behaviour that reflects a sensitivity to the signals from the RBI in the conduct of monetary policy and debt management. These words were accompanied by other actions which included doubling the size of open market operations (purchase of Government securities) to Rs 20,000 crore, an on-tap targeted long term repo operations TLTRO with tenors of up to three years for a total amount of up to Rs 1,00,000 crore and OMOs in state development loans (SDLs). While this is for the first time that the RBI was buying state government bonds, all these actions have resulted in bringing down yields on the benchmark 10-year G-sec to below 6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
