27-10-2020||Business||Future Retail may challenge Amazon's interim award verdict||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) and the Future group are digging in their heels even as Amazon.com Inc won an interim award against the latter with regard to the sale of its retail business to Mukesh Ambani. Future Retail (FRL) on Monday hinted that it may challenge the arbitration award before Indian legal forums, to ensure that the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance proceeds unhindered and without any delay. Late on Sunday, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), said that it has entered into the transaction for acquisition of assets and business of FRL “under proper legal advice and the rights and obligations are fully enforceable under Indian Law’’. RRVL added that it intends to enforce its rights and complete the transaction in terms of the scheme and agreement with the Future group without any delay. Amazon had won an interim award against the transaction after a Singapore-based single judge arbitration panel put the deal on hold. The global retail giant had alleged that the asset sale violated a contractual agreement. FRL said that it has received a communication from the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in the arbitration proceedings under shareholders’ agreement between Amazon, Future Coupons Private Limited and the promoter group. “FRL is examining the communication and the order. It may be noted that FRL is not a party to the agreement under which Amazon has invoked arbitration proceedings. “FRL has been legally advised that actions taken by the FRL/its board, which are in full compliance of the relevant agreements and eminently in the interest of all stakeholders cannot be held back in arbitration proceedings initiated under an agreement to which FRL is not a party,’” it said. The company added that as per the advice received by it, all relevant agreements are governed by Indian law and provisions of Indian Arbitration Act for all intents and purposes. “This matter raises several fundamental jurisdictional issues which go to the root of the matter. Accordingly, this order will have to be tested under the provisions of Indian Arbitration Act in an appropriate forum. In any enforcement proceedings, FRL would take appropriate steps to ensure that the proposed transaction will proceed unhindered without any delay,” it noted. However, the development impacted the share prices of Future Group firms and RIL. Shares of the Future Group declined by up to 10 per cent. While Future Lifestyle Fashions tanked 9.71 per cent to Rs 78.15 on the BSE, Future Retail fell by over five per cent to Rs 73.85 even as Future Enterprises fell 4.99 per cent to Rs 9.53 -- its lower circuit limit. Similarly,  Future Consumer Ltd also dropped by 4.92 per cent to its lowest trading permissible limit for the day of Rs 7.54 on the BSE. The RIL share settled with losses of four per cent or Rs 83.85 at Rs 2,028.70. Online retail giant Amazon had last year acquired a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons Ltd, the promoter entity which owns a 7.3 per cent interest in Future Retail, the operator of more than 1,500 stores in India including grocery chain Big Bazaar. Amazon’s investment in Future Group came with contractual rights that include a right of first refusal and a non-compete-like pact. Also, the deal came with the right to buy into their flagship, Future Retail, after a period of between 3 years and 10 years. Commenting on the SIAC interim order, Sweta Patodia, analyst, corporate finance group, Moody’s Investors Service, said: “SIAC’s decision to put a stay on the sale of Future Group’s consumer business to RIL is unlikely to impact the latter’s credit profile, given its position as the leading retailer in India and its strong financial position. “Nonetheless, the decision will likely delay RIL’s plans to expand its retail footprint in India.” The Future deal would have almost doubled Reliance's footprint. In a statement issued late Sunday, Amazon said it got all the relief it sought, without providing specifics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Prime Minister Narendra Modi upbeat on oil refining||India will emerge as the main driving force behind the global energy demand including renewable and natural gas and the country’s refining capacity would increase from 250 million tonnes per annum currently to 450 million tonnes by 2025 to keep self-reliance in sync with demand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. Speaking at the India Energy Forum by CERAWeek, Modi said the coronavirus pandemic had resulted in global energy demand falling by one-third, investment decisions being impacted and predictions of a contraction in demand over the next few years. He said the country is on track to meet its renewable energy target of adding 175 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy to its electricity grid by 2022. “We are well on track to meet the commitment we made to the global community,” Modi said, adding that the country would continue to “fight climate change”. He said renewable energy helped the country “save around Rs 24,000 crore annually”. Stating that India saw transformational reforms in the energy sector in the last five years, the Prime Minister highlighted changes in oil and gas exploration and production regime as well as gas marketing. “India’s reform journey has been on the high speed in the last five years,” he emphasised. While the focus is to make India a gas-based economy, the nation would also be raising oil refining capacity from 250 million tonnes per annum currently to 450 million tonnes by 2025 to keep self-reliance in sync with demand, he said. India’s energy future is bright and secure, Modi said, adding access to energy should be affordable and reliable. “Our energy sector will be growth-centric, investor-friendly and environment conscious,” he added. As he showcased his government’s recent reforms in the sector to global investors, Modi said India is likely to see energy consumption double over the long term. And, he stated that this would be happening at at a time the country embraces cleaner and renewable sources of energy at a fast pace. Lauding India’s efforts of energy conservation, Modi said, “In the last six years, over 11 million smart LED street lights were installed. This has enabled an estimated energy saving of 60 billion units per year. The estimated greenhouse gas emission reduction with this programme is over 4.5 crore tonnes of CO2 annually.” “Leading global bodies project that global demand will contract for the next few years. But these agencies project India as a leading consumer,” says the Prime Minister. India, he said, was on track to meet its COP21 commitment of raising electricity generation from renewable energy sources to 175 gigawatts by 2022. “We have further extended the target to 450GW by 2030,” he said, adding India has one of the lowest carbon emissions. The event is being attended by global CEOs and energy leaders from India and over 30 countries. Global energy major BP Plc pitched for the inclusion of natural gas within the ambit of goods and services tax (GST) in India. “GST has been a very welcome federal initiative to ease trade in India. We believe it would make sense to incorporate gas in that,” BP Group chief executive  Bernard Looney said at the energy event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank net profit jumps 26.7 per cent  ||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Monday reported a 26.7 per cent jump in its standalone net profit to Rs 2,184.48 crore for the second quarter ended September 30. The private sector lender had posted a net profit of Rs 1,724.48 crore during the same quarter a year ago. The total income (standalone) rose to Rs 8,288.08 crore in the July-September period as against Rs 7,986.01 crore in the year-ago period, Kotak Mahindra Bank said in a regulatory filing. The bank’s asset quality improved on a net basis, with the non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 0.64 per cent of the net advances as on September 30, 2020, from 0.85 per cent by September-end 2019. In value terms, the net NPAs were down at Rs 1,303.78 crore compared to Rs 1,811.40 crore. However, the gross NPAs rose to 2.55 per cent (Rs 5,335.95 crore) from 2.32 per cent (Rs 5,033.55 crore). Provisions for bad loans and contingencies came down to Rs 368.59 crore for the reported quarter from Rs 407.93 crore parked aside for the year-ago period. On a consolidated basis, the bank said the net profit rose 22.4 per cent to Rs 2946.62 crore during the second quarter 2020-21 against Rs 2,407.25 crore a year ago. Total income grew to Rs 13,591.41 crore from Rs 12,542.99 crore. The consolidated result of the bank included financials of its various domestic as well as international subsidiaries and associate companies. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank closed at Rs 1,415.75 apiece on BSE, down 2.36 per cent from its previous close. SBI Life Insurance Co Ltd on Monday reported over a two-fold jump in net profit at Rs 299.73 crore for the second quarter ended September of the current financial year. The life insurer had posted a net profit of Rs 129.84 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Total income rose 45 per cent to Rs 18,458.25 crore during July-September period of 2020-21 from Rs 12,745.38 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20, SBI Life said in a regulatory filing. Net premium income increased 22 per cent to Rs 12,857.95 crore during the quarter under review from Rs 10,111.51 crore a year ago. Assets under management (AUM) grew to Rs 1,86,360 crore as on September 30, 2020 from Rs 1,54,760 crore as on September 30, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Sensex down 540 points||Equity indices spiralled lower on Monday following heavy losses in Reliance Industries after Amazon won an interim arbitration award to stall the Mukesh Ambani-led firm’s acquisition of Future Group’s retail assets. A sharp fall in the rupee and a negative trend in global markets further unnerved investors, traders said. After tanking 737 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index recovered some lost ground to close 540 points, or 1.33 per cent, lower at 40145.50. The broader NSE Nifty tumbled 162.60 points, or 1.36 per cent, to 11767.75. Bajaj Auto was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, tumbling 6.10 per cent, followed by M&M, Reliance Industries (RIL), Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, SBI, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. Index heavyweight RIL accounted for most of the losses, sinking 3.97 per cent. Global markets were on the back foot amid an increase in Covid-19 cases in Europe and other regions and uncertainty over fresh stimulus in the US. “Volatility was expected as we are nearing the US election date. The prices are high which limits the capacity of the market to handle uncertainties though the final outcome of the election is unlikely to change the long-term trend of the global market. Rising Covid cases in the US and Europe and delay in US stimulus has added to worries,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||IndusInd Bank merger buzz gathers steam||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Monday said acquiring companies and assets was one of the objectives of the capital raising exercise done during the first quarter, indicating that it is not averse to a merger with rivals such as IndusInd Bank. Its group chief financial officer Jaimin Bhatt told reporters that the bank will use its capital cushion judiciously and that it will grow its advance book when there are green shoots in the economy. On Sunday, a Bloomberg report said Kotak Mahindra Bank was exploring the acquisition of smaller rival IndusInd Bank through an all-stock deal. The report said that Uday Kotak, the promoter of Kotak Mahindra Bank, has held talks with the founders of IndusInd Bank and that the latter could retain a stake in the merged entity. However, the promoters of IndusInd Bank denied the news. “The promoter of IndusInd Bank, IndusInd International Holdings Ltd (IIHL), completely denies the said rumour and considers it malicious, untrue and baseless. IIHL is promoted by the Hindujas and broad base of other successful NRIs from the overseas Indian diaspora. They reiterate their full support to the IndusInd Bank, now and always,” a statement from the promoters said. It went on to add that whenever financial crises have impacted the Indian economy and its financial institutions, the promoter of the lender has positively intervened to support and improve the financial position of the bank. “It has a solid track record of facilitating the acquisitions in 2002 of IndusInd Enterprises and Finance Ltd (IEFL) by the bank, followed by another one of Ashok Leyland Finance Ltd (ALF) in 2004. Very recently, in July 2019, it supported the acquisition of Bharat Financial Inclusion Ltd (BFIL) by the Indusind Bank. The promoter would continue to support IndusInd Bank’s initiatives to grow inorganically should any such opportunities arise on the horizon in the future,” it added. At a video conference that was held to discuss its second-quarter results, Bhatt said the bank as a matter of policy does not comment on speculation or rumour. When asked if it will explore the merger and acquisition route, he referred to the Rs 7,000 crore raised during the first quarter. “When we raised capital in the first quarter, we did talk about the fact that we will look at acquisitions whether it is companies, assets, what not. So, I am not saying a no to any of that growth avenues but certainly not on this one (IndusInd),” Bhatt said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Yashovardhan Birla barred by Sebi for misusing IPO proceeds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has barred Birla Pacific Medspa Ltd (BPML), Yashovardhan Birla and eight others from the securities market for two years for mis-utilising IPO proceeds. BPML, which came out with offer documents in March 2011, had floated its over Rs 65-core initial public offering (IPO) in June 2011. The regulator found that the company made mis-statements in the prospectus in respect of the objects of the IPO. In a 61-page order that was given last Friday, Sebi wholetime member Ananta Barua said while around 75 per cent of the IPO proceeds were promised to be utilised in setting up Evolve Medspa centres under the “objects of the issue” in the prospectus, no such centres have been set up. While 15 such centres were promised to be set up by the end of March 2012, not even a single centre was set up by that time. Sebi added that 50 per cent of the IPO proceeds, or Rs 31.54 crore, were deployed as inter-corporate deposits (ICDs) to group companies, of which 60 per cent of ICDs were never returned to the company. However, the prospectus had permitted the interim deployment of proceeds as an investment in liquid instruments only and deployment of funds as ICDs was not allowed. The order said this decision was taken on the “pretext” that the macro-economic conditions were not appropriate to set up Evolve Centers and this decision was taken within 12 days from the signing of prospectus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Loan interest waivers to cost Rs 7,500 crore||Over 40 per cent of the system credit and 75 per cent of the borrowers will benefit from the interest-on-interest concession for small loans which will cost the government around Rs 7,500 crore, says a report. Last Friday, the government informed the Supreme Court that it will reimburse the banks the compound interest on small loans under Rs 2 crore irrespective of whether these borrowers had availed of the moratorium or not, provided the loan was standard as of end-February. “Such loans account for over 40 per cent of the systemic credit and 75 per cent of borrowers, and the impact on the exchequer is around Rs 7,500 crore,” Crisil said in a note on Monday. The cost to the exchequer would be halved if the waiver is allowed only where moratorium, extended due to the pandemic, was availed of, it added. To ensure effective and timely implementation, the government has asked lenders to credit the amount to eligible borrowers latest by November 5. This will be the difference between compound interest and simple interest over the six months of the moratorium period. While lenders have to apply for reimbursement by December 15, the timelines for receipt of funds from the government are yet to be notified. According to the agency, a complete interest waiver, including interest on interest, for the eligible loans up to Rs 2 crore would have meant a Rs 1.5-lakh-crore impact and could have posed significant challenges for the government as well as the financial sector. From a borrower’s perspective, the benefit is relatively higher for those who had availed of higher-yielding loans and thus borrowers of unsecured, micro and gold loans will benefit more than those who had taken home loans. Loan segments eligible for waiver are medium and small enterprises, education, housing, consumer durables, credit cards, automobile, personal, professional and consumption. According to Crisil, around 60 per cent of eligible loans were under moratorium as of end April, and the same is estimated to have come down to around 30 per cent as of end-August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
27-10-2020||Business||Supreme Court dismisses United Breweries India's appeal ||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed an appeal filed by United Breweries India Limited (UBIL) challenging a Karnataka High Court order directing the Vijay Mallya-promoted company’s liquidation proceedings to clear the dues of over Rs 15,000 crore to the consortium of banks led by the SBI. A bench headed by Justice U. U. Lalit refused to interfere with the high court order though senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan appearing for UBIL argued that the impugned order was erroneous as he claimed that the company had total assets the tune of Rs 14,500 crore against the Rs 6,000 crore-odd debts owed to the various creditors, including banks. He further argued that the total dues to the banks was only Rs 900 crore as such even after clearing the debts of the banks and other creditors, the company had enough surplus funds to continue in business. “Winding up should be the last resort, which should  not be readily accepted,” the senior counsel argued before the bench which also included justices Vineet Saran and Ravindra Bhat.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for the consortium of banks however, disputed UBIL arguments. He submitted that the defaulting company owed Rs 15,000 crore to the banks alone. Of these the banks had been so far able to recover only Rs 3,595 crore. More than Rs 11,000 crore are still due from the company, Rohatgi said. The bench after hearing the arguments said it found no reason to interfere with the orders passed by the high court and accordingly dismissed it.The Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) had earlier in 2017 passed attachment orders against the UBIL which was subsequently upheld by the Karnataka High Court in March this year; aggrieved by which the company has moved the apex court. Many of the company’s assets are already under attachment by the Enforcement Directorate for violation of the PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) 2002. The allegations against the UBIL which is the parent company of the now defunct Kingfisher Airlines that it stood guarantee for the huge loans availed by the latter which turned bankrupt, resulting in Rs 15,000-crore dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
