28-10-2020||Business||Airtel reports consolidated loss of Rs 763 crore in Q2 ||Bharti Airtel has witnessed a substantial narrowing of losses during the second quarter ended September 2020 as it did not have to make provisions towards dues on account of adjusted gross revenues (AGR). Consolidated loss at the telco came in at Rs 763 crore  compared with Rs 23,045 crore in the same period of the previous year when it made provisions of Rs 28,450 crore in the immediate aftermath of the Supreme Court ruling on the statutory AGR dues. In the first quarter of the fiscal, the company posted a consolidated loss of Rs 15,933 crore. It had then recorded an “incremental provision” of Rs 10,744 crore. Telcos like Bharti Airtel have not been seriously affected by Covid-19 as data consumption has jumped with people working from home. During the second quarter, its consolidated revenue was Rs 25,785 crore, up 22 per cent over the corresponding period last year. India revenues during the period at Rs 18,747 crore showed a rise of 22 per cent over the same period last year. The company said its mobile revenues witnessed a solid growth because of it unrelenting focus on winning quality customers and the delivery of a differentiated experience. Consequently, its average revenue per user (ARPU) leapt to Rs 162 compared with Rs 128 in the same period of the previous year. In its statement to the accounts for the period under review, Airtel said the Supreme Court has directed operators to pay 10 per cent of its total dues by March 31, 2021 and the remaining dues in yearly instalments commencing April 1, 2021 till March 31, 2031, payable by March 31 of every succeeding financial year. “The group has represented to the DoT that it has already paid more than 10 per cent of the total dues as demanded by DoT and will ensure ongoing compliance with the Supreme Court’s orders.’’ The company added that during the period, it continued to garner a strong share of the 4G net additions to the market. 4G data customers increased 48.1 per cent to 152.7 million compared with the previous year while traffic increased to 77.3 peta bytes per against 48.9 peta bytes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||Tata Motors posts consolidated net loss of Rs 314.45 crore ||A gradual recovery of the auto market from the clutches of the pandemic helped Tata Motors to beat analyst forecasts in the second quarter. Consolidated net loss of the company stood at Rs 314.45 crore in the second quarter of the fiscal against a loss of Rs 216.56 crore a year ago much less than analyst estimates of Rs 2,000 crore. Net revenues rose over 18 per cent to Rs 53,530 crore. Both Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) and the Indian operations witnessed strong sequential recovery during the period under review, though the commercial vehicle segment was impacted by lower volumes. Tata Motors said that during the period, Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) witnessed significant positive cash flow as sales and revenue recovered from the impact of Covid-19, though they were below pre-Covid levels a year ago. Retail sales at 113,569 units rose 53.3 per cent sequentially. It, however, added that retail sales in most markets continued to be impacted by Covid-19 and were lower around 12 per cent  compared with the year ago period. JLR revenue at £4.4 billion showed a rise of 52.2 per cent from the first quarter, though it was lower around 29 per cent from the pre-Covid levels a year ago. It generated £65 million profit before tax (PBT) compared with a loss of £413 million in the prior quarter. JLR also ended the second quarter with liquidity of around £5 billion. On the other hand, its standalone operations saw revenues coming at Rs 9,591.18 crore which was lower than Rs 9,913.33 crore in the same period of the previous year, though it was higher than Rs 2,634 crore in the preceding three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||RBI sets terms for interest waiver||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday asked all lending institutions, including non-banking financial companies, that by November 5 they must implement the scheme of waiver of interest on interest for loans up to Rs 2 crore for the six-month period beginning March 1. The apex bank said “the rate of interest would be as prevailing on 29 February 2020”. In case the rate of interest has changed thereafter, it shall not be reckoned for the purpose of the computation. The payable ex-gratia amount shall have to be credited to the account of the borrower by the respective lending institutions as ex-gratia payment under the scheme. The lending institutions will have to credit the required payment which is the difference between the compound interest and the simple interest for the period between March 1 and August 31 to the borrowers account by November 5 — and then seek reimbursement from the government. Last Friday, the Centre had announced the operational guidelines with regard to the scheme, following the Supreme Court’s direction to implement the interest waiver scheme. The top court on October 14 had directed the Centre to implement “as soon as possible” the interest on interest waiver on loans of up to Rs 2 crore under the RBI moratorium scheme in view of the pandemic, saying the common man’s Diwali is in the government’s hands. The scheme will apply to those who have availed the loan moratorium of the RBI and also those who did not. It will cover housing loans, education loans, credit card dues, auto loans, MSME loans, personal loans to professionals, consumer durable loans and consumption loans. In a circular issued to banks, housing finance companies, NBFCs and other financial institutions, the central bank said all lending institutions are advised to be guided by the provisions of the scheme and take necessary action within the stipulated timeline. According to the scheme announced by the government, the “ex-gratia payment” will be admissible irrespective of whether the borrower had fully availed or partially availed or not availed of the moratorium on repayment announced by the RBI in March and thereafter in May. It said that the period to be reckoned for crediting the difference between compound interest and simple interest would be from March 1 to August 31. It added that “the rate of interest would be as prevailing on 29 February 2020”. In case the rate of interest has changed thereafter, it shall not be reckoned for the purpose of the computation. The payable ex-gratia amount shall have to be credited to the account of the borrower by the respective lending institutions as ex-gratia payment under the scheme. In a tweet, the office of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said “RBI advises all lending institutions to be guided by the provisions of the scheme for grant of ex-gratia payment of difference between compound interest and simple interest for six months to borrowers in specified loan accounts and take necessary action within the stipulated timeline”. It is understood that the amounts will be credited to the borrower’s loan account, which could give some relief to the latter. The scheme said that when it comes to education, housing, automobile, consumption loans and personal loans to individuals, the rate of interest to be applied for calculating the difference between the compound interest and the simple interest will be the contracted rate as specified in the loan agreement. Further, the relief will only apply to accounts that are standard as on February 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||Sashidhar Jagdishan takes charge of HDFC Bank||Sashidhar Jagdishan on Tuesday took charge as the managing director & CEO of HDFC Bank. He takes over from Aditya Puri, who  retired from the country’s largest private sector bank on Monday after a distinguished career of 26 years. A statement from HDFC Bank said that Jagdishan has been a part of the lender since 1996 and he played a critical role in supporting its growth trajectory. Jagdishan, popularly called Sashi, has an overall experience of over 30 years and a deep knowledge in the fields of banking, finance, and economics. He joined HDFC Bank in 1996 as a manager in the finance division. He became business head-finance in 1999 and was appointed chief financial officer in 2008. Before donning this role, he was the group head of finance, human resources, legal and secretarial, administration, infrastructure, corporate communications, corporate social responsibility apart from being the change agent. Prior to joining HDFC Bank, he was a senior officer in the country financial control division of Deutsche Bank, AG, Mumbai. Observers said Jagdishan will have to contend with numerous challenges. He comes to the corner office at a time the banking sector and many other industries feel the pinch of the Covid-19 pandemic. Jagdishan will have to maintain the strong asset quality at the bank and also lead its next growth phase that may call for a different approach. In August, he had projected that the domestic economy will begin to see “a bit of normality’’ from October and that its first impact could be felt on the consumer or retail side of the business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||RBI fiscal deficit alert to states||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday warned the additional outgo of states to combat the impact of Covid-19 will significantly erode their hard won fiscal prudence achieved over the past three years. In the apex bank’s baseline projection, gross fiscal deficit of the states is expected to widen beyond 4 per cent of GDP in 2020-21 against the budgeted 2.8 per cent. The RBI said revenues are strongly related to GDP but during contraction revenues fall faster than GDP, which indicate revenues are likely to remain reduced in the next few years. The report — State Finances: A Study of Budgets —  warned that pandemic related expenses, particularly on health and other support measures for households and firms, are likely to keep these expenditures high thereby prolonging the “scissor effect” of expenditures surging and revenues collapsing. “Even as fiscal space gets exhausted the second wave of infection has either arrived or may be imminent in several economies, forcing lockdowns again,” the report said. “Overall, uncertainty remains high, and even as the quest for vaccine intensifies with no immediate relief in sight yet, the prospects for the green shoots that appeared in the third quarter of 2020 is fraught with downside risks.’’ The overall impact on state finances would be conditional upon the exposure to Covid-19, the availability of initial fiscal space and access to rainy day funds, or other reserve funds. Further, the report said, state governments’ responses by delaying or cutting down expenditures, even wages and salaries, need to be taken into account in the assessment of the pandemic’s direct effects on their finances. According to the study, some states have been impacted quicker and harder than others, depending upon indigenous demographics and epidemiological features as well as availability and accessibility of health resources. Further, supply chain disruptions have also been different depending on nature of businesses and other activities that various states specialise. “The pandemic may alter budget estimates significantly, eroding the gains of consolidation secured in the preceding three years,” the study said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||Direct tax amnesty extended till March||The government on Tuesday extended for the third time the deadline for making payments under the direct tax dispute settlement scheme ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ by three months to March 31, 2021. Under a notification of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the declaration under the Vivad se Vishwas Scheme shall be required to be furnished latest by December 31, 2020. However, only in respect of the said declarations, the payment without additional amount can now be made up to March 31, 2021. Finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey on Tuesday reviewed the progress made so far by the Income Tax Department on Vivad se Vishwas through video conferencing along with CBDT chairman and board members and all the principal chief commissioners of income tax across the country to expedite the scheme. “This is a scheme for the benefit and convenience of the taxpayers as they would get instant disposal of the dispute with no further cost of litigation besides monetary benefits in the form of waiver of penalty, interest and prosecution,” Pandey said. In the meeting, CBDT chairman P.C. Mody asked the principal chief commissioners of income tax to carry out all possible actions such as disposing pending rectifications, giving pending appeal effects and removing duplicate demands so as to arrive at a final demand for each assessee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
28-10-2020||Business||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman sees revival signs||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said there were visible signs of revival in the economy but growth may contract or be near zero in the current fiscal. She said the economy saw a contraction in the April-June quarter, but demand has picked up in the festival season. Speaking at the India Energy Forum of CERAWeek, she said infrastructure, fintech and all employment generating and asset creating industries would be priority sectors for the government. Sitharaman further said recent data indicates revival in the economy, with PMI number being the highest since 2012. “Which sort of indicates that the revival is there which is going to be steady and sustainable. If that sustainable revival is going to happen between quarter three and quarter four, we expect that the overall GDP growth... (is) going to be in the negative or near zero this time,” she said. India will regain the tag of the fastest growing major economy next year, she said. The Indian economy had contracted by a huge 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter, hit by the Covid-19 crisis. Sitharaman said a “very firm lockdown” was imposed beginning March 25, with the government putting lives before livelihood to contain the coronavirus pandemic. “We had a contraction which happened during the first quarter and post which the unlocking has been steadily happening and we can see the revival now,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
28-10-2020||Business||Morgan Stanley Capital Investment index recast to boost FDI inflows||Morgan Stanley Capital Investment (MSCI) has announced that it will implement the new changes on foreign ownership limits in its global indices, which could pave the way for more inflows into some stocks. The stock markets on Tuesday reacted positively to the development as hopes of more foreign inflows saw the Sensex reversing course and ending almost 377 points higher. Ridham Desai, head of India research, and Sheela Rathi, equity research analyst, at Morgan Stanley said in a note that MSCI India Index could see passive inflows worth $2.5 billion due to the latest announcement, and its weight in the MSCI Emerging Market Index will increase to 8.7 per cent from 8.1 per cent. MSCI India’s free float factor, according to the research, will increase to 43.2 per cent from 40 per cent. They felt that Kotak Mahindra Bank, PI Industries and Ipca Laboratories could be some of the firms that may be part of the MSCI indices. Asian Paints, Larsen & Toubro, Britannia and Nestle India could witness more inflows. The government had earlier said that the statutory foreign portfolio investment (FPI) limit in domestic companies will be raised to the sectoral ceiling. For example, if an FPI investment limit in a company was 24 per cent and the sectoral foreign investment ceiling was 74 per cent, under the new framework the FPI limit would increase to 74 per cent, unless the company decides to put it lower. In April this year, both the National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services Ltd (CDSL) had revised the FPI limits for stocks listed on domestic stock exchanges. MSCI said in a statement on Monday that it welcomes the disclosure of the foreign investment limits for Indian securities by the two depositories. The changes address the concerns on the timeliness, quality and standardisation of data. It added that the changes in foreign ownership limits will be implemented in its November index review. The MSCI India index is reviewed on a quarterly basis. “The foreign ownership limits changes are resulting from the relaxation of the FPI limit of Indian companies to the sectoral limit,’’ it said. MSCI added that the foreign ownership limits for securities in the MSCI India Equity Universe would be equal to the limit under the automatic route except the cases where a higher limit is approved under the ‘government route’ or the cases where a lower limit is approved by the company's board of directors and its general body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
28-10-2020||Business||Magma Fincorp promoters return to realty||The promoters of Magma Fincorp, the city-based NBFC, are getting back to real estate. Celica Developers, a major shareholder of Magma, has lined up at least three projects in and around Calcutta straddling residential, commercial and logistic segments. The first-off-the-block will be a high-end residential tower on Dover Road, a few yards away from Ballygunj Circular Road, where a 12 storied structure (apart from basement and garage) will come up in the next 12-18 months. Already halfway into the construction, the 18 cottah plot is going to have a G+4 bungalow too. Each unit, measuring around 2,300 square foot, will cost around Rs 4 crore. When completed, it would be the first real estate venture from Magma co-promoter Mayank Poddar’s family in more than three decades. Between 1960-80s, they built around half a million square foot of commercial and retail space on Park Street, the sunset boulevard of Calcutta. Comprising five buildings stretching between Middleton Row on the west and Camac Street on the east, the properties are home to some of the city’s well known casual and fine dining addresses, cafes and automobile showroom. It also houses Magma’s registered office apart from a host of other offices. A clean slate Is this the right time to make a comeback, especially when the real estate is reeling under the shock of Covid-19? Adarsh Tulshan, the managing director of Celica Group, believes that not having a baggage of unsold inventory like any other realtor could be a plus. “Starting with a clean slate with no loan to service will give us a headroom. We believe if a project is designed keeping in mind what a buyer wants, it should work,” Tulshan, son-in-law of Poddar, said. While the ticket size of the Ballygunj property will cast the net wider for buyers than some of the competing ones which offer bigger but more expensive units, a mass housing at Konnagar on the bank of the Hooghly will be priced to allow customers to take the benefit of a centrally sponsored home loan interest subvention scheme. Branded as Celica Residency, the 2.74 acre plot will have 4.5 lakh sq ft of built up space, having 450-odd units and a bit of retail. The company also plans to build a logistic hub on a 12-acre plot at Dankuni, where around 300,000 sq ft of leasable area will be built. Celica has had an initial dialogue with a few of the logistic park operators to co-develop the project. “Our plan is to have a bouquet of projects having a presence in different price points and usage,” Tulshan said, adding that Celica is also scouting for plots in the central business district of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
