29-10-2020||Business||Shapoorji group submits plan in SC to end association with Tatas||The Shapoorji Pallonji Group on Thursday said it has submitted a plan to Supreme Court to end its seven decades-old association with the Tata Group. The Mistrys have valued their holding in the Tatas at Rs 1.75 lakh crore, it informed the apex court, which is hearing the long-drawn legal battle between the two groups that began after the Tatas in a boardroom coup on October 28, 2016 sacked Cyrus Mistry as the Chairman. "Tata Sons is effectively a two-group company, with the Tata Group comprising Tata Trusts, Tata family members and Tata companies holding 81.63 per cent of the equity share capital, and the Mistry family owning the balance 18.37 per cent," the Shapoorji Pallonji Group said in a statement quoting from its submission to the apex court. The group has submitted a plan for separation from Tatas to the Supreme Court. Tata Sons is the core investment company and is the holding company for the Tata Group and its value arises from its stake in listed equities, non-listed equities, the brand, cash balances and immovable assets. The value of 18.37 per cent stake of the SP Group in Tata Sons is over Rs 1,75,000 crore, it said. In their scheme of separation, the SP Group said disputes over valuation can be eliminated by doing a pro-rata split of listed assets (share price value is known) and pro-rata share of the brand (brand valuation already done by Tata and published). A neutral third-party valuation can be done for the unlisted assets adjusted for net debt. As a non-cash settlement, the SP Group sought pro-rata shares in listed Tata entities where Tata Sons currently owns stake. For example, while Tatas own 72 per cent of TCS, the SP Group's ownership of 18.37 per cent in Tata Sons translates to 13.22 per cent shareholding of TCS, which is worth Rs 1,35,000 crore at present market capitalisation, as per the statement. Pro-rata share of brand value adjusted for net debt can be settled in cash and/ or in listed securities, the statement said. For the unlisted companies, an expedited valuation can be done with a valuer selected by both sides. This can be settled in cash and/or in listed securities, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Gold demand drops by 30 per cent during 3rd quarter||Gold demand in India dropped by 30 per cent during the July-September quarter to 86.6 tonnes compared to the same period last year due to Covid-19 related disruptions and ruling high prices, World Gold Council (WGC) said in a report. The overall demand stood at 123.9 tonnes during the third quarter of 2019, according to WGC's Q3 Gold Demand Trends report. In terms of value, gold demand declined by 4 per cent during the quarter under review at Rs 39,510 crore compared to Rs 41,300 crore in the same quarter of 2019. India's Q3 2020 gold demand fell by 30 per cent to 86.6 tonnes on the back of Covid-19 related disruptions, bleak consumer sentiment and high prices accompanied by volatility, WGC Managing Director, India, Somasundaram PR said. This is, however, higher than Q2, which at 64 tonnes was a 70 per cent drop and the second lowest in our quarterly series. This has been partially due to easing of lock down and some low prices in August that provided a small window of buying opportunities for the discerning, Somasundaram said. Meanwhile, the total jewellery demand in India decreased by 48 per cent to 52.8 tonnes compared to 101.6 tonnes in the same quarter last year. Similarly, in terms of value, jewellery demand fell 29 per cent to Rs 24,100 crore from Rs 33,850 crore in July-September 2019. However, total investment demand during the third quarter surged by 52 per cent to 33.8 tonnes compared to 22.3 tonnes in the same period of 2019. Similarly, in value terms, gold Investment demand was Rs 15,410 crore, up by 107 per cent from Rs 7,450 crore in the corresponding period of 2019. The third quarter tends to be relatively low generally due to seasonal factors like monsoons and inauspicious periods like Pitru-Paksh and Adhik Maas. Jewellery demand fell by 48 per cent as jewellery purchases did not have any support of festivals or weddings, Somasundaram added. Moreover, he pointed out that buying jewellery in the country is an experience and the restrictions including social distancing, wearing masks have kept consumer footfalls to the retail stores low. On the other hand, he said gold's safe haven attributes and an anticipation of price rise paved the way for an increase in investment demand for gold bars and coins by 51 per cent to 33.8 tonnes, he said. One interesting development during these months of lockdown has been the rapid rise in digital engagement with several tech initiatives by top jewellers to woo buyers. Digital platforms selling allocated gold through wallets also recorded sharp rise in volumes, along with significant activity in gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs) following a prolonged period of quiescence, he pointed out. Total gold recycled in India in the third quarter was 41.5 tonnes, up by 14 per cent compared to 36.5 tonnes in the same quarter of 2019. Due to higher prices, recycling increased by 14 per cent to 41.5 tonnes, though inventory rationalisation by jewellers and steep discounts in the market did impact full price recovery for sellers, he observed. Meanwhile, he said, imports resumed in anticipation of festival demand as supply chain-related restrictions were eased, growing from 9 tonnes in the previous quarter to 90.5 tonnes, he said. Looking ahead, we typically witness an upswing in gold demand in the fourth quarter on account of Dussehra, Dhanteras and other festivals coupled with a busy wedding season post-harvest. This year, a good monsoon notwithstanding, price and Covid-19 shadow will affect sentiment, though we can reasonably expect at least a part of the pent-up demand to surface, Somasundaram said. As weddings and festivities become low-key affairs, savings on other spends could be channelised into gold, he added. A sense of cautious optimism has returned among the trade stemming from the fact that the society is gradually learning to live with Covid-19, he said. However as we are still reeling under the impact of the pandemic and fear of second wave of infections without clear sight of many variables on consumer behaviour, volatile prices or length of the disruptions, we will not be able to quantify the impact on the full year gold demand in India other than to say that demand could be multi-year low, he added. But, post Covid-19 demand is likely to surge like post-2009, when demand was 642 tonnes and rose sharply to 1,002 tonne in 2010 and continued to be high in 2011 and 2012, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Calcutta becomes most affordable city for buying property||Calcutta has toppled Hyderabad to become the most affordable city for buying property in the country even as doubts persist if this will be an incentive enough for homebuyers to come out and shop. A study by JLL shows that properties in all the major seven cities have become more affordable in 2020 than before as a marginal dip in house prices along with the lowest mortgage rate in 15 years blunted the effect of impairment in household income that many families experienced this year. The study considered a household income that is enough to buy a 1,000-square-feet apartment by taking up loan from public sector banks for 20 years. To deduce the eligible household income, it was assumed that 80 per cent of the property value will be taken as loan and the loan value will be 40 per cent of the gross total family income. The study finds Mumbai to be the only city which continues to be out of reach for many homebuyers even as the affordability has more than doubled from 2014. Calcutta, in contrast, is twice more affordable than Mumbai. (see chart). However, the overall affordability has not translated in higher sales so far. These seven cities recorded sales of 14,415 units during July-September compared with only 10,753 units in April-June, but less than half of what was witnessed in the same period of 2019. A previous JLL study, which only focused on the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area and Rajarhat, showed a sequential decline in sales in the previous quarter.
“It is indeed heartening to note that Calcutta is now the most affordable city to buy a property. But will people buy? Are there enough drivers in this city? I’m afraid not yet,” Samantak Das, chief economist and head of research at JLL, asked. Cities such as Pune and Hyderabad, having less population than Calcutta, registered more sales in residential apartments, he added. Harsh Patodia, chairman of Unimark, the company which is building Trump Tower in Calcutta, said the requirement of office space is directly proportional to the demand for residential units. “If we see the office space absorption numbers, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune scores many times higher than Calcutta. New office space would translate into new jobs, creating also a demand pull for residential property,” Patodia explained. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the city is still not on the radar of global investors or fund managers. During a recent meeting with a property consultant, a fund manager specifically asked Calcutta to be left out of the consideration while examining investment in the real estate sector, citing the urban land ceiling act that limits agglomeration of land parcels to an individual beyond 7.5 cottah in cities. The global investor also suggested that the Bengal “ecosystem” was not conducive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor to launch multiple PRO service centres||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Wednesday  announced the launch of multiple PRO service centres to cater to the increasing number of customers in smaller cities and towns. The newly set up PRO Service Centres, which are dedicated service facilities but have no sales operations, are coming up in cities and towns that did not have Toyota service centres so far. The PRO facilities are equipped to service any Toyota car, ranging from free service to regular paid periodic maintenance, minor general repairs and minor body and paint repairs. Besides, the PRO service workshop owners will also service non-Toyota cars. Some of the PRO service centres are now operational in Narnaul (Haryana), Nagaur (Rajasthan), Jorhat (Assam), Kharagpur and Asansol (West Bengal), Morbi, Patan and Palanpur (Gujarat). The company proposes to have them in 80 more locations by the end of the year. At present, Toyota has 396 outlets and 79 dealer partners across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Axis Bank reports consolidated profit of Rs 1,849 crore||Axis Bank on Wednesday reported a consolidated profit of Rs 1,849 crore for the second quarter ended September 30 against a consolidated loss of Rs 18 crore a year ago despite setting aside a higher quantum of money for potential reverses in loans. On a standalone level, the third-largest private lender had a post-tax net of Rs 1,682.67 crore against a loss of Rs 112.08 crore in the year-ago period. The bank’s total income (standalone) rose marginally to Rs 19,870.07 crore in the second quarter of 2020-21, from Rs 19,333.57 crore in the same period last year. During the reporting quarter, it downgraded over Rs 4,000 crore of assets into "BB and below" taking the total quantum of such assets to over Rs 14,800 crore, and attributed three-fourths of the additions to estimated restructuring and the rest to internal reviews. Total provisions carried for the low-rated book is over Rs 2,600 crore. The bank’s chief executive and managing director Amitabh Chaudhry, however, said it has only received a “negligible” amount of requests for loan restructuring under the new scheme formulated by the RBI and asserted that there has not been any restructuring. He added that borrowers have time till December 31 to make the recast requests. During the moratorium period, the bank had not admitted all the requests. It has set aside an additional provisioning of Rs 3,143 crore during the September quarter, and the size of the buffer beyond the mandatory provisions now stands at Rs 10,839 crore. The overall provisions during the quarter stood at Rs 4,580 crore as against Rs 3,518 crore in the year-ago period. Overall slippages stood at Rs 931 crore for the reporting quarter and the same would have been higher by Rs 648 crore if not for the benefit extended under the Supreme Court directions on asset classification, its chief financial officer Puneet Sharma said. RBL Bank Private sector lender RBL Bank on Wednesday reported a 165 per cent jump in its September quarter net at Rs 144 crore on a lower base and guided towards some pressure in margins in the next quarter as interest from some stressed advances may not accrue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Direct tax professionals write to Sebi to extend stock option settlement dates||Direct tax professionals have written to Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi requesting the regulator to extend the dates of the one-time settlement scheme for entities that have executed trade reversals in the stock options segment on the Bombay Stock Exchange. In an analysis of the stock options segment of the BSE between April 1, 2014 and September 30, 2015, Sebi observed an anomaly where several entities were consistently seen making significant losses on their trades, which were reversed by the same counterparties either on the same day or the next day. Of the 21,652 entities that executed trade on BSE stock options segment, a total of 14,720 entities were involved in the generation of artificial volumes by executing non-genuine/reversal trades on the same day. Accordingly Sebi came out with a settlement scheme in July against those entities that had executed trade reversals in the stock option segment during the period against whom any proceedings are pending. The scheme commenced in August 2020 and could be availed till October 31, 2020. The Direct Tax Professionals Association have urged the regulator to extend the date till March 31, 2021. “Considering the pandemic and the large number of cases, the dates of the scheme should be extended,” said Narayan Jain, chairman of the DTPA representation committee. Mamta Binani, former president of the Institute of Company Secretaries and co-chairperson of the DTPA representation committee, said the three parameters considered by Sebi to determine the indicative settlement amount are artificial volume, number of non-genuine trades and number of contracts resulting in creation of artificial volume/non-genuine trades. The association has urged the regulator that the settlement amount should not be based on the volume of transactions, but on the net profit/loss resulting from the alleged transactions. Stocks recoil The Sensex crashed 600 points while the Nifty slumped below the 11750-mark on Wednesday, in tandem with a deep global selloff as a second wave of coronavirus cases in Europe and the US stoked fears of another round of lockdowns. After hitting a low of 39,774.60 during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 599.64 points, or 1.48 per cent lower, at 39922.46.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||SBI signs  $1 billion loan agreement with JBIC||State Bank of India (SBI) on Wednesday said it has signed a loan agreement of up to $1 billion with The Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). The loan will facilitate the operations of Japanese car companies in India. While $600 million will be financed by JBIC, the rest will come from other participating lenders which include the Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, MUFG Bank, , Mizuho Bank, Shizuoka Bank  and Bank of Yokohama. JBIC will provide a guarantee for the portion co-financed by the participating banks. A statement from JBIC said the the loan was intended to provide, through SBI, funds necessary for the manufacturing and sales business of suppliers and dealers of Japanese automobile manufacturers and for the provision of loans for the purchase of Japanese automobiles. The Japanese financial institution said  India, the world’s fifth largest automobile market in 2018-19 in terms of units sold, is expected to grow further. 
Japanese automobile manufacturers account for the majority share in India. The country is thus an important market for them.. It however, added that economic activities in India have been stagnating because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and this is expected to hinder the automobile market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||Business||Future group may challenge Singapore-based arbitration centre award ||All eyes are now on the next steps of Kishore Biyani’s Future group after the retailer hinted it may challenge the award of the Singapore-based arbitration centre before Indian legal forums. One of the options being speculated is that it may file an objection to the award in the country under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Amazon had won an interim award against the Rs 24,713-crore deal between Reliance Industries and the Future group after a Singapore-based single judge arbitration panel put the transaction on hold. The global retail giant had alleged that the asset sale violated a contractual agreement. Subsequently, Future Retail Ltd (FRL) had said that it has been legally advised that actions taken by its board, which are in full compliance of the relevant agreements and in the interest of all stakeholders, cannot be held back in arbitration proceedings initiated under an agreement to which it is not a party. More importantly, the company added that according to the advice received by it, all relevant agreements are governed by Indian law and provisions of Indian Arbitration Act for all intents and purposes It is felt that FRL could look at invoking Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, and challenge the award in an Indian court. However, the section only pertains to the setting aside of an arbitral award and is silent on such emergency interim orders. On the other hand, it also remains to be seen if Amazon approaches the Indian courts to enforce the award. A CNBC TV-18 report said that one option available to the Future group is to challenge the award in Singapore for which it will have to wait for the setting up of an arbitration tribunal. However, this process could take time. Last year, Amazon had bought a 49 per cent stake in one of Future’s unlisted firms, Future Coupons Ltd, with the right to buy into flagship FRL after a period between 3 years and 10 years. Future Coupons owns a 7.3 per cent stake in Future Retail. In the interim order that was passed in favour of Amazon, V.K. Rajah —  the sole arbitrator — had asked the Future group to put the deal on hold and said that the deal cannot go through until it finally decides the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||Business||Rajesh Nambiar named Cognizant chairman and managing director ||IT major Cognizant has named Rajesh Nambiar as the chairman and managing director of its India operations and a member of its executive committee effective November 9, 2020. Nambiar will join Cognizant from Ciena, a networking, systems and software company, where he served as the chairman and president of Ciena India, said a late-night statement on Tuesday. Nambiar, succeeds Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, who retired in July this year. “In the repositioned and elevated role of the India chairman and MD, Rajesh will strengthen our brand positioning in India and enhance our relationships with relevant Indian government agencies, chambers of commerce, universities, the media, and key policy-making bodies, including Nasscom,” Cognizant CEO Brian Humphries said. 
Nambiar will also serve as the executive committee representative of Cognizant’s nearly 200,000 associates in India, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||Business||International passenger flights remain suspended till November 30||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till November 30 amid the coronavirus pandemic, the directorate general of civil aviation said on Wednesday. “However, the international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” the Indian aviation regulator said in a circular. The scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23 because of the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 18 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The circular by the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) also mentioned that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it. The scheduled domestic passenger flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months amid the pandemic situation. Domestic schedule The DGCA said it has approved 12,983 weekly domestic flights of airlines for the winter schedule that begins on Sunday and ends on March 27 next year. 
In last year’s winter schedule, the aviation regulator had approved 23,307 weekly domestic flights The DGCA has approved 6,006 weekly domestic flights of IndiGo for this year’s winter schedule. SpiceJet and GoAir have got 1,957 weekly domestic flights and 1,203 weekly domestic flights approved, the regulator said. At present, airlines in India are allowed to operate a maximum 60 per cent of pre-Covid weekly domestic flights. Hong Kong ban Hong Kong has banned Air India flights from Mumbai till November 10 after five passengers on its flight earlier this week tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival, the airline said on Wednesday. This is the fourth time that Air India flights from India have been banned by the Hong Kong government for bringing passengers who tested positive for the infection after arrival. Previous bans were on the airline’s Delhi-Hong Kong flights during September 20-October 3, August 18-August 31 and October 17-October 30. Passengers from India can arrive in Hong Kong only if they have a Covid-19 negative certificate from a test done within 72 hours prior to the journey, according to rules issued by the Hong Kong government in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||Business||Larsen & Toubro declares special dividend of Rs 18 per share||Engineering & construction major Larsen & Toubro (L&T) on Wednesday declared a special dividend of Rs 18 per share as it looked to distribute a part of the proceeds from the Schneider Electric deal to its shareholders. However, the dividend amount came at the lower end of analyst estimates. L&T which declared its results for the quarter ended September 30 saw a 45 per cent decline in its consolidated net profit to Rs 1,410.29 crore compared with Rs 2,551.67 crore in the same period of the previous year. While this number was slightly ahead of analyst estimates, L&T said the bottomline was impacted by the pandemic in terms of lower revenue, higher credit provisions in the financial services business and disruption of the metro services. It, however, pointed out that labour at various project sites have reached near pre-Covid levels that led to project execution gathering momentum compared with the preceding three months. Investors were more eager about the special dividend from L&T, with the stock  under-performing over the past few months. L&T had announced last Friday its plan for a special dividend that led to the counter rallying on the bourses. In May 2018, Schneider Electric along with Singapore’s state investment firm Temasek Holdings had announced an all-cash buyout of L&T’s electrical and automation business for Rs 14,000 crore. Analysts had estimated the net proceeds to the company would be around Rs 12,000 crore (post tax) and a part of this would be distributed to shareholders. Estimates on how much of this will be paid as special dividend ranged from Rs 18 per share to 38 per share. At its meeting on Wednesday the board of L&T declared a special dividend of Rs 18 per share — or 900 per cent on face value of Rs 2 each. The dividend outgo is estimated at Rs 2,500 crore. “The special dividend could be a long awaited trigger for the stock. It addresses a key capital allocation issue as it effectively rules out large one-time equity infusion for the Hyderabad Metro,” Nomura had said. The brokerage had estimated a payout of Rs 35 per share. During the period, the company recorded consolidated gross revenues of Rs 31,035 crore. It added that revenue declined 12 per cent over the same period last year because of the lingering impact of the pandemic during the quarter. International revenue during the quarter at Rs 12,148 crore constituted 39 per cent to the total revenue. According to L&T, cash generation from operations was robust during the quarter which was strongly supplemented by proceeds from the divestment of the electrical & automation business. The company bagged orders worth Rs 28,039 crore at the group level in the period registering a sequential improvement of 19 per cent over previous quarter, but a decline of 42 per cent over the previous year, on account of deferment of award decisions largely caused by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
