31-10-2020||Business||Apple posts record September quarter revenue of $64.7 billion||Tech giant Apple has posted a record September quarter revenue of $64.7 billion with a strong performance across markets, including India. “Geographically, we set September quarter records in the Americas, Europe and the rest of Asia Pacific. We also set a September quarter record in India, thanks in part to a very strong reception to this quarter’s launch of our online store in the country,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said in an earnings call. In September, Apple launched its first online store in India — a market that is dominated by Android smartphones. Apple, which competes in the premium smartphone segment in India with players such as Samsung and OnePlus, has been aggressively ramping up its presence in the Indian market. The US-based company, in collaboration with partners such as Wistron and Foxconn, had recently started assembling iPhone 11 in India. According to research firm Canalys, the tech giant’s renewed focus on India paid off with a double-digit growth to nearly 8,00,000 units in the region during the July-September 2020 quarter. “Apple is finally paying attention to India,” said Canalys research director, Rushabh Doshi. “It has opened a direct online store, giving it several new angles in its go-to-market strategy such as utilising device trade-ins to provide purchase incentives, or bundling AirPods with iPhones to make them more appealing. However, its new iPhone 12 family will be a tough sell in India this year, as network operators do not yet have the infrastructure for mass market 5G deployment,” he said. A Counterpoint report had noted that Apple led the premium segment surpassing OnePlus even before its flagship launch, driven by strong demand for its iPhone SE 2020 and the iPhone 11. India’s smartphone shipments in the premium segment (priced above Rs 30,000) was one of the least affected segments and reached its highest-ever share in the overall India smartphone market, contributing more than 4 per cent in total smartphone shipments, according to Counterpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||RBI data reveals slip in growth rate led by non-food credit||The lending activity of banks does not square with the Centre’s claims that the economy has started to recover, based on its interpretation of read-outs from some high frequency indicators. According to RBI data on sectoral deployment of bank credit, the slip in growth rate was led by non-food credit which decelerated to 5.8 per cent in September 2020 from 8.1 per cent in September last year. While credit to agriculture and allied activities under the non-food credit segment increased 5.9 per cent in September 2020 against 7 per cent a year ago, the growth in credit to industry was “nil” during the month compared with a 2.7 per cent growth in September 2019, pulling down the overall growth rate. Within industry, credit growth to food processing, petroleum and coal products, leather, wood products and paper was higher in September 2020 compared with the corresponding month of the previous year. However, there was a decline in credit growth to beverage and tobacco, construction, infrastructure, rubber plastic, chemical products,  glass and glassware and all engineering goods . Bucking the downtrend, credit growth to the services sector accelerated to 9.1 per cent in September 2020 from 7.3 per cent in September 2019. Within services, advances to computer software, trade and tourism and hotels and restaurants  registered higher growth vis-à-vis September last year. Personal loans registered a growth of 9.2 per cent in September 2020 against a  16.6 per cent growth in September 2019. According to industry sources, a weak macroeconomy and risk aversion by banks because of asset quality concerns have contributed to the low credit offtake. Banks continue to remain cautious in lending to certain sectors that have been affected by the lockdown. This is primarily to prevent fresh slippage when recovery could be difficult. There is, however, a relative improvement in credit growth to micro, small and medium enterprises, aided by the credit guarantee support of the government. “While there is a decline in the credit growth rate, there is still an absolute increase of Rs 4,96,992 crore in non-food bank credit,” a senior banker said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||RBI disallows Axis Bank 's direct acquisition Max Life Insurance||Axis Bank on Friday said the Reserve Bank has not allowed it to directly acquire a 17 per cent stake in Max Life Insurance and the lender will now purchase shares in the life insurer along with its subsidiaries. Axis Bank and its entities have revised the agreement with Max Financial, the promoter of Max Life, to acquire a 19.002 per cent stake in the insurance firm, the lender said in a regulatory filing. In late August this year, Axis Bank had entered into a definitive agreement with Max Financial Services Ltd (Max Financial) for the direct acquisition of 17.002 per cent of equity share capital of Max Life Insurance Company Ltd (Max Life) by the lender. “In response to Axis Bank’s application to the Reserve Bank of India on directly acquiring 17.002 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life, the Reserve Bank of India has advised Axis Bank that the application for direct acquisition of 17.002 per cent has not been considered,” it said in a regulatory filing. “Axis Bank and its subsidiaries — Axis Capital and Axis Securities (together Axis Entities) have agreed to enter into revised agreements with Max Financial for acquisition of up to 19.002 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life (revised agreements),” the filing said. The lender said its total stake in Max Life will remain within the limits stipulated under the applicable laws. “Under the revised agreements, Axis Bank will acquire up to 9.002 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life, and Axis Capital and Axis Securities will together acquire up to 3 per cent of the share capital of Max Life. “Axis entities will have a right to acquire an additional stake of up to 7 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life, in one or more tranches, in accordance with existing regulations,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||IOC reports eleven-fold jump in standalone net profit ||India’s top oil firm IOC on Friday reported an eleven-fold jump in its standalone net profit at Rs 6,227.31 crore for the September 2020 quarter on the back of a boost in refining margins and inventory gain on using low-priced crude oil to make fuel. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 563.42 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. “The profit was up due to higher inventory and foreign exchange gains and better refinery margins,  Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, chairman of Indian Oil Corp (IOC), told reporters here. The company earned $8.62 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel in the second quarter of 2020-21 compared with a gross refining margin of $1.28 in July-September 2019. IOC gained Rs 7,400 crore on using low-priced crude oil it procured during May and June to convert into petroleum products such as petrol and diesel. Inventory gain is booked when a company buys raw material at a particular price but by the time it is turned into fuel, the rates have gone up. As retail pump prices are benchmarked at prevailing international rates, an inventory gain is booked. IOC also had a foreign exchange gain of Rs 672 crore in the July-September quarter compared wth a loss of Rs 1,135 crore a year ago. IndusInd net declines Bogged down by money set aside for possible reverses in asset quality because of the coronavirus pandemic, IndusInd Bank’s September quarter net profit halved to Rs 663 crore and the private sector lender hinted at more pain in the offing, saying provisions may go up in the future. On a consolidated basis, the lender’s net profit declined to Rs 663.08 crore in the latest September quarter from Rs 1,400.96 crore in the same period a year ago. For the reporting quarter, its core net interest income grew 13 per cent to Rs 3,278 crore on the back of a 0.06 per cent expansion in net interest margin to 4.16 per cent and a 2 per cent loan growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||Amazon takes steps to pre-empt Future deal||Domestic stock exchanges are set to consult the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) after Amazon wrote to them and the market regulator to take into consideration the Singapore arbitrator’s interim judgment that has put on hold the Rs 24,713-crore deal between the Future group and Reliance Industries Ltd. The e-commerce giant shared a copy of the interim judgment with the stock exchanges in its letter and said they must take cognisance of the order given by the arbitrator when they are reviewing the proposed deal. The Future Group-RIL deal is subject to approvals from various regulatory authorities, including Sebi and the Competition Commission of India, and the bourses. Reuters reported that the stock exchanges will seek clarification from Future Retail about the transaction following Amazon’s objection to the deal and that the BSE will also consult Sebi with regard to its stance on the deal. The arbitrator’s order had called for an arbitration process to be followed by Future and Amazon, and that the Future-RIL transaction be stayed. Last year, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent in one of Future Group’s unlisted firms — Future Coupons Ltd — with the right to buy into flagship Future Retail Ltd (FRL) after a period of three to 10 years. Future Coupons holds 7.3 per cent equity in FRL. It dragged Future to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) after the group entered into a deal with Reliance in August year to its sell its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units. The global retail giant had alleged that the asset sale violated the contractual agreement. Last Sunday, it won an interim award by the Singapore-based single judge arbitration panel. Even as both Future Group and Reliance have indicated that they want to proceed with the deal, the next step that will be taken by Amazon is also being keenly watched. One possibility is Amazon may approach the Indian courts to enforce the award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||15th Finance Commission to submit report on November 9||The 15th Finance Commission will submit its report for financial years 2021-22 to 2025-26 to President Ram Nath Kovind on November 9, an official statement has said. The commission under chairman N.K. Singh on Friday concluded its deliberations on the report. The report was signed by Singh and members of the commission — Ajay Narayan Jha, Anoop Singh, Ashok Lahiri and Ramesh Chand. “The commission had sought time to present its report to the President of India. It has now been communicated by the office of the President that the report submission will be on November 9, 2020,” the statement said. The report will be tabled in Parliament along with an action taken report of the government. “The commission has finalised the report after wide-ranging consultations with the Union and state governments, local governments at different tiers, chairmen and members of previous finance commissions, advisory council to the commission and other domain experts, academic institutions of eminence and multi-lateral institutions,” the statement added. At present, 42 per cent of the central pool of resources must go to states. In a post-Covid environment and the shrinking of revenue resources, the Commission is expected to rework the formula with the result that the states may be allotted less money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan's repayment offer rejected||The Rs 43,000-crore repayment offer made by the promoter of DHFL — Kapil Wadhawan — has reportedly not found favour with the legal adviser to the troubled mortgage lender. Wadhawan, who is now under judicial custody, had earlier offered his personal and family properties for the  repayment of outstanding loans of the lenders to the troubled mortgage firm. He had proposed to transfer the right, title and interest in various projects which form part of the real estate portfolio of his family. In a letter to the RBI appointed administrator, R. Subramaniakumar, Wadhawan had said that the valuation of these projects are around Rs 43,879 crore. The agreement among creditors for DHFL was signed in July last year after the RBI released its guidelines on the resolution of stressed assets. The exposure of the lenders who signed the pact was Rs 39,000 crore. Recent disclosures have shown that the total claims made by financial creditors stand at Rs 94,690 crore, of which Rs 87,048 crore has been admitted. Wadhawan said in his letter that even today DHFL’s collection has been between Rs 10,000 crore and Rs 15,000 crore, which are available to repay the lenders. However, according to a Bloomberg Quint report, AZB & Partners, the legal adviser, has said that the settlement offer made by the promoters cannot be considered. The erstwhile promoters are locked in cases filed by the administrator and they cannot sell assets as long as these cases are sub-judice. Further, nearly all the properties offered by them are ones where the mortgage lender has a legal and equitable interest. The development comes at a time Adani Group, Piramal Enterprises, SC Lowy and Oaktree Capital Management have placed bids for DHFL. Among them, while Oaktree is keen on acquiring the entire book of DHFL, Piramal Enterprises is eyeing the retail book. The other two entities had placed bids for its construction finance portfolio. Shares of DHFL were locked at the upper circuit on Friday. The stock gained 5 per cent to Rs 15.91 on hopes that a resolution could be around the corner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
31-10-2020||Business||RIL posts consolidated net profit of Rs 9,567 crore in Q2||Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) has posted a consolidated net profit attributable to owners of Rs 9,567 crore in the second quarter ended September 30 against Rs 11,262 crore a year ago, which was still better than analyst estimates. The Covid-19 pandemic had led to softer crude prices while the lower demand for petroleum products adversely affected RIL’s refining business. Revenues from this segment plunged more than 36 per cent over the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the energy-to-telecom giant to report a net profit of around Rs 8,100 crore. Its profit before exceptional items came in at Rs 10,602 crore — a growth of 28 per cent over the same period last year. Jio profit surges Profits of Reliance Jio Infocomm (RJIL) moved up to Rs 2,844 crore, a sequential rise of almost 13 per cent and a jump of 187 per cent over the same period last year. Analysts had estimated the bottomline at around Rs 2,600 crore. Amid more data consumption and tariff hikes, Jio’s total revenues grew to Rs 17,481 crore in the September quarter from Rs 13,130 crore in the corresponding period last year — a rise of 33 per cent. Average revenue per user was higher at Rs 145 per subscriber per month compared with Rs 140.3 in the preceding quarter. Jio Platforms, which houses RIL’s telecom and other digital services business, saw revenue from operations rising 7.2 per cent over the first quarter to Rs 18,496 crore.
Retail show Reliance Retail — the other consumer facing business of the group — reported a 13.77 per cent fall in its pre-tax profit to Rs 2,009 crore for the quarter.  
The segment had posted a pre-tax profit of Rs 2,330 crore in the July-September quarter a year ago. Revenue from the organised retail segment during the quarter was at Rs 39,199 crore, down 13.77 per cent against Rs 41,223 crore in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. Traditional business RIL’s traditional business put in a mixed show with petrochemicals witnessing a sequential growth of 18 per cent in revenues at Rs 29,665 crore, though on a year-on-year basis it saw a drop of 23 per cent. However, the refining & marketing business was a let down with gross refining margins coming in lower at $5.7 per barrel against $6.3 per barrel in the previous quarter and $9.3 per barrel in the same period of last year. Turnover from this segment also plunged to Rs 62,154 crore against Rs 97,229 crore in the year ago period. “We delivered a strong overall operational and financial performance compared with the previous quarter with a recovery,” said chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani. Fibre investment Reliance Industries on Friday brought in investors for its fibre undertaking. Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) and Saudi Arabia’s The Public Investment Fund (PIF) will be investing around $1 billion in this business. Reliance Jio had earlier transferred the control of its optical fibre and tower undertakings to two Sebi registered infrastructure Investment Trusts. Brookfield Infrastructure and its institutional partners had invested Rs 25,215 crore by subscribing to units of the tower trust. RIL on Friday said in a presentation that ADIA and PIF have purchased units of the fibre trust for Rs 3,779 crore each. Observers do not rule out the possibility of RIL bringing in more investors in the fibre undertaking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
