01-06-2021||Opinion||Pakistan paradox: promising a peace it cannot deliver ||Hamid Mir, Pakistan’s popular talk show host didn’t mince his words after yet another journalist was beaten up by goons. But woven into the biting diatribe against the army’s efforts to browbeat the press was an additional searing critique of the Establishment’s hush-hush outreach to India. Left unsaid was the media’s scepticism over the manner in which Pakistan’s army and intelligence services arrogate to themselves, the right to ‘reset’ Pakistan at a time of their own choosing, while the effete civilian leadership has no choice but to play along. Delhi remained silent after the UAE envoy to Washington, Yousuf Al Otaiba openly talked about facilitating the December 2020 meeting in the Emirati city of Dubai, that led to the February cease-fire on the Line of Control; Implicit in that deafening silence is that Delhi may not have gone willingly. Pakistan, on the other hand, has everything to gain by playing along with the Gulf leaders, and the US, whose sole focus these last two years has been getting its last remaining soldiers out of Afghanistan. It is angling for the ultimate prize – a return to its former status as Washington’s pre-eminent ally in the region. Pakistan’s canny army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa who is driving the initiative has used every opportunity to reach out to arch-rival India and Afghanistan, countries. He smartly let out that the Dubai meeting was between his controversial top aide, the ISI chief Lt. Gen Faiz Hameed and Ajit Doval, India’s National Security Adviser – the two men at the top of the India-Pakistan strategic pecking order – to a select group of invitees at a six-hour Iftar in late April, knowing full well that it would be the talk of the town. The General didn’t stop there. He urged the group to go out and build a consensus on the need to make peace with India, saying he would like to be given a chance to explain ‘Pulwama’ –the 2019 suicide bomb attack on an Indian Army convoy that killed 40 soldiers -  personally to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The General, who first reached out to India by offering to open the Kartarpur Corridor, setting cameras clicking when he hugged Indian cricketer turned politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, told his audience that he felt the time for an India initiative was right. Delhi, faced with a two-front war with Pakistan in the west, and a newly aggressive China in the northern reaches, would be ready to meet Pakistan half-way, he said. Significantly, aides in the room let on that both sides were examining modalities - and concessions - on the main sticking point of Kashmir. On Sunday, in a clear about turn to show that both the ‘Deep State’ and the elected civilian leadership were on the same page, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan who has blown hot and cold (alongside his foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi,) until now, finally fell in line. He said Pakistan was ready to restart talks with India, provided it comes up with a roadmap on restoring the previous status of Jammu and Kashmir. Imran, who snapped ties with India, after Modi integrated Jammu & Kashmir into the Indian Union as a truncated Union Territory on August 5, 2019, by scrapping Article 370 and Article 35a, was signalling that he did not expect India to restore J&K’s status, before talks could begin, as he had insisted before. This is a major step, particularly as he raised the possibility of resuming trade with India, which he had baulked at only a few weeks ago. And in music to Washington’s ears, Imran said Pakistan was no longer looking for ‘strategic depth’ in Afghanistan, a reference to Pakistan’s  strategy of trying to take over its western neighbour. India, Pakistan and Afghanistan are clearly being nudged and prodded to mend fences by the US and its Gulf Arab allies. But for India, peace comes at a price. What does India gain by doing a deal with the ‘unelected invisibles,’ who can switch the jihadi switch on and off at will? Should Delhi – and Washington – be comforted by the head of Pakistan’s Army amplifying the eponymous Bajwa Doctrine, to ‘reset’ Pakistan, "divest the country of the terror tag," of being the nursery of jihad that preyed on its neighbours, and reinvent itself as a “normal” state. Can the general be taken at his word? It’s clear that  Bajwa is driven by the need to show that Pakistan is changing and will embrace its old role as Washington’s trusted partner in the region, even offering the use of Pakistan’s military bases to the United States, which is seeking to keep a token presence in the region as it exits the Afghanistan-Pakistan theatre after 20 long years. Both, the India peace offer that saw both sides announce a simultaneous cease-fire on the Line of Control in February, and the balancing act that Pakistan is now attempting in wooing Washington while trying not to alienate ‘iron brother’ Beijing is the brainchild of the Bajwa-Hameed duo. The appointment of Moeed Yusuf as the National Security Advisor, who has worked in Washington and knows his way around the corridors of power there, and is a favoured protégé of the military-intelligence cabal that calls the shots in Islamabad, was a further sign of the Army’s moving yet another pawn into place. But if the generals believe they will be able to control all their pieces in this elaborate chessboard, they may have to think again. Moeed had little answer when in a meeting with his American counterpart, Jake Sullivan, in Geneva, he was called out on Pakistan’s continuing destabilisation of Afghanistan. Sullivan, like Biden, is an old Af-Pak hand, and sees through Pakistan, playing both rogue and policeman. Pakistan has good reason to make peace.  It needs to urgently rebuild its bankrupt economy and scale down crippling military expenditure. Financial mentors Saudi Arabia and the UAE are back fighting in Pakistan’s corner. But for a free a flow of funds from the IMF and World Bank, Pakistan must be taken off the Financial Action Task Force grey list by proving it does not support terror. So far, Bajwa has stopped all infiltration across the LoC, but has done little to bring the mastermind behind the Mumbai 26/11 atttack, or Uri, and certainly not Pulwama, to book.  India would be doing itself no favours by backing off. The bigger question however is how far Modi is willing to go to make peace with Pakistan, and whether this will involve revisiting the status of J&K? An Indian insider said integrating J&K into the Indian Union was mainly done to shut down former US President Donald Trump's repeated offers to mediate. But, keen to win favour with Biden and facing criticism from US Democrats for jailing human rights activists, the government’s rabid Hindutva and anti-minority stance, and incarceration of political leaders in J&K, Delhi has been forced to change tack. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s recent visit to the U.S. which wasn’t exactly a love fest, drove home the message that while India is vital in countering China, it’s rivalry with Islamabad cannot impact the United States’ Pakistan policy. In return for cooperation, the Pakistan Army chief wants the US to pressure India to step back and accept Pakistan’s primacy in the Afghanistan endgame.  That’s what he’s been driving home to the US Special envoy on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad and UK chief of defence staff Sir Nicholas Carter. Knowing that with Pakistan under greater international scrutiny, he can no longer use its leverage over the Afghan Taliban and Kashmiri militants to continue the destabilisation of Afghanistan and India, Bajwa has claimed a complete U-turn and publicly pressured the Taliban’s top leadership to participate in talks with Kabul’s Ashraf Ghani government. But the huge spike in violence in Afghanistan in recent weeks must raise questions over the Pakistan Army’s control of the Haqqani Network and Taliban, run through the Quetta, Miramshah and Peshawar Shura. Within Pakistan’s own borders too, the army has to contend with Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan and other Taliban affiliates. The TTP exploded a car bomb outside a hotel in Quetta, when the Chinese top envoy was visiting the Baloch capital. It’s but natural, that there is scepticism in Kabul on what the US-UK brokered Afghan-Pakistan peace accord will entail. But what makes Modi’s inner circle believe the Pakistan Army chief, who speaks of forging a “strategic re-set of ties with India”, is the right man to do business with?  At the April 23 dinner Bajwa did say that India and Pakistan must “bury the past, resolve the Kashmir dispute through peaceful means,” with his aides’ adding that while Islamabad was still upset over India unilaterally changing the special status of J&K, it may not be averse to accepting the revocation of Article 370, but not 35/A, as that invited changes to the demography of the state. Big talk. Will India acquiesce to the big ask - when and if Islamabad declares Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, Gilgit and Baltistan as Pakistan’s fifth province? Bajwa’s aides, interestingly, claim that India, in a major confidence-building measure has already reduced troop strength on the LoC. High-level Indian Army sources insist the three strike corps are very much in place. Washington insiders say they are pushing for incremental next steps - a Doval-Yusuf face-to-face, resumption of diplomatic ties, reconvening the South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation as the backdrop for an India-Pakistan summit. The 2016 SAARC meet which Pakistan was set to host, was scrapped after Delhi, irate at the Uri terror attack, refused to attend. But can Modi, weakened by his mishandling of the pandemic and several electoral setbacks, deliver? Agreeing to talk to Pakistan, under pressure is one thing. But, agreeing to cede ground on Kashmir? That may be far harder to sell to the bhakts. The received wisdom has always been that only the powerful Pakistan army and the right-wing BJP can arrive at an India-Pakistan accord. In the past that hope has never been turned into reality. Or is that what Modi's banking on? Are the leaders on both sides only making the right noises with no real intention of arriving at a permanent solution? (The writer is a foreign policy analyst and author of The Assassination of Rajiv Gandhi)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
01-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Courtly view||It is disconcerting when a ruling on alleged sexual assault focuses on the behaviour and habits of the complainant. It is a step backward, as though reforms in the laws against sexual assault never happened. Beginning with the Criminal Law (Second Amendment) Act, 1983, evolved after a prolonged struggle by activists after the judgments on the Mathura rape case of 1972, reforms continue till the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013. That old problems still bedevil sexual assault cases was made clear in the judgment of the Mapusa district and sessions court in Goa that acquitted the former editor-in-chief of Tehelka of sexual assault alleged by a co-worker in 2013. The acquittal was based partly on the court’s finding that the police had failed to build a convincing case. But the disconcerting part of its reasoning was revealed in the reported statement in the judgment that the complainant did not demonstrate trauma or tearfulness — she did not ‘behave’ like a sexually assaulted woman. A rape survivor has no normative behaviour; it is just a stubborn notion that no law or campaign has been able to remove fully. The argument here is similar to one in the Mathura judgment: the woman did not scream or cry. Besides, her clothes were not torn. Where, then, was proof of resistance? The idea of submission being consent is dangerous. Yet the Goa sessions court acknowledged that the accused was powerful and could have dominance or control over his accuser. This is fundamental to sexual harassment in the workplace. It has been repeatedly pointed out that the clothes of the complainant — reportedly described in detail in the Goa judgment — or facts such as her relationships with men, or habits such as smoking or drinking or ‘flirting’, are irrelevant to her accusation. The Supreme Court made this clear in a 1996 ruling. A workplace relationship is especially complicated: that the complainant phoned her alleged attacker after the event may not have a simple explanation. The position of social and professional power that an accused occupies cannot be ignored when scrutinizing ‘glaring’ inconsistencies in a complainant’s testimony. Irrespective of the direction the case takes on appeal, it cannot be denied that making the habits, appearance and behaviour of the survivor central to the case sets an unfortunate precedent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Opinion||Endless horror: Yaas and Covid ravaged Odisha||Sir — As if battling the devastating second wave of Covid-19 was not enough, the Odisha government now has to deal with the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas, which battered parts of the state last week (“After the storm”, May 28). The intensity of the cyclone was such that more than half a million people had to be evacuated to cyclone centres and scores of villages were inundated by the tidal surge. Both the chief minister of Odisha, Naveen Patnaik, and the prime minister, Narendra Modi, have undertaken aerial surveys of the affected zones and a review meeting between the Centre and the coastal states has been held to assess the damage. The geographical location of Odisha makes it an easy target for tropical cyclones. It was left in tatters when Fani pummelled the coastal districts in 2019. Last year, it battled Amphan and, now, this year, Yaas has left devastation in its wake. Now the immediate task before the government is to undertake post-cyclone reconstruction in the midst of a raging pandemic. The cyclone has not only led to an immediate loss of life and property, but has also further exposed the administration, mainly relief and rescue workers, to the coronavirus. In spite of imposing a statewide lockdown from May 5, Odisha is yet to see any significant improvement in the situation. Although the lockdown period has since been extended, it seems unlikely that the Covid situation in the state will improve anytime soon. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The cyclone, Yaas, which made landfall on the country’s east coast last week, left a trail of destruction in Odisha and West Bengal. According to initial estimates, hundreds of villages and towns were inundated, lakhs of homes destroyed, property washed away or lost and infrastructure ruined. Moreover, with thousands of trees uprooted, the impact of Yaas on the ecology is bound to be severe as well. However, the low death toll suggests that the state governments were effective in their efforts to minimize the loss of lives. Lakhs of people were evacuated from their homes and housed in shelters. Considering the severity of the storm and the population density in the affected areas, it seems that the governments did the best they possibly could. Successive disastrous cyclones are a reminder that India will now have to step up its preparation for natural calamities. According to the report, State of the Global Climate 2020, the cyclone, Amphan, that hit Bengal in May last year, was the costliest cyclone on record for the North Indian Ocean, amounting to economic losses of $14 billion. Around 2.4 million people were displaced in the aftermath of Amphan. The people of the country cannot be expected to recover from such massive losses on a yearly basis. The Centre and the states must come together and devise a comprehensive plan that would put in place certain anticipatory measures so that losses can be minimized in case of natural calamities. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — We often forget that natural calamities like cyclones, which result in the massive felling of trees, are just as disastrous for animals as they are for people. Spring is nesting season for birds, and summer storms and cyclones are calamitous for the nesting and the young. While there is little that can truly be done to save the birds, it is time we at least recognize that a range of losses are incurred by other species as well during a cyclonic storm. Sourav Malik,South 24 Parganas Bleak future Sir — For years, a rising global population had been a matter of concern, but now, as we move towards a population bust, the future seems just as bleak. While some nations continue to see their population rise, most countries, including Italy and South Korea, have witnessed a sharp drop in their fertility rates. Although a decrease in population will ease pressure on resources, it will also result in a decline in the working age population, thus putting an unprecedented strain on the economy. As the ramifications of a bust begin to appear, countries must now prepare for a different kind of calamity. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: It’s itching||Could it be that India is experiencing the first signs of the proverbial seven-year itch with the Narendra Modi government? What else can explain the apparent nervousness in the rank and file of the Bharatiya Janata Party after completing its seventh year in power? There are, of course, several reasons for the public disenchantment. The death and devastation caused by the second wave of the coronavirus — Mr Modi had declared victory over the virus rather prematurely — lie at the heart of this collective anger. The Centre’s apathy and unpreparedness — India continues to struggle for vaccines, oxygen, hospital accommodation and, in its hinterland, for quality healthcare — may have eroded the prime minister’s popularity considerably. Mr Modi’s focus on the ‘ten-fold’ rise in India’s oxygen production in his latest Mann ki Baat episode is unlikely to improve his popularity ratings even though it must be admitted that none of his political rivals can hope to replace him just yet. The debacle in healthcare has been matched by a precipitous slide in the economy. The gross domestic product growth has shrunk dangerously; unemployment is sky-high; the informal sector decimated. The autonomy of India’s institutions, the vibrancy of its democracy, the glue of social cohesion — the hallmarks of the foundational idea of India — are under unprecedented threat. None of this would have bothered India’s ruling regime had it not been for the spreading stain on Mr Modi’s Teflon-tinted image. In spite of the best diversionary tactics employed by the prime minister and his minders — the pliant media are among them — there is a growing perception that Mr Modi has failed in his responsibilities. This could be a matter of worry for the BJP because the party has always managed to rely on Mr Modi’s image to tide over such other disastrous experiments as demonetization. This over-reliance on Mr Modi’s charisma on the part of the BJP is a testament to the increasing centralization within the party. A dip in the prime minister’s public endorsement — the man and the party are now one — could lead to a dip in the BJP’s electoral fortunes. The results of the rural polls in Uttar Pradesh and the debacle in Bengal may herald ominous signs. The other worry would be a hostile middle class that has been one of the BJP’s staunchest allies. If the Opposition can mobilize the middle class along with other disgruntled communities — farmers, industrial and informal workers and influential caste groups — Mr Modi could well be looking at a rather rough road ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Opinion||The road ahead for Assam||After much speculation over who would be Assam’s new chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma finally took charge as the fifteenth chief minister of the state. It is no secret that Sarma has been restive for over a decade to serve the people of Assam as chief minister. Now, he must deliver. Unlike his predecessor, Sarma is a polarizing figure. Yet he is also known to be efficient, articulate, and influential within the Bharatiya Janata Party in the Northeast. What is the mann ki baat of the ordinary Assamese people that Sarma must listen to? As a fellow Assamese, a native of Majuli river island — the constituency of Sarma’s predecessor, Sarbananda Sonowal — and a researcher on Assam’s socio-environmental issues, I want to draw the new government’s attention to some of the critical issues facing the state. One of the biggest crises confronting Assam is the twin disaster of flood and riverbank erosion. Assam’s politicians (and some activists) may be obsessed with ‘Bangladeshis’, but the real force that is changing the shape and size of the state is riverbank erosion, turning thousands of families homeless every year. Between 1954 and 2012, the Brahmaputra Valley lost about 7.4 per cent of its total landmass — roughly 3,860 square kilometres — to riverbank erosion. This is around 80 sq km of land lost annually. On top of it, floods wreak havoc every year, sometimes in multiple waves in a year. It is important to note that flood and erosion are part of the natural landscape in Assam. But they have become disastrous on account of human interventions. It is high time that the government moves beyond technocratic fixes, such as building embankments, spurs, and cognate infrastructures. Numerous studies from around the world have now shown that embankments and other such hydraulic interventions have turned the rivers far more volatile, thereby worsening flood, erosion and other such disasters. Governments must be more imaginative in water governance and river management in particular. There is a lack of adequate understanding of the biophysical and social processes of the Brahmaputra and its tributaries. The Assam government must invite and support research projects on the vast waterscapes of Assam. To explore more lasting solutions to the crises of flood and erosion, the government must engage with scholars, technocrats, and activists and incorporate both science and local traditional knowledge. Furthermore, the conversation needs to shift from ‘flood control’ to ‘living with flood’, which will necessitate not just a reorientation of policies but also spatial reimaginings. In the run-up to the recent assembly election, the home minister, Amit Shah, said, “We want to make Assam flood free... Modiji wants to make Assam flood free.” Nothing can be more unscientific and unsustainable than any attempt to make Assam flood-free. Floods and the Brahmaputra valley landscape are co-constitutive. We must acknowledge that and find and revive ways of living with flood (and erosion) intelligently. Second, rural Assam needs urgent attention and thoughtful interventions. The Assamese farmers are one of the most disadvantaged agrarian populations in India. They are crying for government support in the form of capital, innovation, and better access to market. Rural Assam is also haunted by steady outmigration of its youth to big cities in search of employment. ‘Rural development’ needs a new approach, a new direction. It is not simply about building roads and bridges, nor is it about the proper implementation of a few employment-generation schemes. Given the state of the rural economy in Assam, it calls for massive investments in asset creation and a holistic approach to rural livelihoods. Livelihoods are much more than income; they are meaning-making endeavours in people’s lives. They are a cultural enterprise. Again, in this realm, the Assam government would do well to involve scholars and practitioners in the field of rural development and livelihoods and not leave the matter to the bureaucrats alone. Third, despite representing a party that champions Hindu majoritarianism, the new government must always remember Bhupen Hazarika’s immortal lines: “Mahabahu Brahmaputra mahamilonor tirtha... (O mighty Brahmaputra, the pilgrimage of great confluence...)” As Hazarika reminded us, Assam has been a land of assimilation for centuries. It is the land of Sankardev and Azan Faqir, Bishnu Rabha and Jyoti Prasad Agarwala. In the recent past, the communal rhetoric around the National Register of Citizens seems to have overshadowed, if not threatened, Assam’s glorious past and its cultural heritage. A deeply divisive communal rhetoric was also deployed by the BJP in the run-up to the election. The new government must protect and nurture Assam’s rich and unique social fabric and not tamper with it. This brings me to the final point. And that is about the space for dissent. During the recent election campaign, Sarma openly said, “We always want good and strong opposition for it is good for democracy...” I hope he meant it sincerely. The BJP, unfortunately, does not have a good track record of allowing dissent, as evidenced by the arrest of numerous activists and student leaders around the country since 2014. In Assam too, the last government was hard on its critics — Akhil Gogoi’s prolonged imprisonment is a case in point. Let us hope that Sarma will live up to his word and create spaces for constructive criticism and dissent. Let there be many more Akhil Gogois and Krishak Mukti Sangram Samitis. That will strengthen, not weaken, the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
01-06-2021||Opinion||Blood sport||On February 23, 2021, a report in The Guardian stated that more than 6,500 migrant workers from India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have died in Qatar since it won the right to host the World Cup 10 years ago — a direct consequence of abuse and exploitation of migrant workers, including ‘heat stress’ as reported by the United Nations in 2019. This figure was compiled through data made available by the governments of these countries. While these 6,500 deaths cannot be ascribed directly to the building sites, a significant proportion of migrant workers were in the country because of the approaching World Cup. The total number of casualties linked to the upcoming 2022 World Cup is, of course, higher as it does not include people from other countries, such as the Philippines. The vast majority of these deaths are filed as ‘natural’ since no autopsy is provided. As The Guardian and Amnesty International pointed out, there is a distinct lack of transparency in recording deaths in Qatar. In the wake of these revelations, before their qualifying game against Gibraltar, the football players of Norway sported T-shirts defending human rights. German players followed suit before their game against Iceland on March 25, as well as the national teams of Denmark and the Netherlands. Are these the first signs of a possible boycott of the World Cup? Although Norway may not qualify, the interesting feature of this movement is that it has been initiated by the players themselves. There have been numerous attempts — some have been successful — to boycott mega events such as the World Cup or the Olympic Games. Indeed, these events, which generate global media exposure, constitute an echo chamber equally for activists and for the organizing country or city. They also provide authoritarian regimes or dictatorships with an opportunity to whitewash their crimes and build international goodwill. Two years after the junta seized power in Argentina, it organized the 1978 World Cup. Attempts to initiate a boycott failed. In France, a committee for the boycott of the World Cup was launched, hoping to persuade the French national team as well as other European teams not to participate in a tournament, which was held under a ruthless military junta — the River Plate stadium, where the final was played, was one kilometre away from the largest torture centre of the dictatorship. Although the boycott was unsuccessful, the awareness for the crimes of the junta was certainly enhanced by the European campaign. More significantly, as shown by the social anthropologist, Eduardo P. Archetti, Argentina later developed ambivalent feelings towards the event, torn between the joy of a country obsessed with football having won the greatest prize of all and the anguish generated by the torture and the death of about 30,000 of its citizens. The most resounding failure of boycott in sports is provided by the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games. Activist groups, particularly in the United States of America, had been advocating a boycott of the Games, notably in opposition to the anti-Jewish laws. But the president of the International Olympic Committee, Henri de Baillet-Latour, with support from the president of the American Olympic Committee, Avery Brundage, managed to uphold the idea that the Games should be left independent of politics. Token gestures were proffered on both sides (there was one half-Jewish athlete in the German team, while Jewish athletes or athletes of colour were made officially welcome, even as they were closely monitored by the German police). In 1934, the US confirmed its participation in the Games, which probably prevented other nations from boycotting them. The only gestures of dissent were taken at individual level. The staging of alternative Games, first in Barcelona and, then, in New York, flopped. While a boycott by the main nations would have prevented Hitler from using the Games as a powerful propaganda platform, the decision was in keeping with the general policy of appeasement towards Nazi Germany. More recently, a boycott of the 2014 Sochi games had been advocated to oppose Russia’s anti-gay legislation, which was in contradiction of the Olympic Charter — it states the incompatibility of any form of discrimination with membership of the Olympic movement. While no boycott took place, some athletes opted for shows of dissent. Nor was this the only issue connected with the Sochi Olympics — it is likely that hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Uzbek workers died on Olympic construction sites. On the other hand, the two successful boycotts of the Games, Moscow 1980 and Los Angeles 1984, were prompted by a strong political stance taken by the American administration. The 1980 Games were boycotted by 62 nations, officially to oppose the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, as well as to look back at the participation in the 1936 Games as a mistake. But the US administration had been contemplating a boycott well before the invasion of Afghanistan as a way of addressing human rights issues in the USSR. Similarly, the boycott of the 1984 Games by the Soviet bloc countries was brought about by the fear, played up by the Reagan administration, that the US would help athletes defect to the West. So why do boycotts fail? The first reason is the alleged ‘ignorance’ of the political situation in a given country. Even football players who went on to have a political career, such as the Argentinian, Ricardo Villa, claimed not to have known about the reality of torture and repression in the country at the time of the 1978 World Cup. This connects with the larger argument, heralded by many Olympic officials following the founder of the Olympian movement, Pierre de Coubertin, of the apolitical nature of the Olympic Games and of sports in general. This enduring myth suggests that sports are ahistorical, universal, and the purveyors of peace and fair play. Ignoring all of the national, economic, and, indeed, political interests involved in the organization of and participation in global sporting events, the leaders of international sports tend to repeat the mantra that politics and sports do not mix. The neutral dimension of sports is systematically put forward, under different forms, which may include arguments in favour of ‘opening up’ political regimes thanks to sporting events, or invoking Olympic values and ideals in the face of political protests. In the absence of strong national leadership on the issue of boycott, these arguments tend to win the day. Where does this leave the prospect of a possible boycott of the Qatar World Cup? From the beginning, Qatar’s bid has given rise to grave concerns. The surprising awarding of the most important football competition to a country with no footballing history and an indifferent national team, customary accusations of sleaze and corruption in the awarding of the tournament, the possibility that a summer competition could be played in a country with temperatures in the high 40s, the ecological disaster of building air-conditioned stadiums (not to mention a new airport, roads, hotels, and a new city, which will host the World Cup final), and the allegations of support of extremist groups in the region are now compounded by the tragic human costs of building the World Cup facilities. Will the fact that the threat of a boycott originates from the players themselves, or that the very organization of the competition is tainted with the blood of the workers, bring a successful outcome for the boycott? In the absence of a strong political stance, such as that of the US at the end of the Cold War, this possibility is, sadly, doubtful. Alexis Tadié is professor of English Literature at Sorbonne University, Paris||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
