02-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Firm links||Silence seems to have prevailed for a while on the phenomenon of dowry deaths. It is almost as though India takes them for granted — a United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime report showed that in 2018 dowry deaths accounted for 40 to 50 per cent of women’s murders in India every year. The Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, heading a three-judge bench, left no doubt as to the scale of the crime when he indicated how Section 304B of the Indian Penal Code should be applied against those culpable in such deaths. The court’s reported remarks suggested that the legislative intent to curb a long-standing evil cannot be achieved by a literal or straitjacketed interpretation of the law. It addressed a crucial ambiguity in the phrasing of the section, which refers to the unnatural death of a woman within seven years of marriage following cruelty or harassment for dowry soon before her death. Since ‘soon before’ is vague, the tendency is to read it as ‘immediately before’, thus creating a loophole for the guilty. The CJI’s bench, while acknowledging that rigorous interpretation is needed when dealing with crime, pointed out that it becomes absurd in cases of dowry death and defeats the spirit of the legislation. Instead, courts must exercise their discretion in interpreting the phrase with the various manifestations of harassment in mind and establish a ‘proximate and live’ link between cruelty and its fatal effect. This is the Supreme Court’s most important clarification. The rigour would lie in the unbroken chain of cause and effect. Alongside other clarifications, the bench also emphasized the importance of natural justice in relation to the accused husband and members of his family. The law should be balanced in its application. The court deplored the cursory and casual manner of trial courts in questioning the accused to bring out their defence in response to incriminatory material. This was part of the justice process, without which the husband and other relatives by marriage can be falsely implicated. The court advised caution, which is not only relevant for the sake of justice but also because the law and its associated processes lose credibility by misapplication. If the law is thus blunted, the ultimate sufferers are women while the guilty stand to gain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Opinion||Matter of faith: Corona devi||Sir — Reeling from the pandemic, people everywhere are looking for a ray of hope. Many find it in a vaccine, others have to resort to faith. A temple in Coimbatore, which has set up idols of ‘Corona devi’, is an example. Devotees pray to this goddess to save them from the virus. People should be free to seek solace wherever they find it, but the fact that they now have to bank solely on faith points to a failure in governance. For instance, in spite of all the efforts of medical professionals, many Indians have not been able to get vaccinated. If people’s faith in modern science is to be retained, the Centre must focus on building a stronger healthcare system. Soumi Mahapatra,Howrah Painful memory Sir — The truth about the atrocities unleashed by the colonial white settlers in Canada upon indigenous students came to light when a mass grave containing the remains of 215 children was discovered at the site of the Kamloops Indian Residential School by a specialist using ground penetrating radar (“Remains of 215 kids found in Canada”, May 30). There were 130 such schools in Canada where indigenous children were forcibly separated from their families and tortured in the name of education and assimilation into Canadian society. They were denied food and even killed, clearly with a motive to extirpate the aboriginal race. Forensic investigations are yet to ascertain the exact date of the incident. Through the ages, people of the same country have been pitted against one another across the world. Many have been denied the right to live in society and killed for merely hailing from aboriginal communities. It is unfortunate that the indigenous people were rendered helpless before the white settlers who used to lord over them by means of their wealth, education and political power, leaving no scope for equal opportunity. Any effort on their part to revolt against injustice was put down by the ruling class. From the 19th century until the 1970s, more than 1,50,000 children were required to attend State-run Christian schools in Canada. They were forced to convert to Christianity and not allowed to speak their native languages. Many were verbally, physically and sexually abused, and up to 6,000 are said to have been killed. The last one of these schools stopped functioning in 1996. Most would agree that the genocidal customs practised in the residential schools in colonial Canada comprised a disgraceful chapter in modern history. Few, however, feel outraged by the history of similar, caste-based atrocities in India. In this country, people from the so-called lower castes have been victims of injustice and oppression for thousands of years. The days of such horrors in Canada may be gone, but the abolition of the Indian caste system remains a far cry. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — The incident uncovered at the site of the Kamloops Indian Residential School sent shock waves across the world. This school in British Colombia was closed in 1978. The report on the incident documents a number of instances of physical abuse, rape, malnutrition and other atrocities suffered by many of the 1,50,000 children who attended the schools, typically run by Christian churches on behalf of Ottawa from the 1840s to the 1990s. More than 4,100 students have died in such residential schools. At the Kamloops school, some of the 215 children whose remains have been found were three years old. This is, as the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, put it, a heartbreaking discovery. It is truly “a painful reminder of that dark and shameful chapter” of the country’s history. Aman Raghuvanshi,Ujjain Sir — The discovery of the mass grave of indigenous children in Canada is a horrifying reminder of colonial atrocities. However, racial discrimination or violence is far from an issue of the past — the native tribes of North America continue to suffer even today. Taking definitive action to afford equal opportunities to them is the only way to honour the memory of the victims whose bodies have been found. Tirtha Banerjee,Calcutta Grave mistake Sir — In a shocking violation of norms laid down under the coronavirus prevention programme, at least 20 residents of Uttar Pradesh’s Siddharthnagar district were reportedly administered a cocktail of two different Covid-19 vaccines — a group of villagers at a primary health centre were given Covishield for the first dose and Covaxin for the second. The rules strictly forbid the mixing of vaccines even though its impact is still under research. Admitting negligence, the chief medical officer of Siddharthnagar said that it was a clear deviation from norms. A thorough probe must be conducted and the guilty must be taken to task. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Bitter fruit||Collaboration between the Centre and the states is an endangered species in this federal republic. That may not be a testament to the strength of New India’s federal architecture. But an adversarial Centre — this is yet another legacy of the Narendra Modi regime — cannot be expected to be mindful of the dangerous consequences of the weakening of federalism. There is another — equally worrying — aspect to the slugfest between the Centre and states, especially those that are ruled by Opposition parties. Senior administrative officials in the bureaucracy suffer needlessly as a result of this political tug-of-war. The indignities heaped upon Alapan Bandyopadhyay by the Centre is a case in point. The chief minister of Bengal had written to the prime minister, seeking an extension of Mr Bandyopadhyay’s term as state chief secretary; Mamata Banerjee’s request had been granted. Yet, weeks later, in an unprecedented step, the Centre revoked its decision, asking the state to relieve the then chief secretary and directing Mr Bandyopadhyay to report to the capital. Ms Banerjee’s request to rescind the order was not granted, resulting in Mr Bandyopadhyay rebuffing the Central directive, retiring from service, and opting to serve the Bengal administration in a special capacity. The immediate spark to the fiery flame may be attributed to Ms Banerjee’s decision not to attend a meeting on Cyclone Yaas that was presided by Mr Modi. But at the heart of the matter lie the bitter, fractious ties between the Bharatiya Janata Party — now Bengal’s principal Opposition — and the ruling Trinamul Congress. Mr Bandyopadhyay’s ignominy needs to be read in the context of the continuous attempts by the BJP — ever the sore loser — to needle Ms Banerjee’s government that was returned to power with a massive mandate. Mr Bandyopadhyay has been served a show-cause notice, but it seems that much like the assembly polls, this round, too, has gone in Ms Banerjee’s favour. Her unstinted support for an embattled public servant would certainly elicit a positive response from the bureaucratic fraternity, encouraging it to engage with her government’s welfare measures with greater vigour. There could be political costs for the BJP too. Bengal has a long tradition of nursing grudges — real and imagined — against an uncaring Centre. Mr Bandyopadhyay’s treatment by a bullish Centre would enable Ms Banerjee to portray Mr Modi and his government as adversarial towards the state and its personnel. The state BJP is apparently worried about this. This episode, by no means, would end the feuding. The real winner is partisan politics with the federal ethos emerging as the loser.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Opinion||Testing times for Mr Modi||The fourth and the first virtual edition of ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ — Narendra Modi’s interaction with students, teachers and parents ahead of the board examination season — attracted sharp criticism from the Opposition. The interaction took place even as India was grappling with acute shortages in beds, oxygen and vaccines during the second wave of Covid-19. ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’, Modi’s annual interaction with students aged 16-18 that addresses various aspects of student life, especially exam-related stress, seems to be a carefully crafted strategy to gain currency among young/first-time voters. But there is a paradox in Modi’s outreach towards this constituency that cannot be overlooked. Modi’s animosity towards India’s first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, and for everything that the latter stood for is not unknown. Ironically, Modi, a consistent and bitter critic of Nehru, seems keen on emulating Nehru’s image to build a brand for himself. Neither has Modi been reluctant to take a leaf or two out of Nehru’s book. His interactions with students are a case in point. The timing of the exercise — India is in the throes of a deadly second wave of the coronavirus — has reinforced the view that Modi and his government are perennially in campaign mode and have no qualms about turning a blind eye to governance. It also makes for bad optics for a government that is a past master in political optics. Then what explains the prime minister’s gamble of holding ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ at a time when it could become cannon fodder for the Opposition? To understand the political rationale behind the move, we have to revisit the electoral verdicts of 2014 and 2019. In 2014, in a young and restless India growing increasingly cynical of its politicians, especially those in power, Modi’s ability to connect with the hopes and the aspirations of the young, especially those of first-time voters, had powered his maiden victory. The Bharatiya Janata Party got twice as many votes as the Congress among first-time voters. It is an undisputed fact that young voters played a pivotal role in the twin victories of the BJP in 2014 and in 2019. As a scam tainted UPA-II government was on its last leg, Modi appeared on the national stage as ‘the right man at the right time with the right rhetoric’, capturing the youth vote lock, stock and barrel. Seven years and two general election victories later, the BJP faces an imminent threat of the tide turning against it as discontent among the youth simmers in the wake of rising unemployment, the mishandling of the pandemic and the shambolic state of the economy. The electoral constituency of young voters is too big to be ignored. There were 133 million first-time voters in 2019. In 2024, Gen Z, a colloquial term used to refer to those born after 1996, would become a potent electoral force. According to a survey by the Centre for Policy Research, as many as 46 per cent of Gen Z respondents are worried about the current state of the economy. Gen Z voters were also reported to be most likely to disagree with the current regime’s contentious ideological projects such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens. Most of them (about 42 per cent) also disagreed with the clampdown on universities. Their views were in sharp contrast to those of older age groups that seem to be siding with the Modi regime. The BJP is slowly losing its sheen and novelty among India’s youth. Having reached adulthood during the Modi years, it is unlikely that Gen Z or the first-time voters of 2024 would buy the BJP’s theory of 60 years of Congress misrule and dynasty politics. This gives a huge opening for the Opposition. Realizing this, the Modi government appears to have adopted a two-pronged approach. To silence dissenting voices of students and young activists, the Modi government has adopted a heavy-handed approach by invoking sedition and the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The charges against a 21-year-old climate activist for sharing a ‘toolkit’ in support of the farm protests is symbolic of the brazenness with which the current dispensation plans to deal with the idealism of the politically informed young Indian. As for the ‘apolitical’ young Indian, the prime minister relies on such public relations initiatives as ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’. Whether this two-pronged strategy achieves success remains to be seen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
02-06-2021||Opinion||A disaster foretold||Last year, Rahim Shekh of Englishbazar, Malda, was hawking pineapples. Divya and Mounika picked cotton in a Telangana village. Chand of Saharanpur sold samosas by the roadside. A year earlier, they had all been at school. Such stories cruelly authenticate the prime minister’s claim to “link education with employability and entrepreneurial capability” to build an Atmanirbhar Bharat. Certainly these children have learnt self-reliance — by dropping out of school. It is thus entirely logical that the school education budget should be reduced by Rs 5,000 crore this year. The pandemic is driving more and more children out of school. Last year, the proportion of permanent drop-outs was estimated at 20 per cent — a slide back to 2004. The enrolment gap in primary schools had trebled. We can only guess the outcome of a second year of closures. Vulnerable groups and regions will lose out disproportionately. There will also be a serious learning deficit among those resuming school: countless children are waiting around learning nothing, and forgetting what they have learnt. Add to this the digital divide and its novel refinement — the digital coaching divide. Among the few service sectors to blossom during the pandemic is the online coaching industry. The Indian school system has always been bedevilled by the gulf between private schools for the affluent and State-run schools for the janata. We now have divisions within each category: in the first, between students taking parallel online courses and those not doing so; in the second, at bedrock level, between those with access to a digital device and those without. The pandemic has added some daunting new challenges to the old ones. It is the worst of times to launch the new National Education Policy. Perhaps its most exciting innovation is to reinvent anganwadis as full-fledged pre-primary schools for all of India’s children aged three to six. This could indeed be a game-changer, giving every child an opportunity only the affluent now enjoy. It calls for detailed pedagogic planning and heavy investment without impairing the crucial agenda of nutrition and healthcare. The latter function is more crucial than ever. Between 2014 and 2020, India’s position in the Global Hunger Index plummeted from 55th to 94th, below Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The proportion of malnourished children in anganwadis rose from 15 per cent in 2015 to 25 per cent in 2017. Unsurprisingly, stunting, wasting and low weight increased between 2015 and 2020 in 14 of the 17 states covered as yet by the last National Family Health Survey. The pandemic has exacerbated the problem. South Asia is one of two zones (the other being sub-Saharan Africa) with the greatest post-Covid threat of aggravated hunger. Yet the Saksham scheme, covering anganwadis and three other programmes, has suffered an overall budget cut of nearly   Rs 4,500 crore. Clearly, anganwadi reform will proceed sporadically, if at all. The gap between privileged and underprivileged children will widen incrementally. Beneath its pious precepts and feel-good rhetoric, the NEP is intrinsically fissiparous. It consigns some children to open schooling, a fallback for dropouts and child labourers. This — astonishingly — is said to lay “special emphasis on Socio-Economically Disadvantaged Groups”. In ashramshalas for tribal children, as in “all formats of alternative schooling” (invariably for disadvantaged children), reforms will come “in a phased manner” — that is, without urgency, where the need for urgency is greatest. This provision, absent in the draft, was added by bureaucrats in the drastically truncated final document. Generally “to make it easier... to build schools”, there will be “less emphasis on input and greater emphasis on output potential concerning desired learning outcomes”. Exploiting this escape clause, the State can skimp on funds at its whim, especially with marginal groups. Through these few unobtrusive sentences, the report releases the State from its duty under the Right to Education Act to “provide infrastructure including school building, teaching staff and learning equipment”; moreover, to ensure that children from a “weaker section [or] disadvantaged group are not discriminated against”. Anganwadis fall under the women and child development ministry, ashramshalas under tribal affairs. The new Early Childhood Care and Education centres, when they materialize, will be run jointly by four ministries. One shudders to think of the bureaucratic deadlocks and turf battles. Above all, who will staff these centres, and on what terms? It is proposed to retrain grossly underpaid anganwadi workers (formally volunteers) as teachers “through digital/distance mode” with “minimal disruption to their current work”, which comprises 28 functions under five heads with no fixed hours. One may reasonably ask whether this can do justice to the children in their charge. The architects of the NEP seem unaware that the problem exists. But predictably, they propose to dilute the workforce with new categories of ‘volunteers’. There is also a hair-raising proposal for ‘peer tutoring’ of one 6-to-8-year-old child by another in foundational skills like literacy and numeracy. The NEP’s vision might turn into a slow nightmare where India’s most vulnerable children lose out even more than now on both education and general well-being. Such short-changing might subvert another innovation, a new stress on vocational education. From middle school onward, all students will learn at least one vocation, “emphasizing the dignity of labour”: a laudable agenda, but we may recall the fate of its predecessor, the ‘work education’ programme. In urban, upper-class schools, this has become a farce that, if anything, further alienates privileged children from labour and its dignity. The actual result might be to underscore the subaltern status of vocational education. As it is, a student’s curricular journey overwhelmingly follows his/her class identity and economic standing. If the vocational path now opens up in middle school, children from labouring and artisanal backgrounds would be steered even more in that direction, irrespective of ability and aptitude. A mason’s son would still be a mason by default, a domestic worker’s daughter another such worker, instead of pursuing more adventurous ‘vocations’ as doctor, lawyer or research scientist. No flight of fantasy can conceive the opposite situation where a doctor’s daughter trains as a mason, or a lawyer’s son as a cleaner. The new education order, just like the old, might strangle at birth most of the talent to enrich our knowledge economy, reinforcing the dominance of certain classes, castes and communities, reinventing varnashram in a twenty-first-century avatar. Almost without thought, we are hurtling towards a future where we will have squandered our demographic dividend by neglecting the proper educational groundwork at the right time. There will be dire consequences for the economy and, no less, for social harmony and well-being. We were blind to the latent fury of the pandemic. Let us work to avoid this still greater disaster. Sukanta Chaudhuri is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
