03-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Winter is coming||Is this the dawn of a demographic nightmare? All over the world, countries are now confronting population stagnation and a fertility bust. Falling fertility rates — 83 nations comprising 46 per cent of the global population, including every single country in Europe, now have a replacement fertility rate below 2.1 births per woman — combined with the death and devastation caused by the pandemic threaten to upend how societies are organized. Demographers predict a ‘demographic winter’ wherein by the latter half of the century, or even earlier, the global population will enter a sustained decline for the first time. Arguably, a planet with fewer people could ease the pressure on resources and slow down the destructive impact of climate change. But the census announcements from China and the United States of America, which showed the slowest rates of population growth in decades, point to difficult adjustments ahead. In a world where the median age of the population would rise over time, with fewer young people available to work relative to the increasing number of retirees, wealth would be generated at a slower rate and poverty would grow. Those economic struggles would fuel social unrest and further discourage people from having children. To counter this looming crisis, Russia and Italy are offering financial incentives to improve fertility rates; China, in a radical u-turn, has instituted a three-child policy. In Japan, where adult diapers now outsell the ones for babies, municipalities are shrinking on account of falling populations. In Sweden, some cities have shifted resources from schools to elderly care. These strategies are undoubtedly a response to the changes in global demography. That bit is fairly evident. But what get obfuscated quite often are the tensions arising out of these transitions. For instance, a chasm seems to be opening up between individual choice and collective responsibility, between autonomy and altruism. Nation states are announcing incentives to increase birth rates at a time when young parents are increasingly unwilling to shoulder the responsibilities of large families on account of economic, social and climatic challenges. If history is any guide, individual choice usually wins: no country with a serious slowdown in population growth has managed to significantly raise its fertility rate even with the lure of lucre and social benefits. This insularity could mean greater strain on the ethics of collective responsibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
03-06-2021||Opinion||Endless fight: Alapan Bandyopadhyay vs Centre||Sir — The sudden recalling of the former chief secretary of West Bengal, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, after the Centre had granted the state’s request for the extension of his service for another three months in view of the pandemic, exposes the Union government’s utter lack of respect for the federal structure of the country (“Bitter fruit”, June 2). It is obvious that the decision was a knee-jerk reaction on the part of the Narendra Modi government, and points to a political vendetta. In a functioning federal democracy, the Centre does not impose arbitrary and unilateral decisions, such as the one taken in the case of Bandyopadhyay, on state governments. It is a pity that the continuing political acrimony between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Trinamul Congress has escalated to such an extent that senior bureaucrats are now being involved in the face-off. It is unfortunate that the government of West Bengal has to deal with an insensitive Centre at the time of an unprecedented health crisis. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It seems that the prime minister, Narendra Modi, is hell-bent on making the situation difficult for Mamata Banerjee. This time the Centre’s directive to the former West Bengal chief secretary to report to Delhi, weeks after his extension had been granted, came as a shock. Alapan Bandyopadhyay has since chosen to hand in his resignation and has decided to serve the chief minister of West Bengal in a special capacity. It is obvious to all that the move was motivated by the intention to weaken Banerjee’s government which is not only battling the coronavirus pandemic but is also in the midst of rehabilitating those affected by the Cyclone Yaas. Thus, Bandyopadhyay’s decision to refuse the Centre’s directive in favour of Banerjee must come as a rude shock to the Union government. It is shameful that the Centre sought to use a senior bureaucrat as a pawn in this tussle between itself and the state. There is no doubt that this move has displeased officials serving in the civil services. This misstep will cost the Modi government dearly in the near future. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — The resignation of the chief secretary of Bengal, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, and his subsequent appointment as chief adviser to Mamata Banerjee for a period of three years draws attention to the deteriorating condition between the Centre and the states. This episode further underlines how bitter political fights such as this one could dent an already weakened bureaucracy and hamper its functioning. It is the responsibility of the Centre and the states to uphold the federal structure enshrined in the Constitution and ensure that a consultative process is maintained. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Take note Sir — Bhaswati Chakravorty has rightly highlighted that the classroom is much more than just a space for textbooks and grading (“Crossed lines”, May 28). In schools, pupils learn in a systematic way under the physical guidance of teachers. Moreover, children learn crucial life lessons in their interactions with peers which shape them as well-rounded individuals. But it seems that the government does not agree with this notion and has continued to push for online teaching. It must recognize that education requires more than what can be taught through screens. Ghana Duarah,Duliajan, Assam Safety first Sir — Recently, Nestlé came under fire when an internal document revealed that a majority of its products failed to meet the ‘recognized definition of health’. Since then, the company has stated that it is working to update its health strategy to ensure that its products meet nutritional needs. This is, however, not the first time the company has failed to uphold food safety standards — in 2015, Maggi was banned in India after it tested positive for high lead content. Belated apologies mean little when it comes to people’s health. It is high time that Nestlé is held accountable for its missteps.
Rohan Mehta,
Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
03-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Under cover||There may be an admirable National Education Policy, but that seems to be no guarantee that the Narendra Modi-led government would bend over backwards to encourage education. Almost half of the Central universities in the country — 20 out of 45 — have been without regular vice-chancellors for months. These institutions are being run either by the outgoing vice-chancellors on extension or senior-most professors given temporary charge. Their powers are limited in any case — they cannot recruit staff, for instance — while they are unable to take decisive action when the pandemic is throwing up extraordinary problems of administration and the NEP is expected to be implemented. Institutions such as Delhi University or Banaras Hindu University and others in various states are being forced into inefficiency, as are the four Indian Institutes of Technology waiting almost a year for their directors. Yet there should have been no such delay, since most of these universities sent in the names selected by search committees to the education ministry months ago. The lists are meant to go to the president of India, who makes the final selection. It is a brief process. But now, bypassing the law in this matter, the lists have to be sent, unofficially, to the Prime Minister’s Office, which informs the education ministry of its choice that is then verbally communicated to the president. This is frank political intervention that neatly sabotages the autonomy of educational institutions. If the PMO is too busy to choose vice-chancellors — something it should not be doing in the first place — it can leave appointments pending for months. The government is obviously least interested in the smooth functioning of universities. This government seems to be willing to erode all systems in order to implement the ruling party’s agenda. It is no secret that earlier governments, too, preferred favourable vice-chancellors, whether the institution was under the Centre or the state. But this is perhaps the first government to introduce full control through ‘unofficial’ means. This is the inevitable culmination of political interference in education, something that governments dominated by other parties are also guilty of. Now the damage is spreading: administration and even day-to-day decisions — adjusting students’ fees during the pandemic, for example — must wait till the government has the leisure to scrutinize, unofficially, the names of potential vice-chancellors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
03-06-2021||Opinion||Chinks in the NREGA armour||The current unprecedented humanitarian crisis has exposed the country’s health system as well as its administrative capacities to address a challenge of this scale. The second wave of the coronavirus has created a catastrophe wherein both life and livelihoods are at stake. The government’s short-sightedness and lack of vision have damaged the ecosystem of governance pertaining to health and livelihood. When it had the time and the opportunity to rejuvenate the health system, the Centre did not heed the suggestions made by civil society and experts. It was more interested in winning elections than saving lives. The Union government should take lessons from the past for the sake of the future. While battling Covid-19, it should simultaneously focus on a long-term plan to generate sustained employment for citizens and create robust universal social security for the marginalized. Unlike last year, the virus has spread to the rural areas. The health hazards are expected to create massive chaos and ruckus in village communities. Districts and block headquarters are short of resources to respond to the medical needs of the people. Many states have imposed strict lockdowns, causing loss in employment and income for rural citizens. The losses for daily wage workers, livestock rearing communities and marginal farming households will cause economic distress and increased indebtedness. The food crisis will intensify in the coming months on account of income losses, restricted movements, and reduced market capacities due to full or partial lockdowns. It is thus important to ensure access to basic services and security in terms of shelter, food and a regular source of income. The expansion and the strengthening of the National Food Security Act and the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act can play a vital role in preventing people from slipping into abject poverty. The Centre announced five kilogrammes of free grain for individuals enlisted under the NFSA through the public distribution system for May and June. This will be done under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. Earlier, the Centre had allocated Rs 73,000 crore for the NREGA; this was about Rs 38,500 crore less than that of the revised estimate of last year. The Centre had also notified an annual increment of about 4 per cent in NREGA wages. This approach is rather conservative. Instead of short-term support, the government should look to do the following that can have a larger impact on the rural masses. The public distribution system must be expanded. India reportedly produced record amounts of rice and wheat last year. Procurement through mandis was, therefore, significantly higher. As of April 30, in the rabi marketing season, 280.39 lakh tonnes of wheat had been procured which is 137.39 lakh tonnes more than last year. Similarly, the procurement of rice has broken all past records (465. 47 lakh tonnes) in the last kharif marketing season. It is perfectly possible to expand the safety net of the NFSA to include more families under PMGKAY. The NREGA needs to be strengthened. Data for official work demand for April 2021-22 shows that 22 per cent more households have demanded work under the NREGA than that of April 2019-20. Reverse migration will only increase in the coming months as the states start to impose stricter periodic lockdowns. Total households demanding NREGA work in the next two months would be somewhere around 30 per cent more than that of 2019-20 during the same period: six crore households are expected to be working in the NREGA into 2021-22. Now, let us examine the picture emerging from 2020-21 to understand the actual requirement for 2021-22. Out of the 7.56 crore households that worked in the NREGA in 2020-21, even if one crore households were to opt out this year, around 6.5 crore households are expected to still work in 2021-22. The Centre should budget for 75-80 days of employment per household given the scale of the economic distress. By this logic, at the current rate of Rs 268 per day per person, at least Rs1.3 lakh crore would need to be budgeted. The government should also hike NREGA wages by 10 per cent. Another Rs 10, 000 crore would be needed under the assumption that 6.5 crore households would need at least 75 days of employment. Even at a conservative estimate, no less than Rs 1.4 lakh crore will be required to match the ground requirements. Additionally, the Centre should consider the following recommendations — instead of covering only ration card holders under the PMGKAY, the coverage should be extended to non-card holders as well; extend the free food grain programme under PMGKAY for a year instead of two months; expand the scope of the NREGA and allocate at least Rs.1.4 lakh crore for the scheme by approving a greater labour budget and a further increment in wage rates. We are paying a heavy price for the Union government’s unpreparedness to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. It should now act in a concerted manner to tackle the upcoming economic stress in the country, especially among unorganized workers in the informal sectors. India needs to be better prepared to avert hunger and joblessness among the poor and the marginalized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
03-06-2021||Opinion||A broken republic||This is a historic time, a time frothing over with never befores like never before. We are lodged in a thicket voluptuous with unprecedented things. It is too soon to tell how the future will reckon this period in the lives of the Indian peoples, but what we inhabit is already a critical mass of time, what historians often call an epoch. We have been written into the first chapter of the prophecy of fifty or so years. It may only be just to title it Avoidable Circumstances. We began with the joyous consecrations of ‘achchhe din’ upon which we acquired herd immunity to good sense and judgment in incremental bouts. Such that when our sacred rivers and banks began to eddy with our discarded dead, we sanctified it as ‘parampara’ and were quickly able to calculate what a minuscule fraction of our multitudes — our ‘demographic dividend’ — had been consigned to the latest hiccup of dereliction and uncaring. And be consoled, you disconsolate few; burnt or buried or floated, the departed all went the way of ‘mukti’, the eternal song of liberation. In a 1987 essay titled “Kapuscinski’s Angola”, Salman Rushdie briefly regarded the insufficiencies of language in accurately describing what was becoming of our world and its condition. “What kinds of life should we call ‘ordinary’, here in the late twentieth century? What is ‘normal’ in these abnormal days? For many of us, any definition of the quotidian would still include notions of peace and stability. We would still, perhaps, wish to picture everyday life as rhythmic, based on settled and repeating social patterns. Ryszard Kapuscinski’s work seems to be based on his knowledge that such conventional descriptions of actuality are now so limited in application that they have become, in a way, fictions.” How is one to describe what happened — and has been happening a whole year — in our territories of eastern Ladakh? The Leader says nobody intruded, no alien is sitting there, there is no violation. He uses, consistently, indefinite pronouns, he refrains from identifying who that nobody is, he makes an ingenuous abstraction of it. That nobody killed many of our soldiers about this time last summer. That nobody is who our generals have been talking to with the deep disadvantage of heights, both physical and metaphorical. Why did our soldiers die? What are our generals negotiating? What’s the problem with this place where nobody came and squatted? Where is this nowhere place called eastern Ladakh where nobody is doing nothing? There’s a line drawn along there called the Line of Actual Control. It is a line nobody can see. If there is a problem with the line, we know where we need to sort it out; we shall take the battle to cartographers and printers, we shall emboss rogue maps trying to enter our territory with disclaimer stamps at customs. What words may come to describe such hyper-reality? With hindsight and distance, and probably a degree of detachment, some future historian would probably find the right tools and narrative to portray the arrival and playing out of Avoidable Circumstances. Here are just a few footnotes, in no particular chronology, that may help lend it tendon, bone and flesh. All it will require are keywords fed into a search engine, and the chronicle will reveal itself. It began, like many avoidable things do, with an infusion of mindless ecstasy, a triumphal parade whose soldiery did not know what to do next with what had been achieved. They went out and lynched a person for what he might have eaten. Then another for what he wore. Then another for what he traded in. Yet another for who he bowed in obeisance to. There are going to be no names or dates or places here, mind you, just keywords; the task of recounting Avoidable Circumstances is the future historian’s. We toppled our crown. Having taken hold of it in the stealth of night, we dragged it to the public square and quartered it to the applause of medieval hangings. We sent the mangled thing to the smelters. We fashioned, overnight, the largest prison house known to us, far bigger than the Gulag. We made an indefinite abeyance of the writ of habeas corpus. We upturned the principle of bail before jail. We deemed it sedition to stand under the Tricolour and demand rights in the name of the Constitution. We deemed it anti-national to call the chief public servant anti-people. It was okay to riot and rampage and issue calls to death if you were on the Leader’s side. The Leader sent a crony to the courts to bay at the truth. The chief judge posed on a Harley-Davidson when multiple thousands of our unfortunate ones were hoofing across the subcontinent on a scorched summer’s odyssey. A few lay slain by a train, and then we gave them trains. Many of them lost their way in the intractable maze of this geography; India is vast and India is incredible, what’s to be done? We had ourselves temporarily robbed, our currency pronounced garbage, our access to earned and required cash severely restricted, our faith in institutions that afforded us sleep torpedoed. We had ourselves and our plight merrily mocked at from high rostrums. The Leader roamed and romped on a nature film-shoot, then ordered serial devastation of what he swore childhood love to. He also divined, sometime shortly after the shoot, that there can be nothing as clandestine as the cover of clouds, nor anything as effective as a straight-faced lie. How it worked. It gave him another, more luxurious, lease. The Leader walked imperially among the peacocks, his minions routinely dispatched hounds to addresses that may one day ruffle peacock feathers. We called our neighbours termites, and our own we called worse things, things that need to be exterminated one by one, or, at any rate, externed. If not by law, then by executive fiat, in the name of the people. The Constitution is to be ceremonially kissed, it is no thing to invoke. There was a global viral pandemic. We appointed a paediatrician as brigadier and a profiteer druid as inventor of remedial potions. We took resort to our arcane wisdoms in astral concatenation and we banged pots and pans. We became the first ones to overpower the demon. We pronounced the Leader vishwaguru. When the virulence came stinging back, we called it a dark conspiracy hatched to disrupt the mansions the Leader was building on the debris of the ripped monuments to our bygone slavery. We are in the throes of the seventh anniversary observances of Avoidable Circumstances. Very soon, we are also going to turn seventy-five. From where and how we began and carried forth, we could have deserved better. But we get to decide what we deserve. Do we still want Coronil? sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
