04-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Work left ||Given the devastation wrought by Covid-19 in India, can there be a sliver of hope for those who have been worst affected? The Centre seems to have taken a step in that direction by announcing a special ‘PM-Cares for Children’ scheme for children who have been orphaned on account of Covid-19. It will include a corpus of Rs 10 lakh for each child when they turn 18. Thereafter, each beneficiary is slated to receive a monthly stipend for the next five years — the period during which they pursue higher education — for their personal needs; upon reaching the age of 23, they will receive the corpus amount as a lump sum. This is a welcome step, coming as it does in the wake of a tragedy of gargantuan proportions for bereaved children, many of whom run the risk of falling prey to traffickers or being denied their basic rights to food, health and education. Such relief packages have also been announced by several states such as Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. Kerala, in fact, announced its scheme before the Centre did. The pledge by the Centre came soon after but ought it not to have been leading the charge? There are also conflicting reports pertaining to numbers. The Centre has identified a total of 577 Covid orphans. The actual number is likely to be significantly higher, as the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights informed the Supreme Court that the tentative figure of children in need of care and protection, including orphans, since March 2020 is 9,346. Some other needs of children, orphaned or otherwise, must be addressed as well. The pandemic, periodic lockdowns and disruptions in the education calendar have had a profound impact on children’s mental health; calls to an Indian helpline for children in distress increased sharply since the pandemic began. And yet, the Centre has allocated a paltry 0.05 per cent of its health budget towards mental health. It stands to reason that within that, the funds allotted for child and adolescent mental health, if any, will be negligible. An unimaginative push towards online classes without ensuring supplementary needs — gadgets, reliable internet connectivity and so on — has put education out of reach for around 56 per cent of students. There is concern about the State’s ability to protect children and young adults in the face of a possible ‘third wave’ of the pandemic even though an expert panel has submitted a plan to bolster India’s preparations for tackling paediatric Covid-19 cases. The Supreme Court has said that the “modalities” of the Centre’s new scheme for Covid orphans need to be “worked out”. The Centre must get to work immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Opinion||Look deeper: Naomi Osaka’s withdrawal from the French Open||Sir — Naomi Osaka’s withdrawal from the French Open is shocking and unfortunate, but this move has drawn attention to an issue in sport that needed to be addressed (“After Osaka exit, tennis faces volley of questions”, June 2). Osaka’s refusal to talk to the press during the French Open gave rise to controversy — it amounts to breaking a rule — following which she announced her decision to discontinue with the tournament. Osaka should have explained better her struggle with mental health to the authorities before skipping the news conference after her first-round victory on Sunday. The organizers, on their part, rightly fined her for her lack of tact. But it must be kept in mind that when a person is unwell, or mentally stressed beyond control, one might not be able to act judiciously. Instead of mocking Osaka — the derogatory tweet has now been deleted — the organizers should focus on the toll that mental health might take on players and how to address it. This issue cannot be taken lightly. It is heartening that sportspersons like Novak Djokovic have extended their support to Osaka during such difficult times. Biplab Karmakar,Calcutta Sir — It is disheartening to learn that Naomi Osaka has pulled out of the French Open. She cited her mental health as the reason behind her decision. This step has once again emphasized the impact of mental stress that is affecting the lives of people across the world. One hopes that she gets better soon and returns with a bang. Madhumanti Chakraborty,Calcutta Yawning gap Sir — Sukanta Chaudhuri’s article, “A disaster foretold” (June 2), brings to light the blatant fault lines in the new National Education Policy. That there is a big gap between the privileged few of the urban upper and middle classes and the underprivileged, largely ignored, rural population has been reiterated time and again. Many children belonging to the latter section have no access to the internet and thereby, as a fallout of the pandemic, no access to education. I especially agree with the part of the article where Chaudhuri points out, with respect to the NEP’s provision for vocational education reinforcing inequality, that it is highly unlikely that a doctor’s daughter would train to be a mason. On the same day this article was published, there were reports about oxygen concentrators being available at an urban school in Calcutta. This could only be dreamt of by students of schools under the anganwadi programme. School dropout rates are a recurring concern in India. With the onset of the pandemic and schools remaining shut, this problem is only being aggravated. For underprivileged children, attending online classes is a distant dream. Haimanti Dutta Ray,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Sukanta Chaudhuri made an important point about a 21st-century version of varnashram being reinstated by the government through the NEP. There is a reason why the Right to Education Act emphasizes free and compulsory education for a part of India’s student community. Pushing children towards work from an early age robs them of the opportunity to make a real choice about their future vocation. The argument that we do not end up using all that we learn in school is baseless. School education, as it stands, exposes children to a spectrum of possibilities they can pick from. Depriving them of this can be a disaster for the country. Ankit Bhowmick,North 24 Parganas New threat Sir — Even as the world is reeling from Covid-19, a new threat has emerged. The first case of human infection from H10N3, a rare strain of avian influenza, has been reported in China. Although earlier strains of bird flu have caused deaths, human to human transmission of the virus is not common. But it is necessary to analyse the genetic data of this virus and determine if it resembles older viruses or whether it is a new strain. China should ensure that this information is not kept under wraps. If Covid has taught the world one lesson, it is that such problems need to be nipped in the bud. Riddhi Choudhury,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hurrah||Criticism cannot be criminalized in a democracy. That is the heartening message that has been sent out — loud and clear — by a learned bench of the Supreme Court while quashing the charge of sedition against a senior journalist for his critical remarks against the prime minister. While upholding the rights of journalists to criticize — ‘even brutally’ — the government, the apex court laid out the context that warrants such censure. Valid criticism, the wise judges concluded, is an important tool to improve the quality of governance. This is one of the fundamental tenets of a democratic set-up. An elected government cannot be prejudicial against those critical of it and its measures. Yet, the Bharatiya Janata Party has been repeatedly accused of penalizing contrarian voices by weaponizing legal instruments. Sedition, a colonial-era law, has been its favoured weapon. Data suggest that 96 per cent of sedition cases filed in the course of the last decade against citizens for their disapproving remarks regarding political leaders took place after Narendra Modi won power in India. Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Karnataka and Jharkhand — the BJP was in power in each of these states then — accounted for the majority of these cases. That dissenting opinion is integral to the democratic ethic continues to elude the BJP: the myopia is perhaps a result of the party’s authoritarian blinkers. It is equally refreshing to note that the court is now willing to take forward the legal momentum against sedition at a time when there is an attempt to blur the relationship between constitutional rights and public duties. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court had expressed its willingness to define sedition in the light of the indiscriminate — intentional — application of Section 124A by the State against the media fraternity. The consistent deterioration in India’s performance in the press freedom index is one manifestation of this witch-hunt against the handful of unrestrained voices that survive. The enlightened position of the court bears lessons for law, State and media. There is a case for reforming law by ridding it of archaic elements — the sedition law being one such. The State, if it is concerned about the failing health of Indian democracy, must participate in this cleansing. As for the Indian media — a rather docile species at the moment — it should take a cue from the court’s unambiguous endorsement of free speech and stop disseminating the master’s voice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Opinion||Death and resurrection of John Maynard Keynes||The world of economics silently celebrated the 75th death anniversary of Lord John Maynard Keynes on April 21, 2021. On this day, Keynes passed away in Tilton, Sussex in 1946. Keynes — born on June 5 — was the greatest economist of the 20th century who wielded considerable influence on economic policymaking not only in his country but also across the globe. While Adam Smith, the renowned 18th century Scottish philosopher-cum-economist, is regarded as the father of modern economic science, David Ricardo, another gifted man, may be credited with building the fundamental structure of it. Smith, Ricardo, Malthus, Mill (Jr.), Marx and several other economists are clubbed under the nomenclature, ‘classical economists’. The Classical School advocated laissez- faire — free market economy — and considered that government intervention in economic life is ineffective or harmful. From the days of Smith-Ricardo, the march of capitalism was unstoppable. The Great Depression of 1929 and its attendant effects that engulfed the major capitalist economies dealt a severe blow to the classical ideology. Classical economic theories, propagated since the days of Smith-Ricardo and their disciples, were found to be inadequate in explaining the prevailing crisis of the late 1920s and the early 1930s. It was at this juncture that Keynes put forward his macroeconomic theory that not only revolutionized the realm of economic thought but also helped in the resurrection of a capitalism blighted by depression and mass unemployment. Keynes’ theory — laid out in The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money — was sharply different from the classical theory put forth by his predecessors. As per the Keynesian macroeconomics, demand deficiency in the economy is the fundamental reason behind the sustenance of unemployment equilibrium. It needs to be mentioned that the main components of aggregate demand in an economy are private consumption and private investment expenditures. During an economic depression, people’s purchasing power is low and there is limited scope of raising consumption expenditures. The private sector’s profitability is also low and it is not in a position to increase its investment expenditures. Under such circumstances, the role of public policy in generating demand assumes importance. Keynes advocated that demand deficiency and persistent unemployment can be tackled if the government were to chip in by undertaking various public investment programmes, thereby raising demand and public expenditure. The government, for instance, may invest money in building roads, bridges, canals and so on; such expenditures lead to job creation and income generation. And once people’s incomes increase, consumption spending rises and this, in turn, induces private investors to raise their labour demand and production. While the classical theorists discouraged active government intervention in the economy, Keynes, on the other hand, highlighted the pivotal role that public policy — government expenditure and budgetary policy — can play in ameliorating the economic crisis. The Keynesian demand management policies worked successfully in many countries for several decades. From the 1970s, however, the efficacy of Keynesian policies in dealing with the unemployment problem came under scrutiny as stagflation emerged in many countries. In academic circles, especially in the United States of America, the Keynesian policies were discredited and interest in the classical economics was revived. Since the collapse of communism in the Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe, most economies, including that of India, have been forced to downsize their governments under pressure from the US-IMF-World Bank axis. The State has increasingly been abdicating its roles in favour of markets. It is against this backdrop that we need to take a relook at Keynesian economics and acknowledge the decisive role that public policy and the State can play during the periods of crisis. The US, which banished Keynesianism in the aftermath of the stagflation syndrome, had to take refuge in Keynesian policies in the wake of the 2007 recession. The US government was called upon to bail out financially bankrupt companies and infuse blood into the economic system through greater public spending. The present pandemic has brought another severe threat before the world economy. Millions of people, especially in the densely populated countries where the informal sector is the major source of livelihood, have severely been hurt as a result of the pandemic and lockdown. The critical role of the government and public spending has come to be realized, once again. The Nobel laureate, Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, has argued in favour of cash transfer from the government in order to inject demand and purchasing power as well as to battle poverty as a result of job loss. At present, India has been undertaking a mass vaccination drive. Once again, the importance of the State has come to the forefront. While there is a growing clamour for free vaccines and the delivery of adequate public health service, there is also discussion on the need for government spending and funding of research and development toward the development of vaccines by private pharmaceutical companies. In times of crises, the people and the economy cannot be left to the vagaries of the market. Keynes is, indeed, our last resort. As long as mankind and market exist, Keynes would continue to remain relevant. That is why even after 75 years of his demise, Keynesian pills are still effective to counter economic distress. Santanu Ghosh is head of the Department of Economics, Maulana Azad College||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
04-06-2021||Opinion||Changing picture||The eleven-day military tensions between Israel and Hamas brought back the spotlight on the old and perennial Israel-Palestine conflict which can arguably be considered one of the most debated and studied peace and security issues in contemporary history. With respect to the present conflagration, the move to upset the status quo in Jerusalem’s Sheikh Jarrah and on the Temple Mount is believed to be the trigger. Hamas was quick to escalate, thus turning away the attention of some of the key external stakeholders from the Israeli government’s actions. In Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is battling corruption charges, found this crisis to be an opportunity to put across the point that he was indispensable. In a different context, the same can be said of Hamas, which was eager to pitch itself as the only popular entity of the Palestinians. Externally, the Israel-Palestine conflict ignites visceral emotions in many places and perhaps no other issue gains so much attention from the rest of the international community. In the current crisis, meetings of the United Nations general assembly as well as the security council were convened to discuss the worsening situation; even in the midst of the Covid-19 outbreak, many foreign ministers flew to New York specially to participate in the deliberations. Yet again, one consistent aspect in the current crisis was the proactive role of the United States of America along with regional powers in bringing the two parties to agree to a ceasefire, although tensions continue at the point of the trigger. However, a number of important changes need to be unpacked in the current context to understand the role of relevant external players in future escalations. In the last 70 years, after the eclipse of the United Kingdom as the leading power in the region, the US, with its financial and military muscle, has shaped the developments in the area. In the current crisis, the initial reaction of the US administration was a condemnation of the actions of Hamas and a reiteration of its support for Israel’s right to defend itself. Within the context of the UN security council, a UN resolution condemning Israel was vetoed by the US, which was also expected and in line with the bipartisan consensus on the need to support Israel. However, within the US, several new dynamics are shaping its strategy towards the region. As the situation in Gaza worsened, with more and more human lives lost because of Israeli retaliation, courtesy Israel’s asymmetrical military dominance, a more leftist wing of the Democratic Party became more vocal and critical of the response by the Joe Biden administration. There were mass protest rallies in big cities like New York. The independent senator, Bernie Sanders, a Brooklyn-born Jewish-American, called for a more proactive role by the Biden administration in defusing the tensions. President Biden, a consummate politician, was quick to adjust the earlier stance of his administration. In a politically divided US, Biden needs the support of every segment of the society, particularly those with Democratic Party leanings. The change was reflected in the White House press leaks which indicated that Biden had called the Israeli prime minister — who had lived, studied and worked in the US for many years — six times. It was reported that in his last call, Biden, who has known Netanyahu for 40 years, resolutely conveyed that he wants a ceasefire at the earliest. The views of younger Jewish Americans are worth taking note of. A Pew Research study based on a survey of 4,718 Jewish-American adults fielded from November 19, 2019 to June 3, 2020 mentioned that 71 per cent of Jewish adults (including 80 per cent of Reform Jews) are Democrats or independents who lean toward the Democratic Party. “Overall, more than half of U.S. Jews also gave a negative rating to Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s prime minister for more than a decade. Even so, when it comes to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, just over six-in-ten U.S. Jews (63%) say they think a way can be found for Israel and an independent Palestinian state to coexist peacefully.” This is not surprising as for more than a decade, in contrast to a more conservative lobbying group called the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, J Street, a liberal non-profit advocacy group, has shaped a parallel narrative of many young and middle-aged Jewish Americans. J Street advocates that the US leadership should facilitate conciliation in the region while also being unequivocal about Israel’s right to exist. While taking note of the impact of these developments, one cannot turn a blind eye to the several incidents of anti-Jewish violence across the US, which occurred simultaneously with the protests in favour of Palestinians that raged in the big cities. The physical attacks and online anti-Semitic abuse against the Jewish American community has seen an uptick recently. For much of the last century, the US’s interest in the stability of the Middle East was seen as being largely predicated on the need to protect its oil supply. Any regional instability would immediately have an impact on the oil prices and supply, thus triggering inflationary trends. This dependence continues to decline on account of two factors. First, the US domestic oil production has increased on account of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling that tap into vast reserves of oil in shale rock formation. Second, according to the US Energy Information Administration, the “imports from Canada increased significantly since the 1990s, and Canada is now the largest single source of U.S. total petroleum and crude oil imports”. It notes that “in 2020, Canada was the source of 52% of U.S. total gross petroleum imports and 61% of gross crude oil imports”. In contrast, “10% of U.S. total petroleum imports and 12% of U.S. crude oil imports were from Persian Gulf countries in 2020”. With its dependence on the Middle East’s oil seeing a progressive decline, the US administration’s priorities to safeguard its economic interest will shift to other regions. In the current context, there is also the factor of the regional permutations and combinations of new alliances. Israel and the US have a seemingly extensive intelligence sharing network, which is particularly important in the context of attempts to check Iran’s alleged nuclear proliferation plans. The country’s programme for nuclear proliferation remains the most important security issue not only for the US but also for Israel and the de facto leader of the Arab world, Saudi Arabia. Both Israel and Saudi Arabia see Iran’s nuclear programme as an existential threat. Although Saudi Arabia has officially denied it, Netanyahu is reported to have met the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, in November 2020. In the regional context, economics is also having an impact on geopolitical calculations. It becomes an economic imperative for the richer Gulf countries like Saudi Arabia to engage with Israel, a regional economic powerhouse with one of the highest per capita incomes in the region, as they attempt to diversify their oil-dependent economies. The Abraham Accords that normalized Israel’s relationship with the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain is a manifestation of the changing regional reality. There is little doubt that the US, with key regional players, had a significant role in de-escalating the current crisis. The uneasy status quo will make the eruption of the next crisis inevitable. However, against the background of changes taking place within and among key external stakeholders, the past is no longer a sufficient guide for predicting the interest of, and the scale of substantive intervention by, the key external players in future bouts of the Israel-Palestine conflict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
