05-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Power is knowledge||The love of wisdom shows itself in many guises, depending on what the words ‘love’ and ‘wisdom’ mean at different times to different people. Wisdom to some is idiocy to others, and love, again, may look like hate. The Greek name for the love of wisdom was ‘philosophy’, a term much tortured in recent times. But even then, students generally associated university courses in philosophy with the study of inaugural thinkers and modes of thinking that attempt to understand human existence. Or they did so. Now the received notion of philosophy is being revolutionized. The Chaudhary Charan Singh University of Meerut has introduced in the undergraduate philosophy course two books by Ramdev and Yogi Adityanath respectively, reportedly at the Uttar Pradesh government’s recommendation. There was a committee to determine the curriculum, but since the UP government is Mr Adityanath or, officially speaking, Mr Adityanath is the chief minister of UP, the recommendation of his book is more an order to celebrate his stature as teacher and philosopher. The teachings of Socrates and Plato should fade away beside the philosophy of a saffron-clad politician and a saffron-clad businessman since, as the university’s dean of arts said, this was the need of the times. Is the need of the times political or intellectual? The times are intriguing enough, with political force manifesting itself as love of wisdom. The wisdom being touted is that of ancient India, but of a special kind. There is no serious discussion of ancient Indian systems and subjects of knowledge in the regime led by Narendra Modi; the focus is on thrilling attributions to the past in order to prove India’s superiority and inspire a Bharatiya Janata Party brand of nationalism. Thus Ganesha’s head is proof of plastic surgery, Gandhari’s children come from stem cell and test-tube birth technology, Vishnu’s chakra is a guided missile and so on. Besides inspiring a contrived patriotism, such myth-making devalues serious scholarship and aims to stifle critical thinking. A revealing example of efforts to destroy learning based on reason and a scientific approach is the inclusion of a book by a businessman and yoga teacher in a university syllabus just after he proclaimed allopathy to be a ‘stupid science’. The sequence of events is dangerous, especially in the context of the countrywide protests by doctors against Mr Ramdev’s comments in the midst of the pandemic. The ayurvedic company he endorses was selling a product claimed to be the first proven cure for Covid. Students will be learning from his book how yoga cures illnesses, and about hatha yoga practice from the chief minister’s book. Yoga as one of the six systems of ancient philosophy demands serious study. A philosophy course would be enriched by it; its utility in everyday life is a different discipline altogether, even if presented knowledgeably. But the new philosophers of New India are just patriotic; the credibility of Indian education is not their concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
05-06-2021||Opinion||Help out: Kamala Harris calls Modi with vaccine aid||Sir — It is a relief that the vice-president of the United States of America, Kamala Harris, called the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, to tell him that the US would share some of its Covid-19 vaccine stock with India. Given that the Indian government has made a royal mess of the vaccination drive in the country, it is high time we received some help from outside for the health and safety of the vast swathes of the population who are yet to receive even their first doses. The occasion, however, calls for reflection upon the fact that the Indian government, which loves to boast about its achievement, cannot even vaccinate the people of the country on its own. Ananya Bose,Calcutta Silent treatment Sir — In a shocking move, through an amendment to the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972, the Central government barred all retired officials in intelligence and security-related organizations from publishing any material “which falls within the domain of the organization” before clearing it with the current head of the organization concerned (“Pension ‘gag’ on security officials”, June 3). The move perilously overextends the scope of service and pension rules, deals a blow to retired officials’ fundamental right to free speech and potentially weakens democratic discourse in India, as those who have the most experience on sensitive subjects are effectively barred from commenting on it, except with the government’s approval. It also reinforces the impression that the regime is not comfortable with dissent and criticism, even when it comes from those who have served the Indian State with great distinction and patriotism. Retired officials of security organizations must, of course, exercise the utmost responsibility given that they have had access to “sensitive information” that may imperil the “sovereignty and integrity of India”. But the revised rules widen the scope of restrictions and will create a sense of fear among them. Given India’s generally opaque security set-up, the refusal to declassify files, rules of secrecy and stringent norms of access, retired officials are a key source of information and insight. After years of being in a regimented bureaucracy, they can finally share this expertise with other citizens. At a time when dissenting voices within the system find it hard to take positions, a distinctive view from outside would only help the State evolve a more considered policy approach. These officials have spent their entire professional lives safeguarding India’s security. Rather than threatening them with docked pensions, they should be trusted and given the space to express their views. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The recent amendment to the pension rules is yet another blow to the integrity of a healthy public discourse in the country. If Central intelligence or security organization officers fail to follow the new guidelines, their pensions can be withdrawn or withheld. Pensions are given for the services rendered by government servants to the country.   Linking them to post-retirement conduct is immoral. It is also against the fundamental right to free speech enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution. At a time when dissenting voices are being curbed, and ordinary citizens have to go to court to be heard, the expertise of former espionage officers will only enrich the public discourse. Many government officials currently in service get to write books and newspaper articles. The same right cannot be denied to retired officials. The latter have devoted their lives to protecting India. In Western democracies, books and articles by former intelligence officials are welcomed. For a society to move forward, debates, discussions and free speech are necessary preconditions that must be encouraged. Vijay Singh Adhikari,Nainital||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
05-06-2021||Opinion||Summer bonanza in the United States||Summer’s much anticipated this time around. After being cooped up at home for almost fifteen straight months, people can finally do the things they love and regain the lost human connection. This summer, many traditional events that were cancelled last year have returned and new ones have popped up. Movie screenings, concerts, food festivals and live arena sports have resurfaced as well. While local music festivals are popping up, the larger American festivals are gearing for a September launch. Milwaukee’s festival, Summerfest, which is one of the largest music festivals in the world, said it will take place over the first three weekends of September. Coachella, postponed twice already, will be held next in 2022. In New York City, Broadway shows are estimated to resume in September. The famous Shakespeare in the Park plays will return in July and the Tribeca Film Festival is slated to launch in June. Chicago’s famous music festival, Lollapalooza, also returns in July with A-list musical guests. It typically brings in 100,000 attendees per day who watch multiple musical performances and enjoy local Chicago bites at the downtown Grant Park location. It is a much anticipated event for Chicago-dwellers, almost synonymous with summer, outdoors and fun. Pride Month, which kicked off on June 1, is also back with a bang this year with blended virtual and in-person celebrations all over the country and people expected to take to the streets with parades, floats and rainbow colours. Reel magic To add on to a hopeful summer this year, the world’s largest and much anticipated Harry Potter store opened in the Flatiron district in Manhattan recently. The store spans 21,000 square feet; intricate details of what it holds were released on the Harry Potter Fan Club app before the launch. The store is sectioned off into 15 themed areas. Merchandise ranges from wands, robes, chocolate frogs to your own Hogwarts acceptance letter. You can interact with actual movie props such as Hagrid’s boots, an interactive wand table and even a ‘moving’ staircase. There are plenty of photo booths and photo opportunities throughout the sprawling space. The story also has a section with a multiplayer virtual reality game called “Chaos at Hogwarts” where you go exploring inside the magical castle. Another one, “Wizards Take Flight”, will let players ‘fly’ on brooms and battle death eaters. The store is free to enter but will use a virtual queuing system. “It’s been a really tough year in a lot of people’s lives. We have a giant Fawkes the Phoenix hanging over our entrance at Fifth Avenue and I sometimes see that as a bit of a sign for the store — a phoenix from the flames,” said Karl Durrant, a Warner Bros. vice-president. But this summer was not just for Harry Potter fans; even diehard Friends fans had a chance to rejoice with the launch of the Friends: The Reunion, bringing back all six cast members and with special guest appearances from other supporting cast. The host, James Corden, mentioned that Friends has been watched one hundred billion times across the globe and now for the first time after 17 years the cast was united on television for the two-hour special. Hit the streets Unlike last year’s more subdued, Covid-inflicted Memorial Day, this year was marked by optimism as various states slowly lifted Covid restrictions and more than half the adults have been fully vaccinated. The American Veterans Center describes the event as a “moving timeline of American history” that draws on traditions from past parades, going back to the beginning of the holiday just after the Civil War. The National WWI Museum and Memorial in Kansas City hosted its first ever hot air balloon festival and in Washington, DC, bikers took to the streets keeping with the tradition since 1988 where motorcycle groups would ride the streets in memory of the troops who are classified as ‘Prisoner of War’ or ‘Missing in Action’. In New York, Staten Island’s 102nd annual Memorial Day Parade was back. The celebration serves to remember both those the country has lost in service as well as honour those who still serve today. Shameful conduct Recently a Florida high school’s yearbook photos of the female students were altered to hide and cover their chest area, while pictures of the males — including of boys wearing just speedo swim shorts — were left untouched. The action was met with ridicule and shock. The school’s dress code also is much more restrictive towards girls. Many stated that the school is body shaming and sexualizing them. The school’s response seemed to indicate it was confused about the uproar. Most US schools have dress codes. In 2014, some students from a New Jersey high school created a #IAmMoreThanADistraction to protest their dress code. Several hundred online petitions to change traditional and sexist dress codes still exist. Footnote Ever heard of a retirement home for animal statues that used to be on display in various playgrounds? An aardvark, a frog, a camel, and two dolphins will be sent to a park referred to as the ‘NYC Parks Home for Retired Playground Animals’ by the city’s parks department. They will not be touched up to keep their charm intact for park visitors to relive their nostalgia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
05-06-2021||Opinion||A common thread||Three remarkable Indians died in a single week in May. All were greatly influenced by Mahatma Gandhi, though each expressed his ‘Gandhism’ in different ways and in different geographical settings. One was in his eighties, the second in his nineties, the third had lived for more than one hundred years on this planet. So while we mourn their deaths we must also celebrate their lives. The first of these Gandhians to go was Sunderlal Bahuguna of Uttarakhand (picture). When the Chipko movement began in the upper Alaknanda valley in 1973, Bahuguna already had several decades of social work behind him. The initial Chipko protests had been led by Chandi Prasad Bhatt, in Bahuguna’s words the ‘mukhya sanchalak’ (chief organizer) of the movement. Inspired by what women and men had done in the district of Chamoli, Bahuguna brought the idea of Chipko to his own home terrain, the valley of the other great branch of the Ganga, the Bhageerathi. Here he organized protests against the felling of green trees, going on long fasts in the forests. I first met Sunderlalji in Calcutta in 1981. I was just beginning my doctoral research on Chipko, and he had come to the city to talk on this very subject. He was a captivating, compelling speaker, switching between Hindi and English with ease (doubtless he was even more captivating and compelling in his native Garhwali). Two years later I did a spell of fieldwork in the Badyar valley, interviewing peasant women who had worked with Sunderlal in a major protest he had led there. In the course of my research I came to admire both Chandi Prasad Bhatt and Sunderlal Bahuguna. Journalists and academics in Delhi were quick to take sides, promoting one or the other as the ‘real’ or ‘true’ leader of Chipko. In truth, both had played vital roles in the movement. Besides, their orientations were different, but complementary. After the protests of the 1970s had led to a rapid decline in commercial felling in Uttarakhand, Bahuguna took the message of Chipko across the Himalaya. Bhatt, on the other hand, focused on grass-roots reconstruction within Uttarakhand, mobilizing women and students in successfully reforesting hillsides made barren by what one Chipko activist described to me as “andhadhun katai”, the reckless felling of trees by contractors in collusion with the forest department. Both Bahuguna and Bhatt inspired many younger Indians to take to a life of service and activism. Matching Sunderlal Bahuguna in energy, courage, intelligence and charisma was a Gandhian who died five days after him. This was H.S. Doreswamy of Karnataka. He was a decade older than Bahuguna, and thus had an even longer record of service. As a student, Doreswamy met Gandhi when the Mahatma came to Nandi Hills for a spell of rest and recuperation in the summer of 1936. Six years later, Doreswamy played a leading part in the Quit India movement in the princely state of Mysore, spending a long time in jail as a consequence. In the 1950s and 1960s, Doreswamy worked in the Sarvodaya movement, focusing on land redistribution. However, when the Emergency was promulgated in 1975, he abandoned social work for activism, which resulted in his now being jailed by the government of independent India as he had once been jailed by its feudal and colonial predecessor. He was released after a few months, and spent the rest of his life working for a more humane social order in his home state. I first met H.S. Doreswamy in the late 1980s, when I took part in demonstrations led by him against the environmental destruction of the Western Ghats by the military-industrial complex. Already in his seventies, he was an impressive presence; tall, erect, always ready to lead a procession or go on hunger-fast. Like Sunderlalji, he had a special way with the young, his accessibility and sense of humour drawing them closer to him. My most recent meeting with H.S. Doreswamy was in March last year. In the intervening decades I had, of course, followed his work closely. He was verily the conscience of Karnataka, fearless in taking on land sharks, mining companies and, not least, corrupt politicians. Through his eighties and nineties he retained his zest and commitment, raising his voice against social and economic injustice, all the while refusing to take any favours from the state. He never owned a car, preferring to use public transport. The photographer, K. Bhagya Prakash, seeing a ninety-one-year-old Gandhian waiting at a Bengaluru bus stop, stopped to take — unnoticed by the man himself — a series of quite wonderful snaps of Doreswamy boarding a bus, these reposted on Twitter after his death. For all its other achievements, the Gandhian movement in independent India has never paid adequate attention to the threat posed to the Republic by the rise of Hindutva majoritarianism. (Sunderlal Bahuguna himself sailed quite close to these murky waters, associating with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad on occasion.) In this regard, H.S. Doreswamy was a sterling exception. His last campaign, which he undertook at the age of one hundred and one, was against the immoral Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Inspired by the exemplary courage shown by students (particularly female students) at Delhi’s Jamia Millia Islamia in the face of police repression, the centenarian Gandhian decided to make a public statement himself. In March 2020, he placed himself under a shamiana in an open space where, along with thousands of other friends and admirers, I went to meet him and hear him speak. As The Hindu reported, Doreswamy held the CAA to be grossly discriminatory, “antithetical to the founding principles of our nation”. “The Muslims here chose to be Indians,” he said. “They cannot be asked to prove their citizenship now.” Opposing the regime’s discriminatory policies, observed Doreswamy, “doesn’t make me anti-national. We need to differentiate between the government, the state and the nation.” Both Sunderlal Bahuguna and H.S. Doreswamy were activists who were entirely comfortable being in the public eye. They were quite happy to express their thoughts if a microphone were placed before them, and fluently and wittily too. Both were also extremely photogenic. Rather different in character and temperament was a Gandhian who died just after Bahuguna and just before Doreswamy. His name was K.M. Natarajan. Gentle, self-effacing and hence much less well-known than the other two, he admirably embodied the Gandhian spirit in his own home state, Tamil Nadu. Natarajanji was more a constructive worker than an activist. Inspired by Gandhi as a student, in 1956-57 he joined Vinoba Bhave on a long padayatra through Tamil Nadu, promoting the Bhoodan movement. Thereupon he dedicated the rest of his life to rural renewal. He worked on, among other things, the abolition of caste distinctions, the promotion of khadi and of organic agriculture, and the redistribution of land owned by temples to landless labourers. Among his closest associates in these campaigns were that extraordinary couple, Sankaralingam and Krishnammal Jagannathan, and an American in khadi, Ralph Richard Keithahn. I first got to know K.M. Natarajan courtesy the Indian postal service. Back in 1996, I had written a newspaper article on the Gandhian economist, J.C. Kumarappa, which prompted a most instructive mail from a man in Madurai who had worked closely with Kumarappa himself. Many years later, while researching the life of R.R. Keithahn, I found Natarajan had known him well too. So I travelled to Madurai to seek his advice. Over cups of tea in the Sarvodaya office in the Gandhi museum complex, Natarajanji told me many things I did not know about Keithahn’s life. Then he sent me off with introductions to people at the Gandhigram Rural University in Dindigul, who had known Keithahn well too. In the course of our conversations I discovered, to my surprise and joy, that Natarajanji had a keen interest in that decidedly un-Gandhian pursuit, the game of cricket. And his generosity was boundless. After I returned to Bengaluru, I received a steady stream of parcels from him containing original letters written by Keithahn, which he had sourced for me from all over Tamil Nadu. His kindness extended to reading drafts of what I wrote on the subject, with my errors gently pointed out. As I reflect on these three lives, I see what each of them has to teach those of us who still have time left on this earth. Bahuguna of Uttarakhand taught us that human beings are not separate from or superior to the natural world, that for our own survival we have to respect the rest of creation. Doreswamy of Karnataka taught us that discrimination according to caste, class, gender or creed is not just antithetical to the ideals of the Indian Constitution, but to decency and humanity itself. To oppose such discrimination, and non-violently, is the duty of all who claim to have freedom and justice as their ideals. Natarajan of Tamil Nadu taught us that true self-reliance begins with the individual, working with her family and her community, that local action for rural sustainability is as vital to the future of the planet as international agreements on reducing carbon emissions. Three lives, each admirable, albeit in different and distinct ways. Yet there was a common thread that bound them. Bahuguna, Doreswamy and Natarajan were deeply rooted in their home districts, their home states, while being keenly interested in India and the world. It was a privilege to have known them all. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
