06-06-2021||Opinion||Tokyo Olympics: Safety first||Sir — The Olympic Games are a test of athletes’ resolve unlike any other. But the Tokyo Games will test the athletes in a very different way. In a time-honoured tradition aimed at preventing the spread of HIV, Olympians will be given condoms as they reach the Olympic Village. But the authorities have requested the sportspersons to abstain from the activities that would require them to use the condoms given the pandemic. History shows that little has been able to keep young athletes away from one another. This time though, the athletes must keep the greater good in mind.  Kaveri Raj, Ernakulam Sir — It was reassuring to read that the Supreme Court has protected the edifice of democracy in India once again (“Hurrah”, June 4). The verdict upholding the citizen’s right to criticize the government has reaffirmed faith in the judiciary. The role of the fourth estate, which has considerable public influence, cannot be undermined, especially in a country where there is a tendency towards centralization of powers. I wonder why the government does not acknowledge inputs from unbiased critics and the media — this is an amplification of the vox populi — and make amends instead of trying to demonize them. Taking genuine input and working on it will greatly boost the government’s image. The Centre would then no longer need ‘bhakts’ to handle publicity. The current dispensation must realize that slapping sedition charges on flimsy grounds not only harbours negativity among citizens but is also a sheer waste of time and public money. Dhananjay Sinha,Calcutta Sir — Qatar has been gearing up for the 2022 football World Cup since the country was unexpectedly named the host by Fifa. But it is a pity that this venue would transform the ‘beautiful game’ into a “Blood sport” (June 1, Alexis Tadié). More than 6,500 expatriate workers from India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal who were behind the construction of seven stadiums, a new airport, a lot of hotels and so on are reported to have died in Qatar. Workers in Qatar are often forced to face conditions equivalent to slavery — violations of labour rules leading them to bear beatings, sexual assault, withholding of salaries, restrictions on the freedom of movement are just some of the problems. Amnesty International reported that these workers have been suffering from “serious exploitation”. In the wake of these revelations, a global movement demanding punishment for such cruel and unethical treatment of labourers must be started. Countries that want to keep football a beautiful game should begin by boycotting the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Footballers from Norway, Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands have already made a statement defending human rights. Although awarding of the contract to host the football World Cup usually goes hand in hand with controversy, it must be asked why a country like Qatar with little to no infrastructure or experience was chosen for this purpose. Amidst allegations of malpractices, several Fifa members have gone on record to claim that the choice of Qatar was a mistake. Football fans deserve answers. Rabindranath Sarkar, Calcutta Sir — Reportedly, a search for the ‘ugliest language’ in India on Google returned Kannada as the answer. Google has since taken down this response; the tech giant faced massive backlash from Kannadigas as well as the Karnataka government for this. Anyone with a basic understanding of how Google works will know that the search engine was probably only highlighting content that it found somewhere on the internet and not presenting its own opinion. However, this does not absolve it of all responsibility. Google should learn to sharpen its algorithms to do a better job of screening objectionable content when responding to searches by users. Debalina Chatterjee, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion||Judgeasana||The Delhi High Court has told off doctors for going all out after Ramdev. Yes, the man criticised allopathy, mid raging pandemic too, but so what? He is entitled to his views and freedom of speech and expression. Besides, the court said, doctors should be doing something more productive in these times instead of taking up court time. Indeed, what have doctors done lately? Yes 594 of them have died — Ramdev has claimed that more than 1,000 doctors have died despite being fully vaccinated — but dying is not doing. Now, compare that to how busy Ramdev has been. Waging a one-man attack on allopathy. Even as mere mortals gasped for breath, scrambled for oxygen, remdesivir, tocilizumab, ivermectin, he pronounced that lakhs had died not for want of these things but because of them. He called allopathy “stupid medicine”. In another one of his widely shared videos, he laughed at those who complained of shortness of breath. “Cylinder kam par gaye… Running short of cylinders, are you?” he chided and reminded one and all that the brahmand was full of good and free oxygen, and all one had to do was breathe right using the “two cylinders” or nostrils God has given each of us and be well. In the same video, he claimed to have helped the oxygen deficit score 100 on the oximeter after an hour of bhastrika, kapalbhati, anulom vilom. And when the CEO of Patanjali dairies died of Covid-19, the company put out a statement saying it had “no role in his allopathic treatment”. Indeed, Ramdev has been busy. Every time someone took umbrage at his claims, he spun around them with the agility and moves of a yoga maestro. When the health minister pulled him up for denting the morale of doctors of India, he stretched as if to apologise, lobbed 25 questions at doctors and continued to peddle his wares more aggressively. Patanjali launched the Coronil kit initially, avowedly with the WHO’s blessings and thereafter, after the WHO’s denial, with the approval of the AYUSH ministry. The only kit that elicited attention and action, however, was the Congress toolkit reportedly designed to malign PM Modi, but that’s another matter. The thing about Ramdev is that even when he is not doing, he is doing. He has promised an AIIMS-like institution, which he says will produce “ideal doctors”. His book Yog Sadhna va Yog Chikitsa Rahasya has found its way into the undergraduate philosophy curriculum of a university. And so on and so forth. The Delhi High Court rejected the Delhi Medical Association’s request to restrain Ramdev from making offensive remarks. It said, “Tomorrow, I may feel homeopathy is fake. It's an opinion. How can a suit be filed against it?” In the meantime, the second wave continues, 1.5 lakh deaths and counting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion||Sing me a song that isn’t too long||Someone is singing. But it is not one person’s singing. It is the singing of many persons, too many persons. It seems my country is singing in my ears. Or perhaps my ears are singing; that happens, your ears sing, they ring of imaginary singing and so when all is silent, all, even the sound of grass growing and the murmur of mynahs’ nestlings gathering fur and feather on their tawny membranes, at such times sometimes ears begin to sing. Or hear singing. It is the longing of ears that have heard no song. What is singing but a twist of the soul — a merry twist, a morose twist, or just a twist that is itself and wouldn’t tell its nature — and a strumming of the chords, the chords that are the carousels of all song. Singing is a different thing; you sing because speaking is no longer sufficient for what needs saying out. Souls sing, nothing else can, and when a soul is stirred it will most likely sing because nothing else will express its stirring. Ever heard raindrops kiss other raindrops and waltz with the wind as they plummet to certain death? They are singing. Ever heard a gust taking a tree in its clasp, its thudding velocity around the trunk, the frenzied creaking of branches, the pounding and pulling of leaves, the sound of that asunder dance, and the rustle and the whispering when the tempest is done and it is time to untangle and move on? That is song, a rhapsody of minors and majors, contralto and countertenors. Ever heard the sea’s salinity supping on sand, or snow cuddling into anything that will cuddle in return, the plop of a ripened leaf on water, the rush of a torrent rubbing on pebbles, the springing of lichen on rock, moisture tonguing down the throats of lilies arched with yearning? When plates shift in the planet’s belly and there’s a rumble, or when a volcano’s eye erupts, you hear percussion and you hear trumpets. It’s all song, and it gives on to greater song — of scared birds scattering, distant vulpine howling, penned cattle mewling, furtive felines caterwauling, frenzied ant-crawl, khar-khar-khar-khar, ripping earth and timber before anybody will notice, our petrified selves. Is this the end of the world? We wait upon it, we always have, upon the end. We wait upon the song, because in the end there will be singing. In the end there is always singing, in the end all that is left is song. We depart in crescendos of ascending, but we must await our turn to come to that final song. It makes a sound, orchestral sounds, when we merge with the elements we came from, from wind and earth, and sky and water and ether. You cannot imagine what that return to elemental things will sound like, but it will be a sound like no other because it will happen that one and only time. That sound will be like song, it will come drenched in ecstasy and tears. And when they merge with all of the rest, they make song, and we hear singing. There was song, there was always song. Even in the crying there was song, and from a distance it sounded like prayer, a song seeking the end of being unrequited, a song saying it wants to be heard before it is broken. There was a time we would often sing ourselves and listen to our song. Even with our distraught hearts because they were hearts. We had hearts. What we now have in that space we cannot be sure, but to be sure we sang like this, and heard songs like this, even with distraught hearts. Someone wrote, didn’t they? I purloin good things, you know that, I am a purveyor and purloiner, but I do say I purloined. This I purloined from I do not recall who, perhaps from Irshad. A. Irshad. Was someone. Is someone, lives on. Like this. Irshaad: Beqaraar dil yoon hi tu gaaye jaa Khushiyon se bhare ye taraane Jinhe sun ke duniyaa jhoom utthe Aur jhoom utthe dil deewaane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion|| Another New Deal||Over the last few decades, the US economy has been afflicted by an ailment — inequality. Not only is income inequality rising in the United States of America, it is also higher than in other advanced economies. Comparisons of income inequality across countries are often based on the Gini coefficient, which can take a value ranging from 0 to 1 — from perfect equality to complete inequality. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Gini coefficient in the US stood at 0.434 in 2017. This was higher than in any of the other G-7 countries, in which the Gini ranged from 0.326 in France to 0.392 in the United Kingdom, and closer to the level in India (0.495). Another way to interpret this statistic more starkly is to note that the wealth gap between America’s richest and poorer families more than doubled from 1989 to 2016. In 1989, the richest 5 per cent of families had 114 times as much wealth as families in the second quintile ($2.3 million compared with $20,300); by 2016, this ratio had increased to 248, a much sharper rise than the widening gap in income. The rise in economic inequality in the US is tied to several factors. These include, in no particular order, technological change, globalization, the decline of unions and the eroding value of the minimum wage. Whatever the causes, the uninterrupted increase in inequality since 1980 has caused concern among members of the public, researchers, policymakers and politicians. Why does inequality matter? One reason is that rising inequality may cause people in the lower rungs of the economic ladder to experience diminished economic opportunity and mobility, a phenomenon referred to as the Great Gatsby Curve. Others have highlighted inequality’s negative impact on the political influence of the disadvantaged, on geographic segregation by income, and on economic growth itself. In light of these headwinds caused by increasing inequality, it is heartening that the Joe Biden administration has — at last — taken it upon itself to make a course correction to this trend. Before analyzing what the current US government is doing, let me briefly look back on how the US came to this state. After World War II and the Great Depression, when the world economy was devastated, the US under the then president, Franklin D. Roosevelt, took an unprecedented policy initiative called ‘The New Deal’. The New Deal was a series of programmes to solve the problems caused by the Great Depression, including unemployment and agricultural overproduction. The most significant contribution of The New Deal was over the role of government. Should the government direct investment more actively? Should it redistribute far more money to the disadvantaged for the sake of common decency and to restore social cohesion? The New Deal was a set of domestic policies that dramatically expanded the federal government’s role in the economy in response to the Great Depression. The new administration’s first objective was to alleviate the suffering of the nation’s huge number of unemployed workers. Government agencies were established to dispense emergency and short-term governmental aid and to provide temporary jobs, employment on construction projects, and youth work in the national forests. The New Deal also tried to regulate the nation’s financial hierarchy in order to avoid a repetition of the stock market crash of 1929 and the massive bank failures that followed. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation granted government insurance for bank deposits in member banks of the Federal Reserve System and the Securities and Exchange Commission was formed to protect the investing public from fraudulent stock-market practices. Perhaps the most far-reaching programmes of the entire New Deal were the Social Security measures enacted in 1935 and 1939, providing old-age and widows’ benefits, unemployment compensation, and disability insurance. Maximum work hours and minimum wages were also set in certain industries in 1938. One could argue that this was a significant reason for America’s rise to an economic powerhouse after the devastation caused by the Great Depression. It was an all-encompassing set of policy initiatives, which addressed the inequality impact of unfettered capitalism. This trend started waning in the 1970s, given the intellectual influence of right-wing economists spearheaded by Milton Friedman. His influential economic paradigm criticizing the role of the government in economic policies was picked up by Ronald Reagan in the 1980s when he famously commented that the “government is not the solution to our problem, government is the problem”. This policy shift led to the lowering of taxes, removing government subsidies and welfare programmes which, in turn, created the basis of the rising inequality in the US. This general economic paradigm, with minor exceptions, has largely been the focus of US economic policy-making. But since the financial crisis of 2008, more and more Americans have concluded that the American system needs fundamental realignment. Republican and Democratic presidents, from Jimmy Carter through Barack Obama, worked within the parameters of the American system, but a new generation in the country, raised amid the financial crisis, wants to smash the ‘neoliberal consensus’. This intellectual shift in the Democratic Party — starting with the young but now encompassing most of the establishment — is what is driving Biden to do so much so fast, and it will continue to drive him throughout his presidency. One should view Biden’s policies in that backdrop. I shall mention three important aspects in which the Biden administration is trying to reverse the above trend of the last few decades. Given the impact of the current pandemic, he has undertaken two major initiatives in recent months which significantly brought the government to the rescue of the economy. On March 12, Biden signed a $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief act into law. Just 10 days later, he pushed a $2.3 trillion package of jobs, clean energy and infrastructure proposals. Very importantly, the infrastructure bill is to be paid for by raising the corporate tax rate from 21 per cent to 28 per cent, which would raise an estimated $2 trillion over 15 years and demonstrate to financial markets the intention to control the huge rise in government debt that is underway. The administration’s international economic plans are even bolder. They include measures to eliminate international tax havens, a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15 per cent to discourage companies from moving to countries where taxes are the lowest. Republicans are trying to stop the president from reversing the tax cuts for high earners and corporations in Donald Trump’s tax law. Currently these issues are being hotly debated in the US Senate and surely some of Biden’s measures will be hard to enforce but the intent is clear. The other important area where Biden has taken bold initiatives is on the role of the worker unions which has been argued as a major source of the rising inequality. Union membership has declined precipitously in the US and accounted for about 10.8 per cent of US employees last year, half the rate in 1983. Biden issued an executive order establishing the White House Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment, a move that aims to help unions expand their ranks. The White House also issued a fact sheet, saying that Biden’s proposed $2.3 trillion infrastructure plan would create many union jobs in construction, clean energy and other fields by, for instance, requiring companies that receive money under the legislation not to oppose unionization efforts. Biden has vigorously supported the Protecting the Right to Organize Act, the most pro-union legislation to advance in the Congress since the 1930s. Among other things, the ‘Pro Act’ would take away some of corporate America’s most effective tactics in fighting unionization and give state and local employees in all 50 states the right to unionize. In this way, Biden is undertaking an extraordinary effort to help reverse the decades-long decline in labour unions’ membership and power. Finally, Biden signed an executive order that requires federal contractors to pay a $15-an-hour minimum wage. Currently, the minimum wage for federal workers is $10.95 per hour and the tipped minimum wage is $7.65 per hour. The Minimum Wage legislation was started by Roosevelt in 1938 as part of the New Deal where he famously intended this rate to be “more than a bare subsistence level”. The minimum wage was created expressly to ensure that people of all skill-levels, if they worked, could “earn a decent living” off those wages — thus, a living wage. Over the last few decades, this has been a bone of contention and a serious political issue in the US. This ‘leftward’ shift of the Biden administration is very illuminating given it has implications for other world economies too, namely India, where inequality is currently one of the highest in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: virus and vocabulary||‘A’ for asymptomatic; ‘B’ for bath; ‘C’ for coronavirus — this may well be the way the generation learning to speak amidst the pandemic now reads alphabets. Since children’s brains are able to store fewer words than adults, they learn words that are spoken or repeated a lot around them. It is thus not surprising that reports from primary schools around the world show that words like ‘blackboard’, ‘school bus’ and ‘classroom’ have been replaced by ‘headphones’, ‘login’ and ‘mute’. Similarly, ‘apple’, ‘ball’ and ‘cat’ — the familiar A,B,C of English language — are giving way to such words as ‘mask’, ‘sanitizer’ and ‘quarantine’. It isn’t just vocabulary that is changing; pedagogical challenges are mutating as well. A recent survey of schools and parents, conducted by the Education Endowment Foundation, London, found that children who started school in 2020 needed more support learning than in previous years, with the greatest area of concern being communication and language development, in which 96 per cent of schools said they were either “very concerned” or “quite concerned”. An additional worry is the mask — not being able to see lips move during speech, combined with the warping effect that wearing a mask has on the sound produced, has made it difficult for children, nay, everyone, to understand what other people are saying. Historically, major events like natural disasters and war have influenced vocabulary in significant ways. Numerous studies from the 20th century show that World War II was a major inflection point for language change because, in contrast to the Covid-19 pandemic, it brought together people who would ordinarily not have had contact with one another — soldiers, women telephone operators and nurses from across continents. But what about a world — today’s world — where people are further apart from each other than ever before? The pandemic has helped besieged peoples navigate life and reality by giving a fresh lease of life to words like ‘pestilence’ as well as coining new words: ‘covidiots’ — their numbers are not insignificant in India — is one example. But it has also introduced barriers in the path of vocabulary and verbal interactions: the face mask and social distancing are impediments to fluent communication, thereby increasing human reliance on bodily gestures. Could visual — non-verbal — communication deepen the hold of image over text and, in turn, text over speech in society? Interestingly, one study has shown that online communication is making individuals miss prosodic cues integral to voice patterns that give meaning to sentences. While all languages are at risk, some are more at risk than others. The predominance of English — be it in pandemic-related medical information, official communication or the ubiquitous ‘qwerty’ keyboard — means that indigenous, localized dialects may soon find themselves on the edge of collective memory. Visual signs — be they physical or digital — are emerging as substitutes to make sense of words lost in translation. Lives and language seem to be in equal peril in this time of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
06-06-2021||Opinion||Why is Amit Shah lying low and who does Rahul follow on Twitter? ||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s defeat in the recent assembly elections in West Bengal was a major jolt for the entire sangh parivar. For the Union home minister, Amit Shah, however, it has been a personal blow, according to the buzz in the corridors of power. The impact has been visible, with Shah lying unusually low, even though more than a month has passed since the votes were counted. He attends virtual meetings where he is required to be present in his capacity as the home minister, and also participates in some party sessions. But the quintessential Shah — the leader who defends the government and takes on adversaries aggressively — is missing. While some have attributed Shah’s shift to the background to some health issues, the view held by most is that he is licking the wounds caused by the drubbing received at the hustings in Bengal. Shah had put his election management skills to use in the polls, hoping to project them as his victory. That hope was shattered. Uttar Pradesh and some other states are scheduled to go to the polls next year. Whispers in the party corridors have it that, this time round, Shah could be maintaining a safe distance. In politics, there is nothing exceptional about witnessing a storm in a teacup about irrelevant issues. Who Rahul Gandhi follows on Twitter became a hot topic of discussion this week after he unfollowed around 60 persons, including politicians and journalists. While there was never a policy or fixed yardstick for following a person, Rahul Gandhi following journalists who are known bhakts of Narendra Modi or bitter critics of the Congress was indeed frowned upon. Rahul unfollowed most of the journalists as well as some people who work in his office. There was input that some journalists whom he followed projected themselves as Rahul’s mentor and guide. The argument provided for the unfollowing was that there would be some application of mind regarding whom Rahul should follow, and that there was no need for him to follow those with whom he interacted daily. There was prompt clarification about the speculation that Rahul is angry with his close aides like Nikhil Alva, Kaushal Vidyarthee, Alankar Sawai and KB Byju who were unfollowed. But there is no logic behind who he is still following on Twitter. While veterans like Ahmed Patel, Tarun Gogoi and Somen Mitra — they have passed away — continue to be in the list, insiders still find it inexplicable that he follows many insignificant people in the party but not some important leaders. There are also a number of people who are genuinely surprised as to why this particular subject became a heavily-discussed topic as whom one follows on social media is a matter of personal choice. But others sarcastically wonder, what else is Congress politics beyond Twitter? Social media posters in the name of the Aam Aadmi Party praising the Hindutva ideologue, VD Savarkar, reportedly prompted the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to complain to the AAP leader and the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal. Two posters — one in the name of the AAP’s Ambedkar Nagar legislative assembly member, Ajay Dutt, and the constituency unit president, Ajay Shukla, and the other by its Trilokpuri unit functionary, A.K. Mandal — praised Savarkar on his 138th birth anniversary on May 28. Dutt has denied releasing the poster. The AAP MLA, Amanatullah Khan, who heads the city’s waqf board, tweeted a purported image of one of Savarkar’s mercy petitions to the British saying, “Veer Nahi, Maafi Veer”. Savarkar’s followers suffix ‘Veer’ before his name and Port Blair’s airport was renamed Veer Savarkar International Airport when Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government was in power in 2002. The Delhi state secretary of the CPI(M), KM Tiwari, demanded action against Dutt before the latter’s denial. Tiwari asked Kejriwal, “Will you call a man who spread communal venom as a social reformer... The role of an MLA — who quit your party and joined [the] BJP — in the North East Delhi riots is well known. The same Kapil Mishra tried to give a communal identity to the movement against the CAA and NRC in the city”. The newly-appointed chief minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, has ended speculation about the future of the man he replaced — Sarbananda Sonowal. According to Sarma, the BJP president, JP Nadda, during his meeting last month with both men in order to finalize who the new CM would be, said, “Himanta will be the chief minister for five years and Sonowal will be given new responsibility”. Sarma also told mediapersons during his first visit to Delhi after becoming CM — in what would be described as the smoothest power transition ever — that he was unaware of the role the ruling party has in mind for Sonowal, but he was sure that the BJP would use his experience as a Union minister and as a CM. Sonowal has remained quiet and calm since resigning, deflecting questions about his future with a straight ‘the party will decide’ answer. The party had not named a chief ministerial candidate before the polls because it had one in Sonowal, but it gave equal weightage to both during the campaign. BJP leaders held both Sonowal and Sarma capable of running an effective ‘double engine ka sarkar’ in Assam. It was a given that Sarma would be handsomely rewarded after the ruling coalition’s victory in the assembly polls. But Sonowal’s removal left many shocked, given his close ties with the prime minister and because he was the party’s face in the polls. But party insiders said that Sarma’s revelation in Delhi makes it clear that Sonowal is very much in the BJP’s scheme of things. His supporters can heave a sigh of relief. E Sreedharan, popularly known as ‘metroman,’ had joined the BJP but quietly withdrew to his home after he lost in his maiden attempt to enter the Kerala assembly. But the imbroglio in Lakshadweep off the Kerala coast, where Narendra Modi’s favourite minder, Praful Khoda Patel, rolled out several anti-people reforms, put Sreedharan back in the news. The BJP’s Lakshadweep unit apparently asked the Centre to replace Patel with Sreedharan as the administrator of the Union territory. Sreedharan had no idea about such a move, but many in the party felt it was time for him to be resurrected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
