07-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Silver lining||In a year when the Indian economy experienced an unprecedented contraction, agriculture grew at an impressive rate. In terms of gross value added, the economy contracted by 6.2 per cent; but agriculture grew at 3.6 per cent. Growth of 3.6 per cent would be considered very impressive even in a normal year: in the year of Covid-19, the figure is remarkable. A number of factors lie behind this piece of good news. The first is the benevolence of the weather gods. The monsoon was normal to above normal across the country. Second, an exemption was granted to this sector during the lockdown in 2020. Supply disruptions were minimal. There was no shortage of labour during the sowing season; reverse migration of many workers from urban areas helped matters. Government policies to procure more grains at minimum support prices also helped, as did cash transfers to farmers as part of the recovery package. A large infusion of incomes — about Rs 77.9 thousand crore in wages alone — from the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act provided adequate liquidity in the hands of rural people. However, the gains were not equal in all regions of India. They were also unequal across crops. Non-cereals like vegetables, fish and poultry did not benefit from procurement drives. The demand for these goods dropped as urban incomes fell. In the current year of Covid’s second wave, can agriculture save the economy again? There are some uncertainties that remain. Even though the predictions for this year’s monsoon are good, there are variables that cannot be known till the arrival of the rainy season. Another uncertainty concerns the fact that Covid-19 has adversely affected rural areas unlike the first wave. The extent of productivity loss is still unknown. Labour shortages, input price rise — like that of diesel — and unsold stocks from last year’s bumper harvest might contribute to reducing the sown areas. The trust deficit created between the farmers and the government following the protests over the controversial farm laws might also dent farmers’ confidence levels. However, the greatest uncertainty concerns the overall demand for agricultural goods, especially food. With 97 per cent of Indians having experienced a loss in income in the recent past, much remains to be seen what happens to agricultural prices. Global prices are high, hence exports can give a boost, but that may not be enough for agricultural growth to be sustained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
07-06-2021||Opinion||Break the chain: Kejriwal asks ration home delivery||Sir — The chief minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal, has rightly asked the Centre why it did not implement its plan to deliver ration to people’s doorsteps. All over the country, food delivery apps have been deemed essential service providers, but what about those who cannot afford such luxuries? Instead of people crowding outside ration shops for restricted slots of time, ration reaching their doorsteps will help break the chain of transmission. Jayanta Sil,Calcutta Help at hand Sir — It was heartening to know that the Andhra Pradesh government will bear the cost of treatment for a doctor who had contracted Covid-19 while on duty and now requires a lung transplant, which costs one and a half crore rupees. The government also promised that all those fighting Covid within the public healthcare system would get free treatment. The Central government should take a cue from this and extend free treatment at least to all frontline workers if they fall victim to the virus while discharging their duties. Providing them with insurance coverage and the assurance of free treatment will boost their morale. It is laudable that in a bleak situation where many healthcare workers have succumbed to the virus, thousands continue discharging their unenviable duties. All of them deserve more support than mere appreciation. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Stark picture Sir — The photograph of a boy collecting used PPE kits from a pile of garbage in the national capital which appeared in The Telegraph on June 5, World Environment Day, makes a shameful statement about the situation in the country. At a time when the country is getting ready to celebrate its 75th Independence Day next year and is going full steam ahead with the Central Vista project, the boy represents a rude reality where children have to collect discarded PPE kits to feed their families. These kits are highly infectious and it is protocol to destroy them immediately after use. But there is often widespread negligence on this front. Even though this picture speaks a thousand words, it is doubtful that it will open the eyes of the callous administration. Merely imposing lockdowns is not enough to check Covid-19. Jahar Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
07-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Bunglers||India’s vaccine policy, metaphorically speaking, has become a mirror that reflects several embedded iniquities. And none but the Narendra Modi government can claim credit for designing a flawed vaccine policy. The Supreme Court’s recent admonition of the Centre — it described the vaccine policy as “arbitrary” and “irrational” — needs to be examined in the context of the Centre’s lapses and — is this not shocking? — its stubborn refusal to order a course-correction on the matter. India’s highest court has red flagged some of the principal limitations of the vaccine regime, blowing to smithereens the Centre’s contentions in the process. For instance, the court has pointed out that citizens’ fundamental rights have been compromised on account of the Centre’s decision to allow the manufacturers of the vaccine to charge a higher rate from the states. That recipients in the age group of 18-44 are having to pay to purchase the doses, the court observed tersely, is equally discriminatory since a certain sum of money had been left aside in this year’s budgetary allocations for the purpose. The Centre’s contention that getting the states and private hospitals to purchase the vials would enhance competition and ultimately push down prices was also brought into question. The apex court also rejected the reasoning of the two vaccine manufacturers having the right to charge higher prices because they had borne the risk of manufacturing. The vaccine policy is also bedevilled by other issues. The rural-urban division is likely to worsen access to the vaccines. Already, there is data to suggest that nine private hospitals in metropolises have cornered 50 per cent of the stock meant for the entire private sector for May. Gender disparities have not been accounted for; high-risk groups in several states, especially those in the districts, are yet to be adequately immunized. The sorry picture that emerges on joining these dots is that the government seems to have encouraged an instrumental — mercenary? — attitude to dominate the distribution of a public good — medicines — at the time of a pandemic. What has compounded the problem further is its ad-hocism to confront a crisis of unprecedented magnitude. The absence of preparation and foresight on the part of the government has led to the loss of innumerable lives and devastated the economy. The political costs of such bungling, if India were to be lashed by a third wave, are likely to be considerable for the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
07-06-2021||Opinion||A Tale of two Heroic lives: Dr Wu Mengchao and Wang Shunyou||The rain didn’t deter the mourners from lining up to pay their respects. The funeral of Dr Wu Mengchao, who died last month at the age of 98, witnessed a display of public grief normally reserved for political leaders, film stars or sports legends. The ‘father of Chinese liver surgery’, who published the first Chinese liver surgery textbook and created China’s first anatomical models of liver arteries from ping-pong balls, was also an extraordinarily caring doctor. Before examining patients in winter, he would rub his hands to warm them up. He tucked in his patients after examining them, arranged their slippers so that they could step into them when they got out of bed, and ensured his treatment didn’t cost them a bomb. Healing touch Mentor to 80 per cent of China’s liver surgeons, the tiny doctor (he used a footstool while performing surgery) was a hero even in his youth. While in school in Malaysia, where his parents had migrated as rubber workers, he sent the money collected for an annual party to the People’s Liberation Army, receiving an appreciation letter in Mao’s name. At 18, he left his family to join the Liberation war but, unable to make it to Yan’an, the Communists’ base, he decided to study medicine, a decision spurred on by encounters with foreigners who sneered at China’s ability to achieve any medical advancement. More than 60 years as a surgeon had left his feet and hands deformed, yet he worked till the age of 97. His hands sometimes shook — but once the scalpel was in his hands, they remained steady. At the age of 91, he operated upon a 90-year-old patient, removing her tumour in just nine minutes. Thanks to him, Shanghai has the world’s biggest liver cancer research centre. A Chinese Communist Party member till his death, “L’Internationale” was played at his funeral. Without pause Another passing last month didn’t see a huge public turnout, but Wang Shunyou was no less a people’s hero. He died aged 56 in a remote Sichuan county, where he had delivered mail for the last 36 years with 100 per cent accuracy. His beat took him through mountains and forests, paths which his father too had traversed as a postman, that could only be navigated by following the footprints made by his mule. Wang spent just 30 days a year at home; for the rest, he was out in the open, in nights so dark “you couldn’t see your hand in front of you’’; so silent that all you heard was the howling of the wind and of wolves. The longest he spent with his wife was three days when she was hospitalized. Wang himself had to be hospitalized when his mule, startled by a pheasant, kicked him in the stomach. Instead of rushing to the nearest doctor, Wang finished delivering his consignment, and went to hospital nine days later, to be told that he’d suffered a stomach haemorrhage. For the mountain-dwellers, Wang was a welcome surprise guest. Making light of his effort of wading through landslides to deliver college admission notices to two schoolgirls, he said he could never forget the expression in their eyes when they received them. Wang’s services didn’t go unrecognized: he was chosen to be part of the 2008 Olympics torch relay, and has inspired the film, A Postman in Shangri-La. The CCP is currently projecting heroes as part of its centenary celebrations. Wu Mengchao and Wang Shunyou, who spent their lives “serving the people’’, certainly qualify as Communist heroes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
07-06-2021||Opinion||The holes in the vaccine policy||The first phase of India’s Covid-19 mass vaccination programme was launched with healthcare professionals and other frontline workers on January 16, 2021. The second phase began on March 1; it was meant for people above 60 and those over 45 with certain comorbidities. The immunization coverage was expanded on April 1 to cover everyone aged 45 and above. The Centre began the third phase on May 1, opening it to those above 18 years. While the vaccines would be provided free of cost to those above 45 at government vaccination centres, all adults would now have the option of purchasing them from private facilities. It is worth noting that amidst a severe shortage of vaccines, the government decided to decentralize its vaccine procurement policy by limiting its purchase to only 50 per cent of the monthly production of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, whereas states and private hospitals were told to purchase the doses directly from the vaccine manufacturers. The question is where are the doses going to come from? Due to persistent supply issues, many are returning home without receiving a shot. One, therefore, has to ask why the demand for vaccines was accelerated? Those over 60 continue to be most at risk of dying or becoming seriously ill from Covid-19, followed by older adults (45-60 years) with chronic diseases, such as heart ailments. As the pandemic remains in its most virulent phase, immunizing these people first would have averted the surge in hospitalizations and deaths. Yet, the average daily vaccination rate slumped by 11 per cent between April and May, even though more than 20 million low-risk, young people (18-44 years) were given jabs in the last one month. Consequently, the share of the elderly in Covid-19 vaccination fell sharply, from 42 per cent on April 30 to 12 per cent on May 20. The opening up of the vaccine campaign to all adults has shifted the vaccine doses meant for healthcare workers, older people and other at-risk groups, thereby contributing to thousands of Covid-19 deaths. The point to be noted is that the majority of the people in the 18-44 age bracket received expensive jabs from private hospitals, while the states are struggling to procure the required vaccines for the priority groups. The Centre claims that its vaccine policy has been designed to ensure equitable distribution. However, an examination of the Covid-19 vaccination status among states and within the same state gives us a different narrative of equity. There is an almost 12-fold difference in the Covid-19 reported disease burden rate among the states, with Kerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka having the highest rates, and Bihar and Uttar Pradesh the lowest rates. Yet, less than 12 per cent of Maharashtra’s high-risk population has been fully immunized. The vaccine situation is worse in Tamil Nadu, with a mere full immunization rate of 7.6 per cent. Unsurprisingly, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh recorded the lowest full inoculation rate (6.8 per cent) among the needy. At the other end of the spectrum are Uttarakhand (24 per cent), Gujarat (21 per cent) and Himachal Pradesh (19 per cent), which have fully immunized about a fifth or more of their most vulnerable groups. However, observing the Covid inoculation coverage by states provides us a limited glimpse of the problem of vaccine inequity. In order to get a better understanding of the story, we need to dig a bit deeper. A worrying feature of the second wave is the surge in coronavirus infections and deaths in rural India. Yet, the immunization coverage remains very low in India’s rural districts. Statistics support this. While more than a third of Calcutta’s vulnerable population was either partially or fully vaccinated by May 20, their counterparts in Jhargram were not as lucky. Jhargram, a rural district of Bengal with a sizeable tribal population, immunized about 7 per cent of its high-risk population. The low inoculation rate in Jhargram can be attributed to either vaccine hesitancy or shortage. Aside from the glaring disparities in access to Covid-19 vaccines across states and between rural and urban areas, the vaccination rate also reveals a sharp gender gap. As of June 1, just 867 women were inoculated per every 1,000 vaccinated men despite the fact that mortality risk from Covid-19 is much higher in women than in men in India. The low vaccination rate is possibly one of the reasons for the ‘Indian enigma’ of relatively higher mortality in women. This was very much predictable, given that South Asia has a disconcerting record of female discrimination; what is surprising is that nothing was done to address the implications of gender bias. Instead of being gender-neutral, the vaccine policy should have been gender-sensitive and equity-focused, which would have lessened the impact of structural inequities. Rather than prioritizing who receives the scarce vaccines, in reality, access to Covid-19 vaccination is increasingly being determined by socio-economic status, with very low coverage in rural areas and among females and disadvantaged urban populations. The vaccine inequities would exacerbate and contribute to thousands of deaths. The Union government must review the vaccine policy and take measures, including 100 per cent centralized procurement of vaccines manufactured in India, patent waiver and technology transfer for the manufacturing of additional doses. Soumitra Ghosh is Associate Professor, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
07-06-2021||Opinion||Memories lost||Perception (pratyaksha) and inference (anumana), two essential parts of Indian epistemology, can be used, with a little tweaking, to understand the pandemic. Inferences from memories of previous pandemics could guide our perception or experience and help formulate systematic methods to deal with the first wave. Subsequently, our experience of the first wave can help us draw inferences about the second wave and equip us to circumvent further suffering and tragedy; just as T-cells with memories of the viral antigen have a better chance of producing antibodies to fight the virus, societies with memories of previous pandemics are better prepared to deal with future occurrences. Social memories, like T-cells, can equip people to quickly recognize new attacks and take the necessary steps to protect themselves. However, modern societies that privilege the first-person experience are not strong when it comes to memories and therefore fail to draw inferences and learn from experience. Recounting such memories does not figure in today’s storytelling or history books. An existing foundation of knowledge gleaned from past public health crises can considerably decrease the burden of research and development and increase the efficiency and efficacy of our response. But like cells without memories, we too have to start afresh, after the virus has already entered inside. Now let me discuss how the experiences of the first wave could have helped avert the impending dangers of the second wave. Economic stress, suffering due to job loss and the excruciating pain of the migrant workers notwithstanding, India managed to survive the first wave without the extensive damage predicted by experts. On the contrary, developed countries like Italy and the United States of America fared quite badly in spite of superior health facilities. India enforced a strict lockdown on all activities except essential services. Even private medical practice, which forms more than 80 per cent of the Indian health infrastructure, was mostly shut down. Simultaneously, the government started reviving existing government hospitals, scaling up pharmaceutical production, and producing masks, sanitizers, testing and PPE kits, and ventilators. India scaled up its testing capacity from a few labs to thousands across the country. Both medical and non-medical personnel — including doctors, nurses, other healthcare staff and frontline workers, sanitation workers, police, and government servants — have worked tirelessly and efficiently. This helped save and protect lives and averted a major catastrophe. Behind this achievement also lie consistency and clarity of messaging and action, which provided moral strength to the mammoth programme. The direct experience of the first wave should have equipped India with the proper inferences to prepare for the second wave. Instead, India found itself in the middle of an immense tragedy. There was a sudden surge in the number of cases, not sparing the villages this time. Many died and continue to die of respiratory problems and owing to the non-availability of oxygen. If the experience of the first wave had been effectively utilized by both the government and society to make proper inferences, we could have avoided the disastrous outcome of the second wave. Although there was clarity regarding essential services and non-essential activities during the initial lockdown, this started waning subsequently. We saw varying reactions post lockdown. While some seemed overly cautious and remained at home, others slowly started on the path to normalcy, like recovering patients, still adhering to strict protection protocol. There was, however, a considerable section that went back to leading life as it was pre-pandemic, with a reckless disregard for any safety guidelines. It is this last group that failed to distinguish between normal life and an emergency. They displayed courage when the need of the hour is to be careful. They treated the lockdown like a weekend break and the post-lockdown period like a return to work and regular life as they would have done on a normal Monday in pre-pandemic times. However, while they thought they were playing a one-day cricket match, the virus soon reminded everyone that it was a much longer Test match with a cruel second innings. Once lockdown restrictions eased, people needed to get back to work, especially those in the informal sector, as their livelihood had been severely affected. Other activities, including elections, religious congregations like the Kumbh Mela, film shoots, IPL matches, functions, parties and so on, should have been considered non-essential and either been cancelled or postponed. On the contrary, these created a deceptive notion of normalcy. Developing vaccines furthered this feeling and people let down their guard. This sudden move from emergency mode to regular life set a dangerous precedent and kick-started a long chain of events. Once this process began, it was difficult to stop or reverse it even when one realized the impending danger. Therefore, instead of retracing one’s steps, one continued. Politicians justified holding elections and campaigning at mass rallies, arguing that states that had not had elections showed a significant spike in cases. The same reasoning was cited by others who held large events. Both government and civil society could have made inferences about the impending second wave. The government should have undertaken measures to vaccinate everyone. This is in spite of both the tricky and the risky nature of vaccinating the entire population in a short period of a few months or years. Politicians, religious leaders, and celebrities should have imposed self-lockdowns with the following message: “I/We will not participate if it results in crowding.” This gesture would have had a powerful symbolic impact, set an example, and reduced a lot of suffering and tragedy. Both birth and death elude the first-person experience. We hear about our birth from others, and we are not present after death to relate the experience. However, witnessing the intense suffering of people before they succumbed gave us, in varying degrees, an unforgettable experience, as close to a first-person encounter as possible. Although there is little we can do about the metaphysics of mortality, studying the epistemological and moral aspects can surely help reduce avoidable suffering. Without extending and regulating social welfare schemes, numerous people would have starved during the pandemic. Along the same lines, it is time to make concerted efforts to attend to health facilities, especially in the villages, thus ensuring a healthy India. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology,Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
