08-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unfair game||Breaking through the hardened cast of patriarchal values is not easy, so it is heartening every time a court ruling makes a dent in it. The Punjab and Haryana High Court said recently that an extramarital affair could not be a ground to assume that a woman would be a bad mother. The court was ruling on a habeas corpus petition filed by a woman who claimed that her estranged husband had taken their four-and-a-half year-old daughter away from her. The couple, who lived in Australia, had differences and the child was allegedly taken away when the mother had gone to see her parents while on a visit to India. The husband claimed that his wife had an extramarital affair, but gave no evidence to support this. The high court, however, reportedly made two points that went to the root of society’s misogynistic assumptions. First, it said that casting aspersions on the moral character of a woman was fairly common in a patriarchal system, and, more often than not, these allegations were without basis. This statement exposed the institutionalized gender inequality that is so ingrained as to be invisible. The ‘moral character’ of a woman, or her ‘purity’, is made central to the concept of family ‘honour’ in order to exert control over women’s autonomy and sexuality. Men’s ‘purity’ though, is an unfamiliar concept. Once a woman is accused of an extramarital affair, she can be shown as ‘fallen’ and undeserving. The high court’s second point shattered this assumption too: even if a woman was in or had had an extramarital affair, it did not make her a bad mother. The judgment made the child’s need a priority. The high court ordered that the little girl be given to the mother, since a mother’s love and guidance was needed in a child’s formative years. An unsubstantiated allegation of an extramarital affair — there was no evidence suggesting the woman’s unfitness as mother — was not enough for the court to deny the woman custody. It was in opposition to a value system that expected an allegation of ‘unfaithfulness’ to be enough to condemn a woman whole that the high court insisted on her independent role as mother and, by implication, her importance as a social being contributing to the healthy growth of society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||Answers needed: SC reprimands Centre's jab policy||Sir — The Supreme Court has rightly reprimanded the Centre for its policy of giving free vaccination to people above 45 years of age and having a paid system for the rest, calling it “prima facie arbitrary and irrational” (“Bunglers”, June 7). Flagging several other problems, the court has asked the Centre to review its vaccination policy. Bringing up the issue of differential pricing, the apex court directed the Centre to submit a comparison of the prices of vaccines available in India to their international prices. In most countries, vaccines are procured by the governments and distributed to the people free of cost while in India, people aged between 18-44 are paying record prices for vaccines. The court has asked for dates of the procurement orders of all vaccines — Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V — the number of doses ordered and the projected date of supply. Under the current vaccine policy, states can buy up to 50 per cent of their vaccine requirements from manufacturers but are paying a much higher price than the Centre. The private hospitals are being charged even more. The discrepancy has led to many demanding an even vaccination policy. The Centre must reveal its reasons for refusing to implement a universal free vaccination programme in spite of setting aside a substantial amount for the purpose. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The differential pricing of vaccine doses adopted by the Centre is unfair. It is also morally wrong to burden the cash-strapped state governments even further by forcing them to procure coronavirus vaccines at a higher price. Thus, the directive of the Supreme Court asking the Centre to re-evaluate its vaccine policy is welcome. The government must prioritize the well-being of the people and vaccinate all citizens free of cost. By furnishing the details of the expenditure from the Rs 35,000 crore earmarked in the Union budget for the procurement of vaccines as directed by the top court, the government can validate its claim that it has nothing to hide. The government should also review the mandatory registration on the CoWIN app for booking slots for jabs and put in place more viable options to avoid exclusion. We expect and hope that the government will abide by the wisdom of the Supreme Court. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Take note Sir — With regional lockdowns being imposed across India, supply chains have been immensely disrupted. The price of onions and other vegetables that are grown in other parts of the country have been steadily rising in Bengal. The increase has been attributed to the delay in transportation as well as a hike in diesel prices. There is an immediate need for the government to regulate the prices of basic food items. If food prices continue to increase, many would be left with no choice but to starve. Abhra Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Two views||The slide continues. The State of India’s Environment 2021 report, which assessed 17 crucial Sustainable Development Goals for 193 countries, has found that India has slipped two places to occupy a pitiful rank of 117 this year. The SDGs were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 to serve as a universal call to action for governments, big businesses and civil society in order to ensure the protection of the planet and provide a life of dignity for all people by the year, 2030. These targets not only recognize that forward movement in one area affects outcomes in others — be they social, economic or environmental sustainability — but also serve as important parameters for assessing the progress made by nations on each of these fronts. Curiously, it appears that appraisals of the same subject need not correspond with one another. For instance, the State of India’s Environment report says that India’s poor performance can be largely attributed to worsening hunger and food security (SDG 2), gender inequality (SDG 5) and the failure to build resilient infrastructure, among other lapses. Strangely, while acknowledging the deficiencies in some of these areas, the third edition of the Niti Aayog’s 2020-21 index on India’s progress on its SDGs speaks, a wee bit cheerfully, of the strides taken in such areas as health, clean energy and urban development. But naysayers have reason to believe that there is more than what meets the eye in this analysis. For example, the Niti Aayog’s register has spotted an improvement in the SDG on inequality over 2019. This perhaps has been possible on account of a shift in methodological goalposts that arguably led to the elimination of several key economic indicators, such as the Gini coefficient that measures the distribution of income, and the growth rate for per capita household expenditure among 40 per cent of rural and urban populations. The dropping of these parameters is likely to provide a skewed picture of wealth inequality in India at a time when such disparities are rising owing to the pandemic. There are, admittedly, points of convergence between the two reports. Among these are the uneven performances of different states on similar parameters. Kerala and Himachal Pradesh have been the consistent performers, with Bihar and Jharkhand bringing up the rear. These stark disparities point to large gaps in governance and investments and the anomalies must be addressed. As such, the unfavourable performances of a handful of states could impede the progress and even the future of India’s federal architecture. The Centre must work in tandem with the worse-off states to help them meet the goals and bridge these yawning gaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||Covid deaths: Skeletons tumble out||India is in the global news because of the ubiquitous visuals of burning pyres of the victims of Covid-19. To conceal the extent of the crisis, this authoritative government and its institutions are exploring every possible avenue to make invisible the vignettes of overwhelmed hospitals, suffering and death. Can the smoke from the funeral pyres be kept away from the public gaze? Can the unreported deaths be obliterated from the memory of the surviving family members? The history of famines, wars, riots, epidemics and diseases is not unknown to us. The last famine in British India — the great Bengal famine of 1943 — had an ‘official’ death count ranging from 1,000 to 38,000 per week at its peak depending upon the choice of the source and the methodology. The Famine Inquiry Commission’s somewhat arbitrary number of famine and epidemic related mortality toll was about 1.5 million. Even though the famine subsided, the search for the causes and precise estimates of deaths had not. Soon after the famine, a rigorous academic debate followed. In February 1944, the department of Anthropology, University of Calcutta, brought out sample-survey-based mortality statistics covering the period around the peak of the famine in June-December 1943. The Famine Inquiry Commission had concluded that a serious shortage of food, especially rice, was the primary cause of the famine; it took decades for this dominant ‘official’ view to be disproved by Amartya Sen in the 1970s. Sen’s widely accepted estimate was 3.048 million deaths in the Bengal famine. The Famine Inquiry Commission not only misinterpreted the causes of the famine but also underestimated its death toll by 1.5 million. The British could not escape from public scrutiny; can the Narendra Modi government’s lapses in the management of the pandemic be erased from history? Such endeavours of finding the truth did not necessarily come from the government presiding over a crisis. The academia, the press, archives, surveys and the writings of authors who had lived through these events proved to be invaluable sources. Political control over data collection and sharing might favour the incumbent government for the time being but it cannot absolve its complicity from annals. For instance, censorship during the Spanish Flu could not quite hide the skeletons in the closet. Not just credible epidemiological and public health studies that are being used to create advance models to predict Covid infections and deaths but also unconventional sources, such as records from crematoriums, graveyards as well as obituary pages in newspapers would serve as critical sources to gauge Covid’s decimation in cities and towns. The accuracy of the data can be debated. But can the government stop the truth from coming out in the future? Even a population census would enumerate the number of Covid deaths and their patterns across states, caste, class, occupation, gender, age and so on. It is impossible to obliterate the truth from history. The results of the assembly elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu as well as the outcome of the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh suggest that citizens are registering their resentment against the Modi government in New Delhi. This government will not be able to save its face from history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||Preparing for stormy weather||Gujarat recently experienced the most powerful cyclonic storm after 1998. Cyclone Tauktae caused widespread destruction of private and public assets, uprooting electricity poles and trees, damaging agricultural crops and houses, in addition to causing human fatalities. RMSI, a consultancy firm working in the catastrophe risk management area, has estimated the damage to be worth around Rs 7,500 crore in Gujarat and Daman & Diu. The figure is four times higher than the cost incurred during the 1998 cyclone. Tauktae inflicted similar damages in Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, and Maharashtra. According to the preliminary reports, the highest fatalities occurred in Gujarat (53) followed by Maharashtra (16), Karnataka (8) and Goa (3). India’s geo-climatic conditions, coastal erosion, and socio-economic vulnerabilities are responsible for the rise in the frequency of cyclones and the damages they are causing across India’s coastal states. Around 75.83 per cent of the country’s total coastline is exposed to cyclones and tsunamis, and 14.2 per cent of the population in 66 coastal districts in 13 coastal states/Union territories is vulnerable to the fury of cyclones. An earlier report published by the World Bank and the United Nations estimated that around 200 million residents would be exposed to storms and earthquakes by 2050 in India. According to a report by the Odisha government titled “Memorandum: Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm ‘Fani’”, 2019, around 7 per cent of the world’s cyclones originate in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea, with their impact being relatively higher when they make landfall in the area of North Bay of Bengal. The report also confirms that India experienced a total of 359 cyclones over the period, 1891-2000. Around 98 cyclones made landfall in Odisha’s coastal zone which is the highest landfall experienced by states. Odisha was followed by Andhra Pradesh (79), West Bengal (69), Tamil Nadu (62), Gujarat (28), Maharashtra and Goa (18), Kerala (3) and Karnataka (2). In 2019, India was ranked the seventh most vulnerable country globally in the overall Global Climate Risk Index. Worryingly, India also ranked first in terms of deaths and economic losses due to extreme weather-related events. India lost 2,267 human lives and incurred damages worth US $68,812 million in PPP terms in 2019. Among all the natural disasters occurring in India, cyclones are the second-most frequent and lethal after floods. According to the ministry of earth science, out of every five cyclones developing over the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea, three or four make landfall on the Indian coast, causing enormous destruction to life and property. Between 1999 and 2020, India experienced 37 cyclones, which saw 12,510 humans losing their lives and 73 million being adversely affected. The damages to public infrastructure and private property stood at around US $3,111 million (EM-DAT). The frequency of cyclones increases the financial pressure on the government on account of expenditures incurred by way of rehabilitation and mitigation. During this period, India lost around 1.8 per cent of its gross domestic product and 12 per cent of Central government revenue to cyclones. Over the years, human fatality has declined significantly due to the upgradation of early warning systems and the construction of flood and cyclone shelters in low-lying areas. Evacuation measures along with effective disaster mitigation have helped minimize loss of lives. Additionally, there is better coordination between the Centre and the states; social media also plays a critical role in spreading awareness about the impact of cyclones. However, government preparedness and improved warning systems are still not adequate to prevent the loss of property and lives. The government has adopted a long-term disaster management policy, which is aimed at improving warning systems, constructing cyclone shelters, linking roads connected to cyclone shelters, building or renovating saline embankments, and providing pucca houses to eligible beneficiaries, especially those living in vulnerable coastal areas. Enhanced coverage of shelter-belt plantation and the regeneration of mangroves have, to some extent, diminished the impact of cyclones. The government must adopt a zero-fatality approach to minimize damages from cyclones by modernizing disaster management mechanisms and making greater investments in cyclone risk mitigation infrastructure. Finally, a larger number of coastal districts should be brought under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project, a flagship programme of the Government of India on cyclone risk mitigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
08-06-2021||Opinion||The time is now||March, April and May were awful, stressful months for most of us in West Bengal. We are still not out of the woods yet with the ongoing pandemic and the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas. But the three previous months were marked by a cascade of anxieties and anticipatory dread. In March, the alarm bells already started to ping from the north and the west of the country indicating that the Covid monster hadn’t gone anywhere, with millions encouraged to gather for the wrong-time Kumbh. By the beginning of April, Bengal was firmly in the throes of the cyclical low-level civil war that we call state assembly elections, even as Covid-hell descended upon Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. For those of us who see this BJP-RSS regime as the worst disaster to befall independent India, the fear was refracted multiply— if the pandemic didn’t destroy West Bengal, the Hindutva pestilence would, or vice versa. If all this wasn’t bad enough, May brought jitters about a possible post-election infection spike followed by the approaching cyclone, triggering memories of last year’s Amphan. One is still not clear about how badly the second wave has hit the state, but it seems that we have so far avoided the fate of Delhi, Lucknow, Kanpur, Ahmedabad and Bangalore, not to mention the pandemic-beleaguered but better-governed Bombay and Maharashtra. Those of us hopeful about a cessation of hostilities post the TMC’s resounding election victory would have been disappointed with the BJP-RSS’s continuing shenanigans and blatant misuse of official levers, while the rest of us might have just been dismayed and disgusted while remaining unsurprised. A few weeks ago, this column had argued that Bengal has a gravitational pull that can dismantle the strongest imperial designs of those ruling from Delhi. If that was framed as a cautionary observation prior to an unknown election result, perhaps now is not too early to put forward the same idea from a more positive angle. A new politics is desperately needed in the country, one which is inclusive of the most disadvantaged people and which is rooted in the daily practice of a genuine, transparent, fearless democracy. The regime that now squats astride Lutyens’ Delhi has shown itself to be the implacable enemy of these ideas. Having emerged still standing from a horrendously attritional election battle, Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress now have a golden opportunity to lead by example and put into motion a transformative politics, first in the state and then as a major component of the desperately-needed alternative in the national arena. What exactly would this entail? The word, ‘introspection’, has been misused by Indian politicians for decades now, but if ever there was a time for Ms Banerjee and her party high command to engage in a humble, truthful, no-holds-barred self-examination, it is now. The TMC has to make sure it does not repeat the blunders and missteps, the worst patterns and tendencies of the last 10 years. The challenge before Mamata Banerjee is that she has to forge a clear, perceptible difference between her ways of governance and those of Messrs Modi & Shah. For this, she will have to jettison anything even faintly resembling nepotism. Narendra Modi’s one-man-show and personality cult are leading the country down a hole; therefore, Mamata Banerjee must encourage a broad-based leadership model rather than one based on a personality cult; she must give younger leaders (who are not close relatives) the chance and space to prove themselves and to shine. If the BJP-RSS have taken corruption through a warp-zone into another dimension, the TMC will need to counter the now widely accepted perception of the venality of its second- and third-tier leadership. It will also have to strictly avoid pandering to religious leaders, whether mullah or panda. The TMC’s rule has been marked by an unfortunate inversion: it has rushed in and taken risks where wiser counsel should have prevailed, and it has been timid, risk-averse and business-as-usual where it should have been more bold. For instance, it is clear now that the ruthless uprooting of all Opposition in the state was a terrible idea, leaving us exposed to the point where the rootless BJP-RSS became the only Opposition in the assembly. Likewise, the attack on all critics of the party, the mauling and undermining of Jadavpur University, the free rein given to local thuggery as long as the thugs were TMC supporters, were all morally insupportable as well as tactically foolhardy. There have been course corrections over the years and there has been the delivery of some much-needed welfare programmes, but now Ms Banerjee and the TMC must dare to imagine a new West Bengal and work to turn that imagination into actual realization. It’s heartening to see the state government offering priority vaccinations to those working on the street, whether thhela-wallas, food-stall people or sex workers. This is only sensible but also shows common sense that is rare in our country’s politicians today. Similar rational, positive yet out-of-the-box decisions need to be taken across different areas of governance. Covid has battered the economy across the country but perhaps West Bengal is best placed to recover from the blows, especially if the idea of recovery is delinked from unsustainable fantasies of ‘growth’ and unfettered industrialization. Perhaps it is from here that India can recognize the dangers of lusting after a transformation into South Korea or Singapore, or the obscenity of speaking about a ‘five trillion dollar economy’ or the lunacy of planning a hundred robotized, dehumanized ‘smart cities’. We need a different model of a sustainable economy, or perhaps a network of local economies which complement each other while striving to minimize the cost to our fragile environment. This network of economies would need to be built around an armature of democracy and freedom of speech, around proper education and public healthcare, around social, economic and environmental justice. For this, several old definitions will have to be replaced by new ones. We will need to reimagine what culture means, reformulate the relationship between the city and the rural, recalibrate the priorities between different economic classes. It’s a tall order and it won’t be anywhere near complete in the three years till the next Lok Sabha elections, or even in the five years till the next state assembly polls come around. But there is the mandate — and time enough — for Mamata Banerjee and her diverse advisers to gear up this new Bengal into full momentum if they so choose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
