09-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wider view||Any institution that represents India’s diversity would be perceived in a positive light. Therefore, reports that the Supreme Court collegium is considering a reform of the appointment process in order to bring in more members of the scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, other backward classes, minorities and women as judges suggest a forward-looking change. Not that there have not been senior judges, even chief justices of India, from the largest minority community, but the presence of judges from all these groups in high courts and the Supreme Court is undeniably sparse. The Supreme Court has never had a woman chief justice or a chief justice from other minority communities. Just before N.V. Ramana was appointed Chief Justice of India, the Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association had applied to the Supreme Court for more women judges at all levels. The country’s justice institutions have no gender parity. Bar associations have also been demanding that the higher judiciary be made more inclusive. The CJI has reportedly expressed the need to include members of marginalized groups in the judiciary so that courts reflect the vast diversity of the country. Since there is no Constitutional or legislative mandate in courts equivalent to reservations, such a reform would be voluntary. It would be in line with the CJI’s ideas about modernization and the need to improve judicial infrastructure in the pursuit of access to justice and speedy justice that he had mentioned before his present appointment. His vision of sustainable and inclusive modernization includes courtrooms with disabled-friendly arrangements, waiting areas, washrooms and crèches. The most disadvantaged citizen should be able to approach the courts in a ‘barrier free-citizen friendly environment’. An inclusive judiciary would be necessary for this. No doubt the wisdom of the high court collegiums, which will recommend the names for appointment, and of the Supreme Court collegium that will select from them will put merit above all else. Merit was emphasized in the women lawyers’ application, and the Bar associations have been asking that advocates ‘of standing’ who have been practising for 10 years be considered as judges. Inclusiveness with merit, therefore, would be ideal for future appointments. The widening of the ambit for appointments may also speed up the process of filling the vacancies in judges’ posts and help in the faster delivery of justice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
09-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: About-turn||‘Course correction’, as the Centre has done now with its vaccination policy, is, effectively, another term for the Narendra Modi government owning up — belatedly and in a convoluted language — to its own incompetencies. In an address to the nation, the prime minister announced several significant and necessary changes to the public vaccination campaign against Covid-19. As is often the case in politics, the timing of Mr Modi’s address let the proverbial cat out of the bag. The changes were made following persistent demands by leaders of the Opposition for the Centre to alter course. Recently, the government was also rapped on its knuckles by no less than the Supreme Court, which described the vaccination policy to be “arbitrary and irrational”. However, what may have prompted Mr Modi to act — finally — on sane advice are the political murmurs from the ground. The immense suffering that India has had to endure on account of the combined onslaught of a vicious second wave of the virus and the Centre’s vacuous, inept and discriminatory vaccination plan is quite likely to have political consequences. Having been routed in Bengal, there are murmurs that the Bharatiya Janata Party is nervous about the outcome of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, which is among the five states that go to elections next year. The BJP’s discouraging performance in the local polls in the state shows that the concern is not unwarranted. Some of the changes to the vaccination programme are, evidently, attempts to blunt the charges of arbitrariness and discrimination. For instance, the Centre has decided to acquire 75 per cent of all the vaccines being manufactured and distribute them free of cost to the states. It has also done away with the price differences among different groups of recipients. But more needs to be done. The pace of vaccination and the paucity of vaccines remain areas of serious concern. There was nothing in Mr Modi’s address that would assure the nation that these deficiencies would be addressed. Neither did the prime minister discuss the emerging fault lines in vaccination pertaining to gender disparities, rural-urban inequalities as well as the exclusion that has been brought about by the requirement of mandatory digital registration for vaccination. Mr Modi, characteristically, tried to shift the blame for the vaccine debacle on to the Opposition and the states, but this argument is unlikely to cut much ice. The real blame lies with the Centre’s hubris, inefficiency and its slack of empathy for the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
09-06-2021||Opinion||Equality does not lie in uniformity||A school presents a myriad opportunities to observe human behaviour. And if we have been around long enough, it also affords us time to understand the outcome of the education we impart. Human nature in all its manifestations — raw ambition, deep disappointment, the joy (and sometimes, the smugness) of achievement, the humiliation of defeat and the triumph of victory — can be seen in the children in our care. These children also display an impressive array of talents which we try to enhance. But the broader question of whether our school system is producing the same kind of minds without giving enough scope to children to develop individuality or originality has been raised powerfully by thinkers like the late Ken Robinson. It is imperative that we in India pay more attention to this aspect of schooling, especially in view of the current attempt to make our country ‘uniform’. The growing obsession in India with wanting to be ‘one nation’ has many implications. If we are ‘one country’, we must have one election, one tax, one religion, one language and so on. This trend set me thinking about ‘uniformity’ and ‘conformity’ in school apart from the tired ‘one-size-fits-all’ testing system which needs a drastic overhaul anyway. Uniformity in everything produces a sameness which is boring, and soul-killing when overdone. Beyond a point, the compulsion to conform cripples one’s individual freedom. Everybody appreciates the need for both uniformity and conformity in order to maintain some standard of equality in a democratic setting and a reasonable level of discipline and order in civilized society. The trouble starts when there is too much regimentation and one’s personal freedom is irrationally impinged upon, especially when the authorities insist that only a specific culture or a particular way of thinking is acceptable. These prescriptions stifle the atmosphere and soon free expression, creativity, innovation and bold experimentation become casualties. Just as conformity is necessary to maintain law and order in society, in school it is needed to discipline the hundreds of students who enter its gates every day. Without discipline, the teaching-learning process itself cannot be put in motion. But students are required to conform in many ways. They must be in school uniform within the school premises, follow certain norms of the institution and observe the rules and regulations that are laid down. Unsurprisingly, obedience in students is highly valued by most teachers and unfortunately, many want them to be passive in the classroom and preferably not ask too many questions. Thus, the teacher’s life is made easier and it is these ‘quiet and obedient’ students who are usually rewarded with good conduct prizes. The ‘non-conformists’ are the ones who are labelled ‘troublemakers’ and  often punished for daring to step out of line. The school uniform, a universal feature in Indian schools, is a symbol of both uniformity and conformity, among other things. For generations, schoolchildren have been made to write essays on the benefits of having a uniform. The essays point out that a uniform brings about equality among school students. It is undeniable that a sense of equality is especially important in a mixed student population comprising different socio-economic backgrounds. A practical benefit that is usually mentioned is the time saved every morning on choosing one’s outfit. Interestingly, both students and teachers maintain that there is a marked improvement in discipline when students are in uniform. Then there is the pride factor. Many children profess that they feel especially proud of their school uniform when representing their school outside. “It also makes us feel that we are one,” they proclaim. This reminds me of a curious experience that I had as a visitor in an upmarket school in Pennsylvania in the United States of America. As I entered the classroom, my eyes fell on a particular boy who was wearing a football outfit. The other students were all in everyday clothes. I was told later that membership of the football team that the boy represented was greatly coveted in their school. To my astonishment, the teacher who came in to take the class immediately pulled up the boy for ‘showing off’. She explained to me that students were not permitted to flaunt any particular uniform and the boy in question should have changed into everyday clothes before entering class. The principle, I realized, was uniformity. But the human urge to ‘stand out’ is universal and understandable. Yet, nobody wants to stick out like a sore thumb either, as the attention one seeks must be ego-enhancing and pleasurable in nature. However, uniformity does not necessarily signify equality. Indeed, the school uniform has many uses but it does not automatically place all children on an equal footing. It is the school’s attitude that matters. But although we want equal opportunities and uniform rules for all, we certainly do not want to educate children to become clones of one another. Therefore, I feel disappointed that even though we display great pride in our diversity as Indians, we don’t behave in an inclusive manner. We stereotype different communities and keep running them down except with a few friends who are outside our circles. It is a matter of pride that in these days of divisiveness, most schools in Calcutta open their doors to all children, irrespective of religion or community. While in the throes of the pandemic, we are poignantly reminded of John Donne’s words of long ago: “No man is an island... any man’s death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind...” Today these words are resonating louder than ever before. Acute universal distress has made it clear that we are all interdependent — as countries and as individuals. We cannot turn a deaf ear or a blind eye to somebody else’s tragedy because it is also ours. In this sense, “We are one”. This togetherness signifies unity — the absence of diversity has nothing to do with it. It is time we reminded unthinking people and Procrustean organizations that uniformity does not necessarily signify either unity or equality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
09-06-2021||Opinion||The Bengal model||Like countless others, I, too, am utterly delighted that the West Bengal electorate has halted the fascist juggernaut of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah although, naturally, disappointed at the decline in the vote-share of the Left. The latter, however, has been a price demanded by the former. The 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh is being celebrated this year, an event that had refuted in practice the two-nation theory of M.A. Jinnah that underlay the formation of Pakistan. Jinnah had privileged the Islamic identity over all other identities, but the formation of Bangladesh was a blow against this; it amounted to privileging the Bengali identity over others. The linguistic-regional identity in short had triumphed over religious identity in the creation of Bangladesh, refuting the notion that the ‘Muslims’ of undivided India constituted a nation. Something similar has happened in West Bengal in the recent elections: the linguistic-regional (Bengali) identity has overcome appeals to the religious (Hindu) identity. There were, no doubt, many factors behind Mamata Banerjee’s victory, but the enduring image was of a linguistic-cultural entity, called Bengal, being invaded by ‘outsiders’ (bahiragata, referring to outside electioneers, not settlers from other states), who brought with them not only alien cultural traits but even the scourge of the coronavirus. Mamata Banerjee emerged as the champion of this linguistic-cultural assertion, a symbol of Bengal’s resistance against invasion by ‘outsiders’, just as on the earlier occasion Sheikh Mujibur Rahman had donned that role on a much bigger scale. In this clash between identities that became overarching, the Left got squeezed out, just as the Left in Bangladesh — not a mean force in earlier times with popular leaders like Maulana Bhashani — had got squeezed out. This is not to say that promoting the linguistic-regional identity itself is foreign to the Left; indeed the very idea of forming states on a linguistic basis was a Left idea (since “nationalities” in Communist theory are defined on the basis of language). In accordance with this, the Left had led the ‘Vishalandhra’ and ‘Aikya Keralam’ movements and participated in the ‘Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti’ agitation. But this was at the stage of the formation of states; once states have been formed broadly on a linguistic basis, the Left would find it difficult to project an argument of the kind Mamata Banerjee did, that “Bengal’s linguistic-cultural identity is under threat from ‘outsiders’.” The invocation of ‘nationality’ consciousness in the Bengal elections also promoted ‘secularism’ in a different way. The argument now advanced for secularism was that it went against Bengal’s tradition, not just that it was a desirable thing. A very senior communist leader had once told me, half-jokingly but with a core of seriousness: “there are no more than a thousand people in the country who are genuinely committed to secularism; but that is quite enough for defending secularism.” This was before the era of neoliberalism, which made the intelligentsia, a major beneficiary of it, lose its credibility among the masses. The ‘thousand’ who were to be found within its ranks would no longer suffice and the need arises for a fresh prop for secularism other than its sheer desirability. This came to the fore in the Bengal elections. In regions with strong linguistic-cultural traditions, as in Bengal or Tamil Nadu or Kerala or indeed the entire rim of states outside the Hindi heartland (except Assam which has its own particularities), the linguistic-cultural identity can be a powerful bulwark against Hindutva’s invocation of religious identity. The Hindi heartland, however, is quite different. It is not a compact region with a single distinct language, but a sprawling area marked with variations on one basic language. Besides, there is a certain lack of cherishing of the literary tradition of that language even among the educated in the region. When my wife had won a school prize for proficiency in Hindi, she wanted to buy Hindi novels other than by Premchand with the money and asked a well-read friend whose mother tongue was Hindi for advice; her friend’s suggestion was the novels of ‘Saratchandra’. My wife, a Bengali, had read him years earlier in the original; but the story, while underscoring a laudable absence of narrow-mindedness, also hints at an absence of a strong specific literary-cultural tradition. Invoking a linguistic-cultural identity against the Hindutva-promoted religious identity appears difficult in the Hindi heartland, which, therefore, remains open to the spread of the Hindutva ideology. Vishwanath Pratap Singh had sought to mobilize a ‘backward caste’ identity against the Hindutva juggernaut in the Hindi heartland; but given the infinite number of castes and sub-castes, the Hindutva forces could break this unity by locating, and championing through inconsequential tokenism, the cause of some caste-group within the OBC that feels even more deprived compared to others in this category. It is tempting to conclude from the above that there is a natural limit to the spread of Hindutva, that while the Hindi heartland remains susceptible to its influence, the rim of states surrounding it with strong linguistic-cultural traditions are less vulnerable: their specific regional cultures can withstand a pan-Indian religious-communal appeal. There is some truth in this, as the Bengal elections demonstrate; but accepting it in toto would be an oversimplification. The appeal to ‘nationality’ consciousness is not always certain to defeat the religious-communal. It may do so on some occasions but not others; otherwise, East Bengal would not have become a part of Pakistan in 1947 It follows that the Mamata Banerjee-style appeal to a Bengali consciousness will not always vanquish the Hindutva forces’ attempt to annex Bengal. The case of Bangladesh is somewhat different here. Bangladesh has had a high GDP growth-rate that has raised its per capita income above India’s. It has done so by becoming a part of international value chains, first of the North and, more recently, of China whose Belt and Road Initiative has come in handy for this process. Its economic achievement may be a far cry from the dreams of the anti-colonial struggle or its own liberation struggle, and income inequalities as everywhere else may have grown immensely, but it has at least given that country a degree of stability that has strengthened the secular forces and kept communal-religious elements at bay. But West Bengal, like the rest of India, is mired in massive problems of unemployment and poverty from which there are no easy ways out. Neither the invocation of a linguistic-cultural unity nor the invocation of a Hindutva-communal unity will succeed in overcoming these problems. But the Hindutva forces will promise to overcome them if the electorate gives them a chance, and on that basis can come to power and infuse the poison of hatred into the State. This is where concrete steps and strategies to overcome the economic travails of the state become necessary, such as those projected by the Left in this election. The problem with the Left had been its fixation with large-scale industry as the panacea for West Bengal’s economic woes. Large-scale industry, however, never provided much employment, not even in the 19th century. Unemployment in Britain had been kept within bounds by massive emigration of population to the temperate regions of settlement, not by employment opportunities opened up by the industrial revolution. The Left has to recognize the need for a variegated industrial structure in the state apart from showing greater awareness of the dangers of fascism. But as long as it remains faithful to a discourse that addresses seriously the problems of unemployment and poverty, it will bounce back in West Bengal. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
