10-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Private matter||The concept of privacy is overarchingly associated with concern for intrusion and surveillance. A more nuanced understanding with regard to its links with other precepts, especially with the notion of autonomy, is welcome. Unfortunately, in societies rife with discrimination and conservatism — such as that in India — not only is citizens’ right to privacy blatantly disregarded by the State, but its association with individual rights is considered undesirable by the powers that be. Unsurprisingly, the responsibility of upholding privacy and delineating its intricate link with other fundamental issues has often fallen upon the judiciary. This enlightened fraternity has risen to the occasion several times, be it the Supreme Court’s landmark judgment in 2017 on the right to privacy being intrinsic to life and liberty or, most recently, the ruling by the Madras High Court that links sexual autonomy with an individual’s privacy. The court established that sexual autonomy is an essential aspect of the right to privacy, thereby setting a heartening precedent of cementing sexual minorities’ right to choice. The element of reform cannot be ignored either. The court expressed the need for changes in school and university curricula, recommended awareness programmes for judicial officers, police and prison officials and, importantly, prohibited attempts to “medically cure” persons from the LGBTQIA+ community through ‘conversion therapy’. Professionals involved in any form of ‘conversion’ practices would face penalties, including the revoking of their licences. The high court’s reminder that such cruel and regressive ‘therapies’ exist — usually in the guise of ‘mental health practices’ — throws light on a shocking anomaly. In spite of the apex court’s landmark decision to decriminalize same-sex relationships, discrimination against the LGBTQIA+ community persists in myriad forms. The social and economic exclusion of sexual minorities is one aspect of this problem; the shocking cultural endorsement of shame and silence around alternative sexual identities is another. The prevailing notion that members of this community are somehow deviant reflects two things: first, India remains trapped in ancient binaries that are unwilling to accommodate alternative sexual identities and choice. Second — this is crucial — the battle for rights and dignities of sexual minorities must be viewed as one that is embedded in the larger struggle against human rights violations. The high court judgment should be taken forward so that policymakers are forced to review the loopholes in existing legislations that seek to empower the community. This exercise should not be left to bureaucrats: it must be participatory in nature, with adequate representation from the country’s besieged sexual minorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Different moods||The mood in the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Trinamul Congress in Bengal cannot be more contrasting at the moment. Despondency seems to have given way to dissension in the state unit of the BJP. There are murmurs that some influential heads might roll as a result of the drubbing that the BJP received in the assembly elections. The TMC, meanwhile, is in a different frame of mind: it is looking towards the future. Hearteningly, the party has not allowed its momentous victory to go to its head: complacency, indeed, can be fatal in politics. What the TMC is doing instead is preparing a second rung of leadership by inducting young personnel to responsible positions. Abhishek Banerjee has been anointed national general-secretary. The word is that a trusted aide has succeeded him in the youth wing. The organizational changes reflect Mr Banerjee’s growing clout within the TMC. His personal ties with the chief minister, however, offer a partial explanation for this elevation. It cannot be denied that Mr Banerjee’s attention to organizational deficiencies as well as his strategy — he roped in the services of the poll strategist, Prashant Kishor — played a part in the TMC’s spectacular return to power. Mr Banerjee has declared, rather ambitiously, that he would like the TMC, a regional outfit, to spread its wings beyond Bengal. This is in keeping with the chief minister’s national ambitions that have now been resurrected. Two formidable challenges await the TMC in this respect. The party has virtually no organizational base outside the state. Building one before the next general elections — the polls are only three years away — seems improbable. Second, the principle of Bengali exceptionalism may have served Mr Banerjee’s party well in the state elections but this provincial capital could well turn out to be an impediment on the national stage. It would perhaps be politically prudent for the wise woman and men in the TMC to concentrate on building a formidable alliance with the Opposition to challenge the BJP in 2024. Bengal may be enamoured with the TMC; but that need not be the case with India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Opinion||Kashmir: A shrine for many faiths||There are thousands of Sufi shrines dotted all over the Kashmir Valley. Kashmir is famously known as ‘Pirwaer’ (garden of sufis and saints). Kashmir is believed to have transformed into an Islamic space through the intervention of Sufi mystics — in particular Kubravi Sufi Mir Saiyid Ali Hamadani and their disciples — says Chitralekha Zutshi, one of the most prominent historians on Kashmir studies. These travelling Sufis also imparted new crafts and skills. Many argue that Shah-i-Hamadan, the most celebrated Sufi of Kashmir, came with a large retinue of immigrant artists, calligraphists, and architects. They introduced the arts of wood-carving, papier-mâché, and shawl and carpet weaving. Besides influencing Kashmir’s society and culture, Sufism also blended well with the everyday lives of the people. The appeal of mysticism and its inclusive ethos has performed several crucial functions in conflict-ridden Kashmir. Some of the valuable aspects of Sufism in the Kashmir Valley, therefore, merit a detailed scrutiny. In spite of the periodic political contentions between Pandits and Muslims in Kashmir, the overall culture of religious tolerance did not disappear. Its resilience stemmed from the heterogeneous composition of society as well as from the influence of mysticism. Sufi culture is relatively more accommodating than ‘formal Islam’ wherein people of different religions share a cultural commonality; this is evident in Sufi shrine festivals such as urs (the death anniversary of a saint) that are celebrated by both Muslims and Hindus. Numerous shrines in Kashmir are revered by Kashmiri Muslims and Pandits — the shrine of the 14th-century saint, Sheikh Nooruddin Walli, (Charar-e-Sharief) of the Reshi order (indigenous mystics) being one example. Other notable shrines venerated by both Muslims and Hindus are that of Baba Zain-ud Din at Aishmuqam or the shrine of Sheikh Hamza Makhdum at Srinagar. Kashmir’s Sufi ethos not only facilitates the building of a congenial culture within different communities but also addresses the lacunae of spatial availability for women in a male-dominated public sphere in conflict. In Kashmir, women offer nimaz (prayer) in all the major mosques and shrines, including Dastegeer Shahib, Makhdoom Sahib, Hazratbal among others. There are common sitting areas where men and women could interact with ease. To the extent that some locals even accuse Sufi culture of encouraging immorality. One of the most neglected yet significant aspects of Sufi philosophy in conflict-ridden Kashmir lies in its healing power. In case of loss and injustice, religion offers a certain comfort: people can somehow believe that their loss is not for nothing. A large number Kashmiris are coping with stress and trauma. Spirituality provides them with a worldview that offers purpose and meaning to suffering. As Maya Angelou writes, “people whose history and future were threatened each day by extinction considered that it was only by divine intervention that they be able to live at all.” Besides, the tombs of Sufis are often the only space that offers sanctuary to people dealing with the precariousness of life in conflict. On every occasion, pleasant or unpleasant, people flock to shrines to invoke the deceased saint’s intercession through ritual supplication. In 2020, people congregated in Charar-e-Sharief amidst rumours that an asteroid would brush past earth. Politicians also visit Sufi shrines to seek blessings on different occasions. Farooq Abdullah is a frequent visitor to Charar-e-Sharief; Mehbooba Mufti visited Khanqah-e-Moula after a fire in 2017. One of the most interesting dimensions about Kashmir’s Sufism is what it brings to the global ‘good Muslim versus bad Muslim debate’. Tariq Ramadan defines ‘good Muslims’ as those who accept the values and customs of the dominant power and are invisible in the public sphere whereas bad Muslims resist “religiously, culturally or politically”. In this partial viewpoint, Sufism is seen as detached from worldly affairs, including politics. However, the belief that Sufism is apathetic to politics is essentially a myth deliberately promoted as an alternative to an assertive Islam demanding political and public presence. We find many cases where Sufism played an active political role and inspired numerous resistance movements. For instance, many Algerians joined Qadiriyya and Libyans entered Sanussi Sufi orders to fight against French and Italian colonialism. Omar al-Mukhtar, the leader of the resistance movement from the Senussi Sufi orders, became an idol for many young Kashmiris, especially after the film on his life and struggle, Lion of the Desert, was released in 1981. Likewise, in the battle for leadership and autonomy from Dogra rule, shrines played a vital role. Within the Muslim fraternity, the control of shrines became imperative to control the movement and its leadership. The financial gains associated with shrines were an additional incentive. Most scholars working on Kashmir claim that Kashmiriyat — described as a unique Kashmiri composite identity based on inter-communal harmony — derived from Sufism to counter any potential threat to the State. Kashmiriyat is also evoked to hark back to a golden period before orthodox Islam took over Kashmir. In this sense, the Sufi philosophy of syncretism is not endorsed for its positive message only but also to denounce the ‘two-nation theory’ and justify Kashmir’s accession to India. Therefore, Sufi convictions have various values beyond its function of spreading Islam. Sufi doctrines should not be seen as aloof from politics. Sufism continues to play a social, political, economic and spiritual role in Kashmir’s strife-torn landscape.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Opinion||New vista||Over the past few months, Lutyens’ Delhi has been in the eye of a political storm over the building works in the Central Vista project. The ongoing building activities have been questioned by those opposed to the Narendra Modi government on two counts. First, many Opposition politicians have described the public expenditure during the Covid-19 pandemic as evidence of the government’s misplaced priorities. Since the project aims at being completed by the time India celebrates the 75th anniversary of Independence, it has been dubbed as Modi’s ‘vanity project’ and even challenged — unsuccessfully — in the courts. Critics have even gone to the extent of comparing the new Central Vista scheme with Albert Speer’s unfulfilled plans for a monumental Germania in the heart of Berlin to celebrate Hitler’s Third Reich. Secondly, there have been questions raised on the aesthetic merits of the project. The likes of Sir Anish Kapoor have called Bimal Patel, the Berkeley-educated, Ahmedabad-based, chief architect as “third rate” and the London-based Daily Mail even went to the extent of describing the new buildings, particularly the new Parliament building that will come up alongside Sir Herbert Baker’s famous circular structure, as examples of “bad taste”. Kapoor, whose connections with contemporary India have been casual at best but whose fierce opposition to Modi dates back to May 2014, even suggested that the project was inspired by the prime minister’s blind hatred of anything remotely Islamic. Whether either Sir Edwin Lutyens or Baker — the two main architects who designed the new city a century ago — were inspired by Islamic architecture is, of course, undocumented. The storm over the Central Vista project is not the first occasion on which the urban landscape of New Delhi has been drawn into controversy. A brief examination of some of these earlier points of friction may be instructive for a more rounded understanding of the present issues. First, the decision to transfer the capital from Calcutta to Delhi, announced by the King-Emperor at the Coronation Durbar of 1911, was fiercely contested. The Opposition, led in the main by the former viceroy, Lord Curzon, contested the wisdom of moving from “the English city with which it has been associated for 150 years to the dead capital of Mahomedan kings…” The European business community of Calcutta was equally miffed and The Statesman ran an editorial, “Hardinge Must Go”, that likened the viceroy to Siraj-ud-Daulah. What is noteworthy is the fact that the shift of capital wasn’t occasioned by the rise of nationalist sentiment. Indeed, Bengali opinion having been placated by the annulment of Curzon’s partition of the province was largely — and short-sightedly — indifferent to the issue. In moving the capital to Delhi, the raj was consciously attempting to shift gear. As the secretary of state, Edwin Montagu, put it, the objective was to signal a break with the past and create a new British-India where “the ascetism of the Oriental, the simplicity of his code of life, and the modesty of his bodily needs, are meeting the restless spirit of progress in material things, the love of realism, the craving for the concrete and the striving towards advancement which come from the West.” Montagu even cited, with considerable approval, Rabindranath Tagore’s hope of the meeting of the East and West at “the altar of humanity”— an exercise where New Delhi would resonate with symbolism. Secondly, in determining both the location — detached from the Civil Lines and away from the scenes of the fiercest battles of the 1857 uprising — and the design, the underlying philosophy was the evolution of the British Empire from conquest to consent and cooperation. Lutyens, the chief architect, had built his reputation on building country houses for well-off Britons. They were built, noted a posthumous tribute in Country Life, “for people who had no particular discrimination in architecture but who were driven to recognise in his buildings the perfect embodiment of the sentiments they both cherished. In his houses Lutyens spoke… for the inarticulate upper-class Englishman”. In India, the clients weren’t ‘inarticulate Englishmen’. In India, Lutyens encountered men who were lucid, fastidious, demanding, occasionally unbudging and who knew what they wanted. “To express modern India in stone, to represent her amazing sense of the supernatural, with its complement to profound fatalism and enduring patience, is no easy task”, he despaired. The challenge was further complicated by Lutyens’ mental block on Indian architectural traditions, his own penchant for European classicism and the viceroy’s absolute insistence that the new capital must have a definite feel of India. It was to negotiate these conflicting impulses that Baker — relatively unknown in Britain but celebrated in South Africa — was appointed to partner Lutyens. As the historian, David Johnson, wrote in his well-researched New Delhi: The Last Imperial City, “Baker’s ability to adapt architectural style to a given location would help silence critics who worried that Lutyens, if left to his own devices, would create an architectural style totally foreign to India.” Judging by the ferocity with which Lutyens’ legacy is being upheld by both sides in the Central Vista debate, the duo did something right. The British Empire barely endured the inauguration of New Delhi, but the imperial grandeur Lutyens set in stone has become a part of the Indian imagination. Finally, when New Delhi was inaugurated in 1931, it boasted only a few iconic state buildings — Government House, the two imposing secretariat buildings on both sides of its approach, the circular Council building, and the War Memorial at the end of Kingsway. The rest of the city was still work in progress. It was to remain that way by the time World War II intervened and was followed by Indian Independence. Jawaharlal Nehru, the presiding deity of Indian aesthetics in the aftermath of Independence, was at heart partial to the Le Corbusier style of modernism. He tolerated Lutyens’ mark on the landscape, but without enthusiasm. The consequences of this were profound. As the scope of the government expanded, there was a rash of new buildings to accommodate the ministries. Unfortunately, they were neither faithful to Lutyens’ style nor the philosophy behind it. In the spirit of the new socialist but impoverished India, functional necessities were combined with either post-War ugliness or modernism as viewed through the prism of the Public Works Department. The importance of stylistic harmony was largely discarded. The unfortunate Indian penchant for ad-hocism became the governing philosophy despite the formation of specialist bodies to oversee aesthetics. Lutyens wasn’t entirely discarded: his legacy was confined to the ceremonial avenue, now Rajpath, the grand buildings on Raisina Hill, Parliament House and the façade of white bungalows with majestic lawns. The biggest casualty was a coherent philosophy. Perhaps this was inevitable in an India that was uncertain and confused over its self-image. At the heart of New Delhi was a discarded imperial vision that hadn’t been replaced by anything tangible. Honestly speaking, this didn’t matter to an India that was still caught between conflicting political and economic pulls, not to mention going beyond survival. In today’s India defined by soaring ambition, relative institutional stability and galloping self-confidence (which will outlive the pandemic), the ‘vision thing’ is deemed important. There will always be disagreements over the aesthetics of the ongoing Central Vista project. What matters is a larger question. Do the new buildings exude the same sense of power and majesty as what Lutyens and Baker tried to achieve? To these attributes must be added efficiency and authenticity. A century after New Delhi was created, the challenge is to embellish past grandeur with a new vision for India that is authentic, majestic, democratic but also exudes power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
10-06-2021||Opinion||Proud moment||Sir — The Indian striker, Sunil Chhetri, recently surpassed Lionel Messi to become the second-highest active international goal-scorer with 74 strikes. The 36-year-old footballer achieved this feat during the match against Bangladesh in the joint preliminary qualifying rounds for the 2022 Fifa World Cup and 2023 AFC Asian Cup. This is a proud moment for Indian football. But this development also begs the question why, in spite of being home to world class athletes, India continues to trail behind others in all sports except cricket. It is time that the sports ministry introspects on this imbalance.  Anushua Chakraborty, Calcutta About time Sir — It was not surprising to learn that the West Bengal government has decided to cancel the higher secondary and secondary examinations that were scheduled to be held this year in light of the pandemic (“Madhyamik, HS exams scrapped”, June 8). West Bengal saw an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 infections after the assembly elections took place in eight phases. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, was rightly against the decision and had appealed to the Election Commission multiple times to shorten the process. It is the students who have to pay the price for this misstep. Although the decision to scrap the exams was unavoidable, it has shattered the dreams of many, especially of those who were about to appear for their higher secondary examinations. But public health must be prioritized. It was also heartening to see that Banerjee did not take this decision unilaterally but rather on the recommendation of an expert committee and public opinion. She has asked the exam-governing bodies to come up with an alternative method of assessment at the earliest and also to keep an eye on the decisions taken by the Central Board of Secondary Education so that students under the state board do not suffer in any way. Banerjee’s commitment to the well-being of the students must be lauded.  Shyamal Thakur,  Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — While it is true that the government was left with no choice but to cancel the secondary and higher secondary examinations in light of the pandemic, this decision will, nevertheless, have long-term repercussions for our careers. The system of higher education in our country is structured in such a way that board examinations, especially Class XII results, determine the trajectory of the rest of our academic lives. The government must try to devise alternative ways of assessment that can help students academically progress in spite of these unprecedented disruptions.Sourjya Rath, Howrah Think again Sir — With less than 50 days to go, the Tokyo Olympics is hanging in the balance. On one hand, the president of the organizing committee, Seiko Hashimoto, has said the Games will go ahead as planned while on the other side, Shigeru Omi, head of a panel of experts that has been advising the Japanese government on its Covid-19 response, issued his strongest warning yet of the potential risks of holding the Games. It may be possible to limit the spread of the disease among the audience by restricting attendance. But the sheer number of athletes, thousands of Olympic support staff including officials, judges, sports presentation personnel, housekeeping and grounds crew, technicians, translators and many more volunteers — reportedly at least 10,000 volunteers have quit ahead of the Games — would be difficult to manage. This will result in an influx of persons from outside the country and lead to unrestricted mingling which would undoubtedly turn the Olympics into a superspreader event. It is obvious to all that by now too much money is at stake. It will be difficult to persuade the organizers to postpone the event once more and thus it is likely that the show will go on. But public health and safety must be prioritized. Polls have shown that a majority of people in Japan do not want the Olympics to take place. The organizers must respect the wishes of the people and cancel the event.  Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
