11-06-2021||Opinion||At long last||Sir — The prime minister was left with no other option but to engage in course-correction by announcing free vaccines for all above 18 and relieving states and Union territories of the burden to procure vaccines for themselves, after a rap on the knuckle from the Supreme Court on the vaccination policy (“About-turn”, June 9). Last week, the court had observed that the policy of the Centre of conducting free vaccination for groups under the first two phases, and then replacing it with paid vaccination for states and private hospitals for people between 18-44 years was prima facie arbitrary and irrational. With private hospitals still being allowed to take 25 per cent of the vaccines, the Centre also needs to lay down a policy to prevent a handful of metro-based private players with no rural presence from cornering disproportionately high quantities of vaccines for themselves. The need to vaccinate those in rural India must be recognized and acted upon. Patting its own back for combating this pandemic and unfairly blaming the states for the policy mess-up, the prime minister is not willing to even own up the moral responsibility for the loss of thousands of lives, whether for want of oxygen or of hospital beds. One must now wait for the Centre’s affidavit to be filed, as directed by the apex court, including its road map to vaccinate the entire population. S.K. Choudhury, Bangalore  Sir — Narendra Modi has at last realized that providing vaccines to all the citizens for free is the Centre’s duty. All earlier dispensations had figured out that infectious diseases can spread across states and affect people in all parts of the country. So they tried to contain diseases like measles, tuberculosis and polio in all states. Now Modi, too, has understood that he would not be able to confine the coronavirus to Opposition-ruled states only. Few countries have witnessed a scenario where the same vaccine is sold to different buyers at different prices. Even the apex court could not hide its anguish, failing to comprehend the rationale behind this plan. Modi tried his best to highlight his own prudence in taking this decision, justifying his earlier stance by saying that the Centre did not make any arrangements because the states wanted to collect the vaccines at their own expense. But this step came only after the apex court, the press and the Opposition parties raised questions about the Rs 35,000 crore earmarked in the budget for Covid management. Anyway, better late than never. Somak Ghosh, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
11-06-2021||Opinion||Flickering flame||After pronouncing that “every journalist is entitled to protection” from charges of sedition, the Supreme Court may soon begin a review of the constitutional validity of Section 124A. It’s axiomatic that the abolition of seditious libel will help in protecting certain kinds of free speech. But the bigger question is this: is the law of sedition the only or, for that matter, the biggest impediment in our path to a freer future? More pertinently, what is the role of the higher judiciary beyond reading down or striking off a statute? Does our Constitution instruct that the Supreme Court should exercise the counter-majoritarian power of judicial oversight rarely and sparingly? Or is it a living Constitution that mandates eternal judicial vigilance? It’s not just the indiscriminate use of Section 124A that is stifling free speech and diminishing our democracy. It’s the systemization of harassment and the weaponization of every possible piece of law to persecute opponents and critics of the government that are extenuating individual freedoms and civil liberties. So even if Section 124A goes, the punishment of ‘seditious libel’ will continue in one form or the other. Governments of all stripes have sought to suppress dissent. But some governments go further, they systematize the witch-hunt of those they consider ‘disloyal’, ‘subversive’ or ‘traitors’. The government of the US president, John Adams, prosecuted dozens of Republican senators, journalists and writers under the Alien and the Sedition Acts of 1798 for “false, scandalous and malicious writing”. One  hundred and forty years later, at the height of the ‘red scare’, the Harry Truman government set up a House Committee to investigate ‘disloyalty’ and ‘rebellion’ among private citizens. From 1950 to 1954, the senator, John McCarthy, carried out an unprecedented purge of ‘communists’. But what puts the Narendra Modi regime in a league of its own is that there is hardly an example of a constitutional democracy weaponizing ordinary laws like those on corruption, money-laundering, income tax evasion, information technology and rules on foreign exchange to crush the Opposition and muzzle the dissenters as the Modi government has done. Section 124A is only one of the quivers in the vast legal armoury deployed against ‘urban-naxals’, ‘sickularists’, ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘agents of Pakistan’. More commonly (mis)used laws include the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, National Security Act, Public Safety Act, Prevention of Corruption Act, Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, Information Technology Act and provisions of the Indian Penal Code like Sections 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) and 505(2) (statements conducing to public mischief). The sheer range of laws misused, abused and misapplied by this government is bewildering. The witch-hunt is so legally evolved, strategically sophisticated and tactically calibrated that it grinds down the regime’s opponents to either submission or decimation. NDTV, Newsclick, Lawyers Collective, Teesta Setalvad, and Amnesty International India, for instance, were not booked on charges of sedition. They were, instead, charged with money laundering, financial impropriety or embezzlement. Many legislators and ministers of the Trinamul Congress, the former aides of the Kerala chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, several MLAs and ministers of the Aam Aadmi Party (like Satyendra Jain), and Congress leaders like P. Chidambaram and D.K. Shivakumar are also facing charges of corruption and/or money-laundering brought by specialized agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation and /or the Enforcement Directorate. The family of Ashok Lavasa, who handed 11 dissent notes against inflammatory election speeches by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, is facing investigations by the ED and the IT department. The list of the victims of governmental abuse of power and laws is long and counting. The latest targets are Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, Signal and Telegram. It took a great political fightback and a spirited election campaign mounted in defence of free speech and democracy by Thomas Jefferson to end the oppression unleashed by John Adams. McCarthyism was contained by the US Supreme Court. Under Fred M. Vinson as chief justice (1946-53), the court largely rubber-stamped government action against those accused of being ‘communists’ and ‘subversives’ (The Supreme Court and McCarthy-Era Repression by Robert M. Lichtman). But in 1953, Earl Warren took over as chief justice and brought about a constitutional revolution’. The Warren Court (1953-1969) decided dozens of cases involving alleged subversives and dissenters and set aside the abusive proceedings. In 1962, the court formally rejected the crime of ‘seditious libel’ as fundamentally incompatible with the freedom of speech guaranteed by the First Amendment. The Warren Court changed the course of history of the United States of America by advancing equal protection, civil rights, and democratic governance. ‘Constitutional revolution’ was brought not by the occasional brilliance of striking down a statute here or a penal provision there, but by the court constantly blunting and frustrating governmental abuse and weighing in on the side of religious minorities, political dissenters, the blacks, the poor, and the disadvantaged. Contrast it with the functioning of the Supreme Court of India since 2014. Overwhelmed by the ascendance of a ‘nationalist’ and seemingly indefeasible government, the court arguably took shelter under ‘mechanical jurisprudence’. To put it mildly, the court has been in an ultra-conservative mode. In almost every politically sensitive case, the government came out victorious. Take a brief survey of some of the recent apex court rulings: this court has limited jurisdiction to review defence contracts (Rafale verdict); financial planning is the government’s prerogative and “no one could question it” (judgment on PM-Cares Fund); Sahara-Birla diaries “constituted random loose sheets of paper on the basis of which high public functionaries occupying important offices cannot be subjected to investigation”; the scheme of electoral bonds is operating “without impediment” since January 2018 and the court does not see any justification for staying it (Electoral bonds case); the question of validity of the restrictions imposed in Kashmir to be assessed by a review committee set up by the government that imposed the curbs in the first place (the case involving the editor of Kashmir Times, Anuradha Bhasin). Apart from being an ‘executive-minded’ court, the top court’s foot-dragging over seminal constitutional questions, such as the validity of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act of 2019, the abrogation of Article 370 and the 2019 UAPA amendment act, reeks of judicial indecisiveness. Dozens of habeas corpus petitions were frustrated by judicial inaction. With no judicial oversight to invigilate its actions, a majoritarian Central government has packed all institutions of import — administrative, investigative, constitutional and statutory — with political weaklings who act in a blatantly partisan manner. The Supreme Court’s quashing of the sedition charges against the journalist, Vinod Dua, and its move to carry out a fresh judicial review of 124A are welcome. But to reignite the fast extinguishing flame of civil liberties and fundamental freedoms, it will need nothing short of a constitutional revolution. Can the court make human rights and civil liberties the dominant constitutional theme? Rather than reinforcing the status quo, can it weigh on the side of the disadvantaged and the persecuted? It is on this anvil that the court will be tested and assessed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
11-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Just grading||Competition is healthy when the goal is positive. The Indian government initiated the Performance Grading Index for school education in the states and Union territories from 2017-18 to improve school teaching. To avoid discouragement, states are being graded in groups, not ranked individually, according to their schools’ performance under 70 parameters. The most recent report, 2019-20, which records the pre-Covid year, already shows some shifts between grades — Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu have gone up to Level II, while the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and others have improved their grades by 20 per cent — suggesting that the PGI is nudging states to do better. The idea is to expose the areas where a state or an UT would need to intervene to improve performance. The parameters, grouped under five sections including access, governance and management, infrastructure, equity and learning outcomes, are detailed enough to present a clear picture of needs and achievements. The other gain from this system is the scope to share best practices — or creatively build on them, because the requirements of schools in different regions of the country are as diverse as its people. The approach is an ideal or idealized one. Schools in India are beset by problems of a shortage of teachers and inadequate teacher training, shortage of principals and administrative staff, lack of the required infrastructure, weak governance, irregular flow of funds and so on. A large part of such issues could be resolved with sufficient finances and a comfortable set-up for teachers. A committed state government can make best use of the transparent data provided by the PGI up to a certain point only; there must be a committed Centre too. Since the Centre reduced the budgetary allocation to the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan by Rs 8,000 crore, urging states and UTs to improve their schools sounds odd, to say the least. The states need money; it does not help that some need it more than others. Besides, the smoothness assumed by the PGI has already been assailed by the exposure of deep inequalities during the closure of schools in the course of the pandemic. The need for digital access and infrastructure has acquired a new and urgent dimension. The PGI will lose its point unless equitable solutions are first found for these problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
11-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Exit sign||Data need not always be dubious in New India. Several studies, including those by the Association for Democratic Reforms, have indicated that defections continue unabated in the country and that the Bharatiya Janata Party, India’s ruling regime whose political ascendancy is indisputable, has been the biggest gainer in this respect. The Congress, the BJP’s principal opponent, has suffered the most, losing governments and leaders to its political adversary. After Jyotiraditya Scindia, it is now the turn of Jitin Prasada, yet another young gun, to bid adieu to India’s Grand Old Party. Interestingly, Mr Prasada’s departure reveals the different challenges confronting the Congress and the BJP. The Congress has been functioning like a rudderless ship for a while now, plagued by a disinterested leadership, petty rivalries, ideological confusion and inertia. An additional impediment is the top-heavy nature of the party: the Congress has too many leaders and too few workers. The ‘Group of 23’ — senior Congress functionaries who had, in an unprecedented step, demanded sweeping changes in the party — may have raised valid questions but it is equally true that most of them do not possess the political capital or the public charisma to win elections. A combination of unwarranted personal ambition as well as lust for power has prevented the Congress from taking advantage of the serious lapses committed by the Narendra Modi government. The result is there for all to see. The Congress is allowing itself to be bled dry and its fragmentation is, in turn, complementing the emergence of an electoral autocracy in the country. Mr Prasada’s exit may deepen the rot by sharpening the internecine struggles in the party. This is not to suggest that the BJP finds itself in a reassuring spot in a country lashed by the pandemic. Mr Prasada’s entry into the BJP could well be a signal of the latter’s desperation to mobilize the Brahmins in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. This is a constituency which, it is believed, is seriously cut up with the Yogi Adityanath government for being favourably disposed towards Thakurs. For the BJP then, Mr Prasada is merely a card to set the caste equations right in a crucial state. Of course, neither the BJP nor the Congress is likely to be worried about the broader concerns with defection. The malaise defies electoral mandates. Most worryingly, an ideological or an effective legal deterrent against defection remains elusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
11-06-2021||Opinion||Covid: New model for elementary education||For a second year in a row, students across India are unlikely to go to schools. While this has not affected the education of students in private schools, which swiftly transitioned to the online medium, students in government-run public schools have been denied access to education. As per Unesco, of the 320 million school students in India, only 37.6 million students have been continuing their studies through the online medium. Even after months, government schools have not been able to make the digital transition. Covid-19 has merely widened the existing educational divide between the rich and the poor. Even before the pandemic, government school students were facing the consequences of a crumbling education system battling teachers’ absenteeism, political intervention, lack of basic infrastructure, and poor quality of education. Learning outcomes have deteriorated, while additional public expenditure per pupil has not resulted in any benefit. The inability to make the digital transition is a consequence of the Indian State’s inability to run schools. Weak areas It is an established position in developmental economics that governments should avoid engaging in policies that involve a high number of transactions and allow high discretion to state officials. Since the government oversees the day-to-day functioning of public schools, it needs to oversee an exorbitant number of transactions involving salaries, sanctioning of funds for provisions, infrastructure spending and so on. Such high-frequency transactions stretch the State’s capacity and provide ample opportunities for mismanagement and corruption. When emergencies arise, schools lack the agility to transition to new modes of teaching. Operating schools also requires providing significant discretion to such functionaries as teachers, administrators, appointment authorities and other staff. Greater discretion leads to dereliction of duty and corruption. The State is thus unable to regulate the quality of schools and its staff. Additionally, since the State is both the regulator of quality and also the provider of educational services, there is a failure of accountability. Delhi has been able to address this problem by creating accountability systems and appointing dedicated supervisory teams. Delhi, however, is an exception given the prevalence of education as a key electoral issue and political commitment for the same. Changed ways What is required is to make better use of existing State capacities by reducing the number of transactions and individual discretion in favour of accountability and regulatory systems. This can be done by outsourcing daily operations of public schools to private entrepreneurs and non-government organizations. Peepul, an NGO which took over the running of schools under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, has transformed them to institutions providing fee-free, quality education. The government can then focus on creating infrastructure, sourcing quality service providers, and regulating them. This will also separate the State from service providers, enabling parents to approach State regulators if the service-providers fail in their duties. Such a strategy would also make public schools nimble enough to transition to the digital medium since the State can invite service providers that have the relevant expertise. I am not advocating privatization of elementary education. The government would continue to be responsible for funding schools and ensuring that students do not have to pay a fee. Given the collapse of public schooling on account of Covid, the government must contemplate such a transformation of the public school system to bridge the educational divide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
11-06-2021||Opinion||The century of wars||The beginning of the year, 2000, had brought great excitement among people of all continents. That was the year marking the beginning of not just a new century but also a new millennium. Many names were suggested as historical tags for the new century; but, probably, the one that was received with the greatest enthusiasm was ‘knowledge century’. But no one talks of the present century now using that term. The world has meekly accepted to look askance at what is in store for Homo sapiens. At this juncture, the future looks so embattled. We are surrounded by so many newly-unfolding war fronts. Let me begin with news reports about a strange war that appeared in several newspapers in Karnataka.  Some 800 elephants roaming in what is known as the ‘elephant corridor’ of the Western Ghats have started a systematic war with the human inhabitants there. The conflict has been recorded by forest officials since 2014. During the ‘war’, so many humans have been maimed by elephants and so many elephants have been shot dead. The tension between the two warring sides is so acute that the forest officials in Hassan district have decided to instal sensors to alert the inhabitants of the presence of elephants in their vicinity. A siren begins when these sensors pick up the presence of elephants and humans run to the nearest safe-shelter, reminding one of Londoners getting into tube stations when Hitler’s military planes hovered over the city during the Second World War. Before the news about the elephants in the forests in India, one had read about the outburst of forest fires in Australia. They had spread for over nearly 110,000 square kilometres and had caused the death of 33 persons. Australia is not the only continent where forest fires have besieged humans. The North and South Americas, East Africa and Southeast Asia, have witnessed an increase in the frequency of wildfires. As if war with elephants and forest fires were not enough of strange news, one was stunned to read that a professor of astronomy at Harvard, Avi Loeb, had claimed that the floating object spotted in outer space in 2017 was not natural but launched by another intelligent species. In his provocative book, Extraterrestrial: The First Sign of Intelligent Life Beyond Earth, Loeb warned the world that to not take the existence of an extraterrestrial species seriously could prove to be a fatal mistake. The object he discusses is given the name, ‘Oumuamua’, a word from the language of an indigenous community. Loeb’s argument is that the orbit through which the object moved did not follow the laws of gravitation. It clearly showed that a ‘non-gravitational force’ was directing its movements. He believes that it is a spaceship powered by solar power generated by using huge mirrors set on its body. His conclusion is that the existence of extraterrestrials, a subject of science fiction and movies, can no more be seen as just a figment of imagination or fantasy. Another professor has brought in even more disconcerting news for humans. Idan Segev of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and his team of scientists are busy forming artificial human brain cells. His research will feed into placing the intelligent machines on a par with the most innovative humans. Combined with the rampant use of artificial intelligence by State powers for surveillance, the scientific advancement visualized by the researchers in Israel reveals before us the spectre of having a mix of intelligent machines and humans as the ‘ruling class’ in the coming decades. The coronavirus disease spell has made the shortage of oxygen for medical purposes big news. But just before the outbreak of Covid-19, we had seen that schools in Delhi had to be locked down as there was not enough oxygen in the air for children to breathe freely. But before the big economies of the world find a solution to this seemingly irreversible problem, David Beasley of the World Food Programme has given a stern warning that over 83 crore people in the world — that is one in every 10 humans — have lost their food security. Agriculture and fishing as conventional methods of food production have become unviable livelihood choices. The utter disregard of the Indian government for the farmers’ discontent is not just an expression of its characteristic arrogance. It is also a reflection of how low agriculture now ranks in the economic policies of governments. What do these apparently diverse calamities threatening human existence indicate? The wars fought by us centuries ago were mostly faith-based. The wars fought during the 19th century were nationalistic in character. The wars fought during the last century were driven by ideologies combined with economic interests. The wars waiting for us on the horizon are of a different character and of a different order. These will be wars for or with the environment, with the forces of natural evolution, with non-human intelligence and with life and objects that belong to a different framework of matter and motion. Sadly, governments remain in the old world mindset; they are prisoners of terribly dated political ideologies focused on faith-based divisions, territorial contestations and narrow nationalism. Although the proponents of ‘Cosmopolitan Democracy’ have made a beginning by thinking about political systems necessary for equipping humans to fight these new wars, their voice is still very feeble. But time is ticking fast. There are unprecedented wars waiting for us. It is now time for humans to unite, learn adaptation, respect the logic of evolution and manage to survive Covid and much more through this century of wars. G.N. Devy is a literary critic and cultural activist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
