12-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Freedom in chains||Stone walls do not a prison make; or so wrote an incarcerated British poet years ago. While the mighty State may fetter the body, it often discovers that it is far more difficult to chain the mind. A booklet containing artwork and excerpts from letters by two university students jailed for their alleged involvement in the Delhi riots seems to attest to the uplifting resilience of freedom. With their accounts detailing institutional attempts to strip them of their “autonomy” and “humanity”, Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal may now find themselves to be part of an illustrious literary tradition of prison writing that has, over the years, given voice to thoughts and lives behind those walls. The repository of prison writings comprises contributions from such luminaries as M.K. Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Nelson Mandela, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Faiz Ahmed Faiz, Antonio Gramsci, to name a few. Each of these towering figures had turned to writing during their periods of isolation. The richness of this genre can be attributed to the versatility of thought. Don Quixote’s flights of fancy were imagined by Miguel de Cervantes from inside his solitary cell; Nehru penned his encyclopaedic The Discovery of India from inside the Ahmednagar fort; in more recent, post-colonial times, Chris Abani documented his shackled life in Kalakuta Republic. A common theme among these works is the documentation of the illuminating tussle between the State and the captive political prisoner over the autonomy — as Ms Kalita and Ms Narwal put it — of the mind. History has shown that writing has often been the only weapon in the arsenal of the conscientious prisoner to resist the colonization of his or her mind. Little wonder then that Michel Foucault called prison writing a ‘habeas corpus brief’: such texts or, as is often the case, doodles invert and challenge the collective ideas concerning the relationship that binds the State to the citizen, exposing the former’s role in creating penitentiaries meant to discipline, often brutally, the dissenter. The pursuit of civilizing not just the ‘savage’ but also the objector with integrity continues to inform justice and such affiliated institutions as prisons. This is an anomaly because the philosophy behind discipline and punishment is no longer primitive. Indeed, the modern prison is increasingly being seen as a space for reforming — healing — the human spirit. Several experiments that are taking place in this respect in India and the world — the open prison is one example — are encouraging. But the doors can remain shut for long for those who retain the courage to speak truth to power. This constituency wages courageous, everyday — but little-known — battles to keep their minds free and fearless in the face of unprecedented intimidation and restrainment. The prison writings of several defiant citizens, young and old, of New India speak of this raging battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
12-06-2021||Opinion||Other side: Jitin Prasada joins BJP||Sir — The defection of the senior leader, Jitin Prasada, from the Congress to the Bharatiya Janata Party should not be given much prominence (“Exit sign”, June 11). His former party is in the doldrums on the national stage and his own charisma as a leader is not worth writing home about. But the BJP government at the Centre as well as that in the politically-crucial state of Uttar Pradesh are going through a bad patch owing to the mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis and the faltering economy. The UP dispensation’s handling of the pandemic, the law and order situation in the state and the distress of farmers have been dismal to witness. The BJP’s recent setback in the local body elections is an alarming development, and the top brass of the saffron brigade is now apprehensive. It is time for rejuvenation and course correction for the party, as the outcome of the assembly polls next year will likely have a bearing on results of the 2024 general elections. Given the absence of the BJP’s investment in any significant welfare schemes and other deliverables geared towards overall development in UP, the party will almost certainly resort to its divisive caste- and religion-based rhetoric to try and overcome the election hurdle in 2022, just like it did in 2017. Given that Prasada belongs to the Brahmin community, his induction into the BJP might bolster the consolidation of the Brahmin vote for the party. The scenario for the ruling dispensation is gloomy — if the results of the panchayat polls are any sign, then a rejuvenated Samajwadi Party is breathing down the BJP’s neck. As such, the BJP must have thought that having Prasada in its fold will give it some leeway. Chanchal Nandy,Durgapur Sir — Jitin Prasada joining the BJP in Delhi points towards opportunism and a hunger for power. His defection occurs at a time that is seen to be rather testing for the BJP ahead of the 2022 assembly polls in UP. Prasada, who had served in the second United Progressive Alliance government and hails from Shahjahanpur, had been at odds with the Congress leadership for a long time. In July last year, he had launched the ‘Brahmin Chetna Parishad’ to give  voice to the Brahmin community. He blatantly said that the BJP stands for the interests of the nation today, all the while knowing very well that the country is in a shambles and lagging behind in all the sectors of public life. Prasada has had ties with several generations of the Congress; as such, his decision to defect was for his own selfish political gains. It amounts to a betrayal of the trust placed in him by his former party. He said that in the last eight to ten years he has felt as though the only truly national party is the BJP; to us, it seems more like a shirking of his responsibilities to the Congress. By joining hands with communal forces, Prasada may have dealt his own political career a severe blow. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Jitin Prasada’s foray into the BJP may hold significance for UP’s Brahmin community, which has been feeling neglected under the leadership of the Hindutva-espousing chief minister, Yogi Adityanath. With Prasada’s entry, Brahmins may once again forge closer ties with the BJP. This is going to have a sizeable impact on the state assembly polls which are not too far away. Brahmins have been a part of the BJP’s core support base, but after 2017, Adityanath’s policies made them feel cornered. Munmun Bua,Ujjain Clear bias Sir — The recent comments made by the Assam chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, about adopting “decent family planning” measures would have been worth considering had it not been specifically targeted towards the state’s immigrant Muslim community. The problem of overpopulation plagues India as a whole; by taunting only the Muslim community, Sarma has stayed true to the saffron party’s divisive and bigoted agenda. If the Bharatiya Janata Party is so concerned about the effects of overpopulation, then why have leaders like Sakshi Maharaj and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh been known over the years to exhort Hindu couples to have more children? Aditya Konwar,Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
12-06-2021||Opinion||Historic event: Britain’s National Theatre to reopen||Britain’s National Theatre has been shut since March 2020 but last week its artistic director, Rufus Norris, announced his programme for the next few months, including The Father and the Assassin, a play about Nathuram Godse which will open in the Olivier Theatre in early 2022. Norris said: “This extraordinary new work has been written by Anupama Chandrasekhar. The play tells how a man called Nathuram Godse was radicalised through the fight for Indian independence from being a devout follower of Gandhi to his eventual assassin in 1948.” When I asked for more details, Norris replied that the Chennai-based “Anupama Chandrasekhar is a wonderful writer known to many London audiences. So we invited her to be writer in residence here back in 2016. And this was the idea she wanted to develop. “It’s fascinating because it’s a little known history. There is actually not that much known about Godse (in the UK), but what there is she has drawn from. There’s a real prescience in the play. It examines the rise of the disenfranchised, right wing in ways that we can see parallels to in the world if we look around it at the moment. So like many history plays, its value is going to be what it reflects back to us about this time.” Incidentally, Gandhi’s secretary, Venkataram Kalyanam, who died on May 4, aged 98 — he was present when Gandhi was assassinated — merited substantial obituaries in The Times and The Daily Telegraph. Growing up Tanika Gupta is full of laughter as she tells me of her new play, The Overseas Student, which covers Gandhi’s life in London from 1888, when he arrived there as an 18-year-old, to 1891, when he sailed back home, having been called to the Bar at the Inner Temple. The 45-minute, one-man play, with the talented actor, Esh Alladi, cast as a young Mohandas, opens at the Lyric Hammersmith in west London in June. The play begins with Gandhi setting out from Bombay in a white dinner jacket. He has promised his mother, “I will not touch meat, women, or alcohol,” and vowed to “learn to speak English as the Queen does, to learn French, to ballroom dance and to be able to play the fiddle. I think the violin is such a beautiful instrument.” Tanika reckons he struggled with all his vows. “It’s much more a coming of age story. I was much more interested in his journey as a teenager. He meets Annie Besant and Madam Blavatsky. He was very active in the Theosophical Society and became president of the Vegetarian Society. He would have gone to hear Dadabhai Naoroji. He read a translation of the Gita by [Edwin] Arnold. England made him an Indian because when he turns up, he just wants to be English.” Tanika, whose parents established The Tagoreans in London and who herself read modern history at Oxford, says: “Most of this stuff comes from my family, from their typical Bengali way of looking at everything slightly upside down or turning it around or asking questions. It’s a living history as opposed to learning about it in university.” Strong bonds One of my first outings post lockdown was to the Victoria & Albert Museum to see its fabulous Epic Iran exhibition covering 5,000 years of Iranian history. From associate curator, Ina Sarikhani Sandmann, whose family has loaned some of the 300 artworks on display, I hear about how the ancestors of Ratan Tata and Adar Poonawalla found refuge in India. A poster, “Zoroastrian Religion”, explains: “To avoid persecution after the Islamic conquest of Iran, many Iranian Zoroastrians fled to India, where their descendants are known as Parsis. Today in Iran, Zoroastrianism is still practised, with the fire temple located in Yazd.” As a country Iran gets a very bad press in the West. But I am encouraged “to look beyond the headlines”, as Ina puts it. Maintaining that “there is an enormous amount in common between the two cultures”, Iranian and Indian, she points out: “When the Zoroastrians left and went to live in India, they took their food with them.” Paradise lost One of the best novels I have read in a long time is Hafsa Zayyan’s We Are All Birds of Uganda, which tells the migration story of one of the families, the Saeeds, from the 30,000 Indians who arrived in Britain in 1972 as refugees after the entire Asian population of Uganda was expelled by its erratic president, Idi Amin. “I’m kind of related to the story via my marriage,” Hafsa says of her debut novel. Hafsa and her husband, Riaz, were both born in the United Kingdom. She is the daughter of a Nigerian father and a Pakistani mother who met at school in Nigeria. Riaz’s Indian family was among those expelled from Uganda. The protagonists are Kampala-born, Hasan Saeed, who writes cathartic letters to his late first wife, Amira, and his UK-born grandson, Sameer Saeed, who returns to Uganda to marry Maryam, the great granddaughter of Abdullah, an African servant boy. Hasan feels betrayed: “We are not natives and we are not Europeans. India has disowned us; Nehru calls us ‘guests’ of Africa. We are not guests. We are Africans of Asian origin.” Footnote Malala Yousafzai, inspirational champion for girls’ education, has been glammed up “in a red Stella McCartney headscarf and matching red lips” for the cover of the British Vogue, barely recognizable as the 15-year-old girl who was airlifted to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham after being shot in the head by the Taliban. She is now 23, an Oxford graduate and Nobel Prize winner and about to start making programmes for America’s Apple TV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
12-06-2021||Opinion||Applause addiction||China’s Xi Jinping yearns to be loved. Anxiety neurosis, like narcissism, is inherent in the psychology of all absolute rulers. Adolf Hitler, Mao Zedong, Josef Stalin and Pol Pot probably also craved to be called “trustworthy, lovable and respectable”. So does Narendra Modi. The hospitality extended to over 20 hand-picked European parliamentarians who were taken on a jaunt to Kashmir in October 2019 was an obvious exercise in ‘spin-doctoring’, which has been defined as an attempt ‘to explain the government’s message directly to the public without going through the distorting prism of media reporting’. It misfired when Chris Davies, a British Liberal Democrat, disclosed that his invitation was cancelled when he sought unfettered access to go anywhere and speak to anyone he wanted. While the European Parliament distanced itself from the initiative, Davies told the BBC he was “not prepared to take part in a PR stunt for the Modi government and pretend that all [was] well” in Kashmir. Modi’s boast of “made-in-India solutions” that not only “controlled the spread of the virus and improved our health infrastructure” but had also “given a shield not just to India but to many other countries in the world” was another demand for applause. If the applause was less than ringing, it was because the catastrophe of India’s second wave exposed the complacency and vanity of that attempt to cover up a disgracefully inadequate medical infrastructure. The fault is not just Modi’s. But he has done little to repair the dereliction he inherited. All Indian leaders talk incessantly of doing things for India, but seldom for Indians. The promise of a chicken in every peasant’s pot on Sundays by the French king, Henry IV, to which Herbert Hoover gave modern resonance in his 1928 presidential campaign, has never seemed important to our rulers. Surviving public utilities like the railways or postal service are today limping relics of once-efficient colonial undertakings. India desperately needs hospitals, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, ambulances, equipment and medicines. It needs relief from the fraud of a bureaucrat’s research paper comparing Indian and Chinese public healthcare that trotted out the names of expensive nursing homes in Delhi, Mumbai and Calcutta to illustrate Indian welfare. Perhaps sociologists will find an explanation in an unspoken conspiracy to conceal scabrous reality and maintain a traditional social hierarchy that has not changed drastically, as it has in China. A host of charities bearing the prime minister’s name are mainly a means of legitimizing patronage to buy votes. A failed State assumes the collapse of aspiration and effort. Did either ever exist in India? Was India ever seriously on the brink of superpower status except in A.P.J. Abdul Kalam’s imagination and the condescending rhetoric of American diplomats playing up to our political windbags? The pace at which our bureaucracy works, police operations, the allegations that vitiate political life, unquestioning acceptance of ‘speed money’ at all levels and the vast and criminally growing gulf between rich and poor warn of ramshackle institutions of the State. Richard Nixon, whom we love to hate, thought the wonder was not that India was governed badly but that it was governed at all. Few of his critics know of Nixon’s Quaker grandmother who gave him a life of Mahatma Gandhi that he read over and over again when he was only 17. Or that he was convinced after visiting India in 1953 of Jawaharlal Nehru’s “personal thirst for influence, if not control, over South Asia, the Middle East and Africa”. Nehru himself set the stage for today’s failures with the rhetorical question, “What does independence consist of?”, in the Constituent Assembly on March 8, 1949. “It consists fundamentally and basically of foreign relations,” he answered. “That is the test of independence. All else is local autonomy. Once foreign relations go out of your hands into the charge of somebody else, to that extent and in that measure you are not independent.” Nehru was deluded as a new brown entrant in a white man’s club. Modi seems dazzled by his intimacy with Barack Obama and “Bibi” (Benjamin Netanyahu). All our leaders neglect domestic obligations whose fulfilment alone would have earned respect. They chase foreigners instead. The inevitable comparison with China once prompted Lee Kuan Yew to discuss in Forbes why China’s “peaceful rise” had “raised apprehensions”. Yet India prompted no unease despite an annual growth rate of between 8 per cent and 9 per cent for five years (under Manmohan Singh before the so-called ‘Gujarat Model’ sent the economy crashing) and the ability to “project power across its borders farther and better than China”. Among the reasons Lee cited for the absence of concern were the Indian elite’s fluency in English, troublesome neighbours and the consequent need to watch the border, and democracy not because of abstruse moral reasons but because ruling coalitions of 10 to 20 parties made for an internal system of checks and balances. The suspension of nuclear talks with Washington because of the reservations of 60 Communist parliamentarians would have been inconceivable in China. He contrasted such inevitable periodic “domestic obstruction” with “the singleness of purpose in policy and its execution” China displayed. Lee was anxious not to disparage India. He respected Manmohan Singh. Sonia Gandhi had invited him to deliver the Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Lecture. He had rubbed shoulders with the global glitterati at two international conferences in India in 2007. Yet, reading between the lines of his Forbes article, it is clear he felt the West was justified in fearing China’s rise but losing no sleep over India’s growth. Whereas “[t]he speed of China’s change and the thoroughness, energy and drive with which the Chinese [had] built up their infrastructure and pursued their goals spring from their culture, one that is shared by the Koreans, Japanese and Vietnamese”, India would not pose a challenge until it got its social infrastructure up to First World standards. Even a democratic China with multiple parties that lagged behind India economically would not allay Western suspicion. The Chinese would still be haunted by the “yellow peril” phobia reinforced by memories of the Cultural Revolution and Tiananmen Square massacres, not to mention objections to censorship. So, spin-doctoring wouldn’t solve Xi’s dilemma even if the Chinese system allowed it. Contrary to Lee’s assessment, however, a world which respects wealth and power will continue to deal with China while also continuing to try to cut it down to size. Xi may have to modify China’s “wolf warrior” (a term taken from a Rambo-style Chinese film) diplomacy whose provenance goes back to the 1793 Macartney Mission when King George III was commanded to “... Tremblingly obey and show no negligence!” But Xi is unlikely to make concessions on Tibet, Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Nor will the West insist. It knows its limitations. India is different. It has no high-powered professional spin doctors like Ronald Reagan’s Michael Deaver or Tony Blair’s Alastair Campbell. Modi, who has never run the gauntlet of a press conference (so far as anyone knows), is wise not to risk a press secretary who might try to upstage him when not angling for employment abroad. But our durbari culture enables every rookie politician and many journalists to operate as spin doctors, hoping their image-building efforts will be noticed and rewarded with a diplomatic assignment, a corporate directorship or a Rajya Sabha membership. But even they can do little to promote an Upper Volta not even with missiles. Nuclear-armed India is not a failed State. It’s a State that never took off. It will not do so either until its leaders realize that foreign policy, like charity, begins at home. The pandemic has exposed massive lacunae. Now is the time to invest in India instead of worrying about reports of China doubling its fleet of destroyers or transforming New Delhi into a ‘Modinagar’ that has eliminated all signs of Muslim or British rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
