13-06-2021||Opinion||Green loss||Sir — The United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration was launched recently with the goal of preventing, halting and reversing ecosystem degradation. Its report calls on the world to restore at least one billion hectares of degraded land in the next decade. But the problem with this is that countries often use this as an excuse to start commercial plantations and pass these off as forested areas in audits. Since economy is the only thing world leaders understand, they should perhaps chew on this: roughly half of global GDP depends on nature, and if ecosystem services decline at a steady rate, an estimated $10 trillion in global GDP may be lost by 2050. Subho Bhattacharya,Calcutta Game, set, match Sir — In an absolutely thrilling match with an unexpected ending, Novak Djokovic defeated Rafael Nadal in the Roland Garros men’s semi-final. Nadal was chasing a record 21st Grand Slam title; this would have put him at the top spot in tennis, moving him past Roger Federer. But after a gritty battle, Djokovic is now one victory away from completing a second Career Grand Slam and earning his 19th major crown, which will put him within breathing distance of Federer and Nadal. Nadal is known as the king of the clay court and it takes not just skill but also mental fortitude to stand in front of him at the French Open. Yet, Djokovic put pressure on Nadal in almost every service game, and that left the 13-time champion scrambling for a way to change the rhythm of the match. The incredible shotmaking of the two players led to four service breaks and 14 break points in the set. This match reminded one of the Wimbledon clash between Djokovic and Federer. Both matches were not only thrilling but veritable masterclasses in tennis.Arindam Da,Hooghly Sir — “[L]ife goes on, it is nothing more than a defeat on a tennis court,” said the defending French Open champion, Rafael Nadal, after conceding the semi-final match to the rising star of the tennis firmament, Novak Djokovic. But that semi-final match was no ordinary game of tennis. This is only the third time that Nadal has been defeated at the French Open. Nadal won the first five games and looked set to repeat the drubbing of the Serb in last year’s final. But Djokovic seized the momentum, winning the second set and then edging a pulsating 97-minute third set on a tiebreak, having saved a set point. After breaking a tiring Nadal’s serve for a 4-2 lead in the fourth set, the end came quickly as Djokovic inflicted a first defeat on Nadal at the French Open since he beat him in the 2015 quarter-final. It was an unbelievable show of tenacity by the Serbian world champion. Indranil Roy,Calcutta Sir — Novak Djokovic must be lauded for his spirited game against the king of the clay court, Rafael Nadal. The men’s semi-final of the French Open was a treat for tennis lovers across the world. Rima Roy,Calcutta Grave danger Sir — The article, “Flickering flame” (June 11), by Ashish Khetan was enlightening. Khetan welcomed the much-needed initiative of the Supreme Court to review the constitutional validity of Section 124A, popularly known as the sedition law. But Khetan also listed a number of other laws that are being wielded by the government to crush opponents and critics who speak up against the government’s misdeeds and are vocal about individual freedom and civil liberties. The Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre has been most creative when it comes to misusing any and every law at its disposal. Unfortunately, the apex court’s verdicts in the cases related to the Rafale contract, the PM-Cares Fund, the Sahara-Birla diaries and so on have raised more questions in the minds of citizens than ever before. The apex court — the protector of the Constitution and thus democracy — is expected to be beyond questions and to pass judgments that benefit each and every citizen. When doubts begin to arise about its judgments, democracy is in grave danger indeed. Jahar Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
13-06-2021||Opinion||Many in Congress are angry, want Rahul to take over immediately||A majority of Congress leaders did not appreciate young Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada defecting to the Bharatiya Janata Party, but they are equally angry with Rahul Gandhi for refusing to return as party president. Such is the frustration that one known family loyalist said in an informal conversation, “Rahul should immediately take over the reins and lead from the front. The party and the country will forgive him for running away and wasting two critical years. If he is still reluctant, he should immediately make public statement that his exit is final and somebody else must be appointed to lead the party without any further delay. This unending uncertainty is destroying Opposition against Narendra Modi [sic].” Another leader, also known to be close to the family, said, “Rahul should take sanyaas if he is not interested in politics. This back-seat driving won’t do.” Although most of these leaders firmly believe Rahul is the best leader to confront Modi in 2024, they are so tired of waiting that they have started criticizing him viciously. One former Union minister made a caustic remark while analyzing the state of affairs in India, saying, “Two parallel processes are continuing — one that destroys the country, another that destroys the Congress.” Most of the party workers feel nothing is being done to strengthen the organization and politics is restricted to Twitter. Even blind loyalists admit all this but blame Covid-19, not Rahul, for the situation. “We had grand plans but could not execute them because of lockdown and the consequent humanitarian crisis.” This week a media address by Ravi Shankar Prasad, who is in charge of heavyweight ministries like law and justice and electronics, information technology and communications, was scheduled at the BJP headquarters. Given Prasad’s ministerial profile, it was expected the media address would be on some topic of national importance. Much to everyone’s dismay, Prasad dwelt on slamming the Delhi government’s proposal to give home delivery of rations to the poor, especially since Delhi is not even a full-fledged state. In party circles, the choice of fielding a senior minister like Prasad was seen as a deliberate move by the current regime to ensure that no minister or party leader starts thinking that he or she has become too big for his or her shoes. Barring the very senior leaders, most others are periodically asked to come to the party office and address press conferences. The ministers are apparently asked to say that they are party workers first and then a minister. Apart from their performances in handling their respective departments, what work they have rendered to the party is also taken into consideration during assessments. So no one dares shirk their responsibility when it comes to managing the affairs of the party and protecting its image. The Congress effected major organizational changes in the Kerala PCC within a month of the election setback. The change in distant Kerala, swift by Congress’ own standards, has left Assam PCC leaders frustrated. The unit president, Ripun Bora, quit soon after the loss to the BJP-led alliance in the state. The state unit was hoping the high command would appoint someone acceptable to most, someone who could effectively take on the newly-appointed chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, and galvanize the state unit. Most say that the Assam unit has been a victim of the party leadership’s dithering and wrong decisions. “They appointed the CLP leader on the eve of the inaugural session of the new assembly and now we wait for the appointment of the PCC president. We are going through the motions when we should have been taking on the new government as the main Opposition party, more so when you have someone as astute and media savvy as Sarma as the chief minister. We have not learnt our lessons despite the losses,” a party leader said, articulating the mood in the state PCC. In spite of the delay in launching the poll campaign or making it clear it will continue with Bora contrary to demands from most senior leaders, the state unit put up a united face in the polls. The delay in naming the state unit president is deepening the damage. The term of a colourful student politician and a darling of the Delhi press, Akshay Lakra, has ended. His four years and seven months is perhaps the longest for any Delhi unit president of National Students’ Union of India. During his term, the organization transformed from a ‘money-and-muscle’ outfit to an ideologically-motivated group under the guidance of Congress joint-secretary, Ruchi Gupta. Her politics and Lakra’s activism made the NSUI’s presence felt in the DU students’ union, which has been dominated by sangh-backed Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad since 2013. The conflicting styles of Lakra and Gupta led to many comical situations which had the unintended effect of keeping the cadre on their toes. Lakra will be remembered for his flair for theatrics — he defaced a bust of Hindutva ideologue, Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, which was eventually removed from its prominent position in DU — and for reaching his wedding on a tractor last year in solidarity with farmers. Malayalis are missing KK Shailaja ‘teacher’, who was not given a second term as health minister. She is now the CPI(M) chief whip in the assembly, a step down compared to her earlier portfolio. While her successor, Veena George, has hit the tracks running, people miss Shailaja who almost always had a ready solution for problems. Many say the CPI(M) is losing out on the charismatic leader’s presence, especially when the state is reeling under the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
13-06-2021||Opinion||Players and prejudice||Should sportsmen be punished for saying or doing bigoted things on or off the field of play? To ask the question is to answer it; no one, in this day and age, will say that that prejudice should get a free pass. In England, football has led the way, with campaigns to kick racism out of the sport going back nearly thirty years. Racist fans are expelled from the stands, even banned from stadiums. England’s football team has reaffirmed its commitment to anti-racism by insisting on ‘taking a knee’ before its Euro Cup matches despite being booed for doing so by a section of English fans. English cricket has been less enthusiastic about calling out racism. This reluctance goes back half a century, when the English cricket board had to be pushed by popular pressure and government disapproval into calling off a tour by apartheid South Africa’s cricket team. England’s clubby, white, male cricket administrators have been model reactionaries. They have to be shamed into setting their house in order. The whiteness of the England and Wales Cricket Board’s management and, lately, the whiteness of the English cricket team haven’t exactly helped foster self-awareness about racism. Which brings us to Ollie Robinson and his ‘historic’ views about black people, Muslims and women. These were tweeted out when he was eighteen and nineteen. He is now 27. He has apologized publicly and, despite an excellent debut, been suspended from international cricket pending an enquiry into his conduct as a professional cricketer. For some, including the prime minister, Boris Johnson, and his minister for sport, Oliver Dowden, the apology was punishment enough. They felt his suspension was an overreaction. Johnson and his minister saw in this punishment a free culture war opportunity to mock wokeness, which, for Tory politicians, is a political gift. Johnson was also defending, by implication, his own record; if a man with a history of racial and ethnic gibes about black people’s ‘watermelon smiles’ and burqa-ed Muslim women’s ‘letter box’ looks could be elected to the highest political office in Britain, why should Robinson’s Test career be put on hold for teenage bigotry? For some, Robinson was punished not for bigotry but for embarrassing the ECB. As Michael Vaughan, the former England captain and commentator, observed, it was astonishing that English cricket’s governing body didn’t do due diligence before employing players to represent the country. Ironically, the ECB’s embarrassment was compounded by its attempt to deflect criticism for the English team no longer taking the knee. In a photo-op just before play began, England’s players committed themselves, in suitably captioned T-shirts, to a whole menu of resolutions intended to make English cricket more inclusive. Ambushed by Robinson’s youthful ‘indiscretions’ on the same day as its ‘Moment of Unity’ campaign against racism, sexism and religious intolerance was launched, the ECB was left looking for a public sacrifice and Robinson was the obvious candidate. Michael Holding, the great West Indian fast bowler and expert commentator who had caught the public imagination in July 2020 for a passionate, spur-of-the-moment monologue about racism and discrimination during a rain delay, said that the ECB had done the right thing by suspending Robinson from international cricket while it investigated his record in the years since those tweets. But he wanted the investigation to be swift so that the suspension could be revoked if it found that Robinson hadn’t re-offended. He argued that people deserved a second chance especially if their offences were old ones. Michael Carberry, a black cricketer who represented England in half-a-dozen Tests, was less forgiving. He said that if it were left to him, Robinson wouldn’t play Test cricket again. He thought Robinson’s apology was scripted and he felt that the only way of putting an end to chronic racism in sport was tougher sanctions. He thought symbolic gestures like sportsmen taking the knee were gimmicks that made no difference in the real world. Carberry and Boris Johnson, coming from opposite ends of the argument, were sceptical of the value of taking a knee. Johnson criticized Robinson’s punishment as excessive, and he refused to criticize a section of English football fans for booing the national team during a home game for taking a knee. He said it was their democratic right to express their disapproval peacefully. Tory positions on taking a knee and Robinson’s suspension are of a piece. A young white cricketer’s tweets (made, however, when he was an adult) needed no more than a public apology. Johnson and his sports minister, Dowden, agreed that Robinson’s suspension was ‘over the top’ and that the ECB ought to reconsider its decision. On the other hand, the multi-racial English football team’s symbolic protest against historic racism in sport and in society was seen as so divisive and offensive that one Conservative MP compared it to British footballers being pressured to make the Nazi salute during a football match in Berlin in 1938; another vowed not to watch any English matches during the Euro Cup and Britain’s Conservative prime minister couldn’t bring himself to ask his countrymen to stop booing the English national team at the first time of asking. Pleading Robinson’s case while publicly denouncing kneeling footballers for being militant Marxism’s useful idiots casts white people as historically well-meaning but occasionally erring innocents, while stereotyping critics of racism, both black and white (the English football team, for example), as deluded pawns of sinister militants or virtue-signalling poseurs or both. When Holding asked that Robinson’s suspension ought to be as short as possible, he made it conditional on the ECB making sure that he hadn’t offended again since those youthful tweets. Holding wasn’t offering Robinson absolution; he was saying that there ought to be a statute of limitations on a young person’s offences if he had outgrown that persona. The fact that Johnson and Dowden took the positions they did on Robinson’s bigotry and on England’s footballers taking the knee, at the same time, is revealing. It allows us to see them for what they are: English nationalists offering sympathy and solidarity to someone they see as one of their own. Watching all this play out at a great distance from Delhi is oddly depressing. Regardless of the rights and wrongs of the Robinson controversy or the back-and-forth about taking a knee, at least these were matters being vigorously debated by English cricket commentators, administrators, sportsmen, journalists, politicians and incensed letter writers. Even Johnson was finally nudged into asking fans not to boo the English football team by the weight of public opinion. This is very unlike India, where Test cricketers tweet out government policy in chorus, where the mainstream media amplify this propaganda, where cricket administrators can accuse an exemplary cricketer and coach, Wasim Jaffer, of being communal on no evidence whatsoever, where his former teammates stay utterly silent in the face of this accusation because the Board of Control for Cricket in India (such an appropriate name!) is run by the minions of a majoritarian ruling party openly hostile to Muslims. It’s the difference between free citizens disagreeing and clients doing what they’re told. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
13-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tax the giants||The noose has started to tighten around multinational corporations. The Group of Seven, a cabal of the world’s richest nations, are close to signing an agreement that will force these giant corporations to pay a reasonable tax in the countries where they earn their greatest slice of profits. The agreement, which is very thin on specifics, rests squarely on two main pillars. The first pillar seeks to usher in changes in the international tax system in an increasingly digital world by reallocating taxation rights on business profits in such a manner that these are no longer linked to physical presence. Instead, countries will be permitted to collect taxes from multinational corporations based on the share of profits they earn from consumers in that jurisdiction. Under the G7 agreement, these corporate behemoths can be taxed in any country where they make more than 10 per cent of profit on sales. The company will have to pay taxes at least 20 per cent above this profit threshold. The second pillar is designed to fix a minimum global corporate tax rate of 15 per cent — a move that is designed to stop countries from deliberately lowering their tax rates in order to persuade multinational corporations to set up their headquarters in these jurisdictions. This would mean that Google and Facebook, for instance, would no longer be able to locate their base in Ireland where the tax rate is as low as 12.5 per cent. The G7 agreement marks the culmination of discussions that have been going on since 2013 when the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development and the Group of 20 nations, a broader alliance that includes India, tried to rewrite international tax rules. This led to the creation of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project to address the global problem of unrealized corporate taxes. The OECD had estimated back then that the world suffered an annual loss of anywhere between 4 to 10 per cent of global corporate income tax or roughly $100 to 240 billion. A meeting of the G-20 is scheduled in July where India will join the negotiations. However, it will take a few more years before the 139 nations in the world are able to sew up all the loose ends. The tardy progress over the BEPS framework had prompted countries like India to levy their versions of a digital tax. India imposed an equalization levy in 2016 that mandates every entity in India to withhold 6 per cent of the payment for specified services received from a non-resident entity. India may no longer be able to levy these digital taxes once the global tax agreement is in place. Some experts suggest that India may end up with lower revenues in the new regime than what it earns now. The 10 per cent profit threshold poses problems because multinational companies do not break down their profits by tax jurisdictions. Unless that is done, countries like India may continue to suffer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
13-06-2021||Opinion||U-turns And I||If all this were happening out there on the roads, there would have been mayhem by now. Everyone doing the U-turn, every minute; if this were a highway, thousands would have been run over. But this is Indian politics and this is normal and it is all happening over our ‑voters’ ‑ live bodies. An U-turn is so called because of the shape of the manoeuvre. It has to do with reversing the direction of travel. The Congress’s Jitin Prasada just pulled off one. Only the other day he was campaigning in Bengal’s Shyampur, Amta and Pursurah for the Congress, retweeting Rahul Gandhi’s interview on the coronavirus crisis and the “GOI’s incompetence”. And now he is lifting bouquets with J.P. Nadda, Piyush Goyal, Adityanath. You might say Mukul Roy and son did a U-turn, except two U-turns make a full circle. Other leaders are apparently getting ready to do the full circle too, but regular party-workers must smart for even dreaming defection. Some others find themselves conjectured into a U-turn. “She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar,” said the Congress’s Sachin Pilot when cat got out of the BJP’s Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s bag that he might be considering joining the BJP. Abhijeet Mukherjee, who is the son of the late President of India, Pranab Mukherjee, denied taking a turn away from the Congress and towards the Trinamul. And there is some talk that in Bihar, Mahagathbandhan ka bhoola Jitan Ram Manjhi might steer the Hindustani Awam Morcha out of the new alliance and into the old one. Not all turns are partywards, some are issue-based. PM Modi just did a U-turn on the Centre’s vaccination policy. The BJP’s Himanta Biswa Sarma ‑ who till April was saying “what Covid”, “no need for mask” ‑ said upon taking oath of office as Assam CM, “We will take all measures to contain Covid-19. Until the situation is controlled in Assam, the virus in the Northeast will never come under control.” And now that the Uttar Pradesh elections are around the corner, CM Adityanath has swiftly moved from issuing gag orders on corona aid seekers to transferring crores into bank accounts and cracking the whip on expansion of vaccination outreach. Some of these are no doubt good turns, but they come too late, and over our dead bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
13-06-2021||Opinion||On wings of the Great Blue Tick||Birds. They make sounds. Is that what we know about birds? That they make sounds? And is that all they do? Birds? Think about birds, then think about what you think birds predominantly do. Let me leave you with the thinking a while. Let me, as I often tend to do, digress. As a matter of fact, it is tough not to digress at the moment because there is too much noise around. All around. So much noise that nothing makes sense; it is difficult to make sense when there is only noise. Everyone wants themselves to be heard, they all want it badly and therefore everyone is shouting and nobody can be heard over, or under, all of that shouting. The shouting is about this and that, about this side and that side, about this is right and that is wrong, about what about this and what about that, about then and about now, about this way and that way and the highway, all sorts of things. Everybody’s yelling, but nobody is getting through to the one they are yelling at. It may well be they cannot listen to what they themselves are saying, such a deafening noise there is all around. It’s like a constant rat-a-tat-tat of shutupshutupshutupshutupshutupshutupshutup. And nobody is listening. Nobody is shutting up. A mangled heap of crashed and crashing decibels, that’s what it would look like if you would try turning this into an image. A whirl of dingbats, flying, flown, fallen. That’s what it would look like. Oh that reminds me, something else flies. Birds fly. They make sounds, yes, undeniably, but birds also fly. They have wings, although not all wings facilitate flying. I mean emus have wings, and ostriches, and all they can do is scram and bury in the sand. There are wings and there are wings. There are yet other kinds of wings. Left wing. Right wing. Those sorts of wings may not facilitate flying; tough to tell what they facilitate at the best or worst of times. We were on birds. Or we had returned to birds after a digression and we digressed again. That happens. Digressions, and this has been said here before if I recall right, digressions allow us to travel longer, more varied distances than the straight and narrow road ever would have. The birds are making sounds, some of them can make sounds as they fly. It’s called multitasking. Some of them make a sound just as they take flight. It’s called lift-off. Some of them land and begin to make a sound. It’s called, wonder what that’s called, something or the other. Everyone makes sounds upon landing, ever been inside an arriving plane? But that is teddy bear’s picnic sound, no match to the sound these birds make, the birds that have never been known to fly but are everywhere, birds that have gone where no man has ever been before. These are no ordinary birds, the sounds they make can make and break kingdoms, bring down governments and instal new ones, trigger wars, puncture peace, rip families and friendships, put folks in harm’s way, alchemise lies and give the truth a poor name, they have such power, these sounds. It isn’t a power that always destroys, no, these sounds can protect and preserve too, but you know how we are, our proclivities to choose the evil over the good are a proven thing. Else, we wouldn’t seek a perch on the Neelkanth and say, all right now, just bare your claws, we know how wondrous you can be, but we only want to see your virulence. Keep your good side, Neelkanth, just give us access to your bad one. And so it one day flew And they cried, oh where? It had a neck a certified blue Tick, tick, tick, she goes there!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
