14-06-2021||Opinion|| It’s raining fritters||Sir — It is official: the monsoon has landed in Calcutta. This piece of news — the horrors of slush and water-logging notwithstanding — is unlikely to dampen our spirits. For it rains telebhajas at this time of the year, with Bengalis tucking into their beloved savouries in huddles in front of street stalls. But a raging pandemic stands between the pneyaaji and the palate this year. It remains to be seen how Calcutta finds a way around this challenge. Biswanath Banik, Calcutta Sir — Reading the article, “Interpreters of Maladies” (June 13), by Upala Sen was like taking a walk down memory lane. It is both exhaustive and well written and it took me a while to believe that someone has so many similar memories as me. But I would like to add some more medicines to those listed in the article. First, there was Calacreme which came in pale yellow tubes and worked wonders in lightening the scars left behind by smallpox and chickenpox. The 1974 smallpox epidemic in India gave a huge boost to the sale of this cream. Even as late as 2001, doctors have been known to prescribe the cream for the same purpose. Second would be Vinkola-12, a vitamin and iron tonic manufactured in Serampore. This tonic was believed to work wonders for the health and well-being of girls with menstrual problems, especially those suffering from excessive blood loss. Then, of course, there is Lacto Calamine, a facial lotion that Bengali mothers believed would make their daughters fair complexioned. I would also like to add that of all the cures mentioned in the article, I still use Mercurochrome and Boroline. Chameli Pal, Batanagar Sir — Upala Sen’s article made for delightful reading. It reminded me of a friend of mine who lives in New Jersey. Each time she comes to visit her family in Calcutta she travels back with, ironically, biryani from Arsalan for her family and friends and bottles of Aqua Ptychotis carefully wrapped in paper and old cloth. Other panaceas like Boroline, Isabgol, Milk of Magnesia and Gelusil are still doing brisk business in Bengal and can be found in most households. In fact, these ‘medicines’ cut across barriers of class, caste and religion and unite a people known for their hypochondria. Sohini Chatterjee, Calcutta Sir — The decision of the GST council to reduce tax rates of some Covid-19 related items from 12 to 5 per cent is too little and too late. The tax should have been removed from all products given the nature of these items. These can be the difference between life and death. There is already a thriving black market for these goods, a tax burden will add to people’s woes. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Stuck there||Indian politicians may have perfected the art of blowing their own trumpets, but India’s academic community clearly has not. Experts claim that this is a factor in the unexciting positions of Indian higher educational institutions in the Quacquarelli Symonds world university rankings. Although Indian universities have done well in the academic reputation and research parameters in this year’s list, their excellence is inadequately presented in the international arena. Of the three institutions that have made it to the top 200 of the rankings, the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, in 186th position, has the highest possible score in research, although its rank has fallen since last year. The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi has improved its position to overtake it to 185, while IIT, Bombay, at 177, tops the Indian entries, but after dropping a few notches. These little changes are inconsequential in the light of the fact that no Indian institution has made it to the top 100 yet. Also, although there are four first-timers such as Jawaharlal Nehru University in the first 1000 — 22 universities in all — 14 universities have lost their previous ranks. Some of the IITs have improved their status, which is good news in a generally static picture. Indian institutions have fared badly in the faculty-student ratio. Vacant teachers’ posts do not help when the government wants more seats, the latest quota being arranged for students from the economically weaker sections. Scores in the parameters of international faculty and international student ratios are poor too. The present Indian government’s ambition of having two lakh overseas students in Indian institutions by 2023 through its ‘Study in India’ programme seems difficult to fulfil since their enrolment has not crossed 50,000 for two years. Investment — for the best possible faculty, filled posts, equipment and infrastructure — as well as autonomy are needed for excellence in education; the government tends to skimp on both. Comfortable accommodation and a safe environment are of the greatest importance for international students and faculty; this is rare too. It is also a comment on the imbalance inherent in India’s education system that specialized institutes are, in general, far ahead of traditional universities in global perception. The huge potential of traditional universities will remain untapped unless they are freed from financial constraints and government interference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Prodigal sons||A wilted leaf seems to have left a tree shaking. The president of the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Dilip Ghosh, has stated that a “wilted leaf” — presumably Mukul Roy who has now returned to the Trinamul Congress after a brief stint in Mr Ghosh’s party — poses no threat. Yet, Mr Ghosh’s confidence may be misplaced. There are murmurs of a massive ‘reverse migration’ of BJP leaders and, equally worryingly, foot soldiers who had moved away from the TMC before the assembly elections in Bengal. Several BJP legislators — defectors from the TMC — have expressed their intention of returning to Mamata Banerjee’s outfit; this could lead to a significant dip in the BJP’s electoral strength in the Bengal assembly. What should concern Mr Ghosh equally is the possibility of mass defections among the cadre. The BJP, in spite of its promising performance in the last parliamentary elections, remains organizationally deficient in the state. Mr Roy was viewed within the saffron party as a prized catch on account of his organizational skills. The return of Mr Roy to the TMC combined with an exodus of workers could have an adverse effect on the state BJP’s morale and structural strength. While it may be argued that this ghar wapsi from the BJP to the TMC is yet another instance of political opportunism, it could also be read as the embodiment of the prevailing public mood. That should leave Mr Ghosh’s ‘tree’ quivering. Some broader speculations may be made on the basis of these developments. Ms Banerjee, an adroit reader of the political pulse and the public mood, is likely to use this momentum in her favour. She has already stated that Mr Roy’s induction would have consequences at the national level and the meeting between Prashant Kishor, a trusted aide of Ms Banerjee, and Sharad Pawar has added grist to the political mill. The possibility of a resurgent Opposition throwing down the gauntlet to Narendra Modi and his party with Ms Banerjee in the lead may not be an untenable proposition. That could energize the TMC — and Bengal. Yet, there is also a caveat that Ms Banerjee will do well to remember. The TMC’s reversals began with the party’s endeavour to dominate Bengal’s political space by combining intimidation with defections. The TMC must shun this wish because absolute power turns parties authoritarian, eroding the democratic space in the process. As for the BJP, a past master in the game of defections, life has come full circle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||Risks of a vaccine rollout||Some experts consider the vaccine rollout a reason for the surge in the number of Covid cases. It may sound curious, but they argue that the perceived sense of safety induced low adherence to the preventive measures needed to resist infection. Alarmingly, many vaccinated people — fully or otherwise — thought they could discard Covid-appropriate behaviour. Even those not yet vaccinated felt safe. In an article titled “Risk Compensation and Covid-19 Vaccines”, Brit Trogen and Arthur Caplan of New York University Langone Health discuss an old concept, the Peltzman effect, to explain ‘pandemic fatigue’ and post-vaccination behaviour. As Covid-19 vaccines were rolled out across the globe amid messages of optimism and euphoria, what was supposed to be a panacea actually weakened adherence to safety measures. Trogen and Caplan observed: “the effects of risk compensation such as wearing masks, washing hands, and avoiding large crowds tend to fade over time as the novelty of a threat wears off and pandemic fatigue sets in. As the number of people vaccinated increases, this effect may intensify due to a misplaced sense of security”. The Peltzman effect is named after Sam Peltzman, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, who claimed that individuals respond to safety measures with a compensatory increase in risky behaviour. Peltzman published his findings in a seminal article titled “The Effects of Automobile Safety Regulation” in the Journal of Political Economy in 1975. The idea was conceptualized in the late 1960s when the government of the United States of America made the wearing of seat belts mandatory in response to an increase in motor accidents and deaths. Peltzman observed that there was no decrease in automobile death rates in spite of such safety measures and improved car safety technologies. In fact, people drove more recklessly owing to the perceived safety of their seat belts, resulting in an increase in accidents. While the safety measures made the occupants safer it made the bystanders or pedestrians or bicyclists wearing helmets less safe, which was an unintended consequence of this regulation. The American economist, Hyman P. Minsky, developed a theory which is more or less the stock market version of the Peltzman effect. A lowering of the perceived risk of loss raised capital asset prices and encouraged higher levels of borrowing and lending. In his 1970 article, “Financial Instability Revisited: The Economics of Disaster”, Minsky argued that “stability begets instability”. The level of riskiness keeps rising until things become unstable. In his 1975 article, Peltzman argued that regulation changes behaviour that can offset the benefits of government policies. The Peltzman effect in medicine, however, is not simply an unanticipated effect of an intervention, but a specific compensatory response by patients or providers to a perceived sense of safety. A widely cited example in this context is that of risky sexual behaviour among patients receiving treatment or pre-exposure prophylaxis for HIV. The introduction of medications that dramatically lessened the risk of HIV transmission has also been associated with decreased intention to use additional protection — the benefit is thus less than what would be expected. What’s more, “[c]onsciously or not, even those who have not received a Covid-19 vaccine may forgo masks and social distancing if they know that others are receiving the vaccine,” Trogen and Caplan opined. Acknowledging and understanding the Peltzman effect is thus critical to counteracting its possible negative effects. The Peltzman effect is also an important lesson for public policymakers. Continual counselling of people, including those receiving the vaccine, is a must.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||Troublesome copycats: Covid-inappropriate behaviour||There is no dearth of media coverage of inappropriate behaviour on the part of people in respect to Covid-19. But that has not stopped our blatant disregard for such norms as maintaining social distancing or wearing masks. This collective disregard for SOPs and guidelines is the root cause of the disaster. Alas, such caveats appear to have no impact on public conduct. Behavioural economics, a relatively new stream in economics, may have some explanations to offer to resolve the conundrum. We have been discussing Covid-appropriate behaviour for almost a year. Large gatherings are said to be one of the major contributors of the second wave. In March 2020, the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz mosque was termed as a superspreader event. Over four thousand confirmed cases and 27 deaths were linked to the gathering. The country did not learn anything from that disaster. The Kumbh Mela took place one year later. Although the Centre and the Uttarakhand government laid down SOPs on this occasion, these remained largely on paper. There are numerous anecdotal evidences of people contracting the virus after visiting the Kumbh Mela. Al Jazeera reported dozens of cases across India being traced back to the celebration. Last but not the least, that Great Indian political festival — elections — needs to be mentioned in this context. The question is why do people not learn from past events? Behavioural economics offers an answer in this respect: the answer is that the present behaviour of people is what they have learnt from the past. Influencing people’s behaviour by publicizing information — known as ‘social nudge’ — is one way of motivating people towards a desired change in behaviour. The other option relies on command and control policies, such as rules and laws. Lockdown is an example of this kind of intervention. Since it requires monitoring for implementation, it may become cost ineffective in a large and populous country like India. The economic losses incurred due to lockdowns make command and control inefficient. Social nudges, on the other hand, are cost effective as changes may take place more organically. But a social nudge can become counterproductive if the information content is not designed appropriately. In their book, Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness, Richard H. Thaler and Cass R. Sunstein delineate the different types of social nudges for behaviour change. One way of nudging people would be to tell them about correct behaviour. However, people tend to follow others. In Norms in the Wild, Cristina Bicchieri, an Italian-American philosopher, termed people’s tendency to watch others’ behaviour as ‘empirical expectation’, which motivates their behaviour in the same direction. Thus, when people flout Covid-19 SOPs and the information is publicized widely, it sets empirical expectations that others tend to follow. Thaler and Sunstein argue that social nudges are effective only when the information is positive or conforms to appropriate behaviour. If you want to make people tax compliant, policymakers should spread the information that a large number of people pay their taxes. Or, say, if you want to nudge people to give up addiction, then disseminate how many have left the harmful habit. Robert B. Cialdini, an American professor of psychology and marketing, conducted an experiment on the behaviour of visitors to parks in respect to widespread littering. He found that sending the message, “A lot of people are doing this wrong” also meant “A lot of people are doing this”. This may encourage bad habits instead of nudging public behaviour towards a desired outcome. Therefore, there is a possibility that widely publicized news and visuals of the flouting of Covid-19 SOPs, originally meant to raise alarm and warn people, have actually encouraged people to disobey these protocols since they saw others doing the same. The media should produce greater evidence of people adhering to Covid-19 norms. This may be more effective in changing public behaviour. A carefully-crafted social nudge can contain the second wave of the pandemic and even nip the third wave in the bud. Indranil De is Associate Professor, Institute of Rural Management, Anand||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
14-06-2021||Opinion||A fragile moment||To understand the political drama playing out in Israel and the tentative formation of a national unity coalition to topple Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, you don’t need to speak Hebrew. You need only to understand one thing: Netanyahu makes his enemies even angrier than Donald Trump does. Just like Trump, Netanyahu’s main political strategy for winning elections has been to foster an intense personality cult and try and gain and hold power with slim majorities by dividing Israel along as many lines as possible — in his case, primarily Jews versus Arabs, Left versus Right, religious versus secular and patriots versus traitors. And just like Trump, Bibi did not stop at red lights. He was perfectly happy to undermine Israel’s democratic institutions, the press and the rule of law — anything that could restrain his quest to retain power after 12 years in office. That explains why today he is struggling to stay alive politically at the same time his future is tied up with investigations and legal proceedings over bribery, fraud and breach of trust. Sound familiar? As with Trump, Bibi was, and continues to be, ready to take Israeli society to the edge of civil war to hold on to power, which is why Israel is at a delicate moment and the process of forming a post-Netanyahu government is far from over. Before the fragile, incredibly ideologically diverse, ‘Change Coalition’ that has come together to oust Netanyahu is sworn in, which may take place today, Bibi and his political cult followers will ruthlessly use every trick in the book — and out of the book — to stop this transition of power. Sound familiar? In many ways, the unlikely coalition that has come together in Israel to try to unseat Bibi is Israel’s equivalent of Bidenism — a movement of the people who believe that society has to repair its torn political fabric, back away from the brink, and restore respect for institutions and for one another. The Israeli version of Bidenism should be called Lapidism — after Yair Lapid, a former television host and the founder of the centrist Yesh Atid party. He is the Israeli political leader who, more than anyone else, sublimated his own ego to put together this coalition in which he will rotate being prime minister with his right-wing rival and now partner, Naftali Bennett, a pro-settlements religious nationalist. Lapid is even letting Bennett assume the top leadership post first to cement his support, even though Bennett’s party is much smaller. Lapid has been all about downplaying ideology, pragmatically doing what works and restoring the health of Israel’s democratic institutions — so badly stressed in the Bibi era. A few weeks ago, when Israel’s president granted Lapid a chance to try to form a government, Lapid declared that “we’ve had enough of anger and of hate” and that his goal was to “start something different”. Well, Lapid and his right-wing and left-wing coalition allies are certainly on track to do that. So intense is the desire of the anti-Bibi coalition to oust him that it is breaking the biggest political taboo in Israeli political history: being willing to serve in a national unity coalition with an Israeli-Arab Islamist party whose four seats in Parliament were essential to produce this new ruling majority. As the Israeli media have noted, Mansour Abbas, the leader of the Israeli-Arab Raam party, known as the United Arab List in English, “made Israeli political history… by signing an agreement that will for the first time see an Arab party join a government.” Abbas told reporters that he, Lapid and Bennett “reached a critical mass of agreements in various areas that serve the interests of Arab society.” This is amazing. Abbas’s view is that it is high time for Israeli-Arabs to play the game of Israeli politics the same way the other big non-Zionist political bloc in Israel — the Jewish ultra-Orthodox parties — plays that game. And they play by using their swing votes to extract as many budgetary resources as possible for their community. Ynetnews reported that Bennett and Lapid promised Raam significant new money “to tackle the rampant violence and organized crime in Arab society” and “to repair crumbling infrastructure in Arab towns and villages” over the next 10 years. Reality check: one thing I have learned from four decades of reporting about the Middle East is that the eight most dangerous words to ever put into a news story or column after some big event are — “The world will never be the same again.” But it is not hard to be wowed by the unprecedented picture of Abbas, Lapid and Bennett, sitting around a little table (picture), cobbling together their coalition agreement and smiling for the cameras. “It was a historic picture captured in a hotel room by an aide of Mansour Abbas: the key moment when the majority for a government that may replace Benjamin Netanyahu — although still not for sure — was achieved,” wrote Haaretz’s Anshel Pfeffer. But, he added, let us not forget that “the man who made it all possible wasn’t there. Netanyahu created this moment.” Yes, the primary cement of this coalition is indeed opposition to Netanyahu. Alas, though, I have also learned that in Middle East politics, most big breakthroughs actually happen when you get the big players to do the right things for the wrong reasons. If you wait for everyone to do the right things for the right reasons, you wait forever. Many left-wing commentators denounced the recent normalization of relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates engineered by the Trump administration because the deal was greased with American arms sales to the UAE. I am shocked, shocked. Hello? The same grease was used to bring about the Israel-Egypt and Israel-Jordan peace deals — and they have held, and relations between Israel and these Arab states have indeed never been the same since. So, yes, I am still wary that this Israeli ‘Change Coalition’ can actually hold together long enough to assume office — given how fragile it is and the vicious and possibly violent forces gathering to stop it. But if there is a silver lining that can never be taken away, it is the fact that not only Israeli-Jewish parties but Israeli right-wing Jewish parties have agreed to serve in an Israeli national unity coalition — and not only with an Israeli-Arab party but with an Israeli Arab Islamist party. With that taboo now broken, who knows what new possibilities will open up in the future to improve relations between Israeli-Arabs and Jews and also — maybe, maybe, maybe — between Israelis and Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza. Just as the ransacking of the US Capitol by a Trump-inspired mob forced Americans to peer into the abyss of what a civil war might look like, the 11-day war between Israel and Hamas, in which the Israeli army was forced to confront Palestinian-Arabs on the Gaza, Lebanon, West Bank and internal fronts, all on the same day — has forced Israeli Jews to peer into a similar abyss. I wish I could say that having stared into that abyss, I am certain the forces of decency in both societies — on both the left and the right — are now backing away and that Bidenism and Lapidism are the future. Yes, I wish that I could say that. But I can’t. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
