15-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Easily solved||The Bharatiya Janata Party evidently has its own notion of people’s power. It is supposed to function after a BJP government has done its bit according to its agenda. The statement of the chief minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, that Assam’s minority immigrants should adopt a “decent” population policy and the minority community should check population growth to reduce poverty and land encroachment transfers responsibility to one group of people. This was Mr Sarma’s response to demands that people becoming homeless because of the government’s evictions should be rehabilitated. Population control may be a good thing in regions of comparatively high birth rate and land hunger. But the situation is a delicate one in Assam with tensions between Bengali-speaking Muslim immigrants and the state’s original inhabitants. The BJP promised to weed out illegal immigrants, although the National Register of Citizens did not yield the anticipated results. The evictions, which Mr Sarma defended by saying that people could not be allowed to encroach on temple and forest land, are professedly necessary to protect forests and sanctified premises and also to let the government distribute land to indigenous landless people. The Opposition and organizations representing religious and linguistic minorities say that the evicted people are mainly from the minority community. If they are illegal immigrants they should be deported, says one demand, but if they are Indian citizens it is the duty of a democratic government to protect them. They are being rendered homeless in the middle of a pandemic. Many lost their homes because of river erosion and were forced to settle on government land. Inevitably this move is being seen as part of the BJP’s polarization strategy. Evading the point of the criticism, Mr Sarma retaliated by declaring that population control in the minority community was the solution even though data from the fifth National Family Health Survey of 2019-20 revealed that Muslims have witnessed the sharpest fall in fertility since 2005-06. There is already a two-child policy for government jobs in place; it is neutral and not cause for protest. But Mr Sarma’s comments on population control are selective. Besides, his emphasis on the need to educate women of the minority community in association with the aim of reducing population growth is patronizing and doubly discriminatory. Policies for population control may help the whole state irrespective of gender or faith, but of what use are they to people already left homeless after eviction?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||Think again: Sedition case against director Aisha Sultana||Sir — Last week, the Lakshadweep police registered a case of sedition and hate speech against the director, Aisha Sultana, for calling the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, a “bio-weapon” that is being used by the Centre on the island’s people. The case was registered based on a complaint filed by the chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lakshadweep unit, C. Abdul Khader Haji. After 11 months of being free of Covid infections, Lakshadweep now has over 9,000 active cases. Patel is accused of exacerbating the crisis by changing quarantine protocols in January. Since taking over the administration, Patel has also pushed through a slew of new laws and proposals without consulting locally elected representatives. This has led to widespread mistrust and anger towards the BJP government. As many as 93 retired bureaucrats sent a letter to Narendra Modi criticizing the “partisan attitude” of the new administrator and urged him to protect the unique culture and tradition of Lakshadweep. But rather than engaging in course correction, the Centre has chosen to misuse the sedition law. The Centre must recall the administrator at the earliest and reassure the islanders. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — Several BJP leaders and workers in Lakshadweep resigned in protest against the sedition case lodged against Aisha Sultana. Sultana had blamed Praful Khoda Patel for the surge in coronavirus cases in Lakshadweep. She further alleged that the Centre was using him as a “bio-weapon”. In a strongly-worded letter, 12 leaders and workers said the case against Sultana was “false and unjustified” and that she had rightly criticized the administrator’s “unscientific, irresponsible decisions”. It is time that Patel is removed from the post. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Double the win Sir — In a remarkable feat, the Czech athlete, Barbora Krejcikova, became the first player to win both the women’s singles and doubles titles at Roland Garros since 2000. Krejcikova, who won her maiden Grand Slam at the French Open, has shown that she is a force to be reckoned with. It is rare to see players excel in both the singles and doubles formats. Krejcikova has a bright future ahead of her.Garima Sethi,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hollow ring||India’s endorsement of the ‘Open Societies’ declaration at the G7 summit remains open to interpretation. The joint statement that was signed by the G7 nations along with India, South Korea, South Africa and Australia aims to uphold the importance of such values as the freedom of expression which, in turn, is pivotal to safeguarding the future of democracy. This commitment on the part of the bloc is being seen as an attempt to tick off China and Russia. But there is a line of thought that argues that India’s own record in this respect in recent years is enough to merit similar scrutiny. This is because in spite of Narendra Modi’s attempt to remind the world of India’s long and cherished commitment towards freedom and liberty at the summit, data reveal that there may be a hollow ring to the prime minister’s assurance. Indeed, a global non-profit outfit working in the fields of digital rights and online freedom found that 70 per cent of internet shutdowns around the world had taken place in India last year. Internet services suffered for a long time in Jammu and Kashmir even though the Supreme Court has declared access to this vital service to be a fundamental right. Old and new concerns continue to blight India’s freedom charter. Sedition remains a popular legal stick in the hands of the authorities to beat dissenting voices with in New India; the new rules to regulate information technology intermediaries have sparked widespread concerns about encroachments on privacy and free speech; the ruling dispensation stifles criticism by invoking the bogey of anti-nationalism. Little wonder then that India continues to register a precipitous slide in international assessments of democratic conditions and press freedom even as the prime minister reiterates the nation’s fidelity to protect rights and freedoms. In fact, there is a need for the international fraternity to widen the conceptual ambit of ‘Open Societies’; the precept should not be limited to an appraisal of incursions on technology and rights. A truly open society is one that is receptive to stimulating ideas, plurality, equality. It should also be able to energetically challenge regressive forces that make fundamental rights contingent upon public duty. It would be interesting to see how Mr Modi’s India fares on these parameters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||Work together: Native languages to combat Covid||A young doctor posted at a primary health centre in Maharashtra’s remote Melghat region found a simple solution to convince the local Korku tribal community to get inoculated. He spoke to them in their native language, persistently, and turned their reluctance into willingness with advocacy. This is in Amravati, a district that was among the first to be hit by the second wave of Covid-19 in early March. Melghat is infamous for malnutrition among the impoverished Korkus. Miles away, in inaccessible Binagunda at the foothills of Abujh Maadh in the restive Gadchiroli district, a local kotwal, tehsil revenue officer and a recently-recruited project officer of the tribal department joined hands with the Madia community to not only convince them but also quickly vaccinate all tribal villagers. Madias, who are a primitive vulnerable tribal group, had earlier refused to take the vaccine owing to prevailing misconceptions and the inaccessible nature of healthcare. Last month, teams of government officials walked miles through the Maoist-dominated, thickly-forested territory to deliver vaccine doses to tribal people once the community heads, convinced about the benefits of inoculation, had prevailed over their fellow villagers. The local head was among the first to take the jab in front of the people of his village. The process was easy from there on. Quite encouragingly, the health and district administration of Nandurbar, an economically backward part of north Maharashtra, also dispelled inoculation-related misconceptions and rumours among the predominantly tribal population with awareness campaigns designed in the local language and run with the help of community institutions. The result? Several inaccessible, scattered hamlets have been fully vaccinated, while many others are getting there. The lesson is two-fold and long-term. One, native languages and dialects are key to convincing local populations of vaccination benefits. Two, having communities and their institutions, both formal and informal, by your side are critical for any programme delivery. Currently, Indian administrators are struggling with a paucity of ideas to keep children in schools, more so in the remote and rural corners. The use of native languages and drafting in the community to help are both essential for quickly tackling the crisis and its many social fallouts, and to avert another Covid wave. What is quite reassuring is that local political players and government officials, usually unenthusiastic about shouldering these massive challenges, are taking such initiatives and deploying decentralized strategies. They are even partnering with communities to overcome the hurdles when the country’s top-level political and bureaucratic leaderships are failing in their responses to the crisis. While the second wave has not ended, vaccine-related hesitation prevails in many parts of India. Against this backdrop, these examples of positive action hold promise, as many other villages in Maharashtra and perhaps in other states are now achieving full vaccination — subject to vaccine availability — using these strategies of advocacy in native languages and community support. India, with a dynamic history of language development, is home to innumerable languages belonging to the Indo-Aryan, Dravidian, Austro-Asiatic and Tibeto-Burman language families. Advocates of decentralization and local language preservation have long argued that language chauvinism and administrative hegemony do not work in a diverse country as ours. But our administrators, who revel in hierarchy, have a distaste for community wisdom and promote centralization of power. They have abused the very concept of community participation and treated the subaltern with disdain. Gandhi’s ‘consensual democracy’ is difficult to practice, but some of the examples noted above show that it is the only effective tool in dealing with heterogeneity and the diversity of languages and thought.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||The root of the poison: Political violence in Bengal||Even though the number of cognizable crimes per lakh of population in 18 Indian states is higher than that of West Bengal, the latter has acquired the dubious distinction of recording the highest number of episodes of political violence for quite some time. According to the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau, the crime rate — the number of cognizable crimes under IPC per lakh of population — was the highest in Kerala (499.7) in 2019, followed by Haryana (386.4) and Assam (358.9): Bengal stood 19th (162.3). In terms of the number of murders per lakh of population, Jharkhand (4.3), Arunachal Pradesh (4.0) and Haryana (3.9) occupy the first three positions. Bengal (2.0) ranks 17th. In economic offences, the rank of the state is 15th. In all these headers, Bengal’s crime rate is lower than that of the national average. As far as crimes against women per lakh of population is concerned, the first three spots have gone to Assam (177.8), Rajasthan (110.4) and Haryana (108.5) with Bengal being 8th (64.0). Crimes against scheduled castes are the lowest in Bengal (excluding the predominantly tribal states). Yet murders committed due to ‘political reasons’ are the highest in Bengal (12), followed by Bihar and Jharkhand (6 each) and Andhra Pradesh (5). Murder for political reasons is perceived differently when compared to other motives for murder — property or family disputes, personal vendetta, illicit relationship, dowry, insurgency, dacoity, serial killing, honour killing, killing due to religious or caste reasons and so on. Whereas the first kind is thought to be directly linked to the democratic entitlements of people, the other motives are considered to be related to the criminal instinct of an individual or a mob. During Left Front’s rule in Bengal, the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance at the Centre often talked of the ‘deteriorating law and order’ in the state citing instances of violence rooted in partisan politics. There were allegations that political violence in Bengal is not reflected in police records as thanas refused to register such complaints. The narrative did not change when the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power at the Centre and the Trinamul Congress in the state. In order to understand the roots of political violence in Bengal, we need to look into the evolution of grassroot politics in Bengal in the last four decades. The first Left Front regime (1977-82) implemented a three-tier panchayati raj system in 1978 and delegated enormous financial and administrative powers to zilla parishads, panchayat samitis and anchal panchayats. Although panchayats or union boards were there in many Indian states in some form or the other, the Left Front’s experiment in Bengal was unique on two counts. First, the financial and the administrative powers delegated to these grassroot institutions were considerable; second, the elections were fought right up to the village level on party lines. The decentralization of power transformed rural Bengal in the initial years and set up the base of the popularity of the Left Front that enabled it to rule for the next three decades. Ramakrishna Hegde of the Janata Party adopted the Bengal model as chief minister of Karnataka in a slightly different form to empower the people at the grassroots. Rajiv Gandhi as prime minister was so impressed by these two models that he wanted to amend the Constitution to make panchayati raj a mandatory, integral system of district-level administration for the whole of India. The 73rd amendment brought by the P.V. Narasimha Rao regime in 1992 entrusted powers to the gram sabha by the state legislatures and envisaged the institution to perform specific functions. This amendment did not specify the method to be followed in the establishment of panchayats. Many states — Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana — continued to have elections at the village level on a non-political level. In Bengal, however, gram panchayat elections were fought along political lines. Since the 1990s, it has been argued that the social fabric of rural Bengal has been getting divided along the lines of partisan politics ever since the introduction of the panchayati raj system. The introduction of electronic voting machines enabled political parties to get an idea about how many votes have been polled in a booth and perhaps even who supported them and who didn’t. As a result, political parties started taking ‘remedial’ steps at the booth level. Enhanced ‘booth management’ facilitated bitterness among villagers and, sometimes, within families. One consequence has been the intensification of political violence before or after elections. Even in states where village-level elections are fought on non-political lines, the political affiliation of candidates is well known to voters. But the fact that the candidates fight these polls sans party symbols helps in restricting the competitiveness. The political leadership and the law-makers must think of ways of minimizing the venom at the grassroots to lessen political violence. Gautam Bhattacharya is a former civil servant||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
15-06-2021||Opinion||Bet on the jab||Growth anxiety remains high in spite of the fact that infections are down, activities are resuming and the economy contracted less than expected last year (-7.3 per cent). Backsliding demand is one reason for the growth jitters: initial data about gross domestic product do not capture the bigger, informal economy very well. Moreover, the pandemic has wiped out many jobs, shrunk the middle class by 32 million last year relative to what its size otherwise may have been, and tipped 75 million people into poverty, according to Pew Research. The second wave has dented this year’s prospects too. On June 4, the Reserve of India Bank lowered its growth forecast to 9.5 per cent in 2021-22, the World Bank to a less optimistic 8.3 per cent. Either outcome represents a respective 1.6 per cent and 0.4 per cent growth over 2019-20 levels. The recovery outlook is unusually uncertain because of the pandemic. A quickened pace of mass immunization is central to the path visualized by all mainstream forecasters. The spotlight is upon vaccination, which is where the real action lies. How does that augur for the vaccine bet on growth? The government’s goal is to accelerate the vaccination speed that slowed down owing to insufficient doses, thus limiting universal availability. Aspiring for herd immunity, it intends to cover the country’s adult population by December. The vaccine policy has been uneven. It was decentralized in April to the states with which manufacturers were unwilling to deal. Last week, it reverted to centralized purchases and distribution; vaccine allocation norms are now based upon population, disease burden, progress and wastage; and a quarter per cent of the supply is for private hospitals, with an electronic platform for equitable access by smaller and remote ones and non-transferable electronic vouchers for those wanting to pay for the poor. During the period between August and December, 2.16 billion doses will be available, of which 0.74 billion doses are so far secured in advance. If immunization progresses at a planned pace, it may limit virus outbreaks, moderate public fears and clear the way for a smooth economic pickup. This is how advanced nations have proceeded, pulling rapidly out of last year’s depressions, with some likely to pace their fastest ever. The United States of America, for example, is poised to grow an unmatched 6.4 per cent; along with China, whose real GDP is expected to be growing at 8.4 per cent, the two countries are the locomotives of the world economy in 2021. The Indian government’s recent actions to ramp up procurement and hasten immunization are a hint that ‘vaccine policy is economic policy’, a piece of advice imparted by the International Monetary Fund chief, Kristalina Georgieva, many times in recent months. In a report, the finance ministry, too, has urged the inoculation of 70 crore people by September with at least one dose for herd protection, boosting consumer and investor confidence, and helping regain the recovery momentum. Will the vaccine strategy pay off, and ensure that growth lifts well upwards? The effective vaccination of a critical threshold population in six months’ time is no doubt a colossal challenge. The finance ministry’s estimates illustrate the scale: around 113 crore doses would be needed (93 lakh doses each day from mid-June) to meet the September target; it advocates a round-the-clock drive, particularly in August-September when supplies improve, with an ambitious one crore being vaccinated every day. The current daily pace of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered (seven-day rolling average) is 2.87 million as on June 11; 46.3 million are fully vaccinated and 151.13 million partly so according to www.ourworldindata.org. Slippages and disruptions are possible, including insufficient supply. Building satisfactory public trust with demonstrated vaccine efficacy could take time. Freeing up of restrictions and operations is not linked to vaccination levels or those vaccinated, raising doubts if low positivity rates are enough to instil a sense of safety and security in the public. Recurrent outbreaks cannot be altogether dismissed therefore. These could restrain economic activities to sub-optimal levels for uncertain time periods and degrees. In fact, it is by acknowledging such possibilities that Maharashtra, the largest sub-national economy and biggest contributor to India’s national output, has a five-level unlocking plan. It is gradual, governed by the case positivity rate and medical infrastructure, and will vary across districts. Above all, the looming uncertainty is whether en masse scaling-up of vaccination will eliminate the biggest downside risk, namely the eruption of a third coronavirus wave and/or newer mutants in the interval. It remains to be seen if the vaccination strategy and steps inspire economic confidence and consumer sentiments as quickly as imagined. There are other legitimate reasons why a recovery may not be as surely inclined upwards even if vaccination gains traction as contemplated. Psychological and financial scars from the second wave could affect or change economic behaviour and attitudes. This has been observed in China, as reported by Bloomberg, in spite of the virus having been in check for nearly one year: post-pandemic consumer behaviour displays a conservative turn owing to unequal savings made during the pandemic, caution and fear have prompted spending cuts, especially on services, while the Chinese central bank’s surveys find more people intent on saving extra and fewer with plans to increase spending, since confidence about future income is still lower than pre-pandemic levels. India, where Covid-19 is far from durably checked, shares some of these traits. Inequality is estimated to have increased with buoyant corporate profits and the ascendant wealth of a few contrasting sharply with raised unemployment levels, small business closures and heavy income losses reported by several surveys. This May, current perceptions and one-year forward expectations of consumers on employment, income and discretionary spending plunged to their lowest depths ever measured by the RBI’s consumer confidence surveys; these are far lower than April-May 2020. The near-absent fiscal support in the second wave, following a bare-boned one last year, has also squeezed disposable incomes, which limits the extent of comparison with other countries. There is a counter view that is more ebullient. This upholds that the inherent optimism of Indians will brush aside the scars and apprehensions, unleash suppressed demand and unwind accumulated savings; daily wagers, low-wage earners and those without jobs may have little choice but to resume operations to recoup economic losses and fortify finances; there will be a strong impetus from exports. Nothing about this glowing scenario is certain any more than one is sure about a recovery marked by bumps, warts and all. It is fairer to consider if mass vaccinations can lead to a decisive shift in sentiments and confidence, and if the demand momentum will be persistent or prove to be a one-off. We should know soon how the vaccine bet plays out. Renu Kohli is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-10
