16-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Dig Deeper||It is heartening when data bear signs of progress on the ground. Such signs were evident in the findings of the All India Survey on Higher Education, which showed that the gender gap in higher education has closed further: in 2019-20, there were 100 women for every 100 male students for the Bachelor of Commerce programme in higher educational institutions. In absolute numbers, of the 41.6 lakh students who were enrolled in the course in 2019-20, 20.3 lakh were women and 21.3 lakh were men. After the Bachelor of Science and the MBBS programmes in 2017-18, this is the third major course in the last five years where the gender gap in enrolment has been closed — almost. Progress, however, must also be understood by placing it within a wider context. Even within the AISHE findings, there is evidence of a persistent imbalance: in the Bachelor of Technology programmes, there are just 42 women enrolled for every 100 men, and in undergraduate law programmes, there are only 53 women students for 100 men. It is no secret that girls and women in India have to confront numerous hurdles to achieve basic rights. Their challenges are compounded by myopic policymaking. The Union budget for education was reduced from Rs 99,311 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 93,224 crore for 2021-22. The slash in funds is expected to adversely affect women students — especially those from rural and disadvantaged backgrounds — the most. Moreover, the gains made at the undergraduate level are, unfortunately, being neutralized by newer gaps in other areas. Consider online learning. Studies have repeatedly shown that women students are being inconvenienced by the shift to the digital medium. In states such as Haryana, teachers in schools and colleges have to strive harder to ensure their female students are allowed to take online classes, as women’s access to mobile phones is believed to be detrimental to their personal reputations or a distraction from chores and income-generating work. The rise in women’s enrolment in higher education has also been accompanied by a steep fall in their participation in the labour force. Before Covid-19, 7.5 per cent of women in urban areas were employed; data from February 2021 show that the figure has fallen to 5.4 per cent. A principal factor for gender discrimination remains unaddressed, be it in employment or in education — the long history of inertia of elected dispensations. One way of addressing this would be greater and meaningful political representation of women at every tier of power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Opinion||Time to turn back: Mukul Roy returns to TMC||Sir — The political culture of defection and horse trading has now become common in Bengal, indeed in all of India. The senior politician, Mukul Roy, recently switched back to his old party, the Trinamul Congress, after hobnobbing with heavyweights of the Bharatiya Janata Party as national vice-president for 1,316 days — he even won from the Krishnanagar seat as a BJP candidate (“Prodigal sons”, June 13). Roy must have sensed that the threats posed by the Central investigation teams in the Narada case have passed. After rejoining the TMC, Roy expressed his happiness at being among familiar faces. He was also given a warm hug by Abhishek Banerjee, who was considered to be his rival. Roy has also secured the future of his son, Subhranshu Roy — who lost this time to a TMC candidate — at the party. The electorate of West Bengal handed over a sweeping victory to Mamata Banerjee. She happened to be the star campaigner with an injured leg, standing up against hordes of Central ministers. What is the use of inducting these opportunists now, going against the choice of the voters? This shows that political ideology is for the ground-level workers while leaders in the higher echelons are free to change parties. People like Roy have not borne the brunt of the post-poll violence. They should take initiative to rehabilitate and compensate party workers or their families who have been rendered homeless or lost lives in the aftermath of the elections, irrespective of party colour, to restore the people’s trust in politicians and politics. Banerjee had declared a cleaning of the Augean stable when certain leaders left the party; it is unfortunate that the party seems ready to take them back. Subhankar Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — Dealing a major blow to the BJP, Mukul Roy, hitherto the party’s national vice-president and one of the key faces in Bengal, has returned to the TMC, along with his son. In spite of the attempts of the BJP state president, Dilip Ghosh, and some other leaders to discredit Roy by claiming that losing him did not make any difference to the party’s prospects in Bengal, it is clear that the BJP is just trying to save face. Otherwise, how could they ignore the fact that Roy was instrumental in the BJP’s hopes for a political coup in Bengal in 2017. He was considered crucial in the 2019 elections too. But what changed when it came to the state elections? The answer lies in the tact of the BJP’s Central leadership. In the hope of dethroning Mamata Banerjee, the BJP leadership gave more importance to the new turncoat from the TMC, Suvendu Adhikari, since his joining at the end of 2020. It seemed to have forgotten Roy, who helped the party expand its organizational base to the grass roots of the state and build booth committees. His efforts ensured that the BJP performed well in the 2018 panchayat elections, inspiring him to strengthen the party before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. His tireless work paid rich dividends and the BJP won 18 of the 42 seats in Bengal, and increased its vote share from 10.16 per cent in the 2016 Assembly polls to 40.3 per cent. Banerjee opened the doors of her party to Roy, now isolated in the BJP, allegedly because he was ‘never a traitor like the others’. This claim is a matter of debate just like the reported remark by Roy that the BJP’s stress on communalism irked him. If that was the case, how could he stay in the party for nearly four years? Roy seems to be Banerjee’s first target among legislators she plans to bring back from the BJP, including those who switched just before the assembly elections. This appears to be part of the TMC’s planning for 2024. A few months ago, BJP leaders said that TMC will have no existence after the 2021 assembly elections. But with several turncoats reportedly in line to return, the situation seems to be the other way round. But since Roy was thus far in the BJP, he had not been arrested in spite of alleged involvement in scams. Roy should now be ready to face the music. After all, this is how Indian politics works. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Move forward Sir — In a historic victory for animal rights activists, Israel has become the first country to ban the sale of animal fur in the fashion industry. An exemption will however be made for ultra-Orthodox Jewish men whose ‘shtreimels’ are made of fur. According to some estimates, about 100 million animals are bred and killed each year to supply fur to the fashion sector. This is utterly unreasonable, given that faux fur can easily be used in place of animal fur. One also hopes that the political changes in Israel do not affect the country’s decision in this regard. Other countries should follow suit. Bidisha Pal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Sombre year||Anniversaries need not be joyous occasions; they may merit sombre reflection. The first anniversary of the clash between Chinese and Indian troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives last year should be an occasion for the Narendra Modi government as well as conscientious citizens to take stock of the situation on the ground. Such an exercise, if conducted objectively, is unlikely to encourage New Delhi. Several rounds of talks for disengagement between military officials of both countries have not resulted in the re-establishment of status quo ante. Worryingly for India, there are reports that China has transgressed into Indian territory in Pangong as well as along points of contention in Depsang. What is particularly galling is the shocking silence of a nationalist government on a matter as crucial as national security. Ever since the prime minister set the tone with his contentious assurance that India has not ceded an inch of territory, the powers that be — the present army chief has not been an exception — have been toeing this unconvincing line. If incursions have not taken place, what exactly are India’s generals negotiating with their Chinese counterparts? This obfuscation is an old trick in the political bag. It is another matter that a supine media have been instrumental in disseminating this curated narrative. This sleight of hand is unacceptable in a democracy. It is the sacred duty of the government in power to inform Indian citizens about matters that seem threatening to the nation’s territorial sovereignty. Mischief-mongering by New Delhi’s neighbour on the western border — developments in Afghanistan are keeping Pakistan busy at the moment — could force India to contend with a double challenge. The resolution of border issues that have festered India’s diplomatic relationship with China should thus be a priority. It is plausible that Beijing is willing to keep the border hot. Such a strategy fits well with China’s increasingly adventurist positions around the globe. There is thus a case to view the Ladakh stand-off in a broader perspective. India’s international partnerships, be they the Quad or those with the United States of America, would also be instrumental in influencing the push and pull factors in Ladakh or in Arunachal Pradesh. India must make strategic choices by keeping the bigger picture in mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Opinion||Clio and the curriculum||We love to hear stories about our past. They shape our identity and define our relationships with others. And, yet, history is one of the most ignored subjects in school and very few students want to study it in college. This is one of the great paradoxes of our times. There is much to learn from history. There are also several reasons why its promise lies unfulfilled. One major problem is the way history is taught in schools. Most schools function like a vast bureaucracy in which a mechanical ticking of checklists leads to acquiring certificates. Maintaining obedience and control in the classroom is more important than searching for deeper meaning or learning to use ideas. Everything that happens in the classroom is for the examination. Hence, memorizing names and dates and writing them down during examinations become the most important thing. There are a handful of teachers and schools who emphasize meaning and emotion in history, encouraging us to use the study of the past to make sense of our own lives today. For them, the date of the Chauri Chaura incident is less important than discussing the importance of non-violence in a movement and asking whether movements should carry on even if some of their participants turn violent. There is also another problem. The affluent and the powers that be don’t want to hire many historians. What they want are workers, technicians, managers. Students who go to schools that teach them to think are discouraged from making history their future career. On occasions when history classrooms go beyond rote-learning, most take the approach of teaching about great people, great buildings, great events. The ‘Great Things’ approach to history shapes our identity and gives content and form to culture. Talking about Sher Shah Suri tells us that kings who care to plant trees and build roads are good kings. Learning about Shivaji tells us it is good to stand up for oneself, even against the power of an emperor. History teaches us important values and gives us a moral education. It gives us a sense of who we are and what we should do. It also speaks to us about who our enemies are and what is evil and what is good. However, the ‘Great Things in Our Past’ approach is not without problems. It can be easily taken over and manipulated from one point of view or another. We can talk of the wonderful things the Mughals did — their pioneering a systematic approach to revenue collection, the growth of architecture, wealth and stability in their territory, the efforts by Akbar to bring together the many kinds of people in his realm. Or we could talk of the pain they inflicted — the temples Aurangzeb destroyed, the attacks on and the destruction of numerous small kingdoms. These can create quite different identities and relationships, depending on what we want to highlight. There is another approach to teaching history, which asks us to build a deeper understanding of events, not just to celebrate their greatness or otherwise. This approach examines actions of the past in terms of specific contexts. It tries to build a comprehensive picture of the ways in which humans act and react according to the cultures and resources of their times through a careful sifting of evidence. For instance, this approach would not see Shivaji one-sidedly — as a great Maratha king who fought for freedom or, equally, as an attacker of neighbouring Karnataka. Instead, it would ask what kind of things kings did in their times to expand their power and domain. Similarly, it would ask how best to understand the confrontation between Shivaji and Aurangzeb: was it a struggle between Hinduism and Islam, or one between a regional power and an emperor? It would teach the importance of a comprehensive study, rather than the cherry-picking favoured by the ‘Great Things’ approach. Such a history, for example, would point to the large number of Muslims in Shivaji’s army and to his own family serving under the sultans of the Deccan for generations. To the thinking historian, this does not fit in with the theory of a war between Hinduism and Islam. The history that such an approach would build would give us valuable guidelines for our own times. Powerful interests have always bent the writing of history to build identities and cultures that suit them. Nowadays, more and more students are coming to school and college from groups that did not have access to education before. They are the ones who would benefit the most by thoroughly and critically examining the past. Instead of teaching history as a powerful and inspiring story, perhaps we will serve them better by teaching them to carefully weigh evidences and interpret them. By doing so, they can ask afresh what happened in the past, what is really one’s identity and what should one’s values be. They will then be better able to see through narratives and identities that keep them tied to the apron strings of the powerful. There can be several approaches to teaching history. The last one is perhaps the one that lends itself the most to empowerment and a just world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
16-06-2021||Opinion||Crucial difference||In the time of Covid, we all live in a state of heightened uncertainty and anguish. There are problems relating to our health that each of us must take care of. There are fears about the health of our near and dear ones. Doctors and scientists are trying their level best to bring us solutions in the form of treatment and protection from the deadly disease, though many unanswered questions remain. We are worried about the stress on our woefully inadequate health infrastructure. We are worried about our children and their education from home. We are relieved about the technology that still provides some continuity in the process of learning, though not all children have equal access to smart devices and the internet. We are more worried about whether learning can continue at all, and not about what is going to be taught. The nation is in the midst of transitioning to a new education policy with new curricula. In the middle of all these uncertainties and unanswered questions about the future, the nation is also experiencing the political rise of the majority’s religion, with its new forms of domination and subordination. Unquestioned faith seems to be the last resort for seeking answers. Lots of politico-religious gurus are ready to push the willing towards the altars of the supernatural superpower. In what is supposed to be the age of reason, we are moving more and more towards an age of blind faith. Both faith and reason give rise to beliefs. The crucial difference being that the former is based on certain unchanging scriptures and ancient texts whose veracity cannot be ascertained, while the latter is based on evidence that can be questioned with new evidence. Indeed, reason-based beliefs are by their very definition falsifiable and hence changeable. Knowledge accumulates on the basis of empirical evidence. Reason-based beliefs have shaken many old beliefs based on faith, like the world is flat or that the sun revolves around the earth, which was thought to be the centre of the universe. It took a long time but they did change. It gives us hope that the age of reason has not been eclipsed just yet, even though militant religions and faiths are on the march not only in our nation but also in many other places of the world. There are people in every religion who are willing to kill you or kill me for the cause of their faith’s highest ideal. Why is faith to be constantly interrogated and challenged? The answer lies in the fact that societies based on blind faith are bound to be violent, with centralized power and ancient laws that regulate our everyday lives. Faith-based beliefs invariably come from unchanged ancient texts which are considered holy although they were most probably written by ancient tribesmen with very little knowledge about the physical world. Today, the texts are considered holy precisely because they are old and unchanged. This cannot be anywhere near the argument of proving that age makes beliefs true and relevant. The texts in all religions guide everyday behaviour on the basis of benefits to be received in the life after death: be it in a heaven, in a superior rebirth, or free from the necessity of rebirth. Beliefs based on faith in god have different ways of explaining the presence of life on the planet and how the universe came into being. Laws of physics and biochemistry explain with enough logical evidence the being of the universe and the emergence of life and its subsequent evolution. A belief in divine creation of humans and other forms of life denies the laws of nature in their entirety. Creationism debunks all science. In fact, empirical evidence is called for by religious believers to demonstrate that apes can turn into human beings. Not having actually seen an ape transform is claimed to be the absence of evidence and hence the rejection of the theory of biological evolution. However, the same people claim they have firm knowledge about the existence of god even though an overwhelming number of human beings have not even claimed to have seen the almighty. Faith-based beliefs that cannot be falsified invariably show a tendency towards marking as enemies those who do not share that faith, be they scientists or those belonging to other faith-based beliefs like people from other religious identities. This ‘otherization’ is based on perceiving people not belonging to their beliefs as somehow inferior — sub-human beings. Hence, it is not difficult to be cruel with them. Killing them or torturing them into subservience is acceptable. No religion has a completely comfortable position with non-believers, including the modern day interpreters of Hinduism. This brings us to the other argument against faith-based beliefs. Since such beliefs have difficulty in arguing out their case with conviction, there is always a set of power brokers — the religious leaders — who interpret and guide everyday rules and regulations. Their power is absolute. They are not to be questioned since they are the representatives of god. The more people believe in them, the more their power to control and direct. They control lives: what people might eat, wear, whom they might marry, what can be done in the privacy of one’s bedroom, when and where things ought to be done. The endless list defines every moment of our lives. Finally, a strong argument is given in favour of religions in terms of human values and morality. It is claimed that science is amoral. Objective evidence, and laws inferred from them, are distinct from our senses of right and wrong, or good and bad. Moral values are ancient wisdom read from the scriptures. This is where we come to the social usefulness of science versus the social usefulness of religion. Our senses of right and wrong, good and bad are constantly honed, challenged and altered by experiences perceived by the brain, which is part of the human body. Here, scientific evidence plays an important role. Take this question, for instance: would it be good or right to put arsenic in a city’s drinking water supply? If one knew what arsenic was, one would say “no”. Science teaches us what arsenic is, and its consequences in terms of human suffering when ingested by the body. Science also explains that the suffering would be the same for all people independent of their faith. We are living in hard times. Science does not yet have all the answers for Covid. There are debates and disagreements amongst scientists. This is expected and is a good sign that every scientific endeavour is trying to gather new evidence. Debates and disagreements should not make us sceptical about the scientific method. However, we need to doubt every piece of evidence and keep getting new data and formulate new, testable hypotheses. Taking advantage of these debates, the new power brokers are nudging people to become anti-science. Some claim that all science is contained in the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Hindus knew about the internet and plastic surgery long ago. A sadhu proclaims that allopathic medicine is stupid. A congregation in a mosque can be a super-spreader but the Kumbh Mela is not. Cancer can be cured by drinking the urine of cows. Cow dung has curative properties for almost all ailments. Such utterances are not made by lunatics on the fringe, but by political influencers and thought leaders giving speeches in gatherings of professional scientists. Can religious faith and scientific reason coexist? It is an old question. The answer depends on what we teach our children today, and what our grandchildren learn from them in the future. Anup Sinha is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-9
