17-06-2021||Opinion||Act now||Sir — In an unprecedented development, about 150 academics at Oxford University have refused to teach at Oriel College after it decided to keep the statue of the imperialist benefactor, Cecil Rhodes. The governing body announced last month that it has decided to retain the statue by citing practical reasons. For years, campaigners have petitioned for the removal of the statue of Rhodes in light of his racist past. It is unfortunate that the academics at Oxford have been compelled to take this step. It is time that the administration understood the hurt the statue continues to inflict and remedies the situation.  Ananya Chakraborty, Calcutta Sir — Novak Djokovic must be congratulated for winning his second French Open singles title by defeating the Greek athlete, Stefanos Tsitsipas, in a five-setter, hard-fought duel (“Novak’s Grecian epic”, June 14). The final result tilted in favour of the Serbian at 6-7, 2-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-4. After losing the first two sets, Djokovic came back strong to clinch the other three sets and finally won the title. With his 19th overall Grand Slam win, Djokovic is only one Grand Slam short of Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal’s 20 titles. It is quite astonishing that the Serbian player has won the majority of Grand Slam tournaments in the last couple of years. Moreover, Djokovic also holds the record for being the longest top seeded player at 325 weeks. The trio of Federer, Nadal and Djokovic have collectively won 59 Grand Slam titles which is a clear indication of their dominance in the sport. While Federer and Nadal might be past their prime, Djokovic, given his stupendous form, is expected to win a few more Grand Slam tournaments before he slows down. All tennis fans are now looking forward to the upcoming matches at Wimbledon. Indranil Sanyal, Calcutta Sir — Playing in the final game of a major championship is not only about matching the skills and temperament of the opponent, but is also a test of fortitude and determination. That is exactly what was witnessed at the French Open men’s singles final where, after being down by two sets, Novak Djokovic fought back to win his 19th Grand Slam title. This proves that it is perseverance that separates a champion from others who might be just as skilled. C.K. Subramaniam,  Mumbai  Sir — By winning his second French Open tournament on Sunday, Novak Djokovic has become only the third man in the history of the game — after Roy Emerson and Rod Laver — to win all four Grand Slams at least twice in his career. He may be one Grand Slam short in comparison to Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, but he has already cemented his place in history. He defeated Nadal in the semi-final in a long match and played a five-setter against Stefanos Tsitsipas to win the title. Since he is the youngest of all three greats, it is hoped that by the time he hangs his racquet he would have won more than 20 Grand Slams. It is a great delight to be able to watch these three players at the same time. Bal Govind, Noida Sir — It was really touching to see how Novak Djokovic gifted his racquet to a young fan who was present at the stadium after his win at Roland Garros on Sunday. Such gestures are rare to come by and the young fan will remember this moment for the rest of his life. This wonderful act of Djokovic proves that he is not only a great sportsman but also a kind human being. Sourish Misra, Calcutta Sir — June 15 marked a year since the clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian armed forces personnel lost their lives (“Sombre year”, June 16). The developments following this incident have made it amply clear that no matter what the rhetoric in public is, New Delhi does not want to engage in warfare with China. The Indian administration is acutely conscious of the power asymmetry that exists between the two countries. So far, India has attempted a mix of measures — economic restrictions on Chinese companies; international opinion-building and diplomatic mobilization about China’s actions, including giving momentum to Quad; constant bilateral negotiations with Beijing across the military and diplomatic domain — to drive home the message that restoring status quo ante is essential. This strategy is yet to succeed. The incident at Galwan is a reminder that India cannot let its guard down at its northern borders.  N. Sadhasiva Reddy, Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Opening up||Openness is refreshing in a government often unenthusiastic about facts. That the Union defence minister, Rajnath Singh, has approved a policy of declassifying and archiving documents relating to defence and compiling war and operations histories is therefore welcome. The policy is not new: the Public Records Act, 1993 and the Public Records Rules, 1997 had established a process for declassification of documents and their transfer to the National Archives after 25 years or more. The defence ministry’s directions refer to two distinct activities: declassification and archiving of documents, thus allowing people to access them, and writing official histories. But the rules for declassification of documents from the armed forces and intelligence sources need to be revised meticulously because communications and warfare have changed since 1997. Discrimination and expertise would be paramount for the process. Even then, the fundamental question would be whether defence documents — reports, war diaries, letters and other material — even after 25 years, would be made public by an establishment that has not yet published the Henderson Brooks-Bhagat report on the Sino-Indian war of 1962. The Kargil Review Committee recommended writing histories to learn from mistakes: would the government be willing to reveal its errors to the public? Although the ministry’s history division earlier produced official histories by experts, it is noticeable that this time the ‘compiling’ is to be done by a committee composed mainly of bureaucrats together with military historians. History writing is not compilation but analysis, a job for the specialist. The dominant presence of bureaucrats may not bode well for any history. Besides, the official histories of the 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars were never approved for publication by the government; only leaked versions exist ‘out there’. The policy approved by Mr Singh perhaps aims to set the record straight by regular declassification and transfers to archives, possibly after histories have been ‘compiled’. The notion of such frankness about defence matters is somewhat startling in a regime that has made a point of blunting the force of the Right to Information Act by amending the law as well as by other means, such as delaying crucial appointments. It is a remarkable paradox that a government that downgrades a transparency law meant to serve citizens seems willing to downgrade classified defence documents for the sake of public knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Visionary||The wise and uplifting judgment by the Delhi High Court, granting bail to three incarcerated students facing charges of serious transgression, including that which led to the slapping of the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against them, needs to be understood in a broader context. An immediate concern is the point that the court raised about the ‘evidence’ furnished by the investigators: it stated, tersely and clearly, that it remained unconvinced with the ‘proof’ presented to it. This has worrying implications in a nation where undertrial prisoners are said to constitute 70 per cent of the total prisoner population. Many among them are denied, or are even aware of their right to, legal counsel against motivated allegations. The court’s wisdom must be read as an unambiguous upholding of the principle of bail — rather than jail — being a prerogative. This should be a precedent that the judicial edifice — every tier of it — must contemplate. There is also a case for examining the tendency of the agencies of the State to use disproportionately powerful legal instruments — the UAPA is only one example — that ought to be applied only after careful deliberation. Incidentally, data provided by the Union home ministry revealed that only 2.2 per cent of the cases registered under the UAPA merited conviction in the courts. Equally crucial — if not of greater importance — was the court’s observations on the root of the problem. There seems to be a fundamental anomaly in the contract between the Indian State — in its current form — and the people. Dissent and public protests, core elements that should ideally constitute the architecture of a democratic set-up, are increasingly being repackaged by a vindictive State as instances of terrorist activity. This equation cannot be benign. It is a prejudicial rhetoric that seeks to suppress criticism in the garb of a dubious morality. Here too, there is indisputable evidence to support the court’s contention. The majority of sedition cases have been filed after the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party; the perceptible decline in India’s freedom charter in objective assessments has — is this not revealing? — also corresponded with the tightening political grip of the Narendra Modi government. All this perhaps can only lead to a natural conclusion. The emergence of the strong State, manifest in an unbending executive, appears to be inimical to the health of pluralism and democracy. With the fourth estate aligned with the powers that be, the hope of retrieving the democratic ethic lies with India’s learned courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Opinion||A false veneration||Aaji, 69 years old, leaned over my doctor’s desk to elaborate on why she visits the clinic alone. She had four sons, two daughters, and one goat. The sons would rotate her amongst themselves, irritated and unwilling to keep her. The daughters’ houses were forbidden territory. Therefore, she turned to the goat, sold it for Rs 6,000, paid Rs 5,000 as bribe at the tehsil office, and got a monthly pension of Rs 600 started. She now stays where her husband used to work as a labourer. Aaji is not alone in her plight. Evidence from India’s first aging survey says 5 out of every 100 older adults face abuse. With more than 100 million people above the age of 60, that is a staggering five million people. Elder abuse can be physical, psychological, emotional, sexual and financial or neglect. The statistics stand in sharp contrast to the great Indian tradition of respecting elders. In the pre-modern times, we had Ashrama dharma. Children cared for their parents when they were alive, observed shraadh in their memory when they passed away, got blessings, and escaped the cycle of birth-rebirth. The veneration of the elderly, however, stands in the same tradition as of Stree dharma, which is broadly anti-feminist and the dharma you adhere to by caste, which is anti-equality. The cultural failing of women and vulnerable groups has been a focus of the social policy of independent India. On a closer look, India’s culture may be failing its elderly too. Our culture presumes that the welfare of the elderly follows virtuous individual children and their spouses. The unit of the practice of virtue is the family. The head of the family is the male earning member. In our patriarchal society, my neighbouring uncle’s constant cursing of his old mother can make me feel bad for her; but it is ill-mannered of me to interfere in ‘family matters’ and hold the head of the family accountable. There is no Adult Protection Service either. Women live longer than men. They enjoy lesser rights than men. Depending solely on the ‘virtuous child’ to fulfil their needs — food, clothing, shelter, medical, emotional — based on a cultural expectation overlooks the cumulative disadvantage women accrue until they reach old age. The dharma narrative also limits the discourse to the Hindu family. It fails to look at Hindu society, a problem B.R. Ambedkar had highlighted with the early social reform movements in India. It ignores that women, historically marginalized in India, carry the burden of culture. It borders on blaming women joining the workforce for elder abuse. In doing so, it creates a homogenized, incomplete, and false narrative that fails to ensure the rights of the elderly. The prominence to duty is also problematic as it is vague. How many of the needs of elderly parents is the child to fulfil as his duty? When a 65 year old needs an inhaler worth Rs 250 every month, is the 50 rupees the son gives enough proof of filial piety? Is staying in the side room and not being asked for food enough? What if I get fed intermittently? And if I receive my plate with taunts? Each of the above is an experience of abuse that has been shared by old patients over years of my medical practice. The practise of the duty of venerating the elderly is not free from the hierarchy of power, gender, class, and caste that have co-existed but rarely find a mention in elder abuse discourse in India. The Indian State upholds the moral obligation of filial piety in law. The Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act’s premise, like the National Policy for Older Persons, is that modernization is failing our elders. Courts have noted the apparent cultural dichotomy in multiple judgments under the Act. The same Indian culture poses a barrier to filing a complaint against your blood. If an older adult musters the courage to defy society, police stations that will not interfere in ‘family matters’ might turn them away. The cases reaching our esteemed courts are the tip of the iceberg. The legalization of the moral obligation to care by the MWPSC Act in 2007 and the refusal of universal pension for the elderly during the debate on the national food security bill in 2011 stand in sharp contrast. The MWPSC Act may well be an instance of the State’s abdication of the Directive Principles of State Policy. Social welfare, worldwide, stems from the State upholding the rights of citizens. The developed world has universal pensions for older adults. The Indian State hardly spends Rs 200 per person per year on pension. It covers less than 8 per cent of the elderly population in need of assistance. More of us are living longer; more of us are vulnerable to elder abuse. Indian culture, although glorified, is a likely constraint to addressing the growing menace of elder abuse. Framing the existence of elder abuse as a cultural problem deflects us from the need of looking deeper and connecting the dots to casteism, patriarchy, neoliberalization, and the absence of welfare policies. Instead of being helpful to older adults, it seems to be hampering their autonomy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
17-06-2021||Opinion||Hectic summer||Supreme Courts the world over have ebbs and then moments when redemption begins and usually those also converge with wider changes in the political and social environment. The Supreme Court of the United States of America had, in the final decades of the 19th century and the early decades of the 20th, constitutionally enforced segregation and contributed to the rolling back of the social and political progress that had followed the civil war and the abolition of slavery. A redemptive process began only in the 1950s when its rulings on civil rights and against discrimination corrected earlier pronouncements and, by establishing new baselines, reinforced a wider social and economic change that was underway in the US with the civil rights movement. In India we have our own experience of the judiciary during the Emergency, but thereafter the higher judiciary has emerged as the ultimate safeguard of human and constitutional rights. The judiciary in Pakistan has always had a greater burden of credibility than elsewhere. In large part this is for reasons that stretch back to the country’s early years. Required to pronounce on the legality of bureaucratic erosion of representative bodies and military coups in the 1950s, the Supreme Court of Pakistan resorted to dubious legalities and validated the usurpation of constitutional authority. Another milestone was the execution of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in 1979 which many in Pakistan today would readily accept was no more than a judicial murder. Some three decades later, the picture appeared to have changed with a protest led by lawyers and judges over the dismissal of a sitting Chief Justice in 2007. The dust finally settled with a military dictator forced out. It was felt that Pakistan’s judiciary may have turned the corner and this was also part of a larger change of civilian institutions and political parties asserting themselves and ring fencing the future role of the military. But a decade later, these hopes were belied. Over 2017, a series of controversial interventions and pronouncements by the Supreme Court of Pakistan put an end to the tenure of the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif. Whatever may have been his errors of omission and commission, the fact is that his ouster flowed from the friction in the interface his government had with Pakistan’s army. The Supreme Court’s interventions were a setback for Pakistan’s political process in different ways. Two in particular are worth recalling. First, a premature termination of Nawaz Sharif’s tenure as prime minister meant that Pakistan’s historical record of not having a single prime minister who completed a full tenure continued without a break. Second, the perception that the higher judiciary had acted in concert with the army to change the prime minister gained credence. This summary, treading over past issues, is on account of their surfacing again by way of the prominent case relating to a judge of the Supreme Court, Qazi Faez Isa. He is about as close as one will get to the original blue blood of Pakistan. His father, one of the first barristers of Balochistan, was a close associate of M.A. Jinnah and helped establish the Muslim League in Balochistan. Justice Isa was appointed as a judge of the Supreme Court in 2014 and, as things stand, will become Chief Justice of Pakistan in September 2023 and will remain so for a little over a year. 2023 is incidentally an election year in Pakistan as the tenure of the government of the incumbent prime minister, Imran Khan, will come to an end. In 2018, Justice Isa in the Supreme Court heard a suo motu case relating to what was called the “Faizabad sit-in” — a protest in November 2017 led by a religious front, the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan, against the government that demanded the resignation of the law minister. The Supreme Court took up the case as the 20-day-long protest severely disrupted the capital’s functioning. Politically, the disruption was another nail in the then government’s coffin — Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had been forced out just a few months earlier — and the protests left it further beleaguered and bleeding. Many speculated, perhaps with some merit, that this was a replay of what had happened earlier in Pakistan with the military moving to re-engineer the political architecture. The case was heard over 2018 and the judgment pronounced by a two-judge bench in February 2019. This was long after the protests and with a new government led by Imran Khan in power. It was in that sense an ‘academic’ judgment. Nevertheless, the verdict — and it was authored by Justice Isa — made critical remarks about the role of the intelligence agencies — in particular the Inter-Services Intelligence — in the Faizabad ‘sit-in’. That in itself endowed Justice Isa with a certain notoriety on the perennial and vexed question of the role of Pakistan’s army in the larger polity. The judgment, after going into various issues of the right to protest, reasonable limitations to it, the coverage of the protesters in the media and the handling of these protests by the government, went on to state: “The perception that ISI may be involved in or interferes with matters with which an intelligence agency should not be concerned with, including politics, therefore was not put to rest.” It made other references, including that perceptions of the involvement of the ISI “gained traction” when the sit-in participants received cash handouts from men in uniform. Amongst the conclusions of the judgment was that intelligence agencies “must not exceed their respective mandates”. The judgment obviously made headlines and not just in Pakistan. The ISI protested and so did a whole phalanx of army fronts. A number of review petitions were filed including petitions by the ministry of defence and the ISI. What was of more significance was that reports started circulating soon after the judgment about possible moves against corrupt judges, and soon thereafter, confirmation came that the government had, in fact, moved against Justice Isa and two other judges for not disclosing the fact that they (or, in the case of Justice Isa, their family members) owned foreign properties. Meanwhile, Justice Isa also approached the Supreme Court challenging the reference against him. This case went through various phases but a full bench decision of the Supreme Court in late April this year ended all the proceedings against the judge. Thereafter the government’s efforts to have the decision reviewed have been turned down. For many in Pakistan, this appeared as a redemptive moment for its higher judiciary. Legalities apart, the final decision even evoked parallels with 2007 when a full bench of the Supreme Court had reinstated the deposed Chief Justice. Whether the Justice Isa matter is finally closed now remains to be seen. This summer has, however, been a hectic one in Pakistan when Opposition parties, media professionals and judges have challenged prevailing totalizing narratives that the establishment or the army controls all in Pakistan. The wider context is a pandemic and a faltering economy, but a ceasefire on the line of control with India that has held for over 100 days adds some positive content. These contradictory trends may well suggest that some structural change is again underway in Pakistan, but then a single swallow also does not make a summer. T.C.A. Raghavan is a former high commissioner to Pakistan and is currently Director General, Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
