18-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Through the roof||The latest official data on inflation in the Indian economy are disturbing in their implications. Wholesale inflation — measured by the wholesale price index — in May 2021 was 12.94 per cent compared to a negative 3.37 per cent one year ago. Retail inflation — measured by the consumer price index — for May 2021 was 6.30 per cent. This rate has breached the Reserve Bank of India’s tolerance corridor of 2-6 per cent. The recent spurt in rising prices has been triggered by fuel and food items, including petrol, diesel, pulses and vegetables. Globally, the prices of crude oil and commodities are rising. On top of spiking global crude oil prices, the Government of India is unrelenting in persisting with high taxes on petrol and diesel. Fuel prices have crossed Rs 100 per litre in many states. With the rise in the demand for dollars to foot the fuel import bill, the rupee has been depreciating. These trends have consequences for present growth as well as for future recovery rates that will help pull the economy out of a recessionary slowdown. If the RBI is not to throw inflation-targeting out of the window, it has to change its monetary policy stance sooner than later. It might be compelled to raise policy rates and inject less liquidity into the economy. Credit costs will start pushing northward and, hence, have an adverse effect on investments as well as on the government’s fiscal borrowing requirements. If it does not respond to inflationary pressures, then high rates of inflation would reduce the real incomes of consumers, which will have a decelerating effect on the growth of consumer demand. During the past one year, nominal incomes have fallen for the vast majority of Indians. A further round of inflation can have devastating effects on aggregate demand. This, in turn, would worsen the push required to have a sustained recovery. One way out of this dilemma would be if retail fuel prices were to be reduced by a cut in the Central tax. That would keep inflation below 6 per cent and the RBI could focus on accommodative credit growth for restoring supply chains. The Central government appears rigid in its position on fuel taxes. The need of the hour is for the RBI to have a deep conversation with the finance ministry and sort things out. Investors and producers also need to know which playbook will be used. Unfortunately, it appears that policy transparency is not something that the current government feels very comfortable about.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Bail for three activists, depression among elderly||Learn a lesson Sir — The observation made by the Delhi High Court while granting bail to three student activists that the State is blurring the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and ‘terrorist activity’ was spot on (“Visionary”, June 17). The warning by the court that this could put democracy in peril must be taken seriously. The Delhi police should know even without being told that the right to dissent is not the same as ‘terrorist activity’. Working under the direct control of the home ministry, it was party to the suppression of dissent. Why else would it choose to misconstrue the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as an act of terrorism? The court’s remark that the chargesheet lacked any specific factual allegations that could be read as offence hints at extraneous considerations for filing the cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The subjective interpretation of sloganeering in the thick of a mass movement as ‘instigating violence’ would collapse before the objective scrutiny of courts. But the process of prosecution itself becomes the punishment. The Delhi police was criticized for ‘casually’ invoking the stringent provisions of the anti-terror law. Yet, the police did not feel chastened. Instead, it decided to file an appeal in the Supreme Court against the bail orders. We hope that the apex court will uphold the relief granted by the Delhi High Court and, by extension, the right to protest, and haul the Delhi police over the coals for acting in violation of citizens’ basic rights. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The Delhi High Court’s order granting bail to the student activists is an instance of the judiciary reinstating the constitutional rights of the people to dissent and protest. Governments across the country must take note of its observations condemning the cavalier attitude of the Delhi police in mechanically invoking such stringent laws as the UAPA. But will the police be held accountable for the gross misuse of their powers? The judgment also exposes a total lack of professionalism on the part of the Delhi police and its willingness to please the powers that be. Its blatantly partisan role was equally evident from the fact that the members of the Bharatiya Janata Party, including a junior Union minister, making highly provocative speeches in public were not brought to book. One hopes that the apex court will lay down certain criteria for invoking the UAPA to prevent its further misuse. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore  Pay attention Sir — A HelpAge India survey has found that 85 per cent of the elderly in Calcutta suffer from marginal depression; a majority of them said the pandemic has aggravated their suffering. This is worrying. The younger generations, in spite of their busy schedules, must reach out to senior citizens more often and ask after them. People could take turns to call their elderly neighbours, if only to hear them out. They must not be ignored, especially given the hard times. Aditya Karmakar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Game’s Afoot||Personal is often political in India. The fate of the leader of the Lok Janshakti Party, Chirag Paswan, would testify to this hypothesis. Five parliamentarians from the party raised the flag of revolt hoisted by Pashupati Kumar Paras — Mr Paswan’s uncle and brother of Ram Vilas Paswan, the founder of LJP — and removed Mr Paswan from the post of national president. Mr Paswan has retaliated by cancelling the primary membership of his adversaries. The domestic tiff now threatens to implode the LJP and the word is that the man who is smiling is none other than Nitish Kumar. This political speculation has context. Mr Kumar is convinced that the poor harvest that his party reaped in the Bihar assembly elections — the Janata Dal (United)’s tally was a meager 43 seats — can be attributed to Mr Paswan’s strategy of putting up candidates to undercut the political appeal of his party. So this, the political grapevine insists, is a moment of comeuppance for the younger Paswan and, equally, a moment of retribution for Mr Kumar. Even though the LJP’s political imprint has been on the wane — its electoral haul was a solitary seat in the state polls — there is a possibility of political lines being realigned in Bihar. What must also merit attention is the role played by the Bharatiya Janata Party in the drama. It is generally agreed that Mr Paswan’s defiance towards Mr Kumar had the tacit approval of the BJP. A weakened JD(U), the BJP had calculated correctly, would put the reins of Bihar in its hands and Mr Paswan was identified by the BJP as its pawn in this game. Interestingly, Mr Paswan now finds himself abandoned by his shadowy patron. The BJP has chosen not to come to his aid as he battles for political survival and the reason is strategic. Narendra Modi’s party cannot afford to ruffle Mr Kumar’s feathers given the sticky wicket it finds itself on at the national level. Critical lapses in the management of a raging pandemic and an anaemic economy have been fundamental to the erosion in the public mandate in favour of the BJP: the result of the Bengal elections proves the point. The exit of the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal as allies from the National Democratic Alliance has cemented the JD(U)’s position in the coalition, handing it much-needed leverage as the BJP gets ready to face an acid test in the form of a series of assembly elections. Humouring Mr Kumar is thus a necessity, not a luxury, for the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Opinion||Get involved: USA and Iran||Seldom has a relationship experienced the kind of friction seen in the ties between the United States of America and Iran. Over the last 40 years, especially after the Islamic Revolution in Iran, the US and Iran have remained staunch nemeses. The actions taken by the administration of the former US president, Donald Trump, exacerbated the animosity between the two international actors to the point of open confrontation. However, the ostensible relaxation in ties, with the opening up of talks in Vienna regarding Iran rejoining the nuclear accord, has raised hopes of the restoration of normalcy. In this context, if any nation can help both countries resuscitate the robustness in their ties, it is India. India has the potential and the strategic depth to not only bring the two countries face to face but also mediate. This can help bring the nuclear accord back on track three years after it was abruptly jettisoned. But why India? It is not even a party to the Iran nuclear accord; it is essentially a third party. But it is the advantage of being a third party that has allowed India to become an impartial observer. Historically, India has been an ardent supporter of the accord which helped bring nominal stability to the tumultuous Middle East. India enjoys robust ties with both Iran and the US. Iran was India’s third-largest oil supplier; it is a trusted regional partner in the important Chabahar port project; it was a crucial stakeholder in Afghanistan; it also acted as a sort of bulwark against India’s recalcitrant neighbour, Pakistan. The US, on the other hand, was India’s largest bilateral trade partner and a vital destination for Indian exports. This makes it important for India to ensure that US-Iran ties become normal. India has the advantage of being a neutral site for conducting diplomatic negotiations because of its stated commitment to the principles of non-alignment which successive Indian establishments, including the Narendra Modi regime, have followed to this day. New Delhi can boast of its neutral credentials to ensure that any impasse between the two sides can be diplomatically solved without too many problems. It also has a huge market which can act as a carrot of sorts for both the US and Iran to jointly invest in. This gains significance in the light of recent landmark structural reforms enacted by the Modi government to roll out the red carpet for foreign investors. Despite these benefits, the task is easier said than done. India will face vociferous opposition from two of its most important allies — Israel and the United Arab Emirates — because they are wary of Iran’s ‘destabilizing’ actions in different countries of West Asia and its support for local militias. They can ask New Delhi why it is attempting outreach to a hostile republic at the expense of its existing allies. The next problem that India can face is Opposition parties alleging that the incumbent dispensation is undermining the secular credentials of the Indian republic. This, to a large extent, is a legitimate concern given that Iran is largely ruled by clerics from the Shia sect of Islam. Another elephant in the room is China, with which Iran has signed a $400 billion agreement. New Delhi should know that China will not want to play second fiddle. Diplomacy is the art of the possible. Despite all problems, the capital and prestige India enjoys in the global community may allow it to intervene in this conflict. The outcome of the Vienna talks is uncertain, but India can start a parallel negotiation in which all stakeholders involved in the nuclear deal can come to New Delhi and negotiate hard. India must play the role of an impartial moderator, highlighting how the nuclear deal will be key in stabilizing the Middle East and help in restoring US-Iran ties which, in turn, will augur well for Israel and the UAE. New Delhi must realize that with global winds changing rapidly, its geopolitical tactics need to keep up. As an aspiring superpower, it must reach out to Iran and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
18-06-2021||Opinion||Lakshadweep: The troubled isles||The ongoing protests in Lakshadweep and outside against a series of new draft bills and regulations have started attracting international attention. The islanders believe that the draft bills that the new administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, introduced are part of a larger bio-politics, enmeshed in the cultural politics of the Bharatiya Janata Party, and it would damage the basic behavioural, dietary and occupational practices of the people there. They have not bought into the spurious reasons that the current island administration has placed before them in the name of ‘development’, ‘tourism’ and ‘safety.’ Among the many bills that Patel has proposed since January, the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, 2021 and the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation, 2021 merit a closer look. There is concern that the rationale of the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation, 2021 is to place the islanders under surveillance to augment the ideological tenets of Hindutva. The content and the prescribed punishment for the violations of the clauses in the bill are being perceived as a calculated move to incapacitate the dietary traditions and choices of the people. A number of penal clauses not only impose a blanket ban on the consumption of the meat of cows, bulls, and bullocks (Section 5 & Schedule 1) but they also make the consumption of buffalo and goat meat nearly impossible. As per the clauses in Section 5:3, the “competent authority” has unquestionable discretion to decide if male buffaloes and goats are to be allowed for slaughter for meat. None of these animals will be certified in favour of consumption if the “competent authority” believes that they are “likely to become useful for the purpose of draught or any kind of agricultural operations,” or “useful or likely to become useful for the purpose of breeding”, or “useful or likely to become useful for the purpose of giving milk or bearing offspring” (Section 5:3). Additionally, the authority will be given a free hand to enter any house or institution if it thinks that “an offence under this Regulation has been or is likely to be committed” (Section-9: 1& 2). Mutton and vegetable-based protein-rich foods remain highly expensive; the proposed elimination of affordable red meat would definitely aggravate the grim health situation in the region. The Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, 2021 kindles similar anxieties on account of its intent and possible consequences. Lakshadweep has one of the lowest crime rates in India. The bill, therefore, fails to offer a rationale for its inception and its hurried execution. The clauses in the bill identify multiple categories of offenders, including ‘bootlegger’, ‘cruel person’, ‘cyber offender’, ‘dangerous person’, and ‘depredator of environment’ (Section 2). The expandability and the opaqueness of the clauses can put 70,000 people at the mercy of the ‘competent authority’. Section 3:4 of the bill gives the authorities the power to not only detain a person for the slightest aberration but also in anticipation of “making preparation for engaging in activities”, the definition of which comes with sufficient ambiguity. However, it is Section 6 of the proposed bill that is truly revealing. It clearly says that the detention orders issued under Section 3 on the basis of two or more grounds mentioned in Section 2 of the same bill “shall not be deemed to be invalid or inoperative merely because one or more of the grounds is or are vague, non-existent, not-relevant, not connected or not proximately connected with such person, or invalid for any other reason whatsoever.” This clause, along with others in the text, gives the competent authority the right to detain any person in the island without stating the reasons very clearly. In the current form, the bills empower the administration to detain any citizen for a year in the absence of solid evidence.            
There is concern that these regulations are part of an engulfing bio-politics, which can invariably incarcerate citizens as has happened elsewhere in India. This could well be the signal of a transition of Lakshadweep from an undisturbed tribal conglomeration characterized by mutual trust and intimacy into a penal archipelago where people are left with limited mobility, voices and choices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-8
