21-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Mixed Bag||Progress seldom follows a linear pattern; new challenges are created with every hurdle that is crossed. This would be the correct inference to draw from the findings of the annual report of the Civil Registration System for 2019 that have yielded a mixed picture as far as India’s perennial gender imbalance problem is concerned. On the one hand, none of the states and Union territories surveyed recorded a sex ratio at birth that was less than 900 girls for every 1,000 boys. On the other, several of them registered significant declines from the data they had posted in 2017 and 2018. This is not surprising; figures from the National Family Health Survey published as recently as December last year found that out of 22 states, eight that had previously made progress in their sex ratios had reported discouraging figures. As far as the CRS data are concerned, the apparent reversals in the performances of certain states are worthy of note. Chhattisgarh, which has a predominantly tribal population that usually has a better record than other communities when it comes to a healthy SRB, noted the highest fall, while habitual offenders in terms of sex-selective abortions like Punjab and Chandigarh have improved their SRB rates significantly. The SRB figure has also fallen marginally in Kerala — India’s most literate state. This only goes to puncture the myth that higher literacy levels complement gender sensitivity. There are several reasons to which the persistent challenges can be attributed. Institutional oversight and regressive societal attitudes have led to the overwhelming preference for the male child in India. Even the strict implementation of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, which bans prenatal sex determination, has not helped. The record of welfare programmes has been equally patchy. The Centre’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme has had little to no success, with a disproportionate amount of funds spent on advertisements as was revealed in Parliament in 2019 — the same year for which the CRS data were recorded. The breaches on the medical, legislative and societal fronts are but one part of the problem. The absence of political will to address these anomalies is an equally formidable obstacle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Poor harvest||India houses the largest absolute number of people living below the poverty line in the world. Yet, India has stopped counting its poor from 2011-12. The 75th Consumer Expenditure Survey done in 2017-18 was not accepted and published because there was, according to the government, a divergence between the findings and administrative data. The position adopted was hardly on firm ground while claiming administrative data were more reliable than a statistical survey conducted by specialists. The information contained in the survey that was leaked to the press revealed that the survey indicated a decline in consumer expenditure, which would lead to an increase in the number of poor people. Poverty is estimated by first taking the results of consumer expenditures as a proxy for income and then using a poverty line to measure the number of people living below it. Since the National Democratic Alliance government came to power in 2014, no alternative methodology has been suggested and no new data collected. All recent data available come from private sources like the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy. The existing official definition of the poverty line continues to be the one that has been in place since 2005. This line is supposed to be revised every 10-15 years. Private data, although revealing, are not a substitute for official data that can be used for policy formulation in India and for international monitoring by multilateral agencies like the World Bank. The absence of data has two significant implications. While designing welfare schemes, Indian policymakers are forced to base their decisions either on dated evidence or on specious data. Indeed, it reveals the government’s deep reluctance to take decisions based on hard evidence. The second implication is global. Institutions like the World Bank have been unable to monitor and measure the progress on global poverty elimination as a Sustainable Development Goal to be reached by 2030. Lack of data from India makes the estimation of world poverty, and its changes in the recent past, well-nigh impossible because India remains the largest reservoir of poor people in the world. All private estimates of poverty in India show that poverty had actually increased even before Covid-19 struck. The pandemic exacerbated the process further. Back in 2017, the nation accounted for 139 million of the total of 689 million people living in poverty globally. The proportion as well as the absolute number have increased since then. The Centre’s denial of this trend can only make matters worse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||Mighty hearts||I have just finished reading Escape Through the Pyrenees, the memoirs of Lisa Fittko. It is an extraordinary account of a young couple, Lisa and her husband, Hans Fittko, escorting many who fled Nazi Germany to Spain from France through a secret mountain path. The couple was then based in Banyuls-sur-Mer in France, at the foothills of the Pyrenees, just across the border with Spain. Among the first to be escorted by Lisa was Walter Benjamin, the great German philosopher and critic, a Jew. She gives us a brief, but stunning, portrait of Benjamin, and of herself and her husband. An anti-Fascist activist (and a Jew), Lisa had fled Berlin. In 1940, she was interned in a French camp for women in Gurs in south France for being an “enemy alien”. The irony of being imprisoned for opposing the Nazis in a state that was opposing the Nazis was brutal and death, disease and hunger were everywhere. Lisa eventually reached Banyuls, where the “Emerescue” (Emergency Rescue Committee) project was set up and the rescue route was provided by the mayor, a Socialist. It was a smugglers’ route originally. Lisa and Hans helped possibly hundreds to safety. Like Hans, Lisa had been an underground resistance fighter and on the run since 1933. The couple themselves were waiting their turn to escape. Hans was not a Jew. What is perhaps more extraordinary than their feat is how they felt about it. Their work needed extreme intelligence, utmost caution, constant networking, clever manipulation of the authorities and even sweet talking, all in the face of death. They had no food, no money, no address and no identity: their papers were either false or did not exist. After they had left Banyuls, at Cassis, Lisa discovered that being in the sea, under water, made her feel less hungry, less weak. Their political training helped. This young couple, in love with each other, kept saving lives, and, above everything, appeared joyous. In want of a better word, almost brutally so. Perhaps the banal — although the eminent political theorist, Hannah Arendt, who had been a Gurs inmate with Lisa, would warn of “the banality of evil” — helped with its familiarity in a mad world: “la pagaille”, the total chaos. When entering the Gurs camp, Lisa’s friend, Paulette, had insisted on carrying with her a lipstick. Another clue lay in what Hans had told “Old Benjamin”. Benjamin had quit smoking when he and Hans were at a French camp together and was suffering from withdrawal symptoms. Hans had told him that it was not the right time, concerned because Benjamin was incapable of coping with the “adversities of the external world, which, like wolves, appear at times”, in his own words. Hans had tried to explain to Benjamin that “to ride out crises and not lose one’s mind, this basic rule was vital: Always look for the positive side, not at the existing hardships.” Perhaps in his own way Benjamin followed that. Although only 48, he was very ill with a severe heart problem. But he walked across the difficult mountain terrain with Lisa, bringing with him a heavy leather briefcase that contained his last manuscript, more important than his life, he said. His aim was to reach that to safety, so that the Gestapo could not lay its hands on it. He walked for hours at his own pace, resting when he wanted to. “One must not completely overspend one’s strength,” he said. His breathing was laboured, but he did not complain. He even drank from a dirty pool to keep himself going. He had to reach the other side. Lisa left after seeing him walking down the slope towards Spain, the azure sea meeting the majestic mountains. One day later, Benjamin committed suicide. His friends found some comfort believing the manuscript had reached safe hands. Decades later, Lisa would come to know that it was lost. But he had had a beautiful trip, full of laughter and conversation. And he had carried his briefcase across the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: Examining examinations||Amidst the pandemic-induced uncertainties, examinations were on the minds of around 10 million students who take the board exams annually. Organizing board exams — many have been cancelled this year — is a mammoth exercise, involving the setting and distribution of question papers, organizing the centres for examinations, invigilation, collection and evaluation of answer scripts, compilation of results and so on. In sum, the board exams could have become a ‘superspreader’. The prolonged uncertainty over the exams adversely affected students, teachers and parents. Any social or political concern on the discourse of education is limited to examination and evaluation. An examination or an evaluation is not an end in itself; how we use the ‘results’ is what determines the value of examinations. Generally, the results of the senior secondary exams are taken into account for enrolment in higher education programmes. But statistics suggest that only 14-17 per cent of students have access to higher education. This means that around 83 per cent of students have the board exam marksheet as the last certificate of academic qualification on the basis of which they are compelled to make choices about life and livelihood. Most professional institutions — engineering, medical, business administration, law — conduct separate entrance tests for admission. State and Central universities have their own entrance tests or go by the Central Universities Common Entrance Test results. Similarly, the exams for employment are conducted separately by agencies like the School Service Commission, Union Public Service Commission and others. Yet the brouhaha over the board examination results and the examination itself does not subside. Schemes and strategies for alternatives to the examination or evaluation are not uncommon, ranging from open book and online exams to evaluation based on the results of Class XI or internal, online viva-voce. But any alternative needs to be considered on the basis of infrastructural constraints. The ministry of education should treat the present crisis as an opportunity to rethink and restructure examination and evaluation systems. An examination gets its legitimacy from the role and the function it performs. Examinations help establish meritocracy, a pre-requisite for any democratic society. Meritocracy is generally held to be a social system within which individuals earn rewards and opportunities according to their abilities and efforts. The democratic ideal of individual freedom is linked to the belief of greater agency in a consumerist marketplace. Meritocracy provides motivation for individual achievements that benefit collective progress. Significantly, embedded inequalities in resources are justified under the presumption that everyone has an equal chance of succeeding on the basis of individual merit. Educational accomplishment and performance are perceived to be key factors in determining merit. Many assume that education improves one’s chances for gainful employment and is, therefore, the most transparent means for social mobility. Some advocates of meritocracy have argued that academic talent is equally distributed throughout the population irrespective of socio-economic status. The truth is that children from families with higher socio-economic status and better repositories of cultural capital are likely to attend better-resourced schools and have access to a wider range of academic support and opportunities. Even within the same district, public schools can offer unequal educational opportunities due to differences in course offerings, the quality of faculty, and the socio- economic background of students. Educational institutions evaluate and certify individual skill, knowledge and efficiency but these performances are always subject to varying cultural values and market interests. For example, most students do not end up with gainful careers and the markets do not acknowledge the norms for merit recognized by conventional centres of learning. As societies advance, the demand for specialization leads to a preference for those with higher scholastic attainment and greater knowledge. Simultaneously, as industry and manufacturing get replaced by services and advanced technocratic economies, the market for average expertise shifts, resulting in a smaller share of opportunities for the average performers. Meritocracy, however faulty, is acceptable to a feudal aristocracy or the caste system. However, its success depends on egalitarianism and justice. An innately just system, in turn, depends on unbiased market forces in a society where access to education and employment should be equal. This parity is difficult to achieve because of existing social segregation. Some — not all — have the means to learn how to best navigate the field of play. Is it then not time to examine the examination and the stultifying evaluation system? Navneet Sharma is faculty, Department of Education, Central University of Himachal Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||A sinister pattern||This is a random, anecdotal account of the ordinary people — journalists of the regional media, cultural performers, those posting on Facebook — who provoke the law and order machinery to spring into action. It doesn’t take much to unsettle the State. Let’s go back over the last decade. In February 2010, Seema Azad, the editor of a monthly magazine called Dastak Naye Samay Ki, and her husband were arrested in Allahabad on charges of sedition and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The Indian Express reported that the magazine, duly registered with the Registrar of Newspapers, focused on public issues. Its editor was the organizing secretary of the Uttar Pradesh chapter of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties. The judge hearing the case for bail noted that she had been charged with offences which were not even remotely made out. The duo was arrested shortly after Seema wrote against the Ganga Expressway Plan, a project that would have displaced many farmers. She also wrote on Operation Green Hunt and the arbitrary arrests of Muslim youth by the Special Task Force in Azamgarh. They spent more than two years in jail before they got bail. November 2012: Shiv Sena leader, Bal Thackeray, had died in Mumbai and the city shut down. Shaheen Dhada, 21, took to her Facebook account to ask why. “When was the last time did anyone show some respect or even a 2mins silence for Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Azad, Sukhdev or any of the people because of whom we r free living Indians...? [sic]” She added, “Today, Mumbai shuts down due to fear not due to respect!!!” After the comment was noticed by a Sainik, Dhada and a friend who had liked the comment were arrested. They were first charged with Section 295(A) of the Indian Penal Code which deals with deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings or any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs. This was changed to Sec 502-(2) — statements creating enmity, hatred or ill will between classes. Finally, the police charged them with Sec 66(A) of the Information Technology Act, and then, a few weeks later, following widespread outrage, withdrew the charge. The incident led to Sec 66(A) being challenged in the Supreme Court and the striking down of this section of the IT Act in 2015. The year 2012 ended with a Kannada TV reporter, Naveen Soorinje, being sent to jail for reporting the raid on a homestay party by a Hindu fundamentalist group in July. The Hindu Jagarana Vedike allegedly attacked a birthday party at an unlicensed homestay in Mangalore, beating, stripping and molesting those who had attended. The police charged Soorinje under the UAPA and IPC, put him in jail in November, and the Karnataka High Court denied him bail. He was the criminal, for reporting the attack. Between 2011 and 2017, members of the young Pune-based Dalit activist performing group, the Kabir Kala Manch, were arrested under UAPA by Maharashtra’s anti-terrorism squad, jailed at different times and then released on bail, three of them by the Supreme Court in 2017. They would sing political songs in Naxal-dominated areas on issues of Dalit and tribal oppression, malnutrition, female infanticide, and farmers’ suicides. They were charged with being a front for Maoists. Again in 2020, the National Investigation Agency arrested three members of this group in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgaar Parishad case. In 2015, Santosh Yadav, a Bastar journalist, was arrested by the Chhattisgarh police for his alleged involvement in an encounter during a road operation that claimed the life of a police officer. He was charged with aiding Maoists under various sections of the IPC, the Arms Act, the UAPA, and the Chhattisgarh Public Security Act. The evidence offered was a police officer’s statement that he could see Yadav’s face in the light of a para bomb that was flared during an ambush in Darbha in August 2013. But later, in an identification parade memo in January 2016, the officer could not identify the accused “with certainty”. Nevertheless, Yadav spent a year and a half in jail till the Supreme Court granted him bail in early 2017. He told journalists that the police had been gunning for him because they felt he did ‘too much’ reporting on the adivasis and their plight. Facebook posts have acquired the status of major unlawful activity, attracting charges of sedition and UAPA. The year, 2016, saw a Kashmiri youth in Chhattisgarh being arrested on charges of sedition for liking a cartoon on Facebook which allegedly made fun of India. He was finally granted bail by the Chhattisgarh High Court, on his fourth bail plea. The year, 2018, saw the editor of a small newspaper in Chhattisgarh land a sedition FIR for posting a cartoon about the Supreme Court that someone had shared, on his Facebook wall. That was the year of the judges’ press conference. The complaint to the police came from a citizen of Rajasthan. Masrat Zahra, a Kashmiri photojournalist who covers women and children in conflict, was in April 2020 charged under the UAPA for uploading photographs that allegedly glorified “anti-national activities”. The UAPA had been amended in 2019 to allow the government to proscribe individuals as terrorists. In October 2020, Siddique Kappan, a journalist for a Malayalam news portal set out to report on the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras in western Uttar Pradesh. He was arrested before he even got there for alleged links to a radical group not proven so far. This has become a widely reported case of incarceration for charges relating to terrorism, outraging religious feelings, conspiracy to incite violence, and sedition. He was given bail briefly to visit his dying mother, and has survived Covid in jail. Earlier this month, a Mathura court dropped proceedings on the charges related to apprehension of breach of peace against him and three others after the police failed to complete the inquiry in time. But he remains in jail for other charges. As the chronology shows, the unleashing of laws relating to sedition and terrorism did not begin with this government, and is not confined to the Central government. It has become both an occupational hazard and a random hazard for those who run out of luck. Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
21-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Ronaldo's bold step, Indian judiciary||Sir — Cristiano Ronaldo should be lauded for his bold step. Few celebrities have either the good sense or the courage to openly snub a corporate entity as large as Coca Cola for its unhealthy products. Usually, celebrities will endorse any product — from paan masala to fried food — for the sake of money. This is dangerous because they have significant power to sway public opinion as Ronaldo has shown.  Arup Ganguly, Calcutta Sir — One would expect that in the interest of fairness and justice, judges of both the Supreme Court and the high courts should be asked to submit a declaration that they neither owe allegiance to any political party nor are inspired or influenced by the activities and ideals of any political party. It is thus not surprising at all that Mamata Banerjee’s lawyer has asked her case challenging the Nandigram assembly election verdict be transferred to a judge other than Kaushik Chanda, who, apparently, is an active member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (“CM’s lawyer seeks judge switch in counting case”, June 19). Banerjee did not know that the petition filed by her in the Calcutta High Court will be heard by a judge who has alleged links to the BJP. She is lucky that this fact was brought to her notice by her advocate. Of course it should not be automatically assumed that if the case is heard by Justice Chanda it will bring a prejudiced verdict. But to rule out even the slightest kernel of doubt in the minds of the people and the appellants, the matter should be reassigned to another judge. This way, Banerjee will later not be able to claim bias if the verdict goes against her. Arun Gupta, Calcutta Sir — It is not surprising that Mamata Banerjee’s lawyers want her appeal in court to be transferred to a judge who is not affiliated to the BJP. Everyone knows that one party in this country cannot accept defeat and is most ungracious when it loses. No matter how definitive the verdict, this party refuses to accept that it has been beaten. It will continue to try and change the verdict through backchannels, tricks, underhand tactics. What it does not realize is that every such step is further alienating the party from the common people. But does it care? It has money power and the government machinery at its beck and call. C.K.R. Nathan, Ghaziabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
