22-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: More trouble||Crisis and the Congress have become synonymous for a while now. From losing elected state governments to its principal political rival — Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka were pocketed by the Bharatiya Janata Party — to its failure to stop leaders from crossing over to the saffron camp — Jyotiraditya Scindia and, in more recent times, Jitin Prasada are prime examples — India’s Grand Old Party has been lurching from one crisis to another ever since it received — twice — resounding electoral rejections from the people in general elections. The Congress’s growing distance from power in New Delhi seems to have deepened the fault lines within its rank and file, so much so that the party now finds itself on a sticky wicket even in election-bound states where, the word is, it could retain power. Punjab is a case in point here. The farmers’ agitation against the three controversial laws passed by the Centre has had a palpable impact in this state, dimming the BJP’s prospects considerably in 2022. The Shiromani Akali Dal, a former ally of the National Democratic Alliance, is expected to bear the brunt of the collateral damage. The public disenchantment with these two outfits should have, in theory, energized the Congress to seek a second term. Except that discord and petty aspirations, the Congress’s perennial Achilles’ heel, seem to have put Amarinder Singh’s government in a spot. Mr Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu are not exactly ideal colleagues; discontent has also been brewing on account of the Congress’s organizational deficiencies, gaps between poll promises and their execution as well as legal setbacks in crucial cases. All this points to a party in a muddle in spite of its present dominance in the legislature. The blame for the state of affairs must go equally to a fractious state unit as well as an inert — weakened — high command. The absence of a full-time, engaged party president — is Rahul Gandhi even interested in the post? — has encouraged mischief-mongering. The signals emanating from Punjab can have a dispiriting effect on the Congress’s morale in other states where the party is in a position to challenge the BJP. The Congress’s chief problem is that it is beset — besotted? — with ambitious, armchair politicians who are yet to emerge as public leaders. A revival is unlikely unless influential members learn to choose the party over the perks of power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
22-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Retail inflation figure breaches RBI limit, Apple Daily editors and executives arrested||Take note Sir — The retail inflation figure at 6.3 per cent for May 2021, breaching the limit set by the Reserve Bank of India, raises worrying questions (“Through the roof”, June 18). Considering the current economic situation in the country where the government has completely failed to control the rising prices of essential commodities, chances are that the actual figure is much higher. In any case, the everyday reality for the common people, struggling to make ends meet, is much worse than figures indicate. With inflation rates no longer under control, it is time that the RBI takes swift measures. It is expected that the prices of essential goods will keep rising in the near future. The Central government has failed in its promises of providing a better quality of life to the people of the country. Its dreams of a five trillion dollar economy seem farther away than ever before. It is essential that the government regulates the prices of at least some basic food items so that the ordinary people of India do not starve to death. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — There is no doubt that rising inflation, both retail and wholesale, can no longer be ignored. Retail inflation remained on average at above 6 per cent in 2020-21. The key factors driving up inflation now are fuel and commodity prices that are rising globally, distorted domestic tax policies as well as a higher pricing power in a clutch of items and services. The Central excise duty on petrol and diesel stands at around Rs 32-33 a litre. To this, the state governments add another Rs 18-20. The Centre and states should work out a reduction formula, forsaking short-term revenue gains, so that the common people can get some relief. It is time that the 15 per cent import duty levied on edible oils is revised to blunt the impact of global price rises as India imports more than half of its requirements. Shockingly, retail edible oil prices were up by 30.8 per cent in May. The government must also work on keeping steel and cement prices in check. While pursuing growth is important, policymakers cannot be seen as being indifferent to inflation as it can negate all efforts to revive the economy. The RBI now must face this challenge head on. N. Sadhasiva Reddy, Bangalore Freedom denied Sir — Recently, freedom of speech took another hit in Hong Kong as five editors and executives of Apple Daily were arrested for endangering national security by calling for international sanctions against Hong Kong and China. The anti-government protests that shook the region in 2019 have been largely silenced with most activists in jail or fleeing abroad. Unless the international community exerts pressure on the authorities, democracy — whatever little is left of it — will completely cease to exist in Hong Kong. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
22-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: See no evil||The makers of the Indian Constitution may not have thought of reason as purely subjective. They had probably taken a democratic cast of mind for granted when they said in Article 19(2) of the Constitution that the government could impose “reasonable” restrictions on the freedom of expression in the interest of — among others — sovereignty and integrity of the country, public order, morality, defamation, incitement to an offence and so on. They did not foresee that all these could become alibis for a government that likes to present curbs on expression as reasonable. Thus the draft amendments to the Cinematograph Act, 1952 have a double shield of reasonableness. It offers a provision against piracy that the 1952 Act lacks. If implemented, it would prevent losses to the industry that are caused by this crime. That is reasonable. The far bigger amendment planned, however, is the return of “revisional powers” to the government after the Central Board of Film Certification has already certified a film. This power was struck down in 2000, when the Supreme Court, in response to the Centre’s challenge, upheld the Karnataka High Court’s 1991 ruling against the government’s revisional powers. The Supreme Court said that the concerned state government would have to maintain law and order once the relevant authority had cleared a film after considering its impact on the public. Divergent views were to be expected in a democracy; the government would have to check anyone who breached the law because they did not agree with a point of view. The court, however, also remarked that the government could pass a legislation in case “reasonable” restrictions were needed. The present government’s wish for revisional powers, therefore, must spring from such a need. For it is not democracy, but restriction of expression, that is the priority. This move is in tune with the regulations being imposed on social media and digital news. That the government dismantled the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal in April suggests that the Cinematograph Act draft amendments are part of a calculated thrust towards overall censorship. The FCAT was a forum for those film-makers who did not agree with the CBFC’s decisions. Now the government will have the last word on what people should watch and how film-makers should think. No one can accuse it of not being reasonable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
22-06-2021||Opinion||Right of passage: Covid and pastoral communities||India is battling a second wave of Covid-19 infections; this time it has made inroads into rural India. Pastoral communities, who have limited information about the symptoms, preventive measures, diagnosis, treatment and vaccination, are becoming silent victims. A brief by the League for Pastoral Peoples and Endogenous Livestock Development claims that pastoralists make up some one per cent of the Indian population or about 13 million people. The second wave is endangering their lives and the absence of robust data on them is worrisome. Mobility is a defining and differential feature of pastoralist livelihoods. It is significant for the survival of livestock. Since last year, the steep costs of the government’s decision to impose lockdowns paid by pastoralists have been widely discussed. These restrictions hurt not only the pastoral communities but also their livestock. Pastoralism is practiced in arid and semi-arid areas and local grazing lands are unable to cater to fodder requirements. Pastoralists unable to migrate this summer are worried that existing water and forage resources in villages are ill-equipped to feed a large number of animals; a difficulty that they are well aware of from last year’s lockdown. There are animal-derived products such as mawa that are produced locally, which are not included in official statistics. Saurashtra, Jamnagar, Rajkot and Junagadh see a major influx of pastoral communities from different parts of the state, especially from the Devbhoomi Dwarka. For eight months of the year, Maldhari families are heavily dependent on forests and other grazing lands of Jamnagar to feed their livestock; the community is entirely dependent on the income from dairy products, especially the mawa, to feed their families. Jamjodhpur taluka is traditionally known to be the hub of products like mawa and khoya. With the second wave wreaking havoc in rural areas and lockdowns being imposed, the informal market of mawa in Jamnagar has been closed for an indefinite period and the families of these nomadic pastoralists are bearing the brunt. A basic market research by Sahjeevan, an NGO working with the pastoral communities of Gujarat, claims that most of the mawa sold in the market was either transported to Surat, Vadodara or Maharashtra. The early lockdowns imposed by Maharashtra disrupted supply chains and blocked trade channels. There seems to be no light at the other side of the tunnel for pastoral households. Heera Bhai, a migratory Maldhari, asserts, “We didn’t have money to buy saag (vegetables) but after a week of desperation, I decided to sell off one of my goats and get some food for my family.” The pastoralists consider their livestock as valuable as gold. He further explains that livestock has always rescued pastoral communities in times of crisis. But they often had to sell their livestock at distressed prices. Jamjodhpur and neighbouring Kalavad host a huge non-migratory population of Maldharis from communities like Mota Bhai Bharwad and Rabaris who have come out to support the migratory families. Bhoja Bhai, aged 44 years, from Gorkhadi village, shares, “A few Bhopa Rabari families came for help, I had around a sack full of wheat and I gave it to them.” With a satisfactory grin he adds, “At least they can have rotli and dudh now.” The extensive livestock systems produce an estimated 53 per cent of India’s milk, 74 per cent of its meat and the value of the animals’ manure for nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium has been estimated at a massive 45 billion dollars a year. India’s record in being the largest producer of milk and exporter of sheep and goats worldwide is indicative that livestock and pastoralists contribute massively to the country’s economy. With opportunity costs attached to the livelihoods of pastoralists being so high, the government must facilitate their safe movement. The resilience of these communities needs to be supported and enhanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
22-06-2021||Opinion||The dragon in the room||As Joe Biden rallied American allies and partners during his first overseas trip since taking on the presidency of the United States of America, China was present everywhere. From the G7 to Nato, it was China’s growing global footprint and aggression that were shaping the conversations as Western nations assessed the single most important global challenge in front of them. After downplaying the Chinese threat for decades, suddenly Western nations find that they are being overtaken by a rival in ways that they had forgotten to appraise in their ‘end of history’ moment. And, now, as Chinese power redefines geopolitics and geoeconomics, the West is responding with an alacrity that many think should have come sooner. It was earlier this year that the US, the European Union, the United Kingdom and Canada imposed coordinated sanctions on China that included travel bans, asset freezes and targeting of senior officials in Xinjiang who have been accused of serious human rights violations against Uighur Muslims. Biden has made working with allies his trademark foreign policy move and China has emerged as a focal point of action. At the Nato leaders’ summit in Brussels — this was Biden’s first Nato meeting since taking office —the Western alliance warned of the military threat posed by China, underlining its behaviour as a “systemic challenge” with its rapidly expanding nuclear arsenal, “opaque” military modernization and military cooperation with Russia. Although the Western nations have pointed out that they do not want a new Cold War with China, the dangers of China “coming closer” to Nato in military and technological terms have led to a perceptible shift in attitude. The communiqué issued by Nato members is explicit about Chinese ambitions and behaviour posing “systemic challenges to the rules-based international order and to areas relevant to Alliance security”. The G7 summit in the UK this month witnessed the inception of a more comprehensive approach to the China challenge. Urging China to “respect human rights and fundamental freedoms” and calling for a transparent investigation of the origins of Covid-19, the G7 leaders issued a statement that not only challenged Beijing on the persecution of Uighur minorities and the repression of the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong but also underscored the “importance of peace and stability” across the Taiwan Strait. This resulted in a swift pushback from Chinese officials who accused the G7 of “baseless accusations” and demanded that they “stop slandering China, stop interfering in China’s internal affairs, and stop harming China’s interests”. Perhaps the most significant outcome at the G7 summit was the adoption of the US-backed ‘Build Back Better World’ plan to support lower- and middle-income countries in building high quality infrastructure. It took a long time for the West to recognize the need for an alternative to China’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative and that China has already stolen a march on it in this domain. In their joint statement, the G7 leaders underlined that they would offer a “values-driven, high-standard and transparent” partnership to the developing world on infrastructure and connectivity. The funding is still to be finalized, but it is clear that Washington is fully behind this proposal and will push its allies into doing their bit. As challenges have mounted for China on the BRI front, this is an opportune moment for the West to come up with a robust alternative with its partners. The opacity of China’s lending through the BRI has raised hackles around the world, with Beijing being charged with pursuing a highly aggressive foreign policy in the garb of investment lending. China’s leverage on the developing world has increased in proportion to debt levels and the unsustainability of the loans it has extended. China’s ‘debt trap’ model of development cooperation has been under scrutiny for some time now but the developing world has complained about the lack of alternatives. Major powers have been missing in action despite a $40-trillion infrastructure gap in the developing world. The idea of an India-Japan led Asia-Africa Growth Corridor looked very promising, but it has failed to take off. The Donald Trump administration had launched the ‘Blue Dot Network’ in 2019 to boost private sector-led infrastructure development in the Indo-Pacific, but it excluded direct financing of projects. The summit of Quad leaders in March had discussed the shared challenge of quality infrastructure investment and, more recently, the US and the UK asked democratic countries to come up with an alternative to China’s BRI. Now with the G7 coming up with an infrastructure aid programme to rival the BRI, there are hopes that those nations that have signed on to BRI under duress will be able to get a better deal. India, one of the foremost critics of the BRI, can now take some credit in shaping the global discourse on the Chinese model of connectivity and development cooperation. With its Western partners, now New Delhi can hope to shape an alternative to Chinese predatory practices and push back against Beijing’s economic agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
22-06-2021||Opinion||Verse as mirror||The writer and critic, Suresh Joshi (1921-1986), was one of the most important figures of modern Gujarati literature. Of all his Gujarati contemporaries, Joshi was the most deeply engaged with world literature and the most radically experimental in his writing. By the time he died in 1986, he had created a remarkable legacy, having opened up Gujarati letters to the complex winds of international, post-modern and post-structuralist writing and philosophy. One of the last major lectures given by Joshi was in Bombay in 1984 and, fortunately, a video recording survives online. In the space of one hour and sixteen minutes, Joshi effortlessly unfurls his vast reading and the acute processing of his erudition. Without any bombast or showing off, Joshi sits on the stage and chats with his audience, softly, often humorously, but without letting the listener off the hook for even a moment with his supple, poetic, yet absolutely lucid, Gujarati, his speech also laced with Sanskrit and English. Broadly, the theme of the lecture is the rapidly changing nature of human interaction and the place of literature in that exchange. To explore this, Joshi ropes in diverse sources, from the Upanishads to Rilke and Beckett, from the poets, Narsinh Mehta and Mirabai, to Stephen Spender listening to a performance of Tagore’s Post Office (Dakghar) on Radio Moscow as bullets fly around him during the Spanish Civil War, from James Thurber to Peter Weiss, from Kurukshetra to the Treblinka death camp. Running through the lecture is a gently articulated but merciless criticism of Gujarati writing that avoids engaging with the serious subjects of the day. At one point, Joshi likens the producers of this writing to clueless children who have understood nothing of the life around them. Also taking the Gujarati press to task, he talks of the journalists’ penchant for sensationalizing every news item. Joshi points out the prevalence of pretend sanskar and the widespread shallowness of so much theatre, art and music before coming back to fiction and poetry that shy away from saying anything that is unpalatable to a popular readership or is questioning of authority. It’s particularly instructive to listen to this talk now in the context of the tremors set off by the poem, “Shav-vahini Ganga”, by the Gujarati poet, Parul Khakhar. By all reports, Khakhar was someone well-recognized for her skilful, light verses in Gujarati geet and ghazal, which were very far from post-modern explorations or politically-engaged poetry. No one expected her virtuosity to be deployed to express rage and disgust towards the current political heroes of numerous middle-class Gujaratis. The fourteen short lines by Khakhar have become a cannonball of Gujarati script. They begin thus: “In unison, the corpses cry out/ ‘All is great, all is lekker!’/ O Leader! In your Ram Rajya/ There’s a new hearse/ The corpse-carrying Ganga.” The poem is written in the traditional marasiya form, a lament of rage at the loss of a loved one. In Gujarati, the addressee throughout is “Raj”, which would nominally translate to ‘King’ or ‘Lord’ (in the sense of a feudal aristocrat) but here it’s worth unpacking the address: “O Big Man! Your burning grounds are over-full/ Your kindling piles now ash/ Potentate! We’re out of pall-bearers/ Out of mourners, we’re out of tears./ The Death Detail dances at every door/ O Ruler! In your Stiff-lipped Reich/ The Cadaver River Ganga.” Khakhar freely uses Punjabi with the direct reference to “Sab changa si” just as she references Billa-Ranga, both of which rhyme with Ganga, but in English one is obliged to transcreate: “O Chief! Your chimneys belch, begging for respite, a break/ Our bangles are smashed, our hearts pulped by ache./ The fiddlers play while watching the blaze —/ The gang of two celebrating Good Days/ O Duce! In your Model Dominion/ Flows the body-clogged Ganga.” In his 1984 talk, Suresh Joshi brings up things that now seem eerily prescient: he mourns the shrinking of language and vocabulary and its corollary — the shrinking of thought and empathy; he speaks of those ‘victors’ who want to keep people subservient, who “snatch language from people”; he speaks of Kundera’s warning of the tank of Russian language trampling over the Czech language and connects it directly to what he calls “Hindi Imperialism” trying to trample other Indian languages; he scoffs at the people trying to claim that the Taj Mahal was originally a Hindu monument just as he laughs at those who claim that everything already existed in “Praachin Bharat”: “Yes it was all there, all the different kinds of paap [sin] in the Mahabharat — we haven’t been able to emulate them all yet.” In an obvious reference to Orwell in 1984, he speaks of the writer’s need to speak up and the dangers of mutely living in fear. Joshi refers to the deal offered by the powers that be to the writer: “We’ll recognize you, fete and felicitate you, but on one condition that as a writer you should not speak about anything remotely serious or political.” In response to the trolling and vicious attacks she has faced from the BJP-RSS and its puppet minions since “Shav-vahini Ganga” went viral internationally, Khakhar has written another poem, “Tare Bolvanu Nahi (You are Not to Speak)”, the second stanza of which goes: “You are hereby commanded:/ Cut out your tongue; leave it behind/ Even you will be hailed/— as long as you don’t speak.” Suresh Joshi would have been saddened at how accurate his predictions have proved to be when he warned that if we in India continued like this we would enter an Upanishadic dark age; “We are literally on the verge of it,” he says in his talk, before imagining a Gujarat where it would become a crime for a writer to have read Kafka. But despite all of this, he would have been heartened by the resonance Khakhar finds from readers in different languages when, in “Shav-vahini Ganga”, she writes: “Someone with a spine come and say it: ‘my wannabe Emperor is naked.’” (Translations of the poems are by Ruchir Joshi)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-7
