23-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Data death||The scale of the Covid-19 crisis in India has been unprecedented in several ways. Aggravating the problem is the acute lack of data on the actual death toll. In the light of this, it is heartening that the Patna High Court has reprimanded the Bihar government, once again, for its failure to maintain accurate records of births and deaths during the pandemic and sharply criticized its reluctance to publish the number of deaths. The court upheld the people’s right to information; a right that has been steadily eroded through — deliberate? — obfuscation of ground realities. Data from Bihar showed that close to 75,000 people died of unexplained causes in the first five months of 2021 — a figure that is almost 10 times Bihar’s official pandemic death numbers. The Civil Registration System found that in Karnataka the number of ‘excess deaths’ since the start of the pandemic in India was nearly six times the official reported figure for Covid-19 deaths. In the midst of reports of major discrepancies in numbers in several states — Jharkhand, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh reportedly find themselves on this dubious list — the Centre has told the Supreme Court that all deaths caused by the coronavirus, no matter where they take place, will be certified as Covid deaths. While these steps are welcome, the larger problem they aim to address must be contextualized given the gross under-reporting of the loss of lives to the virus. The collation of accurate data is crucial; as the apex court has pointed out, the death certificates of Covid patients must reflect the fact that they succumbed to the disease so that their family members are able to claim compensation in the future. However, there is also a need for a detailed blueprint on devising and implementing solutions — for instance, tracking the virulence of newer strains of the virus — on the basis of reliable information. While data dashboards, as suggested by some experts, hold out scope for district authorities to monitor the state of the pandemic and control newer surges in time, these resources, too, suffer from gaps. In November last year, the dashboard maintained by the National Centre for Disease Control featured the age distribution of a mere 35 per cent of India’s cases at the time. At the root of the problem lies an entrenched institutional nervousness with the idea of transparency. This was evident last year when the Centre told Parliament that it had no data on the deaths of migrants during the lockdown; the same aversion to transparency has been witnessed in the administrative responses to citizens’ distress during the second wave. The compilation of data will have little meaning without the administrative will to put it to meaningful use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
23-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Table beckons||The Centre’s decision to — at long last — kindle the process of political engagement in Kashmir is welcome. The intent is unmistakable: no less than the prime minister is expected to convene a meeting tomorrow that would be attended by Kashmir’s major political stakeholders, including the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a coalition of six parties, which has confirmed its participation. The PAGD’s response is magnanimous. After monumental disruptions were introduced by the Narendra Modi government in 2019 — Jammu and Kashmir was stripped of statehood and its special provisions, the Valley put under a security blanket, speedy internet services denied to its populations — leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party began discrediting Kashmir’s political leadership. Numerous leaders were incarcerated, and their legacies demonized. The BJP’s strategy was to first create a vacuum by discrediting Kashmir’s political constituency and then try and fill that space through such radical interventions as floating supine outfits or creating an alternative tier of governance through the District Development Council. These objectionable experiments faltered because the political legitimacy of the BJP’s adversaries remained intact, forcing Mr Modi and his wise men to eat crow. The present outreach needs to be read in this context. It remains to be seen whether the Centre can reclaim the moral high ground that it willingly ceded almost two years ago. The PAGD is also confronting its own challenges. There seems to be general consensus among its constituents to press for the restoration of Kashmir’s statehood but it is not clear whether its members can achieve similar concurrence on the resurrection of Article 370, which remains a highly emotive issue. Mr Modi would do well not to exploit the gaps, if any, in the alliance because New Delhi needs to negotiate two tricky issues itself: a contentious delimitation exercise and the holding of assembly elections. The Centre must also be mindful of the possibility that success in Kashmir, even if it were to be incremental, could yield diplomatic capital in its future engagements with Islamabad. In fact, a breakthrough in these talks can generate momentum in the dialogue with Pakistan that remains stalled. Given the rapidly changing geostrategic situation in Afghanistan and an inflamed border with China, stability on India’s western border is of critical importance. That stability could well be predicated on the outcome of the political dialogue in Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
23-06-2021||Opinion||Ghoramara: A life beyond bare existence||Last year, around this time, in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, I had written in this column that crises bring us to crossroads where the choice is between doing things that were not considered earlier or were thought to be impossible, and trying to get back to the ‘before’. Every attempt to try and get back to the state we were in ‘before’ is a waste of the opportunities presented by a serious crisis. The Telegraph on June 11 reported an attempt to do something different in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas, supposedly a first. It seems that the state government of West Bengal has set in motion a process of rehabilitating hundreds of families that are perennially exposed to the vagaries of nature, starting with 35 families of Ghoramara island. State-facilitated movement away from Ghoramara on earlier occasions have not necessarily resulted in positive outcomes. What is the aim of these relocation attempts? Bare existence in a somewhat less vulnerable location? Can the serious crisis not be used as an opportunity to move people from bare existence to a wholesome life where one lives up to one’s potential and prosperity? For over a decade, my colleagues and I have been advocating an induced but organic movement of people out of harm’s way. The idea may be gaining currency but often it has been misinterpreted as being akin to development/conservation-induced resettlement, leading to irreconcilable loss of an entire lifeworld of the resettled. While moving people away from a particular ecology, landscape and set of livelihoods does bring about a loss of relating to and inhabiting a landscape, as well as the loss of old and new skills, knowledge systems, socio-cultural and religious cosmologies, this sense of loss can be made bearable or even eliminated depending upon how the movement of people out of harm’s way is induced. Moving away under duress and against one’s wishes causes an acute sense of loss, and communities and households under such circumstances are worse off. One only needs to speak to adult victims of the Partition to ascertain the sense of loss and the poorer outcomes of such displacement. However, moving out of harm’s way can be positive provided the movement is not abrupt and those who need to move are in a position to monetize their assets, decide when they want to move, and where they want to go. Moving the vulnerable from Ghoramara to Sagar can address the vulnerability to cyclones minimally given the vastness of low pressure weather systems and the proximity of the two islands. This resettlement can only help the people to barely exist. The people of the Sunderbans deserve more than rehabilitation, and the state can and should do better under the current dispensation with a renewed mandate. Rehabilitation, at most, will restore them to the ‘before’ state which is not something to aspire to. What could be the reason for preferring status quo over substantial improvement and prosperity? Maintaining status quo in the Sunderbans is not necessarily the cheaper option; just to upgrade the embankment and provide basic permanent housing would cost 2.25 times of the local GDP. This, however, would not address the many other long-standing risks and hazards that the residents of the Sunderbans face. These risks and hazards emanate from tidal asymmetry and interrupted sediment dispersal mechanisms. Pre-monsoon Bay of Bengal cyclones are intensifying because of enhanced large-scale monsoon circulation associated with local atmospheric warming; climate models project continued warming. Since the Bay of Bengal is landlocked with densely populated coastlines, tropical cyclones here are among the most destructive. The north Indian Ocean, including the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, accounts for about 6 per cent of the global tropical cyclones. Cyclone frequency in this region varies between one and three in the pre-monsoon (March-May) period, and between two and five in the post-monsoon (October-December) season. It is unsurprising that the Sunderbans or parts of it were affected in May 2020 and again in May 2021. During the previous decade, the cyclones, Sidr and Aila, struck the region in a span of 19 months. Owing to the lay of the land, premature land reclamation and persistence with the colonial policy blunder since Independence, the agrarian economy of the region, and the general lack of development, the impact of hydrometeorological events are severe in terms of loss of livelihoods and assets. Human suffering in the absence of large-scale interventions as in New Orleans and the Netherlands will recur since large-scale interventions in the region are unlikely in view of the Unesco world heritage sites. The people of Ghoramara and elsewhere in the Indian Sunderbans need to be able to exercise the choice of where they want to go and when they want to go, if they want to go. How such choice could be exercised will need another column.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
23-06-2021||Opinion||Hollow edifice||Sometimes, the major battles of our time get caught in coteries and clubs and float adrift from the democratic imagination. The debate around the Central Vista project is one such event. How does one conceptualize it? It is, after all, a debate about a building. Perhaps we need to go beyond an architect to a philosopher. Martin Heidegger, the German philosopher, established a relation among building, dwelling and thinking. Buildings, Heidegger argued, transcend materiality. They are forms of living that have to be seen iconically. A building like the Parliament or even an annexe to it speaks history, invokes memory. The Central Vista has to be seen as an unravelling of democracy, as a symbolic celebration of difference, as a metaphor for imaginative debate. Oddly, when Bimal Patel, the architect, invoked his discussion of the building, all that Narendra Modi talked about was ‘functionalism’. It is strange to have a prime minister who does not know the difference between Parliament and plumbing and, worse, to have a technocrat carrying out his premises unquestioningly. Both seem indifferent to the fact that a public building of that order has not been subject to public discussion. It is as strange as arguing for a future where we see a Parliament behave indifferently to the people. Worse, Patel reduced the debate to a technical answer to a technical question. The Central Vista budget and everything else is presented as a fait accompli. If a building cannot be a dwelling in a representative sense, how can democracy be a way of life and living? This is the real issue that confronts the Central Vista. Modi sees it as if it is another sculpture like the Sardar Patel statue. He has no sense of building as an embodiment of tradition or conversation. All he sees is the monumentality of power. The word, Lutyens, itself should have signalled the prelude to a different debate. Lutyens represented the imperialism of the city, the Haussmannic grids of centralization that the architect first built as frames to control the crowds after the Paris Commune. Baron Haussmann wanted an architecture of control and centralization, not community and conversation. Modi, for all his use of Lutyens in the folklore of his critique of the Congress, endorses Lutyens in his mentality in a way that no predecessor has. In his heart of hearts, he is not a populist but a hegemonist, desperate for control. The sociologist, Patrick Geddes, a critic of Lutyens, showed that the mechanistic architecture of Lutyens had neither a sense of tradition nor of memory. There is an egotism to architectural power, an indifference to the margins, that Modi-Patel find seductive. This is a Parliament that does not want to listen to the people or to history because it is convinced that it needs to make history tone-deaf to democracy. Modi and Patel represent two ways of indifference to democracy. Patel follows empty protocols; Modi treats protest as empty irritants. The Modi who raved and ranted as a critic while in the Opposition seems indifferent to criticism. We have to raise a second set of questions here. Modi, who has repeatedly emasculated dissent or imprisoned it, cannot be a mere monograph in urban planning; he has to become part of the folklore of democracy, be subject to popular critique the way Sanjay Gandhi and Jagmohan were during the days of the Emergency. Technocracy can fail scholarship no matter how immaculate but what technocracy can’t fail is democracy. For Modi, Parliament could well be an extension of Madame Tussauds where people are embodied in wax and democracy as memory. A space has to come alive to fight Modi who has embalmed democracy. Probably the biggest casualty of the Central Vista debates is memory. I am not talking of memory as history, but as orality, as lived memory embodied in crowds walking public spaces, responding to the symbols of governance. A walk around Janpath was a way of consuming democracy, of sustaining democracy through the orality of storytelling. The Central Vista is more a collection of offices, a secretariat rather than a part of a parliamentary performance. It is as if the public, the crowd, the rhythms of citizenship, the folklore of democracy have no meaning for this regime. The historian, Narayan Gupta, has repeatedly emphasized the power of space and place for memory. One wishes governance absorbed a bit of that wisdom. It is great scholarship and intuitively democratic. Once one forgets that a city is a mnemonic of democratic events, a regime has lost its legitimacy. The Central Vista is a sign of the times. It signals the new Parliament of indifference, shockingly abstract from debate, difference, and people. Yet, in a deep way, the power of dissenting scholarship reasserts itself and one has to celebrate the dissenting imaginations. This dissent, in fact, now has to be read differently. Critics show that there is unity among Modi’s authoritarianism, his indifference to the margins and to the ideas of dissent and scholarship. The Central Vista then becomes a variant of authoritarian decision-making. The Gujarat riots had shown how a majority could dismiss the margins. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act displayed the contempt for the refugee as citizen. Lakshadweep demonstrates how development as authoritarianism can dismiss the fate of the tribe as a critical issue. The Central Vista adds to this the sense that Modi wants a monolithic Parliament, a democracy without debate. When dissent lapses into silence and memory, the only obstacle to authoritarianism fades away. Be it minority, refugee, tribe or dissenter, our regime has no place for them. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
