24-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Frown wins||Is this the final hour of reformism in Iran? Ebrahim Raisi’s ‘election’ as president of the country has fuelled such concerns in Iran and around the world. Mr Raisi — his ties with the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as well as with the influential military are said to be silken — was unsurprisingly deemed to be the most fitting candidate by a hawkish Guardian Council. Indeed, Mr Raisi is widely viewed to be the Establishment’s favourite figure, having served as chief justice, and his tenure, it is believed, would strengthen the hold of the conservatives on Iran’s key institutions. That cannot be reassuring for the reformist forces, but it is evident that this round of political tussle between Iran’s hawks and doves has gone in favour of the former. This is likely to have a considerable impact on the agenda to usher in incremental — liberal — changes to the country. The setback suffered by the moderates can be attributed to an interesting factor. Donald Trump’s decision to discourage Hassan Rouhani’s outreach to the West — the United States of America imposed tough sanctions on Iran and withdrew from the nuclear deal under the maverick leader’s watch — was influential in changing the mood in Iran, strengthening the hands of the conservatives. Iran’s voters seem to be equally disenchanted with the political trajectory of Tehran. After all, the voters’ turnout was the lowest in this presidential election since the inception of the republic. However, Mr Raisi can expect the principal challenges to emerge from the international front. Given the current political temperament in Iran, it is unlikely that the new president would press for the opening up of the nation’s economy even though such a step could have soothed the ruffled feathers in the West. It would also be interesting to see whether Mr Raisi’s radical views permit him to allow international inspection of Tehran’s nuclear facilities, something that could go a long way in facilitating a new nuclear pact and the removal of sanctions. Given the slippery nature of the diplomatic terrain, it would make sense for Mr Raisi to shore up public support domestically. For this to happen, Iran’s president  must encourage a slow embrace of a reformist ethic by his administration and desist from crushing freedom and liberty. But these tasks could well be anathema to his ideological inclination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
24-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Parul Khakhar's 'Shav-vahini Ganga'; Congress  in crisis||Brave words Sir — It was wonderful to read Ruchir Joshi’s article on the eminent writer and critic, Suresh Joshi, who was one of the most important figures in modern Gujarati literature (“Verse as mirror”, June 22). In one of his last major lectures, he rightly criticized Gujarati writing for not engaging with serious subjects of the day, pointing out the widespread shallowness present in works of art. The recent radical poem by Parul Khakhar, “Shav-vahini Ganga”, is a massive break from the lull that Suresh Joshi had spoken about. The lines, “In unison, the corpses cry out/ ‘All is great, all is lekker!’/ O Leader! In your Ram Rajya/ There’s a new hearse/ The corpse-carrying Ganga”, sharply criticize the political dispensation for failing to perform its duties in such trying times. These words not only convey the anger and despair of the poet but hold the potential to rouse readers against grave injustices that are being faced by the people today. She further writes that “my wannabe Emperor is naked”, aptly summarizing the current situation. We can only hope that not all is lost. Jahar Saha, Calcutta Sir — When individual freedom in India appears poised to shrink further, it is encouraging to read about poets like Suresh Joshi and Parul Khakhar. It is no surprise that Khakhar — her poem, “Shav-vahini Ganga”, has been praised for its brutal portrayal of the current situation in India and the administration’s failure to control the pandemic — has been at the receiving end of vitriolic attacks from the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and their stooges. It is also disappointing to see that Gujarat Sahitya Akademi’s journal, Shabdsrushti, carried an article criticizing the poem as a work of “pointless angst written in agitation”. It seems that in spite of  strong words from the Supreme Court pointing out that criticism of the government is not tantamount to sedition, we may continue to see many a Kafkasque situation in the lives of those who dare to protest against the government. We must thank Prakash N. Shah, the editor of Nireekshak, for the publication of “Tare Bolvanu Nahi” which was written by Khakhar as a literary rejoinder to criticism of her in the right-wing controlled press. It is people like Khakhar and Shah who are keeping the last vestiges of resistance alive. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas Endless fights Sir — There is an immediate need for democracy and reorganization within the Congress without which it will continue to flail (“More trouble”, June 22). The Grand Old Party has been functioning like a rudderless ship for a while now, plagued by a disinterested leadership, petty rivalries, ideological confusion and inertia. Dissidence has been simmering in the Punjab unit in recent years, but now with the elections less than a year away, it has gained ground. The differences between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh must not be allowed to fester any longer. The Congress must also appoint a full-time president immediately. A combination of unwarranted personal ambition as well as organizational failures has prevented the Congress from taking advantage of the serious lapses committed by the Narendra Modi government. Unless the situation is remedied, the Grand Old Party will fail to resurrect itself as a viable political force in contemporary India. S.S. Paul,Nadia Grave find Sir — A recent video on TikTok which shows a fisherman cutting open a fish to find an unopened bottle of liquor has sparked a debate on the internet about the state of pollution in the ocean. While many considered the find to be a hoax, several others pointed out that aquatic animals are facing an unprecedented level of danger as a result of irresponsible human behaviour. A study had predicted that plastic waste in the ocean might outweigh fish pound for pound by 2050. People must become aware of the deteriorating condition of the environment and put an end to littering the ocean. Aparajita Banerjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
24-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Papered over||Immersion in party politics is dangerous in the face of a national crisis. It is a tragic fact that the second wave of the pandemic seemed to have caught the Indian government unawares, and the white paper put out by the Congress claims that numerous deaths could have been prevented with better preparation. The prime minister’s refusal to pay heed to warnings by scientists and the Opposition and his absorption in the West Bengal elections are, the document suggests, among the reasons for this. The former Congress chief, Rahul Gandhi, has endorsed this criticism. The white paper, however, is not meant for ‘finger-pointing’, according to Mr Gandhi, but to provide insights and information. Assuming a collaborative approach, it suggests means to contain the third wave, such as ready supplies of oxygen, medicines and sufficient hospital space. It also urges a vaccination drive at the highest possible pitch — not just satisfaction at one day’s record — and financial support for the less privileged who have lost earning members to the virus. The document seems to be trying to fill a vacuum left by the Union government by outlining effective strategies to deal with the pandemic, something that the Tamil Nadu government is doing in another sphere on a practical level, by inviting a panel of international experts to advise it on much-needed economic development. Predictably, the Congress’s white paper has stung the Bharatiya Janata Party into accusing Mr Gandhi of politicizing every issue and claiming that the second wave was worst managed in Congress-ruled states. Making the Opposition’s suggestions look like agenda-driven sniping exposes the BJP’s inability to distinguish between party interests and governance. While Uttar Pradesh is still gasping from the devastation caused by the mismanagement of the pandemic by the Yogi Adityanath-led government, the BJP is already preparing for the assembly elections next year. Banners and hoardings with Narendra Modi’s portrait accompanied by Mr Adityanath’s have burst onto UP’s roads. The chief minister is apparently thanking Mr Modi for free vaccines for all — something which many countries have provided and which India is starting rather late after tussles with the Opposition. Mr Modi’s presence is possibly expected to neutralize resentment against the chief minister. The BJP is busy calculating means to win elections; the possibility of a further national crisis is a mere distraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
24-06-2021||Opinion||Time for nimble diplomacy||For four decades, Afghanistan has been the theatre of a Great Game involving a range of foreign actors — the United States of America, Russia, Pakistan, Iran, India and China — that has devastated the country, entrapping it in a seemingly endless cycle of wars. Last week, a new player entered that already crowded space: Turkey. For New Delhi, already nervous about the pullout of US troops from Afghanistan by September 11, that’s terrible news. Three months before America’s departure from the war-torn nation, the cards are increasingly looking stacked against India. The US president, Joe Biden, and his Turkish counterpart, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, agreed during their June 14 meeting on the sidelines of the Nato summit in Brussels that Ankara would take charge of the security of Kabul’s international airport after September 11. The Hamid Karzai International Airport, named after post-Taliban Afghanistan’s first president, is the main point of entry into the landlocked nation for visitors from around the world. On the surface, it would be good for everyone if a country — Turkey, in this case — steps up to offer security for such a vital airport. But India’s relations with Turkey are the worst they have been in decades. After the 2016 failed coup against Erdogan, Turkey had demanded that India act against an alleged network of supporters of Fethullah Gulen, an exiled preacher whom Ankara blamed for the political crisis. India did little. Erdogan waited for his moment and struck back after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government abrogated Article 370 and cracked down on civil liberties in Kashmir. Erdogan publicly criticized India and doubled down on his support for Pakistan during a subsequent visit to Islamabad. India’s foreign ministry, a past master at boilerplate statements that deliberately say nothing you wouldn’t find in a textbook, for once responded with clear denunciation of Erdogan. Modi cancelled a planned visit to Turkey. Yet the reasons why New Delhi must worry run deeper than just the recent bad blood between India and Turkey. Already since the June 14 meeting with Biden, Erdogan has said that Turkey intends to secure the participation of Pakistan and Hungary in securing Kabul airport. Pakistan has welcomed the proposal. Imagine Indian leaders flying into Afghanistan via an airport controlled in part by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence. It won’t be pleasant. For Erdogan, the airport’s just the start. It demonstrates his soaring ambitions to act as the new major influencer of the direction of Afghanistan. Turkey has ties with both the Taliban and other groups representing ethnic minorities such as the Uzbeks and the Hazaras. It could leverage those to seek a role as a trusted mediator by both sides. And it could do so with Biden’s blessings. At a time when it is desperate to withdraw from Afghanistan but does not want that nation to collapse into chaos, there’s nothing the US wants more than another country willing to take on more of a leadership role. Since Turkey and the US are both part of Nato, it would also give America a window for continued presence and influence in Afghanistan without risking the lives of its soldiers. Pakistan wouldn’t mind this arrangement either. It still holds greater sway over the Taliban than any other nation, and its warm relationship with Turkey means its interests would likely be safeguarded if Ankara gains greater clout in Kabul. If things go south in Afghanistan, Ankara — not Islamabad — takes the blame. It would be just the opposite for India. An antagonistic Turkey that knows how much the US needs it in Kabul could prove a nightmare. Erdogan could complicate India’s own influence game in Afghanistan, especially if Pakistan’s military has any say in it. Of course, things could play out very differently. Despite their agreement over Kabul airport, trust between the US and Turkey remains low. Ankara — like India, ironically — is adamant about purchasing the S-400 missile defence system from Moscow despite the threat of sanctions from Washington. If relations between the US and Turkey sour further, it’s entirely possible that Biden might withdraw support for greater Turkish influence in Afghanistan. And while Pakistan will be happy about Turkey’s presence in Afghanistan, it wouldn’t want Ankara to start replacing Islamabad’s hold over militant groups like the Taliban and the Haqqani network. India still has time. It has the leverage of its giant economy and warm relations with most major powers (except China) that it could offer to Turkey in exchange for better ties. Ankara knows that while it’s okay for Erdogan to grandstand over Kashmir, it would benefit from a stronger bond with New Delhi. Given Modi’s politics, it won’t be easy for the Indian leader to publicly reconcile with Erdogan’s positions on Kashmir and Pakistan. Yet without improved ties, India could stand to lose out in Afghanistan. Whining about America’s decisions won’t help — nimble diplomacy might.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
24-06-2021||Opinion||Forgotten chapter||The scope and meaning of Bengali culture and who are its rightful custodians were themes that played out in the recent elections to the West Bengal assembly. Although complex issues of culture and identity are never settled by the proverbial show of hands, their appearance in competitive politics does indicate that popular concerns are never confined to bread-and-butter issues alone. This, of course, isn’t exclusively limited to voluble Bengalis. In the past five years or so, Western democracies have witnessed sharp divisions on questions of history, language, sexuality, faith and, most important, national identity. As immigration has altered the ethnic profile of countries, an increasing number of people are asking the question the Harvard professor, Samuel Huntington, posed to fellow Americans in 2004: “Who are we?” For the past decade or so, maybe longer, a small group of people attached to the ideological ecosystem of the Bharatiya Janata Party have attempted to popularize the commemoration of June 20 as West Bengal Day (Pashchim Bongo Dibas). This year — and despite the inability to secure political power in the state — they managed a significant breakthrough. Having secured recognition as the official Opposition in the assembly, they observed West Bengal Day at the gates of the assembly in the presence of MLAs and the leader of Opposition. There, the demand was made to have West Bengal Day put on the official calendar. Additionally, it was suggested that the names of all those MLAs who had voted for the creation of West Bengal in 1947 be inscribed on a tablet on the assembly premises. The fulfilment of the demands must necessarily wait for a change of political dispensation. The ruling Trinamul Congress is not merely opposed to the idea of a West Bengal Day but is seeking to rename the state altogether. However, by bringing the question of the state’s name and the history of its formation into momentary focus, the BJP may have succeeded — albeit in a modest way — to resurrect a troubled, awkward and increasingly forgotten chapter of history. There were two votes on June 20, 1947. In the first division, the Bengal Legislative Assembly voted 120-90 to incorporate the entire province in the new state of Pakistan. A separate meeting of legislators from the non-Muslim majority districts of Bengal, however, voted resoundingly to seek a partition of the province and remain in India. All the Congress members from West Bengal voted for dividing the province, as did the two Communist members, including Jyoti Basu. The Muslim League members were equally united in wishing to avert the separation of the Hindu-majority districts. Their version of East Pakistan included the whole of Bengal and Assam — a reason why Mohammed Ali Jinnah subsequently lamented that he had been given a “moth-eaten Pakistan”. Since the British prime minister, Clement Attlee, had announced on June 3, 1947, that the legislatures of Punjab and Bengal could opt for partitioning their respective provinces, the vote on June 20 signalled the creation of West Bengal, although its formal borders awaited the Boundary Commission award at the very last minute. The creation of West Bengal on June 20, 1947, implied two separate rejections. First, the Hindus of the province were emphatic in their opposition to the incorporation of the province in Pakistan. This included the representatives of Hindus living in the Muslim-majority districts. The only leader of some consequence who broke rank was Jogendra Nath Mandal, a Namasudra leader who joined the Muslim League and was made a minister in the interim government. Simultaneously, all the Muslim legislators voted to have the entire province incorporated in Pakistan. The Hindu case for partitioning Bengal was forcefully expressed by the Hindu Mahasabha leader, Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, in a letter to the viceroy, Lord Mountbatten, on May 2, 1947. If, argued Mookerjee, “Muslims being 24 per cent of India’s population constituted such a formidable minority that their demand for a separate homeland and state became irresistible, surely 45 per cent of Bengal’s Hindu population was a sufficiently large minority which could not be coerced into living within Pakistan against the will of the people”. Secondly, in the aftermath of the creation of Bangladesh in 1971, a romantic aura has been built around the proposal for a sovereign, united Bengal mooted by the Muslim League’s H.S. Suhrawardy and the Congress stalwart, Sarat Chandra Bose. The proposal, however, secured no backing from either the Muslim League or Congress leaderships, with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel rebuking Bose for being detached from reality. Moreover, it was resolutely opposed by Bengali Hindus — still in a state of shock after the Calcutta killings of August 1946 and the carnage in Noakhali a few months later. It was felt that the Suhrawardy-Bose proposal was a back-door scheme for securing all of Bengal, but particularly Calcutta, for Pakistan. The suggestion, proffered after Suhrawardy acquired a new avatar as the upholder of Bengali nationalism in East Pakistan, that the proposal indicated an embryonic, non-sectarian, cultural nationalism of all Bengali-speakers is not backed by any meaningful contemporary evidence. The movement for Pakistan in Bengal may not have been centred on the creation of an Islamic state — as certainly was the case in parts of North India — but the sense of Muslim pride that was invoked was built on an emphatic rejection of Hindu cultural dominance. As the historian, Neilesh Bose, wrote in the context of Abul Mansur Ahmed, a Bengali writer and literary figure prominent in the movement for Pakistan, “He did not exactly support a ‘divided Bengal’, as much as he opposed a Bengal where Muslims would be politically and culturally under-represented. Transforming Bengal into the Purba Pakistan portion of greater Pakistan would provide the means to fully represent Bengali Muslim cultural and political potentialities.” In short, Bengali Muslims would now dominate. At the grassroots, these impulses translated into a form of ethnic cleansing, as was first experienced in a horrifying fashion in Noakhali in 1946. In his resignation letter from the Pakistan government in 1950, Jogendranath Mandal stated that despite the Nehru-Liaquat pact, the East Pakistan government “is still following the well-planned policy of squeezing Hindus out of the province”. Despite the formation of Bangladesh in 1971, the squeeze has continued unchecked. The circumstances and the forces that led to the formation of West Bengal — in effect, as a safe haven for Hindus of the entire undivided Bengal — has proved to be awkward in a contemporary context. The Left, which once spearheaded the movement for the rights of refugees, preferred focusing on the grim condition in the camps rather than ask what created the refugee problem in the first place. This denial persists among Bengali intellectuals. Within Bangladesh, there is an understandable squeamishness over the history of the widespread political and cultural appeal of the movement for Pakistan among Bangla-speaking Muslims. The political career of Suhrawardy from the early-1950s until his death in 1963 is celebrated by the Awami League. But it fits uncomfortably with his pre-1947 record as an Urdu-speaking stalwart of the Muslim League. Suhrawardy, despite being a native of Midnapore, learnt his admittedly ‘exotic’ Bangla as late as 1937. History is invariably viewed through the prism of the present. There are political gains in portraying Bengali culture and politics as an unending saga of syncretism and progressive thought. However, the turbulent history of the second partition of Bengal, the uncertain plight of minorities in neighbouring Bangladesh and the discernible demographic transformation of West Bengal fit uneasily into the cultural nationalism of Mamata Banerjee. They become even more jarring when the political rationale behind the creation of West Bengal in 1947 is sought to be resurrected from the pages of censored history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-6
